 

   

JAIB 0. IE/team: LIMARY
WAGHIN-IWIJW 3: gm umvensrrv
=.;:_.:~»a:u~<"»"""-e vs. auto

  

he   ﬂing-tum 1%

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

 

 

0 3 2001

VOLUME 104, No.1

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

MONDAY, APRIL 30, 2001

 

 

W&L faculty keeps calendar

Washington and Lee University’s faculty voted
127 to 64 to keep its current academic calendar, in-
cluding its six—week spring term.

In doing so, the faculty chose not to adopt the
conventional two—semester schedule in place at most
colleges and universities nationally.

The vote came after an extensive review by the Uni-
versity Calendar Committee. The committee periodi-
cally reviews the academic calendar in accordance with
its accreditation requirements, which call for the Uni-
versity to “ensure the adequacy of the academic cal-
endar to curricular objectives.” Courtesy W&L Website

Earth Day Celebration

The Washington and Lee Outing Club and the
Ofﬁce of Student Activities co-sponsored a special
Earth Day Celebration yesterday.

Student leaders Blaine Clarke ’02 and Helen
Downes ’02 coordinated the event, which featured
student bands Ring’s End and Smokestaxx, organic
concessionsand representatives from local environ-
mental groups.

The Outing Club gave away ﬂowers and herbs
and sold Earth Day t—shirts. The proceeds went to
the club’s continuing conservation work in the com-
munity. Courtesy W&L Website.

W&L Receives $800,000 Grant

The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation awarded a
$800,000 grant to Washington and Lee University for
hiring new faculty who represent wide-ranging inter-
ests, abilities and cultures.

The University recognizes that in order to prepare
students for a vastly changing world they must learn
to engage, understand and live alongside people that
represent different cultural backgrounds.

The Mellon grant will provide funding for tenure-
track faculty members over a seven—year hiring period.
The proposed hires will come from diverse disciplines.

Last year the Mellon Foundation awarded W&L a
$390,000 grant to help develop the Teaching and Learn-
ing Resource Center at the University. The center’s
mission is to provide faculty with assistance in profes-
sional development as they explore new avenues for
teaching. Courtesy W&L Website

Verizon grant awarded

English professors Marc Conner, Suzanne Keen and
Eric Wilson have been awarded the Verizon Grant to
improve their courses with Web technology. Each of
the faculty members will receive a stipend and will
have access to specialized training, student assistants
and other resources for the project’s completion dur-
ing Fall Term 2001.

The project involves a collaboration between three
courses: Expository Writing and two sections of Com-
position and Literature. The use of the Web will facili-
tate communication and collaboration among the stu-
dents and professors involved in the courses. Conner,
the lead writer of the proposal, said the project will
result in resources on composition that will be avail-
able to many W&L courses.

Coming up . . .

Today

—7 p.m. Dr. Tom Nye, Biology. “A Look Back at
Forty—five Years.” Last Lecture Series. Gaines
Gatehouse. Sponsored by Catholic Campus Ministry.
No charge.

—8 p.m. Lecture. Dr. Richard Bootzin, University
of Arizona. “The Mystery of Sleep: Causes and Treat-
ment of Insomnia.” duPont Hall.

Tuesday, May 1

—7:30 p.m. Contact Lecture. Mike Reiss, producer
of “The Simpsons.” “How You Can Be a Comedy
Writer (and Why You Shouldn’t).” Lee Chapel.

—8 p.m. Concert. Bebo Norman, Christian Record-
ing Artist. $5 cover. GHQ.

—8 p.m. Senior Recital. Hillary Bryant, mezzo—so—
prano. Johnson Theatre, Lenfest Center.

Wednesday, May 2

—7:30 p.m. Lecture. Hugh Blackmer. “Dirges, Mur-
der Ballads and Cries of the Heart: Musics of Death
and Dying.” Room 214, Science Center.

Thursday, May3

—8 p.m. Senior Presentation. Brian Stisser. Johnson
Theatre, Lenfest Center.

——8:30 p.m. Alumni Weekend begins. Tom Wolfe
‘5 1, keynote speaker. Lee Chapel.

Friday, May 4

—l1 a.m. Address. President John Elrod. “Sixty
Minutes with the President.” Question and answer
session to follow. Lee Chapel.

——7:30 p.m. Film Society. David Mamet Festival.
“House of Games” (1987). T roubador Cinema.

—8 p.m. Senior Recital. Lauren LaFauci, perform-
ing works for ﬂute and piccolo. Lee Chapel.

Saturday, May 5

—l p.m. Book signing by Tom Wolfe ‘51. Bookstore.

—7:30 p.m. Film Society. David Mamet Festival.
“Glengarry Glen Ross” (1992). Troubador Cinema.

Sunday, May6

—8 p.m. Senior Recital. Lovancy Ingram, violin.

ALL SHE WANTS TO DO IS DANCE. Members of the W&L Dance Ensemble perform in their

photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor

sixth annual spring recital Saturday night, showcasing jazz, tap and ballet.

n-air ‘ ‘J avapalooza” debuts

Students enjoy

show, but noise

bothers some
By Latrina Stokes

STA FF WRITER

Spring has drawn Java at the GHQ
outside to the Co—op for live music
and tasty treats, but after the first ses-
sion of “Javapalooza,” ears are still
ringing.

I While some students said the
good music created a pleasant atmo-
sphere, freshmen Ashley Daly and
Michael Khattak commented on how
the volume of the music was disrup-
tive.

The new location, at the heart of
campus near dormitories, the-snack
bar and academic buildings, gives
students easy access to the perfor-
mances. Students trying to study on
the Hill, however, complained about
the volume. In fact, each act will play
outside the C—School study area.

Some students not interested in
attending compained about the noise.

    

Freshman Kim Lambkin, who lives
behind the Co-op in Graham—Lees,
was disturbed while studying in her
room Monday night.

“A warning would have been po-
lite,” Larnbkin said.

To prevent further disturbances,
Lambkin suggested that the organiz-
ers move Java to the Dell, the more
secluded grassy area behind
Leybum Library.

Senior Matt Herman, one of the
student managers, said the current
location will allow bigger bands to
play than could fit in the GHQ.

Junior Micah Tolman did not think
the volume mattered. He said he was
impressed that an event not driven
by alcohol or hormones brought to-
gether so many different segments of
W&L.

“I thought it was absolutely great,”
Tolman said. “The harmonizing power
of art brought people together.”

Java’s first outdoor event drew a
large crowd. It was estimated that es-
timated that between 250 and 275
people attended.

“I was pleasantly surprised,”
said senior Heather McDonald, the

'1

photo courtesy Heather McDonald

MUSIC or THE NIGHT. Student band Smokestaxx played at the
first Javapalooza until the noise permit ran out.

other student manager. “It kind of
knocked my socks off to have so
many people hanging out.”

That was one of the major goals
for moving the venue, said J ava’s ad-
ministrative sponsor Teresa
Glassman.

“We are really trying to build a
closer community before we move to
the Commons,” she said.

Glassman would like to start a
new tradition on campus where
people can come socialize or study
in a low-key setting. She also hopes
Java’s move will boost business for
the GHQ as well as the Co—op.

Java at the GHQ began lastfyear as
a campus coffeehouse. Sponsored in
part by Virginia’s Department of Al-
coholic Beverage Control, Java pro-
vides students an alc0hol—free place
to study while enjoying musical acts
nearly every Monday night.

Students can enjoy the warmer
weather and new cold treats, like iced
coffee, iced espresso and ice cream
from Sweet Things.

Although Java sells drinks and
desserts, it does not make any profit.
Glassman said that the main purpose
of Java is to keep students on cam-
pus.

Organizers will use other means
besides food to attract spectators.
Herman said local bands will play in
the next few weeks, including Agents
of Good Roots and Greenhouse. The
Guy Smiley Blues Exchange will play
tonight.

Glassman said the popularity of
Smokestaxx made them a good
choice for the first session of
Javapalooza. However, she said that
the campus should not expect a big
concert every week.

“We don’t want loudness to be
synonymous with Java,” Glassman
said.

Geology major wins Goldter Schohip

Junior wins national
science and math honor

By Amy Blevins
W&L1FE EDITOR

Last month, 302 students nationwide
were told they had won a Goldwater Schol-
arship, a prestigious award given to prom-
ising students in mathematics, engineering
and the natural sciences. W & L geology
major Amie Lucier, a junior, counts herself
among them.

After being nominated by the
scholarship’s faculty representative, Asso-
ciate Dean of the College Stephen
Desjardins, Lucier submitted an essay
about her future career with three letters of
recommendation. One of about 1200 stu-
dents vying for the scholarship, Lucier was
one of 198 science students to receive the
scholarship.

The Goldwater Scholarship, created to
honor former United States Senator Barry
M. Goldwater, awards a $7500 academic grant.
Many Goldwater recipients have later won
Rhodes Scholarships, fellowships from the
Marshall, Churchill and Fulbright programs

or honors from the National Science Founda-
tion.

Lucier already has hands-on geology ex-
perience. Last summer, she studied the forma-
tion and composition of rocks during an in-
ternship funded by the National Science
Foundation’s Research Experience for Under-
graduates (REU) at the Carnegie Institution
of Washington Geophysical Laboratory.
Lucier worked for ten weeks in Washington,
D.C., and presented her work and a paper to
the labscientists.

Lucier is doing more research this summer
with REU at the University of Alaska,
Fairbanks, Geophysical Institute. She will be
doing seismic and gravity studies of the Alaska
Range for ten weeks.

Lucier’s research may have short-term and
long-term beneﬁts. She plans to attend graduate
school and get a Ph.D. in geology. Lucier said
she wants to find a career in geochemical or geo-
physical industrial research.

Lucier added that she will make the most of
this opportunity.

“I hope that the work I do this summer
will help me nail down exactly the area of
research I am interested in pursuing,” Lucier
said. “Hopefully, I can use this research to
write a Senior Thesis next year.”

  

  

p oto y ary Guy/P oto Editor
ROCKIN’ IN THE FREE WORLD. Junior geology major Amie
Lucier won a Barry M. Goldwater Scholarship, given to

198 natural science students nationwide this year.

 

 

APRIL 30, 2001

O

@112 iﬁtng-tum lﬂlti

PINION

   

PAGE2 .

_A

Hooking up is statistically impossible

Many students commonly mourn their inability to “hook
up,” or to have wild monkey sex, for the layman. The rea-
son for this is not because they are unnattractive, lack
game or have poor ﬂirting skills. Rather, the small size of
W&L compounded with its homogenous student body (I
had to throw that in somewhere, or it wouldn’t have been
a true article), prevents students from making out.

It’s all really a question of facts and ﬁgures. There are
roughly 2000 students here, only 1000 of whom you can
hook up with while still remaining within the boundaries
of heterosexual activities. Out of those 1000, estimate that
there are only 500 cool enough.

Now this is where it gets complicated. Technically, there
are 500 people to mess around with, mentally toy with,
date, use/abuse, get engaged to, have pseudo-platonic
relationships with, or screw over. In theory, this could
keep us very occupied and satisﬁed for four years. One
hundred twenty-five nights of unbridled passion for each
year of your academic career. However, this is not the
case. This number is dramatically reduced through a se-
ries of factors that proves how sex is statistically impos-
sible.

I.) Messy Fratemity/Sorority Breakups: A classic
case. You date someone for a long-ass period of time. You
wake up in the morning and eat brunch downstairs with
his fratemity brothers. Or you’re welcomed with open arms
into the sorority houses with the reminder you can’t go
upstairs. You gain an entire new set of friends of the op-
posite sex. And then you break up. Messily. And you can
no longer date any of those guys who you had once dined
with while wearing your boyfriend’s boxers. You can longer
walk into the sorority houses without Dobermans goug-
ing out your eyeballs. (We keep them in the back room for
special occasions like breakups.) There goes about 100
people you can’t date anymore. Down to 400.

2.) 90210 and Dawson 19 Creek Dramas: It doesn’t
matter that they never even dated. Maybe they had a
tumultuous affair ‘that ended in the

courtesy of all4love.net

SORRY, FoLKs. There won’t be any more romantic nights at Java at the GHQ.

3.) Roommate Rules: Some upstanding students try
to abide by the no-hooking-up-with—anyone-their-room-
mates—have—hooked—up-with rule. These people are para-
digms of self discipline and restraint. Say you live with
four other people. And for the sake of my well constructed
argument, say on average a student has hooked up with
15 people. Sixty people drop out of the running. In the
same vein, perhaps you have hooked with one of these

roomies, and feel awkward about

“better—off—as-friends” deal. Maybe
he just swims in a sea of lustful ec-
stasy whenever she gently touches

oithemers Exposure
Kris Pollina ’03

hooking up with another one. So say
you’ve hooked up with someone
from five different households, all

her elbow. Maybe she hooked up
with him once and he said he’d rather slip down a slide of
razor blades into a pool of rubbing alcohol than date her. It
doesn’t matter, because there’s still the entire drama that
ensued that makes you two cosmically linked. And there-
fore, these aforementioned persons are off-limits. Rela-
tionship drama here, granted, is pretty sparse (nope) so
another 150 bite the dust.

STAFF EDITORIAL

For a student, few things are as blisteringly practical as
running a newspaper. Deadlines must be met, writers man-
aged, money (outgoing, mostly) juggled and computers
repaired in a continual and lost war against decrepitude.
Publishing the Ring-tum Phi is a complicated routine, and
often only a few hours separate having the presses run-
ning and finding yourself being squeezed in them.

The work is necessary, however, because without the
Phi our news would go unreported, our opinions unheard,
and our sports triumphs unheralded.

The previous editorial board recognized this, and set a
high standard for the Phi. Their efforts bore fruit in an
attractive and well-written paper that bears favorable com-
parison with nearly any previous volume. The senior edi-
tors posessed many qualities that we hope to emulate:
Emily’s calm, Stephar1ie’s mildness, Mike’s sobriety, Max’s
volunteerism, Alexis’s passion.

Recognizing the debt we owe to our predecessors, we
now introduce their sucessors.

 

Ellie ‘tiling-tum lﬂlti

Editor in Chief
Associate Editor
News Editor
Opinion Editor
W&Life Editor
Sports Editor
Layout Editor
Photo Editor

Matt McDerm0tt
Mike Agnello
Alison Trinidad
Brett T. Kirwan
Amy Blevins
Jeremy Franklin
Katie Howell
Mary Guy

Staff Photographer Meg Ferrara
Paul Seifert
Charlie Tonelli

Business Manager
Circulation Director

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the Executive Editor, but The
Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by 5 p.m.
on Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for
content and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect
the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reflect the opinions of The Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
’Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu
http://www.wlu.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

alike in dignity, 20 more people say
goodbye to the prospect of ass. One hundred sixty magic
lucky ones remaining.

4.) “Just Friends ”: A lot of people like to mess with
standard generational tradition and have friends of the
opposite sex that don’t have any overarching sexual ten-
sion. The 2 a.m. phone calls outlining how drunk you
were, the casual lunches, the no—ulterior-motive sponta-

neous “just thought I’d stop by” visit. These are all hall-
marks of the platonic affair. With maybe 30 of these inno-
cent relationships, the number drops to 130, for fear of
ruining a perfectly normal friendship over something as
stupid as lust.

5. ) “Personal Issues”: Because of the rampant hook-
ing up that occurred before statistics rendered it impos-
sible, many have “issues” with hooking up. Whether it be
because he didn’t call the next day, or she broke his tender
heart, or she doesn’t believe in one night ﬂings, or he
doesn’t have enough energy to talk to the same girl all
damn night, personal issues prevent sexual relations. This
factor weighs in heavily, eliminating a whopping 120.

6.) And the remaining 10... Out of your league.

And so, because of the terrors of data analysis, sex has
become an obsolete term here. Maybe if we one day sus-
pend our loyalties and morals we can once again relish in
the paradoxical barbarity and beauty of free love. Until
then, we can joy in the simpler pleasures, like peanut but-
ter and jelly sandwiches and mix tapes.

Matthew McDermott, of Mandeville, La., serves as edi-
tor in chief. He previously pulled the oars as the Phi’s
news editor.

Michael Agnello, of Arlington, Texas, was last term’s as-
sistant news editor and will be this term’s associate editor.

Alison Trinidad, of Corona, Calif., previously a staff
writer, moves to editorship of the news page. The Vir-
ginia Press Association believes that she wrote the
state’s best news story this year (“Pi Beta Phi house
evacuated”).

Brett Kirwan, of Avon Lake, Ohio, moves from the as-
sistant opinions editor slot to take the full position. Brett
will safeguard the freedom of the campus’s most popular
forum, the Phi opinions page.

Amy Blevins, of Greenville, S.C., previously a staff
writer, takes the helm of the W&Life page. Last year she
edited her state’s top-ranked high school newspaper.

Jeremy Franklin, of Henderson, N.C., catapulted to
sports editor earlier in the year, and retains his position.

LETTER To THE EDITOR

W&L should jump off the
Women’s Studies bandwagon

Dear Editor,

Noticing a slight lopsidedness in the letters to the
editor concerning the Women’s Studies Program, I
thought that one letter supporting the gist of Brett
Kirwan’s and Catherine Culpepper’s articles would not
be amiss.

I must admit I really don’t see the necessity for a Women’s
Studies course here at Washington and Lee. Make no rnis—
take, I do not consider women inferior to men at all; rather,
they are equal and should share the same rights and privi-
leges. However, I think this point is fairly obvious, and
does not really require a special course of study.

I could not help but notice that atrocities committed
against women in other countries are often cited as an
example of why we need a Women’s Studies program here.
While these actions are certainly outrageous, and should
be stopped, I fail to see how they are a proof of the need

  What do you like best about the warm weather?» ‘

   

“Being able to just relax otside.”
—Kelly Schlicter ‘03

  

“Swimming In the Maury.”
—Jordan Bittle’03

Last year, he was editor in" chief of the best literary maga-
zine of North Carolina.

Katie Howell, of Oxford, Miss., draws upon six years of
page—design experience in her new role as layout editor. A
past president of the Mississippi Scholastic Press Asso-
ciation, she continues to write for the Phi ’s news and
feature sections.

Mary Guy, of Raleigh, N.C., serves as photo editor, a
position she has held from the beginning of Winter Term.
Besides snapping the VPA’s second place sports photo,
she also shepherded the Phi photographers who won
first and third.

This year’s editorial board recognizes the historical
trust it holds on behalf of the Washington and Lee com-
munity. While early blunders may serve to amuse the pre-
vious editors or to inspire us to harder work , we promise
to provide the quality of newspaper that W&L has come
to expect. With this, we open the inaugural issue of the
104th volume of the Ring-tum Phi .

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

y Brett T. Krwa

for Women’s Studies, unless one believes that the male
part of the student body at Washington and Lee is behind
these reprehensible acts. By the same argument, taking
into account all the persecutions of religious minorities
that occur across the world, we should be pushing for a
Christians Studies program as well.

Several advocates of the Women’s Studies program,
when pressed with charges that the program is simply in
response to a fad, have pointed to other “similar” changes
to the academic program that the university has made in the
past. While nothing can be immediately ruled out as being
“good” or “bad” merely on the basis of change, I would like
to point out that the decision to add spring term was hardly
made as part of a growing trend affecting universities across
the nation.

Rather, it was a decision arrived after much thought and
aimed at enhancing the uniqueness of W&L. I feel that
adding a Women’s Studies program, on the other hand,
would instead detract from that uniqueness, reducing the
diversity available at centers for higher education.

One sentence in Nancy Rhineheart’s letter somewhat

 

“Ice cream.”
—Arnina Elgouacem ‘O3

 

   
    
   
   
    
      
   
   
   
    
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

illustrates the misgivings I have about adding the Women’s
Studies program. “Also, speaking as a woman, do you .v
have any idea what happens to other women in the world?”
Rhineheart seems to imply that as a man, Brett Kirwan can
really neither have any idea what women around the world
go through, nor contribute any meaningful comments to
the discussion. ‘‘
I find this idea that men are totally unable to relate to or
communicate with women rather disturbing. I would ﬁnd V’
any course that fostered this belief and tension between
two parts of society equally disturbing. "
It seems to me that we don’t need to be drawing lines
in this fashion, by instituting a course of study that im-
plies that one half of the population is “out to get” the
other half. For all of these reasons, I feel that adding a
Women’s Studies program to W&L is an unnecessary
and potentially divisive change. 1 '

Sincerely,
Jonathan Davis ‘04

 

“Sho shorts.”
-Lee Walker ‘04

 

 

  

APRIL 30, 2001

S

@112 ilting-tum ilﬂlit

PORTS

 

' photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor
 DIAPER DANDY. Freshman Lee Wheeler’s four

5" goals lifted W&L to a 6-2 win over Lynchburg
10 in the ODAC Tournament title game.

Hampden-Sydney’s narrow
win will keep the Generals
home for the postseason

By Geoff White

SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s lacrosse team defeated
VMI for the 13th straight time in the Lee-Jackson Lacrosse
Classic on Saturday, but overshadowing this victory looms
the larger issue of losing to Hampden-Sydney.

The Generals battled the Tigers to an 12-1 1 loss on
April 21, and lost any chances of making the NCAA play-
offs. With the win, Hampden Sydney earned the regular-
season Old Dominion Athletic Conference championship

BroLoGY & SCIENCE
MAJORS

No Experience

Needed! !

Start at 32K, 45K at 2 years

IMS Inc., a biomedical software firm
in Silver Spring, MD, is offering a free
4 week programming course. We have
10 openings. We have hired 90% of
the 50 students who have taken this
course. Course starts 6/18/01.

For details see www.IMSWEB.com
or to apply call toll free (888) 680-
5057.

T0 sublet . ..

House in Historic
Charleston

Large 1 bedroorn/lbath w/d
1 off street parking lot.

Great neighborhood, four blocks
from College of Charleston.

Suitable for one to two people.
Available May 1 — Aug 10th.

Email lktal0r53 @a0l.c0m

..... .....— ,. _ 

Women’s lacrosse team tops
Lynchburg in title contest to

earn trip to postseason
By Dave Crowell

SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee women’s lacrosse team used an
impressive four- goal performance from freshman midﬁelder
Lee Wheeler in order to defeat Lynchburg on Sunday, thus
earning their ﬁrst division crown since 1998 and an automatic
bid to the Division III national tournament.

The Generals recovered from a defeat to nationally-
ranked Mary Washington in late March to post six con-
secutive victories heading into the tournament.

In the tournament quarterﬁnals, the top- seeded Gener-
als made quick work of Guilford, posting an impressive 19-
3 victory in preparation for a semiﬁnal match against
Roanoke College.

On Saturday, the Generals needed a little more effort to
dispose of the fourth-seeded Maroons. After building a
precarious 10-8 lead, W&L used ﬁve unanswered goals in
the ﬁnal 1 1:23 to reach the championship game.

Wheeler scored four goals and fellow freshman Kelly
Taffe added three goals in the victory. Sophomore Leslie
Bogart and junior Emily Owens tallied two goals apiece
and each added an assist. Freshman goalie Joanna Perini
made 12 saves.

qW&L tops VMI, but will miss playoffs

and will receive an automatic bid to
the NCAA tournament.

“They played as well as they
could, and we played about as poorly
as we could,” head coach Jim
Stagnitta said.

The Generals rallied from an 11-6
deficit with 10 minutes remaining in
the game, with goals from seniors
Tom Burke, Matt Dugan and Pope
Hackney.

The Tigers answered right back,
scoring again to put the lead at 12-
9. The Generals came back again, as
Burke and junior Andrew Barnett
put the team within a goal of tying
the game.

However, Tigers’ goaltender
Scott Fava kept the Generals out of
the net for the rest of the game. Fave
made 14 saves on the day, including

12 in the second half. The Generals
attempted 21 shots in the fourth quar-
ter comeback.

“We put an unbelievable rush on
them, and just fell a little bit short,”
Stagnitta said of the comeback.

The Generals fared better against
the Keydets of VMI. W&L opened
the scoring with two goals from
Dugan and Hackney. Senior goaltender Wes Hays made
two early saves to keep the lead, but the Generals eventu-
ally fell behind as VMI scored three goals, two by fresh-
man Leo Mclnemey.

“It took us a little while to get going,” Stagnitta said of
the slow start. ‘

The Generals then went on to score two goals before
the end of the half, and led 5-3 going into the third quarter.
W&L did not lose the lead again for the rest of the game.
Dugan had three goals and three assists, and Hackney
totaled four goals and an assist.

Captain Pope Hackney, talking through bleeding lips,
commented on the effort of the seniors.

“We just realized that this game is so much fun,” Hack-

TOYOTA’ S

WWW. gettoyota . C0111.

limitations and ofler expires 6/30/01. See dealer for details.

® TOYOTA
CALL IT SQTART UP MONEY.

ACOLLEGE GRADUATE
FINANCE PLAN INCLUDES $500
TO GET YOU GOING!

Tl1crc’s sure to be a Toyota that’s just right for you.....

And now there’s a Toyota College Graduate Finance Program
that’s just right, too. Here are some of the advantages:
_ 0 No Down Payment
0 No Payment for 90 days
0 Finance up to 72 months

0 Get $500 Cash Back From Toyota...
in addition to any other current Toyota customer incentives!

So if you’re within 4 months of graduation -
or if you graduated within the past 2 years —
Ask your Toyota dealer for all the details.

Toyota College Graduate Finance Program available to qualified appli-
cants thru Toyota Financial Services. Not all applicants will qualify. Some
restrictions and limitations apply. Cash back offer subject to geographic

:Generals win ODAC tournament

In the championship match, W&L faced a tough
Lynchburg squad, which they earlier defeated 8-7 in over-
time during regular seasonconference play. W&L used a
stiﬂing defense and patient attack to defeat Lynchburg 6-2.

Behind the cry of “We want it more,” the Generals
jumped out to a 4-1 halftime lead behind three of Wheeler’s
four goals and an unassisted goal by senior Liz Borges.
Wheeler and Borges each added a goal in the second half
to secure the victory.

“I’m very proud of this team,” coach Jan Hathom said
of her team after their victory. “If you asked me at the
beginning of the season, I wouldn’t have believed we’d
be in this position.”

On defense, the Generals shut down Lynchburg’s of-
fense, relentlessly attacking the pass while Perini stopped
numerous shots on goal in key situations.

“The defense was better than usual and figured out
their scheme,” Hathom said. “J 0 made save after save and
really stepped up her game.”

After the game, Wheeler, Borges, Perini, and junior
defender Eloise Priest were all named to the All-Touma-
ment team.

The Generals next face a challenging season—ending
opponent in Division II Limestone before selections be-
gin for the national tournament, which begins the week-
end of May 12.

“Who knows what will happen in the tournament,”
Hathorn said. “We’re not experienced with national play,
but we’re excited about the opportunity to be there.”

Rmg-tum P/11 File Photo

SoLrD IN NET. Senior Wes Hays saved 75 percent of the shots
he faced in the Lee-Jackson Lacrosse Classic. The Generals
handed the Keydets a 15-5 loss at VMI.

ney said. “We may not be able to go to the tournament,
but we’ve got to enjoy these last two games. It’s just so
much fun and we’re never going to have anything like this
again.”

Hays held his line late in the game, making repeated
saves to ensure the overwhelming victory for the Gener-
als. He made 15 saves, earning a very respectable .750
save percentage for the contest. '

Pope Hackney and VMI senior attackman Brad Muston
were given the Worrell-Fallon Trophy as the game’s most
valuable players.

The Generals (12-1) have two games left in their sea-
son. They will face Randolph-Macon on Wednesday and
Limestone on Saturday.

Highlander

  
 
  
  
  
 
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
      
   
   
  
    
    
  
   
  
 
    
 
 
  
 
 
 
    
 
  

 
  

 
  

  H  _ H .- V
P »Wo1:rieng’siWor1dGt1p

  

 
 

   

thefzleague allocated :tlie[2

  
   
 

 

ashi gt<‘m¥¥3%C¥’?i>.ased. _ .
_ . n%tsG1o‘ba‘171i1aiigu at
ay¢IStint1re.wo:1d.’ii:.e W118
Soeceriea

 

 

PAGE 4

@112 King-tum iﬁlii

PORTS

  

APRIL 30, 2001

enerals set record for victories

Ring-mm Phi File Photo
BoYs or SUMMER? Freshman Bryan Mulhern

and the Generals earned a school-record 23
wins during the 2001 season.

W&L’s 23-win
total the ‘best in

school history
By Catherine Culpepper

SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee baseball
team ﬁnished a record-setting season
by splitting a doubleheader against
Old Dominion Athletic Conference
foe Lynchburg on April 21.

The Generals set a school record
for wins in a season, posting a 23-8
record, including a 9-7 mark in the
ODAC. Furthermore, they played
most of the year without sophomore
outﬁelder Bobby Littlehale, a second-
team All-ODAC selection in 2000.

“We had a great group of guys,
and they played with amazing con-
sistency,” head coach Jeff Stickley
said of his team. “Our pitching was
the strong point of the team.”

On April 14, W&L split a twin bill
with Virginia Wesleyan, which went
on to win the ODAC championship.

Senior David Sigler pitched the

Generals to an 8-1 win in the ﬁrst
game, scattering three hits and six
strikeouts in a complete game effort.
However, Blue Marlin Myron Trunick
hurled a two-hitter in game two as Vir-
ginia Wesleyan pulled out a 6-1 win.

The Generals then traveled to
Pennsylvania, tying and then break-
ing the school record for wins in a
season with victories over Haverford
and Swarthmore.

Against Haverford on April 18,
freshman Peter Dean recovered from
early struggles to improve to 6-0 on
the season. Dean allowed a three-run
first inning, but beneﬁted from a six-
run W&L third inning as the Generals
went on to win a 12-7 decision.

Sophomore shortstop Michael
Hanson batted 3-for-5, driving in ﬁve
runs and scoring twice, to lead the
Generals at the plate. Junior third
baseman Matt Kozora smacked a pair
of doubles and drove in three runs.

W&L then proceeded to hammer
Swarthmore, 20-1, to set the new vic-
tory record. Senior designated hitter
Jason May hit 2-for-3 with six RBI and
two runs, and sophomore first

baseman Brian Gladysz crossed the
plate four times. The Generals recorded
totals of 16 hits and 16 walks at the
plate against the Garnet Tide.

The Generals then returned home
for the season-ending doubleheader
against the Hornets.

Lynchburg’s lineup accounted for
two run-scoring singles in the ﬁrst
inning of game one, adding another
pair of runs in the fifth inning against
Sigler. Hanson’s two-run double in the
bottom half of the same inning cut the
lead in half, but Lynchburg held on
for the 6-3 win.

“(Sigler) pitched a great game
against Lynchburg, even though we
lost,” Stickley said. “The team’s go-
ing to miss him next year, but we’ve
got a lot of great freshmen.”

Hanson pitched a complete game
in the nightcap, yielding two earned
runs on four hits while striking out six
as the Generals won, 5-3.

W&L scored twice in the second
and third innings to build an early lead.

May hit 3-for-4 with a run, and
sophomore second baseman Todd
Johnson batted 2-for-3 with two RBI.

Golfers fall just short of ODAC title

We just couldn’t close coming down the stretch.”

By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

Talk about a strong finish.

The Washington and Lee golf team placed second in
the Old Dominion Athletic Conference Championships in
Blueﬁeld on April 23-24. The Generals ﬁnished the two-
day event just two strokes behind Guilford, the second-
ranked Division III team in the nation.

This showing followed ﬁrst—place performances at the
Roanoke ODAC Invitational on April 3 and the Emory and
Henry ODAC invite on April 16. The Generals’ turnaround
followed a disappointing second-place finish at the W&L
ODAC Invitational on March 22.

“We deﬁnitely ﬁnished strong this spring,” junior Kyle
Ulep said. “When the season began to wind down, we
knew that we had to finish strong to have a chance at
making nationals, so we became much more focused and

practiced much harder.”

W&L led the Quakers by ﬁve strokes after day one of
the ODAC Championships. Sophomore Chip Campbell
shot a 74, followed by Ulep, fellow junior Curtis Bethea
and sophomore Chuck Green at 75.

The second day of the event didn’t go quite so well for
the Generals, whose score rose from 299 to 310. Guilford
held steady, going from 304 to 303, to win the event.

“We just had a few bad holes coming in, but we really
should have kicked their butt,” head coach Gavin Colliton
said. “We fell through at the end, and gave the second
round to them. Guilford was nervous, and they actually
walked out of there thankful.”

Green led the Generals on day two with a 76, followed
by Campbell at 77, Bethea at 78, and Ulep at 79.

“It was very hard to handle the defeat at ODACs,”
Ulep said. “We put ourselves in a great position after the
first day, but things did not go our way on the second day.

   

\X/here do you Want to go
this summer?

How about a few steps closer
to graduation?

Take advantage of a unique opportunity to study at
Georgetown University this summer at special summer tuition
rates. Choose from more than 300 graduate and undergraduate
day and evening credit courses during three convenient sessions.

Pre-Session: May 21 - June 15
First Session: June 4 - July 6
Second Session: July 9 - August 10

  

Call 202-687-5942 for a catalog or visit our website below.
On-campus housing is also available.

2  Georgetown University

Scliool for Summer & Continuing Education
www.georgetown.edu/ssce/summer
Aﬁinnative Action/Equal Opportunity Institution

    

marry  
. J

  

Due to the strength of Division IH golf in the Generals’
district, head coach Gavin Colliton isn’t counting on an
at-large bid to the NCAA Championships. However, he
has been pleased with the improvement of his team, even
within the course of this season.

“The last few years, we’ve improved almost ten strokes
on our team average,” said Colliton, who is ﬁnishing his
second season as head coach. “We’ve almost got our
spring average under 310, which is pretty good. There’s a
tremendous difference from even just last year.”

After the team’s performance in 2001, Ulep is anticipat-
ing an even better season for the Generals next year.

“Although we could have played better at times, we
deﬁnitely made some forward progress throughout the
season,” Ulep said. “I am looking forward to next year. We
can only get better, and with the majority of the team re-
turning, I expect nothing less than entry into nationals.”

   

  

8 180    
YOURWEEKEND.   

Ali it takes is use weekend 3 month~and' as little as _
two tweets 3 year ta -servéyin ~a' p.a_rt~time capacity in
the trilt-time Array. in the US. Arm*yf.Reserve you can

V , pursue your ciiritia.n’ca1reer. stay ciese ta trams and I
develep your ‘stcilisrrtiile lea»rrii‘ng—..new r3rrss..,Ttre ,
Reserve aiferstraining in accrmting, veng.'inaering,-
electronics, law enforcement, software. araatjzsia, . i
m6€l~ici»n-e and more. — I  ’ A

 

"" it  I .Fin:i£lneiif?t¥ver,t8i1_.lila3r$81"

or call i-we-usn-Artur.

Iiutitarzt your lanai rjenruiter. -

Jsti

 

 

in Be rr’serdr’e‘r’at ssrriirvir£5ERrt_;.m1  ' ‘

has watt harp you rear: -what‘: test trrr you-. ‘

CAMP

 

Summer In New England!
Have fun. Make A Difference.

Camp Greylock & Romaca seek caring, energetic
counselors and coaches. Co-ed staffs, competitive
salaries + room & board. Internships are available.
Located in the Berkshire Mountains of
Massachusetts, 2.5 hours from Boston and NYC.

COUNSELORS

Archery, Baseball, Basketball, Climbing Wall, Creative Arts, Drama, Football, Golf, Gymnastics,
Hiking, lnline-Hockey, Lacrosse, Mountain Biking, Sailing, Soccer, Softball, Swimming, Tennis,
Volleyball, Waterskiing, plus nursing and administrative positions.

www.camQromaca.oom

Camp Romaca Camp Greylock
for Girls: for Boys:
888-2-romaca 1-800-842-5214

 

www.camggreylock.com

this summer?

Programmer/Anaylsts

Cubicles ??

We ain’t got no
stinkin’ cubicles !!

No work experience

required. IMS Inc. needs 5
programmers. Located 10 miles
North of Washington, D.C. We
use many different languages,
support biomedical research and
employ 165 people. No layoffs in
27 years!! You must know one
language well, have BS & 2.9+
GPA.

,See www.IMSWEB.com or
' Call toll free 1-888-680-5057

Study Outside
Next Semester

The Castle Rock Institute -sponsors
an off~campns study program that
combines coursework in treiigion,
philosophy, literature and art with
backpacking, climbing, biking‘

Lirnited space available for the
Fall 2001 session:.Aug. 27 -Dec. 10

Visit the CRI website to request an application.

Castle Rock Institute

R0. Box 792, Brevard, NC 28712 828-862-3759

Wwwcastle - rock.org »

 

and paddling.

 

 

 

U112 "ﬂting-tum

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

iii”!

..?At.tE4£ «:3 meta»; Liam av
‘vVA8?'~':7‘/"ifR
' ‘ '7 *3 ~ 63"!‘ \‘I, gmgg

Y 102001

   

VOLUME 104, No.I3—

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

MONDAY, MAY 7, 2001

 

  

National leadership group
honors three W&L supporters

An engineer and physicist, a prominent Lexing-
ton attorney and one of the country’s leading in-
surance executives were honored as Omicron Delta
Kappa inductees at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity Thursday evening.

Robert E. Akins, a W&L physics professor, Albert
J. Beveridge HI, president of the George C. Marshall
Foundation, and Clay T. Jackson, president of a N ash-
ville insurance company, were welcomed into the na-
tional leadership fraternity that was founded at Wash-
ington and Lee in 1914. --Courtesy W&L website

W&L Athletics Department

buys new workout equipment

The P.E. Department has purchased nine new fit-
ness machines for the aerobic workout rooms in
Doremus Gymnasium and Games Hall.

“There really weren’t enough machines for the
number of people in the school in the past and
many of the machines have been breaking down,”
said University Athletic Committee member and
senior Kathleen Moroney. “The addition of the
new machines will be great for the new fitness cen-
ter and Gaines Hall. 1 think it’s great that the fac-
ulty and trustees have been so quick to satisfy
the students’ concerns.”

The new machines were funded by contributions
to the University for new equipment to be used in
the new fitness center, which will begin construc-
tion in the summer. The machines will stay in Doremus
Gymnasium and Gaines Hall until the completion of
the new fitness center.

Three LifeCycle 9500 stationary bikes, two Tectrix
Climb Max 150 stairmasters, two PreCor USA C964i
treadmills and two PreCor USA EFX 546 elliptical ma-
chines are included in the athletic department pur-
chase. Four machines have been placed in Gaines Hall,
while the other five pieces have been added to the
aerobic room in Doremus Gymnasium.

Ruby Tuesday may come to
Rockbridge County area

Plans for a Ruby Tuesday Restaurant to come to
the area were discussed at last week’s Rockbridge
County Planning Commission meeting.

Director of Planning and Zoning Sam Crickenberger
said he is looking over a site plan to have the restau-
rant built next to the Wingate Hotel on US. 11, just
past the Interstate 64 interchange.

A decision about site plan approval is expected
within the next few weeks.

VMI bookstore now run
by Barnes & Noble

Barnes and Noble took over Virginia Military
Institute’s bookstore a week and a half ago from
Wallace’s Bookstores Inc.

Wallace’s had been operating the store for the
past six years. Although Wallace’s had submitted
a proposal to renew its contract, VMI chose to
contract Barnes & Noble.

The three—year contract with Barnes and Noble can
be extended to run six years.

 

24/7: W&L’s WEEKLY CALENDAR

Today
4:30 p.m.—Faculty meeting. Northern Auditorium

7 p.m.—Javapalooza. Greenhouse featuring Burr
Datz. Baker—Davis—Gilliarn Quad.

'IlIesday,May8
4 p.m.--Lecture, women@work series. Dr.
KimMarie McGoldrick. “Beginning Mentoring

Now.” Reception to follow. Room 220, Williams
School.
Thursday, May 10

7:30 p.m.—Lecture, Phi Beta Kappa Visiting
Scholar series. Dr. Lawrence D. Bobo. “A Color-
Line for the 2 1 st Century? Laissez—faire Racism and
the Status of African Americans.” Room 214, Sci-
ence Center.

8 p.m.—-Senior Recital. Scott Meister, trumpet.
Johnson Theatre, Lenfest Center.
Friday, May 11

12 p.m.—Luncheon Lecture. women@work se-
ries. Katherine Schipper. Reservations required.
‘Room 220, Williams School.

7:30 p.m.— Film Society. David Mamet Festival.
“The Spanish Prisoner” ( 1997). Troubador Cinema.

_ Saturday, May 12

All Day—Nabors Service Day. Brunch to com-
memorate Jonathan Nabors, volunteer projects con-
tinue until 4 p.m.

7:30 p.m.— Film Society. David Mamet Festival.
“State and Main” (2000). Troubador Cinema.

10 p.m.—Band party. Ingram Hill at Beta Theta Pi.

Sunday, May 13

All Day-—Mother’s Day.

2:30 p.m.—Law Commencement. Front Lawn.

8 p.m.—Senior Recital. Brooke deRosa, soprano.
Johnson Theatre, Lenfest Center.

NOTES

 

 

Students 1'9-30131‘

By Alison Trinidad

News EDITOR

Three strikes and you’re out? No way,
say Washington and Lee students.

In an open forum held last Wednes-
day, about 100 students questioned the
need for more stringent University alco-
hol policies, fearing that approval of rec-
ommended policies would drive students
away in more ways than one.

“If you start making it not fun here, the
reputation of W&L will suffer,” said sec-
ond—year law student D. Wes Harnmit.

“(This) changes the entire face of
what appealed to me about W&L,”
agreed one freshman female.

According to the Princeton Review,
“beer and liquor ﬂow like water” on week-
ends and “outside of the classroom, ‘drink-
ing is the basic social interaction’” at W&L.

The policies, drafted by the Alcohol
Task Force, are intended to turn the faucet
off or at least reduce it to a trickle.

The recommendations suggest more
education and counseling and a three—strike
penalty program for students and Greek or-
ganizations violating school or state alco-
hol laws. Violations include drunk driving,
alcohol—related convictions and supply of
alcohol to minors. If approved, three strikes
within one year of the ﬁrst would mean a
student’s expulsion or an organization’s full-
year suspension from the University.

The next open forum is scheduled for
Wednesday, May 9 in Northen Auditorium.

After a series of open forums in the next
two weeks, President John Elrod will present
the amended recommendations to the Board
of Trustees. From there, the Trustees will
develop an all—encompassing policy state-
ment on substance abuse at W&L. Elrod
will then put the recommendations up to fac-
ulty vote on May 28. If approved by fac-
ulty, the policies will go back to the Board of
Trustees for ﬁnal review. Implementation is
planned to begin by Fall Term 2001.

Elrod created the Task Force last No-
vember to study the alcohol culture at
Washington and Lee. The creation of the
Task Force immediately followed junior
Adam Burchett and freshman Kristin
Shelton’s deaths in a single-vehicle crash
after attending several fraternity parties last
October. Authorities later determined alco-
hol was a contributing factor to the acci-
dent.

.v- 

 

photo by Mary Guy/photo editor

STANDING ROOM ONLY. Students fill Northen Auditorium to discuss harsher penalties for alcohol violations.

The Task Force’s emphasis on disci-
pline coupled with the time of its creation
lead some to see the proposed penalties
as too reactionary.

“That’s how it exactly would appear,”
said Dean of Students and Administrative
Task Force Facilitator David Howison.

Howison said the situation seems reac-
tionary to someone unaware of the school’s
past attempts to control alcohol abuse.

“There was hard work being done be-
fore that accident,” he said, referring to
the comprehensive research into alcohol
use at W&L by the Alcohol Steering Com-
mittee, which began more than three years
ago, in November 1997.

The Steering Committee’s chair, Trustee
and_Task_Force Member Edward L. Bishop,
III, ’66, told the Alumni Board this week-
end that the Steering Committee had three
goals: education, counseling and discipline.
He said the Steering Committee addressed
education and counseling well but left dis-
cipline relatively untouched.

The Task Force focused more on dis-
cipline because it had not been ad-
equately dealt with before, Howison said.

Most criticism was directed at the
proposal’s vague wording, seemingly mis-
guided “scare-tactics” and call for paren-
tal notiﬁcation.

Inter-fraternity Council President Quincy
Springs asked the Task Force for more time
to allow IFC initiatives to prove their effi-
cacy. The IFC initiated its own ﬁve-step pro-
gram last January, which puts student self-
discipline above anything else. Springs and
other IFC members presented statistics that
imply their system is already working to re-
duce fraternity—related alcohol violations.

Other students argued that if student
safety were the most important concern,
making Live Drive and Safe Ride a 24/7 pro-
gram would be more effective than threat-

ening suspension. The Task Force, in fact,_

helped extend the Live Drive program, which
now uses University vehicles, defined
routes and paid drivers and assistants.
Physics Professor and Task Force Co-
Chair H. Thomas Williams believes students
need to face the reality of their actions.
“It’s time for (the cushion) to go away,”
he said. “We want to remind students that
the University is not a shield from the law.”

Williams empathized with the students’
defensive attitude but regretted the direc-
tion of their complaints.

“Some of the student reaction was pre-
dictable,” he said, “(but) I wish the students
would’ve focused more on the abusive be-
havior (which calls for) the sanctions.”

Echoing previous remarks at the forum,
Springs asked the audience if W&L really
wanted to return to the rule—based culture
that Robert E. Lee had replaced with an
honor-based culture.

Although Howison did not respond at
the forum, he later said, “in any culture we
live in, were responsible for our behavior.”

Reﬂecting on the discussion, the majority
of people who attended said it went smoothly.

“It was good that we finally got some
student opinion,” said junior Kate Reeves.
“It was a good forum, but we need to see
more of them.”

Williams said the dialogue was the most
important outcome of the forum.

“It’s the conversations that are useful,”
he said. “If (the students) get a voice, they
can bring change that’s already here, just
not hear .”

‘4 Si  UNiVEjHS_lT{

WLUR moves

By Latrina Stokes

STAFF WRITER

 

Dr. Alan Stewart

The nasl WEEK'S QIIBSI IBGIIIIBIS . . .

 

Mik Ris

“The Simpsons" producer Novelist

photos by Meg Ferrara/staff photographer

 

Tm W e

Folger Library Fellow

University radio station WLUR will soon relocate from
Reid Hall to the Women’s Center in the University Center.

Station Manager Nick Ramsey said that it will stay there
for the next two years, ultimately moving to the new Uni-
versity Commons.

The costly relocation of the station’s transmitter to an
area near the Student Activities Pavilion will temporarily
put it out of service.

Bob de Maria, journalism professor and WLUR’s su-
pervisor, said that waiting on the Federal Communications
Commission to approve the new location will keep the
station down until sometime in fall. It would take at least
90 days for the Commission to act, but would probably
require more time, he said.

That means that students will not be able to listen to
WLUR until at least midterm.

Although she was familiar with the shows and DJ s, sopho-
more Sara Rafferty said she now listens to  only “ran-
domly,” which implies how often other students tune in as well.

Hearing of the temporary closing, several students re-
gretted that others would not be able to listen. They them-
selves, however, seemed little concerned.

“Sometimes I can’t even pick it up,” Raffety said. Although
she lives within a ﬁve-minute walk of the transmitter, Rafferty
said the station often comes in fuzzy when it does at all. She
believes poor reception is probably a major reason why stu-
dents do not support the station more.

The new transmitter should help solve that problem,
but students will have to wait until at least October or
November to find out for sure.

Sophomore Toussaint Crawford, who plays hip-hop,
said he will remain a DJ to broadcast an under—represented
genre, no matter how many people listen.

“I love my show,” he said, “so it’s very worth it.”

University ofﬁcials have taken on a similar attitude and
have chosen to invest much money in maintaining WLUR;
the exact cost has been speculated at more than a million
dollars. According to de Maria, President John Elrod and
Dean Larry Boetsch favored keeping the station because it
is such a large student activity.

Journalism 361 and 263 both incorporate radio broadcasts
in teaching reporting techniques. Besides news reports, WLUR
broadcasts live home games and cultural programs like opera.

Moving the station has long been a department goal,
de Maria said. After the move, de Maria will be freed of
his supervising responsibilities and capable of teaching
another class per semester. And WLUR will run off stu-
dent power alone.

 

 

PAGE 2

0&1}: ‘tiling-tum lﬁlrt

Bush his a 100 dy homern

So I wasn’t right about Bush’s
margin of victory. But I was right
about the man. The first hundred days
are over and they were great. In the
course of his barely three and a half
months in ofﬁce he has managed to
stare down the communist Chinese,
tell off the American Bar Association,
create a cabinet more diverse than ei-

ther of Clinton’s, give the nation a co-' 7

herent energy policy, roll back hun-
dreds of last minute Clinton regula-
tions, create momentum for a tax cut
and lead a hemisphere-wide trade con-
ference.

As promised, he truly has
changed the tone in Washington.
The chattering class is irate that
President Bush has built political
capital, is governing effectively, and
is more popular than Clinton was af-
ter his first hundred days. Bush has
proved to be an enthusiastic and op-
timistic leader who has gained con-
trol of Congress and is fearlessly
pursuing a bold conservative
agenda.

He has, however, had his share of
criticism, the most vocal of which has
been concerned with his handling of
environmental policy. Bush has com-
mitted the nation to drilling in the Arc-
tic, pushed back implementation of a
rule to decrease arsenic levels in tap

it

  

photo by Kenneth Lambert (AP)

Hrs BIGGEST FAN. The San Diego Chicken cheers for Pres. Bush at Sunday’sWhite House T-ball game.

so environmental wackos could bring
us one step closer to their vision of a
humanity—free world without actually
improving the environment.

Current arsenic levels haven’t been
shown to be any more harmful than
the proposed lower standard, but

water, and has implementation of
pulled the , _ the regulation
United States Right of the A1516 would drastically
outof the Kyoto Brett Khwan 04 increase the cost
Protocol. Demo- of running water,

crats, Hollywood liberals, and the news
media all have lambasted President
Bush for wanting to poison our chil-
dren, pollute the air, and destroy a pris-
tine and unique wilderness reserve.
Not surprisingly, these attacks are
untrue. The Kyoto Protocol would
have massively shrunk the economy
to lower carbon dioxide levels negligi-
bly. Millions would have lost their jobs

LETTER To THE EDITOR

Grades and self-

esteem not related

Dear Editor,

I am writing in response to Brett
Kirwan’s article about Take Our
Daughters to Work Day. I will not ar-
gue for, nor against, Kirwan’s central
thesis. Rather, I wish to address
Kirwan’s problematic interpretation of
the evidence concerning girls’
achievement and self—esteem.

Kirwan ﬁrst cites Gilligan’s ﬁndings
that adolescent girls lose self esteem
during adolescence. Second, he cites
U.S. Department of Education data that
girls outperform boys in “nearly every
measure of academic performance.” In
the context of the article, Kirwan seems
to be arguing that these two bodies of
evidence, and the conclusions drawn

 
   

especially for small Western commu-
nities. The cost could have been as
much as several hundred dollars per
family. In fact, Bush’s action only
moved the date for a decision on this
rule from January to July. In October,
Senate Minority Leader Tom Daschle
voted in support of this measure. Now
he accuses Bush of being irrespon-
sible and controlled by big business.

from them, are mutually exclusive and
inconsistent. This inconsistency,
Kirwan suggests, means that the logic
behind Take Our Daughters to Work
Day is questionable.

These two sets of conclusions are,
in fact, not necessarily inconsistent. I
am limited in my ability to argue this
point, as I have not seen the studies
themselves; a psychology professor
would be better equipped than I to
address this point. However, I will draw
from personal experience to argue that
self—esteem and academic achievement
are not perfectly correlated measures.
I have friends who performed well aca-
demically in their pre—college careers
despite destructive assaults on their
self—esteem over long periods of time
from varied sources such as abuse and
harassment in its many forms; I myself
have personally experienced this. Aca-

Editor in Chief
Associate Editor
News Editor
Opinion Editor
W&Life Editor
Sports Editor
Layout Editor
Photo Editor

Staff Photographer

Business Manager
Circulation Director

Ring-tum lﬂlit

Matt McDermott
Mike Agnello
Alison Trinidad
Brett T. Kirwan
Amy Blevins
Jeremy Franklin
Katie Howell
Mary Guy

Meg Ferrara

Paul Seifert
Charlie Tonelli

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the Executive Editor, but The
Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by 5 p.m.
on Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for
content and length. Staff editorials represent the opinion
of a majority of the editorial board. Letters and columns
do not reflect the opinion of The Ring—tum Phi Editorial
Board. Advertising does not reflect the opinions of The
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4()-19
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E—mail: phi@wlu.edu
http://www.wlu.edu/—-phi

“Sorority houses.”
—Helen Chandler ‘96

Other successes which have been
decried by the President’s critics in-
clude his handling of the Chinese
hostage situation and his decision to
scrap the ABM treaty and go forward
with building a national missile de-
fense. Although challenged as a in-
experienced state—level politician who
is uncomfortable dealing with foreign
affairs, Bush has proved to be a deft,
conﬁdent diplomat who charms world
leaders with his engaging personal-
ity.

His handling of the Chinese mat-
ter avoided loss of life without kow-
towing to the communist dictators in
Beijing. His decision to no longer ad-
here to a treaty made with a country
which no longer exists demonstrates
an understanding that our military
policy must be altered to meet the chal-
lenges of a post-Cold War world. New

threats from rogue nations, interna-
tional terrorists, and America—hating
third world dictators necessitate na-
tional missile defense.

President Bush has responded to
the challenges of his term with grace,
creativity and confidence. Although
his election was by a narrow margin,
he has governed forcefully and com-
mandingly. Although mocked as an in-
tellectual lightweight, Washingtoni-
ans have come to respect his intelli-
gence. Although characterized as be-
holden to big business, Bush has
governed with compassion and car-
ing. Even those who dislike Bush the
candidate cannot be unhappy with a
president who hosts T-ball games on
the South Lawn. Hopefully, the next
eight years will be as successful, and
wonderfully conservative, as the first
several weeks have been.

dernic achievement thus may serve as
a “cover” of sorts to help the person
cope. In addition, there have been
cases of very high—achieving students
committing suicide.

1 would also like to point out that
there is a difference between achieve-
ment and how one feels about the
achievement. Two persons who have
earned a 3.0 GPA may feel very differ-
ent about that achievement. There are
probably many other arguments for
the possible consistency of the two
bodies of evidence cited by Kirwan
which are much more objective, and
persuasive, than my appeal to per-
sonal experience. I will leave argu-
ments for consistency to the psychol-
ogy experts in this field. I only wish
to point out that the two sets of con-
clusions are not necessarily mutually
exclusive.

“Nothing surprises me anymore.”
—Rodger Day ‘85

I assume that Kirwan has reviewed
these studies. I encourage him to en-
lighten us with a second, more thorough
article that examines the studies more
closely and provides us with an argu-
ment for their necessary inconsistency.

Sincerely,
Julie Fitzer ’03

Kirwan responds:

The Gilligan study didn ’t use con-
ventional scientiﬁc analysis, was not
peer reviewed, and identiﬁed a sup-
posed nationwide crisis in the men-
tal health of adolescent girls. More
reliable studies have shown girls to
be well-adjusted, successful, and con-
ﬁdent. My point was that TODTWD
was created in response to shoddy,
provocative evidence crafted to serve
radical feminist purposes.

  

MAY 7, 2001

“Casual attire is a nice change.”

—Bill Davidson ‘50 —John Meloy ‘86

 

A @112 iamg-tum iﬁlii
. MAY 7,2001 s  E PAGE3

Christian artist plays GHQ

Artist impresses
students with
music, openness

By Amy Blevins
W&LIFE EDITOR

Musician Bebo Norman filled the GHQ Tuesday night with
soft guitar chords and his otherwise unaccompanied voice. Spon-
sored by the Catholic Campus Ministry, Norman spent two hours
sharing compositions from his two albums, The Fabric of Verse
and Ten Thousand Days. Norman also promoted his upcoming
album Big Blue Sky.

Senior Kathy Soroka began the process of bringing Norman
to the GHQ when she introduced Catholic Campus minister Burr
Datz to Norrnan’s music.

In addition to his music, many students were impressed with
N onnan’s onstage manner.

“His passion and lack of pretentiousness won me over. . .His
combination of truthful songs with a sincere desire to connect
with those listening made an amazing performance,” said sopho-
more Adam Mayer.

“I really enjoyed his spontaneous performance and jokes.”
said freshman Emily Averitt. “This gave a great sense of real-
ness in his music and message by conveying his humanity.”
M Students also commented on Norman’s personalized ap-
 ' M 7 _ - proach to his performance.

' ' ' “He gave the listener something with which to identify,” said
Averitt. “Also, I loved how he mixed testimony with song to con-
vey a deep message of Christianity and life. He was very real,
down to earth, and open with his audience.”

Norman discussed his concern with world poverty. During
his performance Norman urged students to adopt children from
., , the Compassion International table which was set up next to the
- A table selling his merchandise.

1  Students also approved of the atmosphere the GHQ provided the
photo by Mary Guy/photo editor performance. “Because when he plays it’s just him and his guitar the
SING UNTO THE LORD. Artist Bebo Norman sings for W&L GHQ was the perfect Venue’ Small and inﬁmatega Said Soroka.

Students in the GHQ 3b0“t God and life» Norman related stories of his own life to his music, beginning

_ - each song by describing its significance. Students said this ap-
 ' the nnntogrann accomnanvlng proach helped students identify with his message of faith. “He
the  IIBWS  III the ﬂllrll  ISSIIB Was talks about life from the perspective of faith. He talks about the
take“   Pnnlogranner Meg rel-rara' struggles of everyday life, struggles that everyone goes through,

. and he talks about God’s roles in them.” said Soroka. “I just
"0!  Ednor  all” think even though it’s Christian music it’s very universal.”

.-2....  

0  I . , . .
 Archery, Basebatl, Basketball, Clambmg Wali, Qreatweﬁrts. Drama, Footbali, Gotf, Gymnastics,
? t “  Hiking, lnlme-Hockey, Lacrosse, Mountain Biking, Sailing, Soccer, Softbali, Swimming, Tennis,

Volieyball, Waierskiing, plus nursing and administrative positions,

U)  h  Q’ P  rt’ -camp Romaca

for Girls:

CAMP couNsi.=.ji.oRiis

Summer in New England!
Have fun. Make A Difference.

        
    
   
     
     
    
    
 
   

Camp Greylock & Romaca seek caring, energetic
counselors and coaches. Co~ed staffs, competitive
saiarres + room & board. Internships are available.
Located in the Berkshire Mountains of
Massachusetts, 2.5 hours from Boston and NYC.

Camp Greytock
for Boys:

   
     

  
 
   

888-2~i'omaca 1 -300-342-5214

ggrm_gamggreyEock.com

     
  
 
   

 

)yjevw.camgromaca . 

What are you doing this summer?

I
\X/here do you want to go
? * .
this summer?
I‘ .
-   How about afew steps closer
9

r to graduation?

" Take advantage of a unique opportunity to study at:

" ‘ C.'}eorgerovm University this summer at special summer tiiitioii.
rates. Cliioose from more than 300 graduate and unc;iergi~adi.iate
drag and evenirig credit courses during three c<mvr2nieiit sessioris.

P
. P1‘t':'S€SSl0l"1: May 21 « jiirfie 15
"" First Session: jiinr: 4 ~ juiy 6
' Scctnid Session: July 9 ~ August 10
' ".5 Call ZOZ»€$f§7«5942 for 21 catalog or visit our website lzieinw.
_ ‘ C)n~c.anipus housing is also available.
fr, . .
. Georgetown University

3c.l“i£>()l for Sr,iiiiiner & Coritiiiiiing Educatiori
wWw.geor~getown.eduJssce/summer
/~\ ll"irr:i;;.xt2"s.=r,‘ ./'-\ ('1 l(5(‘gIIF/{.1‘t((|l Ckiy-srrti_z31i(§.' Ii‘1sx‘i tut it gt)

 

 

 

PAGE 4

S i”>3iiTs

MAY 7, 2001

Women’s tennis tops Mary Washington

By Dave Crowell

SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee women’s tennis team contin-
ues to blast away its competition.

The Generals (18—2, 10-0 Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference) ﬁnished a strong regular season with a 7-2 defeat
of Mary Washington on Saturday afternoon.

Sophomore Erika Proko led the team with a 6-3, 6-1
victory in second-seed singles, then later teamed with
junior Melissa Hatley for an 8-4 victory in top—seed
doubles.

W&L also claimed victories in fourth, ﬁfth, and sixth-
seed singles as sophomore Alyson Brice, sophomore
Brandi Jane Wedgeworth, and freshman Liz Law easily
defeated their competition.

The Generals ﬁnished the victory with a sweep of the
doubles matches. In addition to Proko and Hatley’s vic-
tory, sophomore Laura Bruno and junior Sallie Jane Strang
won in number—two doubles and Brice and Wedgeworth
knocked off MWC in three-seed doubles.

W&L sweeps

By Ian R. Mcllroy

SPORTS WRITER

At the Old Dominion Athletic Conference tournament,
held on April 20-21 in Lynchburg, Washington and Lee’s
men’s tennis team captured its 20th ODAC championship
in the last 25 years.

The Generals also swept the tournament for the ﬁrst
time in 12 years, taking the championship of all six singles
and all three doubles ﬂights.

Ranked 25th in the nation for Division IH play, the Gen-
erals finished the year with a 12-5 record, posting a mark
of 6-0 against ODAC opponents.

“The team has been very strong all year round thanks
largely to the leadership of our juniors,” head coach

This matchup was the last preparation before the Gen-
erals enter the national tournament in the NCAA Atlantic
Regional.

“Mary Washington is one of the top ﬁve of 107 teams
in the Atlantic South region,” coach Cinda Rankin said
after the victory.

In order to enter the NCAA playoffs, the Generals
needed a victory in the ODAC tournament. Tradition
reigned as the Generals took the crown for the 1 1th straight
year. W&L players won every match they played in dur-
ing the two-day tournament.

Hatley led the way with a championship in number-one
singles. She later received the distinction of ODAC Player
of the Year.

Despite Hatley’s accomplishment, Rankin believes that
every player will help the team in the goal to match last
year’s third-place national ﬁnish.

“Every player makes a signiﬁcant contribution every-
day, whether in a match or in practice,” Rankin said. “That’s
why this team is so good. We never have to depend on
one player to carry the team.”

 
 

Ring-Ium l’lzI' File Photo

BEST IN THE ODAC. Junior Melissa Hatley
was named conference Player of the Year.

ODACs, heads to playoffs

David Detwiler said.

Since sweeping the ODACs, the team has had nearly
three weeks to prepare for the Division HI South Regional.
Based on their work in practice, juniors Rhys James and
Andrew Roberts, number one and two singles respec-
tively, are expected to have strong showings down the
road.

Although new to the postseason, freshmen Austin Kim,
Graham Nix, and K.C. Schaefer will also have an important
role to play. Going into the tournament, Detwiler feels that
“everyone is doing their part. The team is fresh, conﬁ-

 

dent, and ready for regionals.”

   

The Generals will be assigned their first round oppo-

nent for the South Regional early in the week and the
tournament itself begins this weekend.

Rizzg-Iuln P/Ii File Photo

PLAYOFF BOUND. Freshman Graham Nix and the

Generals will play in the NCAA South Regional.

Generals win ﬁnal pair of 2001 contests

 

photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor
GREAT IN THE CIRCLE. Sophomore Tom Melanson
won 19 of his 22 faceoff attempts in W&L’s 16-
6 win over Randolph-Macon on Wednesday.

By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

Although they won’t be headed to
the postseason this year, the Washing-
ton and Lee men’s lacrosse team fm—
ished the season in a strong fashion.

On Wednesday, the Generals harn-
mered Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference foe Randolph-Macon 16-6 at
Wilson Field. Junior Andrew Barnett
scored four goals, including three
during a 6-0 W&L outburst in the
third quarter, and added two assists
in the win.

The Generals finished 5-1 in the
ODAC with the win over the Yellow
Jackets, winning 22 of 26 faceoffs.
Sophomore Tom Melanson won 19
of his 22 attempts, also leading the
team by collecting 13 ground balls.
Seniors Pope Hackney and Bernie

Norton scored two goals apiece for
W&L.

Hackney, Norton and Barnett
scored unassisted goals in the first
13:34 of the game to give W&L a quick
3-0 lead on Saturday against Lime-
stone, the No. 1 ranked team and de-
fending champion in Division II.

The Saints would surge back be-
fore the end of the half, knotting the
game at 4-4 with 17 seconds remain-
ing in the second quarter. After se-
nior Matt Dugan found the net to
open the second half, Limestone’s
Nick Carlson netted a pair of goals to
give his team a 6-5 advantage.

However, six unanswered goals by
the Generals gave them an 11-6 lead
late in the game. Dugan and Hackney
each ﬁnished their W&L careers with
hat tricks, and Barnett tallied two
goals and two assists. Another se-

nior, Wes Hays, stopped five shots in
goal for W&L.

Freshman Mike McNamara was
pleased with the way the final week
of the season progressed, but wished
for the chance to make a playoff run.

“lt’s disappointing, especially for the
seniors, just because they’ve worked so
hard for four years,” said McNamara, who
ﬁnished with eight goals on the season.

Although W&L will lose eight se-
niors this year, McNamara doesn’t
anticipate that expectations for 2002
will be lowered signiﬁcantly.

“We’re definitely going to miss
(the seniors’) leadership, not to men-
tion their talent,” McNamara said. “But
we have a lot of great returning play-
ers, and hopefully the people who we
need to step up will step up.”

The Generals ended the 2001 cam-
paign with an overall record of 14-1 .

Women’s lax drops season finale

Generals fall to No. 3 ranked
team in Division II

By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee women’s lacrosse team
shaped up for the NCAA Tournament with a 10-7
loss to Division II Limestone at the Liberty Hall Fields
on Saturday.

The third-ranked Saints benefited from three second-
half goals by sophomore Meghan Dennehy and a goal
and two assists from junior Becky Buppert in snapping
the Generals’ nine—game winning streak.

W&L cut into Limestone’s 5-3 halftime lead on a goal
by sophomore Leslie Bogart less than a minute into the
second half. After Dennehy extended the lead back to two
goals, junior Emily Owens quickly pulled the Generals back
to a one-goal deﬁcit. Senior Liz Borges’ goal, one of her
three scores on the day, at 20:31 tied the game at 6-6.

Borges would tie the game again shortly thereafter, but
the Saints ﬁnished the day with three unanswered goals,
two at the hands of Dennehy, to secure the win.

Track teams ﬁnish fourth at
ODAC Championships

The Washington and Lee track teams completed their
2001 seasons on April 28, as both the men and women
turned in fourth—place ﬁnishes at the ODAC Champion-
ships in Bridgewater.

On the women’s side, juniors Sarah Schmidt and Megan
Babst won individual ODAC titles. Schmidt won the jav-
elin event for the third consecutive year, throwing for a
meet record l20’0 ”. Babst, in her first season with the
team, exceeded the ﬁve—foot mark in the high jump to claim
first place.

Senior Amy Calce ﬁnished second in the long jump
with a school-record leap of 169”, and sophomore Burke
Duncan placed second in both the 1,500 and 3,000—meter
events.

Senior Sandy Hooper led the men’s team with a sec-
ond—place ﬁnish in the 1,500 meters. Junior Mike Hegg
turned in a season-best time of 15.42 seconds in the 110-
meter high hurdles, good for second place as well.

Two Generals placed in the top ﬁve in the 100-meter
dash: senior Marc Watson in third and sophomore Chris
Sullivan, who also placed third in the long jump, in ﬁfth.

Lynchburg won both the men’s and women’s team titles
in the ﬁve-team ﬁeld.

Hackney named ODAC
Player of the Year

Washington and Lee senior midfielder Pope Hackney
was recognized as ODAC Player of the Year, joining seven
teammates on All-ODAC teams.

Joining Hackney on the ﬁrst team were senior attackrnan
Matt Dugan, senior defenseman Pete Iwancio, senior
midﬁelder Bernie Norton and sophomore midﬁelder Tom
Melanson. Junior defenseman Eric Kontargyris and senior
goalie Wes Hays were named to the second team, and jun-
ior attackrnan Andrew Barnett received honorable mention.

Hackney led the Generals to a 14-1 record, 5-1 in con-
ference play, ﬁnishing with 34 goals and 12 assists on the
season. He tallied 109 goals and 47 assists during his
career at W&L. A

Hathorn recognized as

conference Coach of the Year

Head coach Jan Hathom received ODAC Coach of the
Year honors, and ﬁve Washington and Lee women’s la-
crosse players were narned to the all-conference teams on
Wednesday.

Senior attacker Liz Borges, junior defender Eloise Priest,
and freshman midﬁelder Lee Wheeler were named to the
All-ODAC first team, and senior attacker -Ellen Ritsch and
sophomore midﬁelder Sarah J anowitz received second-
team recognition. .

Hathom, who guided the Generals to a 15-3 record and
their third appearance in the NCAA Tournament, received
Coach of the Year honors for the ﬁfth time. .

Follow the W&L women’s
lacrosse, men’s tennis, and
women’s tennis teams in the
playoffs on the sports page of
the Ring-tum Phi.

Summer Camp
Counselor Jobs

Looking for a challenge, fun and the best
summer of your life?

Camp Easter Seal in Virginia has job
openings for camp counselors, program
instructors for aquatics, horseback riding,
adventure and sports.

Work with children and adults with
disabilities in a beautiful outdoor setting.
Staff come from across the US and around
the world.

Room, board, salary provided.
Camp Easter Seal
20500 Easter Seal Drive
Milford, VA 22514.
(804) 633-9855.

www.campeasterseal-va.org

Email: dbrown@va.easter-seaIs.org

   

To Sublet

Historic Charleston
Large one bedroom/one
lbath w/d, one off-street
parking spot

lGreat neighborhood, four
iblocks from College of
Charleston.

Suitable for 1 to 2 people.
Available May 1-August 10.

Email lktayl0r53@a0l.cOm

 

.C3’)~2.‘/5.5

  

 

,1/i ‘K1

5 '5?

¢ ":.W‘

 U112 iltng-tum {H111

\

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

JAMES G. LEYBURN Ll?:)i'iA:'iY
WASHINBTON & Lﬁ UNN&Sl'N
I e”—>fW<f-‘/?"w'.'>°.’«!. '\/A 

‘MAY t 7 2001

VOLUME 104, No.3

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

MONDAY, MAY 14, .2001

 

 

-"mail news briefs to
h'® I d ' v

 

Relay for Life raises money for

cancer research

The Rockbridge Area American Cancer Society
held its annual Relay for Life this weekend at
Rockbridge County High School.

The 24-hour event began at 3 p.m. Friday and
continued through the night to raise money for can-
cer research and to honor survivors and victims of
cancer. Seventy-three teams raised about $108,000
for .the cause. “Travelling for a cure,” W&L’s team,
raised more than $14,900.

University President John Elrod spoke at the open-
ing ceremony and walked the first lap with 120 other
cancer survivors to kick off the event. They were fol-
lowed by care givers and the Relay for Life teams.

Activities included a human ring toss, volleyball,
board games, a hula hoop contest and a tug—of-war.

,, Nabors Service Day is success

Saturday brunch kicked off W&L’s third annual
Nabors Service Day this weekend. Volunteer projects
included SPCA work, being with the elderly, yard
work and painting. 7

ii The event was sponsored by the Nabors Ser-

vice League, which was created to honor the memory
of Jonathan Nabors, who died his freshman year in
a car accident.

A W&L to celebrate second annual

China-Japan Day
The Department of East Asian Languages and Lit-

ﬂ eratures at Washington and Lee presents its second

annual China-Japan Day on Saturday, May 19. This cel-
ebration of Chinese and Japanese cultures will be held
from l0—3:00 at the Red House. The program includes
hands-on activities and demonstrations of calligraphy,
Chinese and Japanese cooking (tasting encouraged),
Japanese origami, Chinese paper crafts and Japanese

¢ summer kimono wearing. There will also be two student

presentations. A traditional Japanese “Bon” dance un-
der the Red House trees will end the day.

ﬁg W&L-T-shirts with the university’s name in'Chi-

nese and Japanese will be on sale. For more informa-
tion, call Janet Ikeda at 463-8936.

Sen. John McCain to speak at

'13 VMI commencement

Senator and recent presidential hopeful John
McCain will speak at Virginia Military Institute’s com-
mencement, joining class of 2001 Valedictorian John-
Henry J. Niederhaus at 11 a.m., Sunday, May 19.

County planners recommend

approval for new Lowe’s

Despite some hesitation, the Rockbridge' County
Planning Commission voted unanimously to recom-
mend that the board of supervisors rezone property

* near Wal—Mart so that a Lowe’s Home Improvement

Warehouse can be built.

The proposed store design is smaller than
orignially planned and calls for additional landscap-
ing. Lowe’s would be one of several additions in the
area, which include a new car wash, a Wingate Hotel
and a Ruby Tuesday.

   

24/7: W&L’s WEEI<I.Y cAI.ENI)AR

Today I
7 p.m.—Javapalooza. Agents of Good Roots.
Baker-Davis-Gilliam Quad.

7 p.m.—-Lecture., Prof. Dale Kent, UCR. “Cosimo
de’ Medici: Florentine Patron.” Room 214, Science
Center.

7:30 p.m.—-Lecture. Dr. Andrzej Paczkowki. “Na-
zism and Communism in the Experience and Memory
of Poles.” Room 114, Science Center.

Tuesday, May 15 . 2

N oOn—Luncheon/Lecture. Florin Berindeanu,
University of Georgia. “The Practice of Mysticism:
Mystical Ideas in Medieval and Renaissance Italy.”
Room 114, Science Center.

7 p.m.—Lecture presentation. Dr. J. Christopher
Haney. “Why, Older Forests Are Important.”

' N orthen Auditorium.
Wednesday, May 16

7 p.m.—Politics Filrnfest. “Rollerball” (USA 1975).
Room 221, Williams School.

Thursday, May 17

7:30 p.m.—Lecture. Ross Terrill, Harvard. “The
New Chinese Empire.” Northen Auditorium.
Friday, May 18

All Day—Trustee Meetings.

7 :30 p.m.— Film Society. “You Can Count on Me”
(US A, 2000). Troubador Cinema.

Saturday, May 19

All Day-—Trustee Meetings.

10 a.m.——China-Japan Day celebration. Red
House (rain site: Room 1 14, University Center). A

7:30 p.m. Film Society. Film Society. “You Can
Count on Me” (USA, 2000). Troubador Cinema.

READY, SET, (:0. The W&L law class of 2001, minutes before becoming the university’s newest alumni.

Law stents raduate

By Matthew McDerrnott

EDITOR IN CHIEF

Many Washington and Lee undergraduates got their
first glimpse of a law student Sunday as 119 of them
gathered on the Front Lawn to commence graduation.

The graduates, 70 men and 49 women, were awarded
juris doctorates by Law School Dean David Partlett
and University President John Elrod.

“Ouf Law School’s proudest moment comes when
we gather to recognize the achievement of our stu-
dents,” Partlett said.

The graduating law class of 2001 will join legal firms
from California to New York. Several dozen will work as
public defenders or prosecutors. Twenty-three gradu-
ates will clerk for state and federal court judges.

Over the past two years, the Law School has had
a 95 percent placement rate, one of the highest in the
country.

The year’s commencement speaker was Richard But-
ler, former United Nations Economic and Social Coun-
cil president. Formerly Austra1ia’s ambassador to Thai- '
land and the United States, Butler also served as direc-
tor of UN SCOM, a special U.N. commission that over-

photo by Alison Trinidad/news editor

saw Iraq’s disarmament.

Graduation activities began Friday, with an afternoon
awards reception on the Sydney Lewis Hall Front Lawn.
The next day graduates enjoyed a noon barbecue and
an evening display of ﬁreworks, with champagne.

IFC asks faculty to delay vote on alcohol

By Michelle Lally

S TA FF WRITER

The Alcohol Task Force met again
Wednesday with students and teachers to
review their recommended alcohol policy
changes and to address existing concerns.
lnterfratemity Council President Quincy
Springs kicked off the meeting with a pre-
sentation outlining reduced alcohol arrests,
reduced Inﬁrmary visits and fewer damages
done to the fraternity houses since new IFC
policies were ingplenierrtedin late January.

Arrests are down 50 percent, while alcohol
related infirmary visits are down 25 percent,
said IFC representatives. Stop-ln sales, which
the IFC considers representative of in—town
alcohol sales, on Alumni Weekend were $2000
less than last year, and Fancy Dress Weekend
sales were $873 less than last year.

IFC Junior Justice Chris Pickens
added that Lexington Police Chief Bruce
Beard was pleased with student behav-
ior overall since January.

Springs urged faculty and students
present to take these facts into account
and consider postponing additional regu-
lations at this time.

“We feel that our policies should be
given more time,” said Springs.

The Forum, which broke into small dis-
cussion groups, was directed by Dean of
Students David Howison. Howison in-
structed the groups to focus their exchange
on the three—strike system for individuals,
the three-strike system for groups and the
punishment for driving while intoxicated.

Many individuals voiced concern that
the strike system was unbalanced. Chem-
istry Instructor Elizabeth Cox said she
found the strike system baftling and per-
haps poorly weighted.

‘‘I’m confused about if all the things
that are listed as a strike are equal in
weight,” she said. ‘‘It doesn‘t seem to be
a true strike system.”

Washington and Lee Attorney
Leanne Shank conceded that the pro-
posal might need tweaking before being
fully implemented.

“Maybe mandatory sentencing needs to
be looked at or eliminated," Shank said.

Associate Dean of Students Buddy
Atkins said that he didn’t believe in a system
that punished severely for lesser offenses.

“It would be a travesty to write rules that
are for a series of trivial things,” said Atkins.

Further confusion arose over the fact
that driving under the influence was listed
both as a strike and as an offense worthy

of suspension. Students questioned
whether the school should try a student
for a DUI when the state of Virginia already
has legal jurisdiction.

Romance Languages Professor Jeff
Barnett explained that taking responsibil-
ity for illegal actions often means punish-
ment from multiple directions. _

“I don’t see any problem with dual pun-
ishments,” he said. “That’s a part of being
part of an organization.”

Senior David Sigler noted that the
ATF policy proposal calls for no sus-

pension or similar punishmentfor fac- I H

ulty DUI infractions.

“We call ourselves a community, but
then different rules are written for different
groups,” said Sigler. “It just seems unfair.”

Barnett explained that the faculty is en-
couraged by the adIninistration’s steps to
combat the alcohol environment at W&L.
He said the faculty has seen many trag-
edies over the years directly related to al-
cohol use and welcomes policy changes
that might lessen the chance of such events
occurring in the future.

Senior John Jensen, former president
of Sigma Chi fraternity, countered that
these policy changes threaten student
autonomy.

“What I don’t like about (the ATF pro-
posal), is that it’s taking away from stu-
dent responsibility,” he said. “As president
of a fraternity in the IFC, I think it’s our
turn to run with the ball.”

Executive Committee President Rob
Naftel said that IFC rules should be given
more time to prove their effectiveness.

“I think it hasty to put these new rules in
place when they haven’t been tested,” he said.

Barnett explained that voting for the new
system is taking place now. The rules will
_be‘i_n place for next year’s freshmen. Stu-
dents, however, seemed to agree that IFC
policies have changed W&L and next
year’s freshmen would encounter a W&L
campus different than that of a year ago.

IFC Secretary Tarik Bateh said that the
IFC is currently working on a counter pro-
posal to remind the faculty and trustees
that IFC rules have already achieved the
goals and objectives that the ATF recom-
mendations set out to promote.

Pickens summed up the forum by say-
ing that the IFC is still hoping tI1ey’1l be
given more time. »

“Ideally, we’re looking for a delay of the
faculty vote,” he said, “or for the faculty to
vote down the new policies so our rules
can prove their effectiveness.”

Trustees meet  
this weekend

By Alison Trinidad

NEWS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee Board of Trustees is
scheduled to have its second of three yearly meet— “
ings this weekend. Issues slated for discussion in-
clude the Alcohol Task Force policy recommenda-
tions, faculty reappointments and a progress review
of current capital projects.

The nine standing committees will meet begin-
ning Thursday afternoon and report to the entire
Board on Saturday. .

The Campus Life Committee will be reviewing the rec-
ommendations of the Alcohol Task Force as presented by
University President John Ehod and Executive Committee
President Rob Naftel. The Board is expected to develop a
general policyon substance abuse at W&L based on
these recommendations. The Capital Projects Committee
must review the status of different projects, including the
remodeling of Reid Hall and Law School classrooms. It
will also review plans for construction of the new Univer-
sity Commons and Doremus/Warner Fitness Center.

Two new trustees, Chris Ball and John Klinedinst
(’71, ’78L), will join 30 others on Thursday afternoon.
From Jacksonville, Fla., Ball is active in her community
as well as with secondary and higher education, said
Associate Director of Development James Farrar.
Klinedinst, an attorney practicing in San Diego, comes
from Rancho Santa Fe, Calif.

At the end of the meetings, Trustee J. Hardin
Marion (’55, ’58L) will retire after serving two con-
secutive terms. Marion will gain Emeritus status,
which means he is invited to any board meeting but!)
not allowed to vote.

The trustees are ultimately responsible for gov-
erning and managing the University as an institu-
tion. They meet once every February, May and Oc-
tober. Each trustee is chosen by the Board and
serves five—year terms.

.sv'

 

PAGE 2

O

@112 ﬂing-tum ilﬂhi

PINION

    

Bush blunders with bilingual address

Recently, during his weekly radio address, President
George W. Bush committed the first noticeable mistake of
his otherwise brilliant administration. He delivered the
address in both English and Spanish.

The address, which was given on Cinco de Mayo,
concerned the President’s appreciation for Hispanic cul-
ture and spoke of how much he had learned from and
enjoyed Texas’ Hispanic culture. Bush’s well—meaning
outreach is part of the Republican Party’s effort to at-
tract minorities. In the election, Hispanics, now the
nation’s largest minority group, voted between 31 and
35 percent for Bush. If they were to vote only half as
heavily for Democrats as blacks do, national and most
statewide elections would be unwinnable. Unfortu-
nately, this outreach is misdirected and represents the
greatest misstep made by Republicans in this election
cycle.

America already has a problem with secondary lan-
guages. President Bush doesn’t need to exacerbate the
situation. The California Driver’s License examination is
given in over 30 languages. You can be assured that Bush’s
gesture will lead to outcries of equality from those who
speak Urdu, Sioux, Swahili or one of the other 300-plus
languages spoken in the United States. New York spent
$1.1 million in the last ﬁscal year on 911 call translators.
Government pandering to foreign language interest groups
is both an economic drain and an insult to immigrants who
have taken the time to learn English, an incredibly difﬁcult
language to master.

The most insidious result of the govemment’s acqui-
escence to gitchy—goo multiculturalism, however, is the
balkanization of America. By making minority groups and
young non-minority schoolchildren focus on their native
cultures, one necessarily ignores or neglects to cultivate
their pride in America and American culture. As a nation,
we run the risk of becoming merely a collection of oppos-
ing culturally-defined interest groups, rather than a strong,
united nation committed to American principles of truth,
justice and liberty.

One can already see some of the negative effects of
our nation’s obsession with multiculturalism. The race
riots which destroy urban centers,

photo courtesy Yahoo! Pricture Gallery

HABLA INGLES. Bush should praise those who learn English, not pander to those who don’t.

America is a nation of immigrants, but previous immi-
grant waves, those of our grandparents, were success—
fully assimilated. Poles, Italians,

overwhelmed and underperforming - . Slavs and Jews all learned to speak
public schools, voter apathy and in- Right of the A1816 English and attended schools which
creasingly bloated government bu- Brett Kirwan ’()4 taught only in English and recited

reaucracies are all examples of the

negative effects that a nation forgetting its common cul-
ture and language can suffer. Hawaii, a state with a siz-
able minority speaking a second language, has an inde-
pendence movement. Puerto Rico, which largely speaks
another language, repeatedly votes against becoming a
state. A common language and culture are America’s
greatest uniting force.

ote of the week:

I think people everywhere
prefer blondes because
we’re just better. I’d prefer
a man with blonde hair so
we’d have cute children.

— Anonymous blonde friend of
equally anonymous brunette Phi
W&Life editor

77

 

Ellie ﬁling-tum iﬂlti

Editor in Chief
Associate Editor
News Editor
Opinion Editor
W&Life Editor
Sports Editor
Asst. Sports Editor
Layout Editor
Photo Editor

Matt McDerm0tt
Mike Agnello
Alison Trinidad
Brett T. Kirwan
Amy Blevins
Jeremy Franklin
Dave Crowell
Katie Howell
Mary Guy

Staff Photographer Meg Ferrara

Paul Seifert
Charlie Tonelli

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the Executive Editor, but The
Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by 5 p.m.
on Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for
content and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect
the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

Business Manager
Circulation Director

The Ring—tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E—mail: phi@wlu.edu
http://www.wlu.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

the Pledge of Allegiance at the be-
ginning of each school day.

Bush’s, and the GOP’s, ludicrous effort to court
minorities by speaking their language will not work.
Instead, Republicans should offer a program that
works. Bilingual education condemns minority chil-
dren to a life as second-class citizens. Such programs
fail to teach students English, and their academic per-

formance suffers in every category. California, the state
which had the most aggressive bilingual education
program, abandoned it in 1998. In the state, bilingual
education was a complete failure. It is essential to
speak English to be truly successful in America to-
day. Bush should admit this and no longer support a
program which does11’t work in the hope of winning a
few more minority votes.

What Republicans and Bush should do is appeal to
all Americans as Americans. They should invite people
of all ethnicities to take a full part in the American
Dream. They should accentuate the strength of a
united peoples, not focus on our divisions and differ-
ences. ”

New AT F recommendations
are vague, arbitrary

The administration should try
to obey state law, not save face

Chances are, sometime in the last week the recommen-
dations of the Alcohol Task Force have been brought up,
and duly dismissed as unenforceable, mean-spirited or
outrageous. But the more important issue is how vague
and misleading the recommendations are.

First off, there is the question of discussion. In the
opening paragraph of the report, the

stander) wants to ruin a college career because of a drunk
in public citation?

Also, the level of the sanctions increases dramati-
cally from “moderate sanctions with primary emphasis
upon education and counseling” to suspension for a full
semester. The report leaves the exact definition of what
“moderate” might consist of to the imagination. Hope-
fully, these sanctions are determined based on the na-
ture of the offense, but if that was the implication, it was
concealed well.

Then too, there is the refer-

ATF expresses the hope that every-
one involved in the University will
join in discussing the recommenda-
tions listed. Despite this, parents of
students have yet to receive copies of the report.

However, there are more serious questions related to
the recommendations themselves. In many cases, the rec-
ommendations appear to be either vague or draconian,
with far too much left unsaid. For example, the entire policy
regarding drinking within non-Greek student organizations
is left as something to be elaborated on later by an un-
speciﬁed person, and is completely devoid of any actual
recommendations. Granted, drinking in non-Greek organi-
zations is rather limited, but the idea of the report was to
make the actual recommendations, not recommend that
they be made.

In a sharp contrast to that, the implication of the three
strikes rule seems to be that, regardless of how trivial the
offense is, after three strikes you must ﬁnd a new alma
mater. This puts appearing in public drunk on the same
level as drinking and driving.

The sheer level of arbitrary action implied by this
raises doubts as to whether the rule would be properly
enforced. After all, what police officer (much less a by-

 

“It’s not fair.”
—Rachel Mallis ‘O4

SharperFou1s

Meg Ferrara ’04

until July or August.”

ence to parental notification.
What does this mean? Will some-
one write home to tell your par-
ents that you have been naughty,
or do they call them? Moreover, what does the “edu-
cation” consist of?

Besides, what about just enforcing the Virginia state
laws? If the administration wanted to crack down on drink-
ing on campus, it might start by enforcing those
downplayed laws. Consider the penalty for just being in
possession of alcohol while under the legal age: a manda-
tory ﬁne of $500 and possible loss of your driver’s license
for a year. How about that as a way to deal with the drink-
ing problem here at W&L?

This, in the end, brings to light the chief difficulty of
this report, that is, what a small role the Virginia state law
plays in it. Too often, the emphasis seems to be on behav-
iors that could result in public embarrassment for the Uni-
versity, without attending to student welfare. This par-
ticularly comes across in rules that make no mention of
the possession of alcohol by a minor, or of the dangers of
drinking and driving.

Do we really need another tragedy before we take seri-
ously the effects that alcohol has on our lives?

—Eric Ritter ‘O4

-Satomi Hagiwara ’04

“Other schools don’t have Spring Term.”

MAY 14,2001 ,.

 
  
  
 
 
 
 
      
   
     
   
 
  
 
 
  
    
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

Q gf‘{orise,‘fo:1idoublei secre pr, g ,
appropriate behavior willie no ’

 

 

“They have made a mistake.” ‘A;
—Dan Vos ‘04

 

-_

 

 

MAY 14, 2001

  W&E

2 Ring-tum iﬁhi

IFE

 

PAGE 3

photo by Alison Trinidad/news editor

LOOK AT ME. Liam Bent, 2-year-old son of Art Professor George Bent, shows off
the face-paint rainbow he received at the Kid’s Carnival. The event was
sponsored by Omnicron Delta Kappa, a service organization founed at W&L.

 

the rumors are true!

Javapalooza presents

Agents of Good Roo

 

F May 14
7:30—10sp.m.
Baker—Davis—Gilliam Quad

Java will be serving hot and cold coffee drinks, as well as

ice cream from SWEET THINGS.

Bring a blanket and bring your friends

for a music-ﬁlled night under the stars!

Twins graduate W&L, VMI

Sisters become
closer through
college despite

different schools

By Amy Blevins
W&LIFE EDITOR

One student wakes up every morning
to military formations and the barracks.
Another student wakes up to the colon-
nade. While Virginia Military Institute and
Washington and Lee sit side by side, how
much could these two students have in
common? They’re twin sisters for start-
ers.

In the first year of VMl’s graduating
class to include women, twin sisters Ali-
cia and Alexis Abrams will be walking
with the W&L and VMI class of 2001.

The Abram sisters did not plan to end
up right next door to each other, but look-
ing back they are

how teenagers are when they are in high
school, they are ready to set out and ex-
perience new things on their own,” said
Alexis. “Well, I thought that I was going
to be able to do that and then my sister

tells me she’s go-

both thankful. ing to go to college

Alexis knew she AS Soon as “Hell right next door to
wanted to attend ” me, that kind of
VMI by December Week StartCd hare at bummed me out.
;f,;;f;f;;;;°;k§g; VMI, I was thanking God 31;; ,1“ 5::
set on her college everyday that I had a started here at VMI
Alicia was still Sister next door [was thanking God
looking for a small ' everyday that I had
school that offered — Alexis Abrams a sister next door.”

a good Air Force
ROTC program.
Alicia ran across W&L at a college fair.
“I was offered a scholarship and after
doing some research, found out it was
one of the top liberal arts college(s)
around,” said Alicia.

At first the idea of attending college

right next door to Alicia seemed strange

for Alexis.

“My sister and I did not make our col-
lege decisions together. If anything, I
think that at first I was trying to get as far
away from her as possible. You know

S

y} Alexis plans to

work for the U.S.
Postal service next year in Portland, Ore.
in the Office of Inspector General. Alicia
plans to go to the Air Force for Officer
Training School.

Over the years they have lived con-
siderably different lives. At W&L, Alicia
enjoys more freedom from rules than her
sister. “They have so many (rules) at VMI
that cadets must live by and I don’t. I get
up when I want, eat when I want, skip
class if I want . .. They have very restricted
lives there,” said Alicia.

 

Ring-tum Phi File Photos

WORLDS APART. Twins Alexis and Alicia Abrams graduate this year from VIVII
and W&L respectively. This is VMI’s ﬁrst four year rotation of females.

Despite the differences in lifestyle, the
two sisters say they have grown even
closer together in the past four years.
“When all the family you’ve got is next door,
you really learn to appreciate that,” said
Alicia. “Plus, we’re twins  we’ll always
have that close, ‘special’ relationship.”

“I do not find it hard to identify with
my sister at all,” said Alexis. “I can talk to
her about the things that go on here at
VMI and she will understand com-
pletely.”

Have they ever thought about what it
would be like to attend their sister’s college?

“Sometimes I do wonder what it would
be like to be a regular college student, to
wear whatever I want, and not have to
follow a military regimen each day, but
then I wake up and realize that I love my
school and I wouldn’t exchange the ex-
periences I have received her for any-
thing,” said Alexis.

“VMI is not me  I don’t have to go
there to see what it’s like  I know, and
have no burning desire to experience a
day ‘there whatsoever,” said Alicia.
“I’m glad (in certain regards) that I went
to W&L. I’m most glad about the fact
that I got to experience my college years
with my sister.”

    
 
  

 
 
  
  
   

 

V r

1;:

ii

i

eMen’stennfis team falls in regional ﬁnal

PAGE 

By Dave Crowell

:ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

One week ago, the Washington and
Lee women’s tennis team faced Mary
Washington College and won convinc-
ingly 7-2.

In the Atlantic South Regional ﬁnal,
the rematch between the two squads
held higher stakes, with the winner ad-‘
vancing to the NCAA Division HI Na-
tional Championships.

Same opponent, similar results.

The Generals, host of the regional, fol-
lowed a 9-0 defeat of Salisbury State on
Friday aftemoon with an 8-1 defeat of the
Eagles. W&L now will travel to the Na-
tional ChampionshipsatTrinity University,
in San Antonio, Texas, next weekend.

._.
. ‘VJ

“w

.5

In the semiﬁnals, the Generals easily
outplayed Salisbury State and moved
their record to 19-2 on the season. W&L
won all six singles matches and ﬁnished
the sweep with three doubles victories.

W&L was led by junior Melissa
Hatley. The Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference Player of the Year won her N o. 1
singlesmaIch6—1,6-1.Hat1ey alsoteamed
with sophomore Erika Proko -— a 7-5, 6-
2 winner at No. 2 singles —— for an 8-2
victory at No. 1 doubles.

“I think we did so well because we
were excited,” Hatley said. “It deﬁnitely
helped. We were ready to go in our
matches.”

The Generals used their rolling en-
thusiasm on Saturdayaftemoon’ to dis-
appoint Mary Washington for the sec-

ond time in seven days. In the ﬁnal, Proko

and classmate Laura Bruno led W&L. ‘_j,» said. “It was a good match and I’m sure

Proko won her N o. 2 singles match 6-1,
6-2 in addition to an 8-1 doubles victory,
again teaming with Hatley. ‘

Brlmo avenged an earlier defeat to? _

V Mary Washington’s Ashley Knapp with
a hard—fought 0-6, 6-2, 6-4 victory at No. '
3 singles. Inlast weekend’s action, Bruno L i

fell by a score of 7-6, 7-5. =
Bnmo also teamed up with junior Sallie
‘Gray Strang at No. 2 doubles. The duo
easily disposed of the Eagles with an 8-
1 victory. ‘

Hatley faced a tough defeat for the
second time against the Eagles’ Lea
Schon. Despite the 6-0, 6-4 defeat,
Hatley held high hopes for next week-
end

dhe ﬂing.-tum iifﬁhi ‘ L

f‘Generals tennis storms way ationals

_, “team is still unsure of its opponent, but

Eagles knocW

By Jeremy Franklin

' SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee wOmen’s lacrosse team ended
a record—setting season on Saturday with a 10-6 loss to

Mary Washington in- the first round of the NCAA)Nomen’s

Lacrosse Tournament in Salisbury, Md.

Senior attacker 'Br«id’get Geiman’s four goals for the
Eagles were too much for W&L to overcome. Freshman
midﬁelder Lee Wheeler and junior midﬁelder Courtenay
Fisher scored two goals apiece for the Generals,who set a
school record for wins in 2001.

W&L finishes the season with a 15-4 record that,,included-
a nine—garne winning streak and an ODAC Championship.

“They have more depth than we do, and they’re deﬁ-
nitely a very good team,” W&L head coach Jan Hathom
said or the Eagles. “Our lack of depth yesterday deﬁnitely
made a difference. Not to discredit Mary Washington, but
we also had a lot of turnovers, so we didn’t help our-
selves.” r

Geiman scored an unassisted goal just 25 seconds into
the match. After Mary Washington sophomore Pam
Kramer upped the advantage to 2-0 at 25:58, Geiman added
another goal just 26 seconds later.

By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee men’s tennis team avenged
a regular-season loss to Swarthmore on Saturday before
. falling to Washington College in the finals of the NCAA

V ‘Atlantic South Regional on Sunday in Chestertown, Md.

9

Borges selected to play in IWLCA, All-Star game

By Je_remy_Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

Senior attacker Liz Borges capped off a season of honors this
week with her selection to play in the IWIEA Division III Noith/

,3 South Women’s Lacrosse All-Star Game in Baltimore on June 9.

tBorges’ other 2001 recognition includes being named to the
All-Old Dominion Athletic Conference First TeamandAll-ODAC
Tournament Team, two selections as ODAC Player of the Week,
and Division HI National Player of the Week status for the week of
March 19. . '”
“Obviously, it is nice to get the honors, but I am more excited
with how theteamis doingthanthe individual sniff,” Borges said.
"The team is an amazing bunch ofgirls, and I think one of the

reasons that we have done so well is because we get along so well.

on and off the ﬁeld.”

The Generals, who lost to Mary Washington by a 10-6 score in
the ﬁist round of the NCAA playoffs on Saturday, ﬁnished the
season 15-4, setting a school record forwins in the process.

“We had no expectations at the beginning of the  and

7

   

    

ile Photo

Ring-mm P/ll
PLAYOPF PERFORMANCE Junior Courtenay Itisher
(center) scored two goals agaimt Mary Washington,
and clzssmate Emily Owens added one.

-» The Generals, who lost to the Eagles 17-6 on March
24, played a much better mental game, according to
Hathorn. 0

“The number-one thing is that we kept our compo-
sure,” Hathom said. “We got down early the first time we
played them, and they took us out of our game. Saturday,

‘ The Generals, who lost to the Garnet Tide 4-3 at home
on April 1, knocked off Swarthmore 4-1 in Chestertown.
Freshman N o. 3 seed Austin Kiln topped Justin Singer 6-
3, 6-4. At ﬁfth-seed singles, freshman K.C. Schaefer edged
Frank Visciano 6-4, 6-4, and junior sixth‘.-seed Rob
Moynihan knocked off Scott Grant 6-2, 6-2.

The Generals took all three doubles matches for their fourth
point. Juniors Rhys James and Andrew Roberts handed Schilla

that helps as well,” Borges said “Everyone on  team is so
dedicated and encouraging to everyone else. I would not,have all
the individual honors if my teammates were not as good as they
are. ,
“Our defense is so strong and our transition game has gotten M

very strong as well. All I have to do in my position is put the ball in
the net.”

Watson, Hegg fail to qualify
for NCAA Championships 9

Senior Marc Watson and junior Mike Hegg fell short of quali-
fying for the NCAA Division III Championships with their perfor-

mances at the Jalnes Madison Invitational, held Saturday in

Harrisonburg.

Watson’s season-best time of 10.82 seconds in the 100-nieter 2
dashlandedhiminsixthplace. Hegg placed sixthirrthe 110-rneter
high hurdles atatimeof 16.32 seconds. ‘

W&L’s team competition ended April 28 with a fourth-place
ﬁnish at the ODAC Championships, hosted by Bridgewater.

&L ot of playoffs

,3 We were able to stick to our game plan.”
« from junior Briana Gervat, senior Jenni Foy, and junior

: freshman Kelly Taffe scored with 11 seconds left before
halftime to trim the lead back to 6-3. “

" 2.86 earned run average. The Pennsylvanian tossed seven ‘com-

 
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
   
   
  
   
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
   

‘ﬁr.

0

MAY 14, 2001

“Lea Schon is a good player,” Hatley

it will prepare me for the tournament.”

Other winners in singles competition
on Saturday included sophomores
Alyson Brice and Brandi Jane
Wedgeworth and freshman Liz Law. Law
teamed with fellow freshman Ellie
Simpson for an 8-4 victory in No. 3
doubles. ,

The resounding victory left the Gen-
erals with a 20-2 record and one of eight
automatic berths to San Antonio. The

I feels ready to match last year’s third—place
ﬁnish. 
“We’re"real1);ex.(:ited about  to “ photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor
g0;’Hat1ey Said_ “we allbeﬁeve we have SAN ANTONIO BOUND. Junior Sallie Gray Strang returns a shot in her
a good shot, if we play our hardest.” doubles win with sophomore Laura Bruno against Salisbin'y State.

we knew better than to be intimidated by them. Therefore,

Wheeler scored her two goals, both unassisted, over
the next 7:11 to cut the Eagles’ lead to 3-2. However, goals

Meghan Twomey gave Mary Washington a 6-2 lead. W&L

Fisher’s first goaltof the contest, which came with 24:51
remaining in the second half, cut the score to 6-4, but the
Generals would come no closer.

Freshman Joanna Perirri made 14 saves in net for W&L; her
counterpart, senior Heather Carter, stopped 12 shots for the Eagles.

Although disappointed that the season came to a close, Hathom
 hertegn exceeded anyone’s expectations in 2001.

‘‘I’m proud of the girls, their work ethic, their pride,
their team chemistry,” said Hathom, who has coached the
team since the program’s inception in 1988. “They’re an
excellent group of women who are very dedicated to what
they’re doing, and it’s a pleasure to coach them.

“(Qualifying for the NCAA Tournament) is not what
we necessarily set out to do, but we knew in the back of
our minds that it was a possibility. The intangible things
were what made the difference.”

and Thomas an 8-4 loss at the top seed. Kim and freshman
Graham Nix defeated Grant and Jayson Yost 8-4, and Schaefer
and junior Zacﬁ/uncannon knocked offV1sciano and Singer 8-5.

  

«R

W&L was unable to avenge another regular-season loss
on Sunday, dropping a 4-0 decision to host Washington.

Kim and Nix produced W&L’s only victory of the day,
an 8-6 win over Bait Prytula and Peter Taylor at No. 2 doubles.

W&L ﬁnishes the season with an Overall record of 13-6.

Sigler,4;H‘anson named .
to All-ODAC baseball squad

Senior pitcher David Sigler and sophomore shortstop Michael
Hanson were named to the All—Old Dominion Athletic Confer-

T ence teams on Wednesday.
Sigler received ﬁrst-team honors, posting a 6-2 record and a

plete games, including two shutouts, striking out 48 batters in 66
innings pitched. Sigler was also named Fnst Team All-ODAC in
1999. He holds,nine W&L pitching records, and is second in
career strikeouts with 214 and fourth in ERA at 3.62.

Hanson was nalned to the second team for the second con-
secutive year. The sophomore batted .379, leading the team in
eight rriajoroffensive categories, including a .647 slugging per-
centage and 29 runs. Hanson was also 2-0 with a 1.65 ERA in
16. 11 innings of work "

W&L ended the season 23-8, setting a school record for
wins. Inthe ODAC, the Generals were 9-7, ﬁnishing inﬁfthplace.

T Summer Camp
Counselor Jobs

Looking for a challenge, fun and the best
summer of your life?

1‘)

 
 
 
  
    
       
    
     
     
    
   
   
    
    
     
        
     
    
   
     
     

   
   
   
    
     
     
    
   
    
    
     
    
    

   

 

. 3:i.e<:<rgeti.:>wtt1.a ._   ..  . a .  . I _
treat. ifﬁrtgttm froth rt’a.rt% so ii;.:rrt  lf,a?~sti;:l-:ttat:a:et trad ttraiergitltlltrate .. ’
it , .; ‘ 5: . . zi . . =. . . I ,. .
try ’:£§;§I§£$(°:§f’3é'_'i¥,f§3,§’§&;§; .t,:1'i',=:=:.;i.':;t? C  t§i§g.:l..I”15{?t;;§ titres ifA2.t3T§‘r‘¥;3§litét’2§’§§Z s>eri.:~irr;.¥.t&&s. \

 

tr

 t§titr‘i§i§’tfa§g~.;.,’§f  arirtirsgitzs K.§§'§§_T:t}ii°l;i.t‘§t£'§“ t”<;Ts :':%tt.ilt;i§5' at

éfé!..§Yfi£11é'E‘.E‘ t.i,sir:i«:m

 

'=*a7s§e;.{ til . exam-

 

@

at:

§5§t~s.:.t‘:i:lx.i 3”?a:2;2sitr:‘1: lttlrjg ‘E?  .f‘§i.*«i.l_§;_',j*é.t.“£i.. 1?}

  ’*"ii:ir.t'z:;  .2?  iime 15
First: :ZN.iit‘i‘.!.~2»‘§»"§t1;\,1”‘:’t:=,iL§il'i.t:* 4  ;i’t.l.i’§>;? 

 

  
 
  

~  C.Zt;.atritttiing Ex;it£€£itiatI3t‘t
, y . I .   -

j Kali  tide’ ti, tiéki”.-’é§ii}§§ ca visits »t:7tl,;ir welxtite i“,9§’.‘itf‘ti’tr§l’s’;
. {firs-e:;r:lrnji1e;iir3t.a5irag; is z§Zii§£}‘&i‘¢«’§£7§.fEE£§§.‘I‘Vi§‘.§?i ~‘

Varsity

    

       

  

 

Camp Easter Seal in Virginia has job
openings for camp counselors, program

instructors for aquatics, horseback riding,
adventure and sports.

g Work with children and adults with
disabilities in abeautiful outdoor setting.
Staff come from across the US and
around the world.

Room,~board, salary provided.

-K
V;

Camp Easter Seal

0 20500 Easter Seal Drive
Milford, VA 22514.

" (804) 633-9855.

www.campeasterseal-va.org ,

0‘ Email: dbrown@va.easter-seaIs.org

 

 

   

Y‘ .1

.p37gn5S
K 552.

v M) ‘V

V’\0r

v .   §Ah3§4 %

JAMES G. LEYBUHM LIBRARY
‘.Né.k.SH.tt\§iZlTON  LE UNNRSITY

lﬂlti

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNivERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

VOLUME 104, NO. 4

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

MONDAY, MAY 21, 2001

Area teens

harass students

By Latrina Stokes

STA FF WRITER

A Some W&L students living on North Randolph Street have
had to deal with what they describe as “little holy terrors.”

The group consists of several children, all under the age
of sixteen, alleged to have harassed, provoked and threat-
ened the students living there.

Senior Sarah Pollan said that the situation has gotten pro-
gressively worse.

0 “The problem started with us having to walk past their
house to get to school,” Pollan said. And, for no reason,
Pollan said that the kids started to yell Obscenities at her and
her roommates some months ago.

“They were yelling in such a way that you knew they
were talking to you but you didn’t know why,” she said,
adding that she did not know of any students provoking
them. '

Her roommate said that some of the children threw rocks
at her when she and others walked past them.

“They were just being mischievous,” Pollan said.

But their actions became more serious. Pollan maintains
that the oldest recently tried to throw gasoline on her.

I Some others told her roommate that the “crazy man” was
going-to kill her. In this case, no one could be arrested be-
cause the “crazy man” was an unknown third party.

The kids became violent one night, as senior Katy
Harding can attest. She and two others had been shot in
the rear end with BB guns, but they did not know which
of the kids had done it.

“All of us are scared out of our minds,” Harding said.

The police told Pollan that she could buy a BB gun and
shoot back in self defense, if she really wanted.

Enough was enough, so students banded together to get
the group evicted.

Harding encouraged others to contact the owner of
the house, Paul M. Penick, a lawyer in Lexington, social
services and the Health Department. She also encour-
aged them to call the police, though many students feel
like they have not done enough.

The fact that the supposed offenders are juveniles, how-
ever, has been a problem. Students said that the police were
"as frustrated as they are.

“I hope we can bring this under control because it’s not
good,” Lexington Police Chief Bruce Beard said.

Despite his unwillingness to discuss details, Beard said »

that the department is doing something.

“We have stepped up patrol in the 100-200 block of North

Randolph Street to curb some. suspicious activity going on
.up there [since] the first of the year, possibly even back since
September,” he said.

Mike Young of security has allowed students living in the
area to use the parking garage as another safety measure.
Although the kids have irritated many, they do not threaten all
the college students on that block.

“They respond to the weather,” Harding said.

v_ From many sources, the kids seem to sit on the porch
most of the time, including during the day when they
should be in school.

“They haven’t really done anything to me or my room-
mates,” senior Carly Blakelock said. “They’re loud, but I
would bet that all the students on the street have been as
loud or louder than the ‘hoodmans.’ That’s what we’re
calling them.”

Senior Craig Benjamin has not come into any type of
confrontation with them, either, but their behavior still

disturbs him.
L “It is very scary to think that those kids are the future
of our country,” Benjamin said. As for the safety of oth-
ers, he said, “they could hurt someone, I’ve seen them
whomp on each other with rakes and other assorted gar-
den tools.”

“Even though I’m only here another couple of weeks, I

hope they get evicted,” Benjamin said.

24/7: W&L’s WicI«:I<i.Y cAi.I«:Ni)Aiz

 

Today .

7 p.m.——Javapa1ooza Fighting Gravity. BDG Quad
Tuesday, May 22

All Day——Junior Web Registration

All Day—Atliletic Awards Ceremony. Dinneron the From
Lawn after ceremony. Lee Chapel.

. 8 p.m.—Faculty—student production. “Mandragola,” di-
rected by Domnica Radulescu. Johnson Theater, Lenfest
Wednesday, May 23

All Day—’Sophomore Web Registration

6 p.m.——Senior Night. Lee Chapel. (rain site: Evans Dining
Hall)

8 p.m.—Faculty—student production. “Mandragola,” di-
rected by Domnica Radulescu. Johnson Theater, Lenfest
Thursday, May 24

All Day-—Freshman Web Registration
‘ 8 p.m.—Faculty—student production. “Marrdragola,” di-
rected by Domriica Radulescu. Johnson Theater, Lenfest

~‘ Friday, May 25 '
. 5 p.m.-——Gal1ery Reception. “four years,” photos by Emily
Barnes, ‘01. duPontGalleiy.

8p.m—'Iheatre Series. “Cornpany.”Kel1erTl1eatre,Ler1fest
Satmday, May 26

8prrL—'lheatre Series. “Cornpany.”Keller'lheatIe,Ix:rifest

Center.

Sunday, May 27

- 2pm———'Iheatre Series. “Cornpany.”Keller’Iheatre,Lenfest

Center. .

    

p 0 o by Mary Guy/photo e not

A MAIION AND Ins CAR. Mahon inspects his automobile forvdamages after skidding across
Washington street and into the Baker-Davis-Gilliam Quad.

x

 

photo by Meg Ferrara/staff photographer
..._OH, MAHON! (left to right) Security Ofﬁcer Dan Rexrode directs traffic after
the accident, Mahon explains the situations to Security, Lexington police
arrive on the scene, the accident’s sole casualty remains.

Profsor rashs in BDG Quad

By Matthew McDermott

EDITOR IN CHIEF

James Mahon, an associate philosophy professor, was
thrown for a whirl Wednesday after his red 1991 Chevrolet
Camaro swerved off Washington Street to hit the lamppost
in the Baker—Davis—Gilliam Quad.

“The ground was wet,” Mahon said. “I slid across it.”

The accident happened at about 5:10  in front of the Gra-
ham-Lees donnitory, drawing a number of witnesses.

“I heard a loud noise, so I went out of my dorm to see
what was happening,” said freshman Jonathan Browder, a
Baker resident. “There were a lot of people outside.”

The single vehicle accident left Mahon unharmed.

“He told our (Philosophy of Law) class that he forgot to
take his foot off the accelerator,” a student in the Phil 258
class explained. “And he described how he made a 720
(degree turn) around the lamp post.”

The two—seater sports car , which bears the personal-
ized license plate “JEMAHON,” suffered deep scratches to
its door, though the chassis and cabin remain intact.

For many, Mahon’s distinctive car has become a fa-
miliar site on campus.

“I always thought it looked more like a C-school
professor’s car,” said freshman Thomas Smitherman,
a former student of Mahon.

photo by Mary Guy/photo editor

 

photo by Mary Guy/photo editor

    

photo by Mary Guy/photo editor

Trusteesact on ATF proposal

0 By Michelle Lally 

S In FF WRITER

Student leaders met with the Board
of Trustees’ Campus Life Committee’
Saturday morning to discuss the Alco-
hol Task Force’s proposed alcohol ini-
tiatives, the Student Judicial Council’s
objections to them and the newly en-
acted IFC regulations.

The SJC contended that the ATF
policy infringes on its discretion and
jurisdiction by mandating penalties in
accordance with a three—strike system.

The SJC recommended developing
additional programs for counseling
and alcohol education. It suggested
that students violating alcohol polices
receive punishments that serve the
W&L community, such as obligatory
Live Drive work or sober bartending
at social functions.

The SJC opposes the provision for
parental notification of alcohol related
transgressions. An SJ C memo describes
the ATF policy as “largely vague and
quite repetitive,” “the result of the over-
all lack of student input.”

The 12 members of the Campus Life
Committee spent over two hours dis-
cussing the ATF recommendations,
asking questions of the student repre-
sentatives and expressing their opin-
ions of the proposed policy.

SJC Chair Shane Saunders said the
Trustees were split in their opinion of

W&L talks (sex, food, law

the ATF policy. Although some trust-
ees said the policy was creating a li-
ability document and not outlining an
effort to reduce alcohol problems, oth-
ers favored the new system.

The meeting came to a head,
said Saunders, during a 30-minute
discussion of the penalties for un-
derage drinking. One trustee noted
that 75 perceiit of incoming fresh-
men drink, making three fourths of
the class eligible for expulsion un-
der the policy.

The SJC triumphed with the re-
working of the language regarding
DUIs. Earlier versions of the ATF
document called for suspensions for
students arrested for driving under the
inﬂuence. The edited version of the
policy only allows punishment for DUI
convictions.

Other battles over the ATF pro-
posal, however, were lost by student
representatives. Despite the SJC’s
objections, said Saunders, the three-
strike system and the parental noti-
fication are in.

The lack of discussion on tailgates
indicates trustee approval of the new
restrictions regarding the event, said
Saunders.

“Tailgates are done as we know
them,” he said. ‘

Also discussed was the red line
document, a faculty edited version of
the ATF proposal. Trustees on the

By Alison Trinidad

NEWS EDITOR

Three separate panel discussions invitedlthe W&L
community to share its opinions about social topics

as they relate to W&L culture.

Although turnout at each ranged from 10 to 30
people, the sponsoring organizations were pleased

by the diversity of issues covered.

Management Professor Roger Dean, a Rockbiidge resident,
facilitated LILACS’ second annual open forum about local law
enforcement last Wednesday. LILACS is a student organiza-

' tion dedicated to encourage town—gown relations. Although
attendance was lower than last year’s, Dean said the forum
addressed alcohol use, illegal drug use and student rights re-
garding search and seizure in dorms and fraternity houses..

“Students may not have liked the answers,” he said, “but at
least they left knowing the legal issues involved.”

Ofﬁcer Roger D. Clark and Lieutenant Steve Crowder of
the Lexington Police Department, Investigator Steve
Funkhouser of the Rockbridge Sheriffs Office and Mike
Young of W&L Security were on the panel.

Senior Jenna Poole and sophomore Mary Carol Mazza de-
cided that a panel discussion would be the best way to raise
awareness about and present the results of their research on
eating disorders. Sponsored by LIFE and the FLC, the Wedries—
day talk was the first st1rdent—led discussion about eating atW&L.

‘This panel shared with us their pains, struggles, set-backs,
challenges and successes in a very open way,” said W&L
Health Educator Jan Kaufman.

The Dell Center asked Women’s Forum and LIFE to
help plan their discussion, “Sex and the College Stu-
dent,” on Thursday. It was the last of a series of discus-
sions sponsored by the Delt Center, which included one
on diversity and moving into the future.

The four students on the panel shared their beliefs on sex
and the hook—up culture at W&L. They discussed the differ-
ence between healthy and unhealthy sex and how diﬂerent
deﬁnitions of “hooking—up” lead to confusion. Questions about
date rape and sexual assault also played into the discussion.

"Ihere is an alarmingly high rate of rape on our campus
because (the Greek and alcohol scene at W&L),” said Women’s
Forlim Co—president Amanda Adams. “I don’t think it’s spoken
about much and we need to start talking about it on campus.”

Campus Life Committee were dis-
pleased to discover that EC and SJC
representatives did not know the
document existed.

The meeting marked the last step
in student involvement with the
ATF proposals. “At this point our
hands are tied and they’re going to
do whatever they decide to do,”
Saunders said.

The Board will release its com-
prehensive policy statement later
this week.

According to the Blue Book, the
constitution of the SJC, the SJC has
jurisdiction over all student trans-
gressions not involving lying,
cheating, stealing, sexual miscon-
duct or hazing.

Furthermore, it states that any
changes to Blue Book policy, which
include alcohol-related infractions,
must be approved by a majority of
the SJC, the Student Affairs Com-
mittee and the faculty.

With the ATF policy, the admin-
istration decided to sidestep the
student government bodies of the
SJC and SAC, leaving the approval
of the new policy solely to faculty
and trustees.

Trustee and faculty votes will
both take place before the end of the
month, so that changes in the alco-
hol policy may be made prior to the
2001-2002 school year.

 

 

PAGE 2

Ellis iliing-tum iﬂlri

  OPINION

MAY 21, 2001

Hey, Office, leave us kids alone

Contrary to popular belief, living the charmed life of a
college student does not foster utter and mindless stupid-
ity. I swear to God, everyone—the administration, our par-
ents, and Lexington Police——underestimate us to no end.
It is unduly aggravating to defend my intelligence and
common sense to a higher-up who perpetually dismisses
it. It’s like telling a psychologist you’re really not crazy
only for him to respond with pretentious dignity that, “How
would you know? You’re crazy.”

A prime example of my disgusted frustration manifested
itself last week, during a night that I will hereby refer to as
“My Night of Sober Driving Hell.” I hadn’t been planning
on sober driv-
ing, but some-

or[hema’s Bgposupe one asked ifI
_ _ , could “just
Kns Polhna 03 quickly run
her home,” to
which I was more than happy to oblige. What ensued was
a scene straight from My Cousin Wnny, when the two
guys think they’re arrested for stealing tuna ﬁsh, while
they’re actually being arrested for murder. No sooner had
I ﬁnished dropping her off than I saw the proverbial blue
lights in my rear view mirror. I vaguely murmured some
obscenities under my breath, assuming I was going over
the very rational speed limit of 25 miles per hour.

“License and registration.”

“I don’t know where the registration is, this isn’t my
car.”

“Please step out of the vehicle.”

So I’m on the side of the road, across from VMI’s
football ﬁeld, where every W&L student and their mother
is driving past, when the cop asks me (exact quote) “ex-
actly how long have you been drunk driving around Lex-
ington?”

“Excuse me?”

“How many hours? Roughly.”

“Zero.”

I don’t what gave me the idea that I could be a smart
ass, maybe it was because I knew I was sober. Then he
asked me to explain why I “reeked of alcohol.” (An-
other exact quote.) That inquiry was just enormously
humorous. Was he trying to trick me into admitting I
was drunk? “Ok, you got me. I didn’t think you’d smell
the alky, but, yeah, I’m wasted.” Then he proceeded to
lecture me on the detriments of drunk driving and how
perilous it was, and how many lives I’ve endangered.

After about the fourteenth time of professing my so-
briety, I begged and pleaded for a breathalyzer. I blew a

ote of the Week:

6 C:
A science major sees
this and says, “How pro-
found.” A C—School
major says, “I could
put that on a T—shirt and
make money.”

—— Dean Steve Desjardins, pointing
to a fractal, to his chemistry class ’ ,

 

@112 Ring-tum lﬁlri

Editor in Chief Matt McDermott
Associate Editor Mike Agnello
News Editor Alison Trinidad
Opinion Editor Brett T. Kirwan
W&Life Editor Amy Blevins
Sports Editor Jeremy Franklin
Asst. Sports Editor Dave Crowell
Layout Editor Katie Howell
Photo Editor Mary Guy

Staﬁ‘ Photographer Meg Ferrara

Business Manager Paul Seifert
Circulation Director Charlie Tonelli

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the Executive Editor, but The
Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by 5 pm.
on Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for
content and length. Letters and columns do not reflect
the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu
http://www.wlu.edu/~phi

Annual subscription rate: $30

BUSTED. Police officers should respect students, not use them as hood ornaments.

zero (who’s the big winner?), to which the unnamed cop
responded something to the effect of “Whoa! Look at
the time! I gotta go pull over another innocuous college
student.” Well, not really, but what pissed me off the
most was the fact that when I asked him why he pulled
me over, it was because he thought I just looked like a
drunk driver.

We are so underestimated. Even when we do the right
thing, they think the worst. There’s no escape from this

curtesy of Yahoo! Picture Gallery

preconceived notion of adolescent irresponsibility. The
more we protest our competency, the more restrictions are
put on our ability to prove it. I know I sound like a whiny
guest on Ricki Lake who just “wants to live her own life,”
but seriously, we’re not idiots. And though the adminis-
tration thankfully acknowledges this by entertaining an
autonomous governing system, maybe they could trust
our judgement in other regions as well. I’m not as drunk as
you think I am, ofﬁcer.

LETTER To THE EDITOR--—

Multilingual society is

America’s asset

Dear Editor,

I often disagree with my fellow fraternity brother, Brett
Kirwan, in his weekly articles in the Phi. However, I have
yet to feel compelled to actually make my opinions on his
writings known to others until I read last week’s article on
Bush’s Cinco de Mayo address. I won’t even begin to
mention how humorous I thought his statement about this
being Bush’s “ﬁrst noticeable mistake of his otherwise bril-
liant administration” was. But, I will say that I think brilliant
is a bit strong. We are just out of the 100-day honeymoon,
and now is when the fun begins.

What I do not understand is how Kirwan can ﬁnd any
outreach on the part of the GOP to minorities to be a rnis—
take. To be quite honest, if the party could ﬁnd a way to
rally support from both their strong conservative, predomi-
nately white following and a large portion of each of
America’s many minority populations, the Democrats would
be hard pressed to beat them in any election. As for this
outreach being misdirected, how else do you make an out-
reach to citizens who do not speak English unless you
speak their language? Apparently Kirwan must think our
Statue of Liberty reads, “Give me your tired, your poor/
Your huddled masses yearning to breathe free/ The wretched
refuse of your teeming shore, as long as they speak En-
glish.” The fact of the matter remains that the United States
does not have an ofﬁcial language. If this displeases you,
call your local GOP headquarters and tell them you would
like them to propose that as a new law. However, I do be-
lieve this will greatly hinder Bush’s outreach to minorities.

Now I understand that there are numerous other citi-
zens speaking different languages and the argument is if
you start speaking one, then you must speak another.
However, I’m sure Bush’s address was significant to the
numerous bilingual citizens in our nation who are mem-
bers of what is now America’s largest minority popula-
tion. The bilingual Hispanic citizens are also a huge as-
set and a large part of the American work force. As for
the fact that New York had to spend $1.1 million on 911
translators, I do believe it was more than just Spanish

 

translators. Are you aware of how many different lan-
guages are spoken in New York City alone?

Moreover, I will join Kirwan in saying that our school
systems are not adequately addressing the problem of
America’s heterogeneous population. We need an educa-
tional system that uses programs to quickly and effec-
tively educate school children that do not speak English
to do so. However, English speaking school children
should be taught another language as well, such as Span-
ish. European children are taught multiple languages in
school because Europeans have an appreciation for their
multilingual society. Kirwan states our schools should
cultivate a sense of nationalism and pride in American
culture in our students. I agree with him, but realize that
we live in a multilingual society. It should be taught that
this is not a problem, rather it is a healthy change to America
that makes it a strong part of the global community. This
realization can better America’s international relations with
other parts of the world, aid America in its participation in
the global economy, and better ready our students to
function in a world that keeps growing smaller.

Kirwan writes of past generations’ successful assimila-
tion into American society. These immigrants were brought
into an America very different than today. Immigrants of
today should be taught to function in an America that is full
of differences, but also united by its differences. I dislike
Kirwan’s use of the words “differences” and “divisions” in
the same sentence. This sounds like the attitude of school
children afraid of the new student who is different. If you
want to talk about pandering, America too often panders to
those upset by the differences of those around them. I also
dislike the use of the word “assimilation.” Assimilation
into what? We live in a country where people can no longer
be placed into the mold of nuclear family where the mother
stays at home in Suburbia and the father brings the bread
home to the 2.5 kids and a dog named Lucky. There’s a
difference in assimilation and being made into a successful
part of society. I think this was the focus of Bush’s Cinco
de Mayo address, and it is one of the things he has done so
far in his time the White House that I can praise.

Sincerely,
Nick Ramsey

  
      
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
   
  
 
   
  
  
 
  
   
   
   
 
  
 
   
 
   
 
   
  
  
   

 What is best about the VMI cadets’ absence?

 

 

“Maybe they’ll stop firing
the canons.”
-Bryant Adams ‘0l

“No more cadets running 1
through campus.”
--Elizabeth Loyd ’04

—Casey Nixon ‘02

 

“I could care less. I don’t
talk to them anyway.”

 

“More pizza after the 5 :00 Mass.”
-Maryisa Golubiewska ‘O4

 

     

MAY 21, 2001

 2 ﬂing-tum ilﬂhi

:W&L enjoys week of music

  >((
I had no idea that We have such
A great singers at our school.
It was Very uplifting.
’# — Jess Taylor

,. if

   

   
 
  
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
   
   
 
   
   
 
  
  

photos by Mary Guy/photo editor
Goon 01.1) GOSPEL MUSIC. Sophomore Justin Huston leads the

, it gospel choir, Joyful Noise, in song in Lee Chapel at the
Gospel Fest Saturday evening.

{(

(We) were extremely sastisﬁed

with the community interest.
We Value the Red House
and the way it allows us

to stage cultural events.
— Professor Janet Ikeda

J}

 

ﬁr . .
BoN DANCING. China-Japan Day festivities Saturday included

traditional dress and ceremonial dancing.
K

A

(K

‘ The guest choirs brought diversity
)1 and devotion, adding their voices

' to the feel of the night as a whole.
— Adam Mayer

* :2

TUITIUN HNANEING

 

TaX— deferred solutions
from TIAA— CREF can
help you reach your

retirement goals faster.

 

When you're investing for retirement, the adage 1-Ax DEFEI-.mA|_ MAKE5 A n":|:EHEN[E
"never put off until tomorrow what you can do today”
doesn't apply to taxes. $102,068

Tax~dcfei-red savings after taxes’

  
  
   

That's because investments that aren't eroded by taxes
can add up to significantly more money for you— ‘ $67,514
money you can use to supplement your pension and  
Social Security.

After—tax savings

\‘

Let our consultants show you all the advantages of tax -
deferral, or call us for a free tax—savings calculator.

Supplemental Retirement Annuities (SRAS), lRAs and

other tax—saving so|utions—along with T|AA—CREF's $100 per month form?‘ his

 
  
  
  
  
  
 

low expenses and solid history of performance——can
help you invest tax smart today so that you can reach
your retirement goals faster in the years to come.

*Note: Under federal tax law, withdrawals prior to age 59% may be
subject to restrictions, and to a 10% additional tax.

In this hypothetical example, setting aside $l00 a month
in a tax-deferred investment with an 8% return in a 28%
tax bracket shows better growth after 30 years than the
same net amount put into a savings account. Total returns
and principal value of investments will ﬂuctuate, and yield
may vary. The chart above is presented for illustrative
purposes only and does not reflect actual performance, or
predict future results, of any TIAA-CREF account, or
reflect expenses.

A A Ensuring the future
for those who shape it."‘

1.800.842.2776

www.tiaa-cref.org

For more complete information on our securities products, call 1.800.842.2733, ext. 5509, for prospectuses. Read them carefully before
you invest. - TIAA-CREF Individual and institutional Services, Inc. and Teachers Personal Investors Services, inc. distribute securities products.
- Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association (TIAA), New York, NY and TIAA-CREF Life insurance Co., New York, NY issue insurance and
annuities. - TlAA—CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust services. - Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are
not bank guaranteed. © 2001 Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association—Co||ege Retirement Equities Fund, New York, NY 01/04

 
   
   
 
    

 

L Generals . all in NCA iqpuarterﬁals

PAGE 4

u

L‘ . By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

Defending national champion'Trinity took two of three
doubles matches for an early 2-1 lead, never looking back
as they knocked Washington and Lee out of the NCAA
Division III Women’s Tennis Championships in San An-
tonio on Friday with a 7-2 quarterfinal win.

Sophomore Brandi Jane Wedgoewoith defeated Emily
Jacobs at fifth—seed singles 6-2, 7-5, and junior Sallie Gray
Strang and sophomore Laura Bruno topped Jacobs and
Laura Cumming 9-8 (7-4) at second—seed doubles for the
Generals’ only wins on the day. ‘ _

Strang, one of the team’s captains, was pleased with
the effort of her team despite the loss.

“I think we played alright,” said Strang, whose team ‘

lost to ‘Trinity 5-4 during the Fab Five Toumameht in San
Antonio on March 3 1. “It deﬁnitely wasn’t our best match
of the season. In general, theirlplayers were playing bet-
ter. I

“Their lineup was a little bit different, too, so that also
had something to do with it. They just played betterithan
we did on Friday.” ,-

Bruno felt that the Generals‘ would have had a shot at
advancing, had they taken at least two of the matches in
doubles competition. , ' I

“We really needed to win the doubles,” Bruno ‘said.
“Last time we had our opportunities with the doubles, but
this time they didn’t even let us in the door.

“They just came out really strong, and had the momen-
tum right from the start.” i _

With the win, the Tigers eliminated W&L from the
tournament for the second consecutive year. ‘ The
Generals lost to Trinity 6-3 in a national semifinal
last year before rebounding to top Amherst 5-4 in
the consolation match. ‘

In singles competition, Lizzie Yasser topped jun-

i
, 2
' v
:4 ‘ ‘,'
’ v
v

.‘

@112 ﬂing-tum lﬂlti

PORTS  

MAY 21, 2001

DowN AROUND SAN ANTONE. Junior Melissa Hatley and the Generals fell to Trinity
NCAA Division III quarterfinals on Friday.‘ Hatley and sophomore Erika Proko remain in San
Antonio to participate in the Women?s Tennis’ Singles and Doubles Championships.

Abbe Ulrich handed sophomore Alyson Brice a 6-3, 7-
5 loss at No. 4 singles, and Cumming blanked freshman Liz
Law 6-0, 6-0 at the sixth slot. ' ’ 

Yasser and Ulrich defeated Hatley and Proko 8-1 at No.

I 1 doubles, and Smith and Baldwin topped Law and classw

mate Ellie Simpson 8-0 at N 0.3.
Despitetlhe quarterﬁnal exit, Strang was pleased with the

,way the season progressed for the Generals, particularly'af— :

ter the loss of their top two singles players. Erin Eggers and

ior Melissa Hatley 6-4, 6-3 at the No. 1 spot. Lindsay V Brook Haitzell graduated as All—Americans in 2000.

Smith defeated sophomorélErika Proko 6-2, 6-0 at the
No. 2 slot, and Lindsey Baldwin knocked off Bruno
6-3,,6—3 at No. 3. . -

;,

‘fliosing your top two players, everybody expects you to not
have as good a year,” Strang said. “I think that just by making it
to the quarterﬁnals, we deﬁnitely had a good season.”

A Successful season ends for W&L

Despite their relative inexperience, the Generals fin- “

 

 

Ring-tm Phi File hoto
REGIONAL FINALISTS. Junior Rhys James and the
W &L rnen’s tennis team were 12-5 in 2001.‘?

By Ian R. Mcllroy A

SPORTS WRITER

r

U . .

With only two starters returning from last year’s team,
the Washington and Lee men’s,tennis team nearly started
from scratch this season.

With three freshmen in the top six positions, the team
had plenty of talent, yet lacked much experience at the
collegiate level. In a preseason poll, however, the Gener-
als were ranked 25th in the nation for Division IH.

1

ished the year with a 12-5 record, posting a mark of 6-0
against Old Dominion Athletic Conference opponents.

At the ODAC Tournarrient, held on April 20-21 in
Lynchburg, the Generals captured their 20th ODAC cham-
pionship in the last 25 years. The Generals also swepgthe
toprnament for the ﬁrst time in 12 years, taking the cham-
pionship of all six singles and all three doubles ﬂights.

Last weekend, at the Division III South Atlantic Re-
gional Tournament, the Generals performed well. On Sat-
urday, the fifth-seeded Generals upset Swaithmore 4-_ 1.

“The victory over Swarthmore shows the team’s ini-I’
provement throughout the year, especially our three fresh-
men (Austin Kim, Graham Nix, and KC. Schaefer),” head
coach David Detwiler said. “(Swarthmore) had barely

‘T beaten us (4-3) in our first meeting.” ' ' ‘ ~

On Sunday, W&L ended its season with a 4-0 loss to host
and second seed Washington College. Nevertheless, the
Generals remain proud of their accomplishments this yean

“In the regular season, we took advantage of our
chance to play top teams and moved up the rankings,”
junior and number-twosingles player Andrew Roberts
said. “We didn’t have any really disappointing losses,
just missed opportunities.” ,, 4 -

With this season behind them, the Generals have al-
ready begun their preparations for next year.

‘,‘Our team has a lot to work on over the summer,” said
junior Rob Moynihan, who plays at number—six singles.
“Down the line, we all need to improve our serves and our
conditioning.” ‘ I

Fortunately, the team graduates no seniors next year.

“Our six juniors (Roberts, Moynihan, Rhys James, Zac
Vuncannon, John Colfry, and Bobby‘ Reitinger) have
shown exceptional leadership all year long and will con-
tinue to next year,” Detwiler said. “The team has the abil-
ity to finish in the top two in the region and advance to the
national ‘ﬁnal eight’ for Division III next season.”

‘the Old Dominion Athletic Conference.

v.

Rmg-tum Phz File Photo

7-2 in the

With all of their top singles and doubles players re-
turning next year, Bruno believes that the Generals are in
good shape for another run in the spring.

“We have the makings for a good team,” Bruno said.
“We’re not losing anybody, so all we can do is get better.
We’ll put it all together next year, and hopefully go a little
bit farther in the tournament.”

Hatley and Proko will remain in San Antonio to compete in
the Women’s Tennis Singles and Doubles Championships.
Both have been selected to participate innsingles and doubles
eompetition, which will take place today through Wednesday.

W&L finished the season 20-3, including a 10-0 markin

NEXT WEEK on THE
SPORTS PAGE...

THE RING-TUM PHI
END-OF-YEAR AWARDS.

JAVAPALOOZA Eaanrs
rieiarine earti/rrY

‘ ‘‘If the songwriting approach of the'Dave
, Matthews Band were to absorb the upbeat
rhythms of world-beat and reggae, the result
‘ could sound like Fighting Gravity”
' —Billboard Magazine, June 1999

 

“McGee-—whos'e velvety, soulful vocals
at times re’call former English Beat singer
Dave Wakeling. . .Fighting Gravity’s songs

are infectious and upbeat”
‘ -Rolling Stone Magazine, December 1998

-     MAY 21
7:30-to RM.  
entree-Dar/is-eittinn QUAD

Java will be serving hot and cold coffee drinks, as well as ice crea
 from SWEET THINGS. 

I
7‘.

_ Bring a blanket and bring yourifriends
   for a‘ music-ﬁlled night under the stars!

3-,

5:}

-‘».—&.i--«k~<-",—-+§-,- {\ , 444- .—..L .!-..«..h. 4%.. E} E. .   ._ .g_E, .. .._,“,,. , , .

-+ -- -+~ae-+¢- 4.-

¥

1*

i_:r_._L;., E._,,_;&_r

 

"4'  tug-tum {H111

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNrvERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

WA8HiN€TC-it & ‘rﬁ UHtVQ~‘StTv
:f‘»wI3TiW. VA Durst‘:

Gt”? 3 8 2001

VOLUME 104, No. 5

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

TUESDAY, MAY 29, 2001

 

ail news ‘ briefs, to
du ' 3

 

Retiring biology professor

receives Pusey Award

Dr. Tom Nye, retiring from W&L after 35 years,
was awarded the Pusey Award by the Executive
Committee last Wednesday. The Pusey is awarded
to one faculty member each year to recognize his or
her commitment and service to the University. The
award is named after former Dean Bill Pusey.

Next year’s meal plans armounced

Undergraduates now have eight different meal
plan choices for the coming year. Except for the full
board and block meal plans, all plans can be used at
any campus dining location. Meal plan users do
not have to pay the 8.5 percent Virginia sales tax on
food. Students who sign up for a plan by May 31
will be entered in a drawing for up to $100 in food
debit credit.

24/7: W&L’s WI«:I«:KI.Y (‘.\l.l£.\’l).«\R

  

Today
9 a.m.—Textbook buyback continues until 4 p.m.
East side of Evans Dining Hall.

Noon—Luncheon/Lecture. Eric Wilson, W&L
assistant professor of English, will discuss his
resesarch on Renaissance urban studies, education
and literature. Room 113, University Center.

4:30 p.m.—S1ide lecture. “Flowers, Full Moons
and Festivals: Celebrating Krishna through the Sea-
sons in Vrindaban, India.” Prof. Cynthia Atherton,
Middlebury College. N orthen Auditorium, Leyburn
Library. Open to the public.

Wednesday, May 30

9 a.m.——Textbook buyback continues until 4 p.m.
East side of Evans Dining Hall.

7 p.m.—Student movie. “Blindsight,” written and
directed by Henry Gola, ‘O1. Northen Auditorium.
Thursday, May 31

9 a.m.—Textbook buyback continues until 4 p.m.
East side of Evans Dining Hall.

8 p.m.—Music Recital. Johnson Theatre, Lenfest
Center.

Friday, June 1

All Day—Undergraduate classes end.

9 a.m.—Textbook buyback continues until 4 p.m.
East side of Evans Dining Hall.

Saturday, June 2

9 a.m.—Undergraduate exams begin.

10 a.m.—-Textbook buyback ends at 2 p.m. East
side of Evans Dining Hall.

Monday, June 4

5 p.m.—Undergraduate exams end.
Tuesday, June 5

6 p.m.——-Journalism Department reception, awards
ceremony, and buffet supper.
Wednesday, June 6

8:30 a.m.———Faculty Meeting. N orthen Auditorium.

10 a.m.—Baccalaureate. Speaker: Rev. Hoffman
F. Brown IH ’77, Pastor. Front Lawn.

11:30 a.m.—Alumni Association luncheon for
families, faculty and staff. Stemmons Plaza (rain site:
Doremus Gyrrmasium).

12:30 p.m.—Parents’ reception. Lee House.

1 :30 p.m.—Tours of historic front-campus buildings.

2 p.m.—Art Department senior theses presenta-
tions. duPont Hall 109.

3 p.m.———Art, Music and Theatre Departmental
awards ceremony. duPont Hall 109.

3 p.m.—Computer Science Department recep-
tion. Parmly 413.

3:30 p.m.—Art, Music and Theatre Departments
reception. duPont Gallery. .

4 p.m.-—East Asian Studies Program reception.
Reeves Center/Watson Pavilion.

4: 30 p.m.—History Department reception.
Alumni House.

4:30 p.m.——Mathematics Department reception.
300 Overhill Drive.

4:30 p.m.——Reception for international seniors’
families. Outside Tucker Hall.

5 p.m.—Philosophy Department reception. Uni-
versity Center 1 14.

Thursday, June 7

7:30 a.m.—/Geology Department breakfast. Sci-
ence Addition Great Hall.

8 a.m.—Shepherd Poverty Program breakfast.
Prof. Beckley’s home.

8 a.m.—Romance Languages and German and
Russian Departments breakfast. Outside Tucker Hall.

8 a.m.——Physics and Engineering Department
breakfast. Science Addition patio (rain site: Great Hall).

8:15 a.m.—Psychology Department breakfast.
Parrnly Hall.

8:30 a.m.——Williarns School breakfast. Williams
School library.

9 a.m.—Pictures of alumni parents and their
graduating children. Lee Chapel.

10 a.m.—Undergraduate Commencement.
Speaker: President John W. Elrod. Front Lawn (rain
site: Warner Center).

Noon—Biology Department lunch. Alumni House.

Noon—Chemistry Department lunch. Science
Addition, Great Hall.

Noon—English Department lunch. N orthen Au-
ditorium Terrace (rain site: N orthen Auditorium).

 

EDITOR IN CHIEF

eniors to graduate

By Matthew McDer1nott

the Front Lawn.

speaker.

and English Professor Kary Smout.

student lines.

B.A. with majors in The College.

Contrary to rumor, sheepskin diplomas
are still being conferred, and 396 students
are expecting them Thursday, June 7.

At press time, it is expected 406 de-
grees will be awarded at Washington and .
Lee’s 216th undergraduate commence-
ment, an event beginning at 10 a.m. on

University President John Elrod agreed
to be the undergraduate commencement

Faculty marshals are Accounting Profes-
sor Wrlliarn King, Biology Professor Maryanne
Simurda, History Professor Richard Bidlack

Marshals call attendance and lead the

Undergraduates who fail to attend the
commencement exercises, unless excused in
advance by formal action of the Faculty Ex-
ecutive Committee, do not recieve diplomas.

Degrees are conferred in the following
order: B.S. with Special Attainments in Com-
merce, B.A. with majors in The Williams
School, B.S. with majors in The College, B.S.
with Special Attainments in Chemistry and

 

FOUR YEARS FOR THIS? The Phi presents scenes from
previous years to showcase graduation activities.

ﬁle photos

Faculty vote‘ for ATF policy

Stricter penalties
next Fall Term

By Alison Trinidad

NEWS EDITOR

Three weeks ago, Washington
and Lee students asked the faculty
and Board of Trustees to postpone
passing new university drug and al-
cohol policy, but it seems like time
has run out. The faculty vote is in
and students should expect more
stringent penalties for substance
abuse come Fall Term 2001.

Faculty members voted to accept
the so-called “red line document” at
an hour—and-a-half meeting yesterday
afternoon. The document was a
Trustee-revised version of the Alco-
hol Task Force recommendations re-
leased last month.

Dean of Students David Howison
said the voice vote was overwhelmingly
in favor of the recommendations. While
some wording was tweaked for clariﬁ-
cation, Howison said, the gist of the
recommendations remains the same.

Included in the policy are: a three-
strike penalty system, parental notiﬁ-
cation and alcohol-free university-
sponsored tailgates. At the discretion
of the Student Judicial Council, stu-
dents with three strikes within one
calendar year may be dismissed from

the University. Education and coun-
seling are mandatory for those who
are not dismissed.

Although Executive Committee
President Rob Naftel lost the battle
to keep tailgates, he remains opti-
mistic. Student governing bodies,
such as the EC and SJC, are ulti-
mately who decide how severe sanc-
tions are for each case.

“For students, this is good,” N aftel
said.

The Executive Committee of the
Board of Trustees will be informed of
the faculty’s final decision soon,
Howison said. The details of the re-
port will be made available later in the
year, but Howison could not specify
when. As of this issue, the Task Force
webpage can be accessed through
the University Registrar website. A
copy of the recommendations sans
faculty revision is available for view-
ing through the “Task Force” link.

President John Elrod created the
Task Force last November to study the
alcohol culture at W&L and suggest
better ways to hold students respon-
sible for abusive behavior. The creation
of the Task Force came immediately
after junior Adam Burchett and fresh-
man Kristin Shelton died in a single-
vehicle crash after attending several
fraternity parties last October. Autl1ori—
ties later determined alcohol was a con-
tributing factor to the accident.

The Task Force released its recom-
mendations in April and invited feed-
back from the university through a se-
ries of open forums. Three weeks after
the recommendations’ release, Elrod
presented to the Board of Trustees the
Task Force results and their mixed reac-
tions from the W&L community. After
reviewing the recommendations, the
Board adopted a comprehensive sub-
stance abuse policy statement on May
19, 2001, that stresses responsible al-
cohol use.

According to the statement, “abu-
sive consumption of alcohol and ille-
gal drug use are inconsistent with the
core values of Washington and Lee
University.”

The Board made three stipulations
before the faculty vote. Whatever fac-
ulty members decided to keep or dis-
miss from the Task Force recommenda-
tions, they had to adopt and implement
a clearly deﬁned penalty for driving
under the inﬂuence of alcohol or drugs,
a three—strike penalty program and pa-
rental notification for student violators
of University alcohol or drug policies.

Although implementation of the
new University policy is slated for the
fall, questions about the policyfs en-
forcement and aftermath are yet to be
answered. The policy will undergo
regular faculty evaluation in coopera-
tion with the Dean of Students
throughout the coming year.

Senior faces
felony charge

By Alison Trinidad

NEWS EDITOR

Washington and Lee senior Jeffrey James was arrested
early Saturday, May 26, after a W&L male freshman ac-
cused him of forcible sodomy, a felony. At the time of the
arrest, James served as a W&L dorm counselor. He has
since been suspended from the position.

Under Virginia law, forcible sodomy is defined as oral
sex or anal intercourse by force or intimidation or due to
mental incapacity or physical helplessness of the victim.

At his advisement hearing today, James is expected to
tell the judge whether he wants a court—appointed attor-
ney or his own counsel.

Sergeant Wayne Straub of the Lexington Police De-
partment was the shift supervisor Saturday morning. He
said the victim, accompanied by others, ﬂagged him down
on Washington Street while on routine patrol shortly after
3 a.m. Saturday. W&L Security arrived at the scene five to
10 minutes later, Straub said. According to the victim’s
statement to Straub, the alleged incident occurred in the
Pi Kappa Phi fraternity house.

W&L Security was en route to James’ room in Baker
dormitory, Director of Security Mike Young said, when they
received a call from James’ hall about a ﬁght in progress.
Freshmen on James’ hall say they were awakened after 3
a.m. to a group of students beating up James in his room.

Taken by Lexington police officers, James was arrested
at the police department by Officer Gary Coleman. He
was the only student involved in the incident who was
charged and arrested that evening, Straub said. Straub
would not comment on James’ physical state at the time
of his arrest. James was brought to Rockbridge Regional
Jail a little before 6 a.m and released at 8:29 the same
night. Bail had been set at $2000.

The victim was taken to Stonewall Jackson Hospital
for examination using a Physical Evidence Recovery Kit,
Straub said. Young said, as far as he knew, the victim did
not appear physically injured.

At today’s hearing, the judge will set a date for a prelimi-
nary hwring. There is a preliminary hearing anytime there is a
felony charge and the victim must testify at it. If the judge
decides there is probable cause, the case will go on to the
grand jury in circuit court.The grand jury is a group of private
citizens who decide whether or not there is enough evidence
to issue an indictment against the defendant. If the defendant
is indicted, the case will go to trial and the defendant must
plead guilty or not guilty at his arraignment. Durmg the trial,
the plaintiff will be called to testify against the defendant.

A conviction of forcible sodomy in Virginia has a penalty
of no less than ﬁve years and up to life imprisonment. As an
international student, James may face deportment if convicted,
said Director of lntemational Education William Klingelhofer.

Dean of Students David Howison said the University
will proceed in these matters according to existing judicial
procedures. If the victim chooses to pursue any hearing,
University or otherwise, he may have to wait until Sep-
tember because undergraduate classes end Friday.

Howison confirmed that James had been assaulted by
a group of W&L students after the alleged incident. As of
Monday, James had not ﬁled any criminal charges against
those students, but Young said James can file charges of
assault and battery if he chooses to do so. Following a
joint—Security—Student Judicial Council investigation, SJC
President Shane Saunders said, the SJC will try today those
students accused of assaulting James. The case and any
appeals must be tried before finals begin on Saturday.

Associate Dean of Students Anne Schroer—Lamont, a
University counselor, has asked Project Horizon to pro-
vide assistance counseling those who feel they need it.

“Anytime anyone is assaulted verbally, physically or
sexually, it’s wrong,” she said. “They deserve counseling
from peer counselors, friends and family.”

Schroer—Lamont asked students to allow both parties a
fair hearing and allow the judicial process to take place.

“Students should realize that email messages and
phone mail messages can be tracked, so people need to be
smart,” she said. “We do not need ugliness on top of
anything else.

“Harrassment is not tolerated.”

When asked if there were specific incidents of either
party being harrassed, Young declined to comment.

“That’s under investigation,” he said.

 

PAGE 2

@112 itltttg-tum ilﬂhi

PINION

MAY 29, 2001

Crittenden raises one last glass

In entering upon the daunting task of writing my ﬁnal
tour de force for a Washington and Lee publication, I feel
acertainje ne sais quoi, a fear and loathing of the sort that
surrounds Senators changing political party membership,
or of the type that envelops one when he enters a dark bar
around three in the afternoon with only the intention of
finding the bottom of another pint. It isn’t a comfortable
feeling, nor is it completely distasteful; in the end, it just
is, like a trusty companion on the long road home.

Not to get sentimental, but I can say that I have
enjoyed myself during my tenure at Washington and
Lee. I’ve met some truly amazing people whom I con-
sider not
9"” my Mike’s Final Pint
friends, but
also gifted in-
d i v i d u al s
that I have enjoyed not only knowing, but also sharing
with. These people have expanded who I am, what I
believe and what I will become. People who have
touched me in so many ways (wink, wink, nudge,
nudge), that I could only hope to have affected them in
some positive way. Over a cup of coffee, a few beers at
Traveler’s and in the dorms, I have made friendships
that mean more to me than a piece of parchment I hope
to receive in a couple of weeks. There are special people
here, and you should try and get to know them if you
get the chance, if you can take the time to leave your
catchily—named off campus house, get in your. gas-guz-
zling, never used for off—roading SUV, and meet some of
the people that make this campus wonderful. They are
all around, get to know them.

In addition to the wonderful people I have met, I, of
course, have met some of another ilk; the kind of people
you wouldn’t introduce to your folks because you’d be
embarrassed to admit you know them. You know the type:
they ooze pretentiousness like the nouveau riche always
do. They’re unctuous and sheltered, and drive big cars
that tell the world that they are protected by daddy’s ill-
begotten money (which invariably came from shady deals
in smoke-ﬁlled backrooms, or from oil). These are people
who will still claim that George W. is a smart man, and why
wouldn’t they, he’s only making them richer. They will run
around and take part in sordid bacchanals that Larry Flynt
wouldn’t approach, and then they’ll ﬁnd God and -take
offense whenever you question their old behavior. And
finally, they’ll grin f-—- you and make you sleep on the wet
spot. These are people that will smile at you while stealing
your wallet and asking to borrow a twenty. They’re here
as well, and you should look for them; only watch them,
and keep them at a safe distance.

But I digress. My true intention was to make a few
general comments before I depart. This school is chang-

ote of the Week:

(6

“You should not be
living in this country.”

—— Anonymous W&Life editor
to anonymous Phi Editor in Chief

77

 

Ellie ﬁling-tum iﬂlri

Editor in Chief Matt McDerm0tt
Associate Editor Mike Agnello
News Editor Alison Trinidad
Opinion Editor Brett T. Kirwan
W&Life Editor Amy Blevins
Sports Editor Jeremy Franklin
Asst. Sports Editor Dave Crowell
Layout Editor Katie Howell
Photo Editor Mary Guy

Staff Photographer Meg Ferrara

Business Manager Paul Seifert
Circulation Director Charlie Tonelli

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the Executive Editor, but The
Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by 5 p.m.
on Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for
content and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect
the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu
http://www.wlu.edu/~phi

Annual subscription rate: $30

ing, and whether or not it is for the better, I have no part in
the decision-making process, and will not have to deal
with any of the repercussions. I will still come back and
visit, for I enjoy it here in Lexington and now call it my
home. I love this school, and am proud to say I graduated
(crossing my fingers for that canoeing grade) from here.
Too often though, this school suffers from a case of com-
mittee-itis, in which innumerable groups of randomly se-
lected, unrepresentative people serve as pawns glossing
over the current administrations agenda. If President Elrod
and his cronies in Washington Hall want to get rid of
fraternity houses, continually bring in students who don’t
fit in here (and won’t enjoy themselves) and destroy the
last remaining vestiges of what this University was in the
past, then they should do it up front and not use commit-
tees to do their dirty work. Roark was right, committees
are never the way to go. If you have an agenda, admit it.
Let the students know so they can either transfer to less

LAST CALL. Mike and his fellows seniors won’t be spending so much time in bars after Thursday.

hostile environments, or at least warn away potential stu-
dents who don’t ﬁt the “new W&L.” It will be better for
everyone.

To close, despite the occasional caustic nature of my
ranting, I do love this place, and am scared as hell to leave
it. It is comfortable here, and I like that. I feel at home here
and know where I stand. I’ve learned a lot, and I’ve done
some amazing things while I was here: learned more about
political philosophy then maybe I should (thanks to you
Eddie V.), eaten at the D-Hall for four years, been a dorm
counselor, gotten “fratty” and lived to tell about it, and
met people that have made my life special (you know who
you are), not the least of whom is my beautiful girlfriend
(love you Em). I will miss all of it, and I will miss all of you
(or should I say y’all ?).

My time has come, however, and left with my destiny
unbound, I carry on to other things, as always a passing
interloper through the musty fields of life.

LETTERS To THE ED1ToR———

Kirwan is laughable

Dear Editor,

I commend Nick Ramsey for alerting me to the sort of
fare Kirwan regularly provides. Only after reading RaInsey’s
letter was I inspired to peruse Kirwan’s otherwise forget-
table (is that regrettable?) diatribe. In the name of brevity
and civility, let me say this: I ﬁnd it laughable—— and more-
over frightening— that a man not yet 20 years of age can
cling so staunchly to ideals notable only for their antiq-
uity and myopia. The world isn’t nearly as tidy not one
group as culpable as Kirwan would have us believe. You’ll
notice I’m not simply lambasting conservatives in re-
sponse. I haven’t the heart nor the intestinal resolve to go
through Kirwan’s editorial piece by piece. I just hope the
inevitable shattering of Kirwan’s stilted reality is less pain-
ful that I fear it may be.

Sincerely,
Daniel Sozomenu ‘0l

Bad behavior of some
hurts all W&L students

Dear Editor,

I sympathize with Pollina’s distress over her recent ex-
perience of being stopped by a Lexington police officer.
The off1cer’s actions do sound disrespectful.

I am familiar with other cases of discrimination against
teenagers. A pair of twin sisters in my high school Girl
Scout troop once told a story of being thrown out of a
store and told to wait for their mother outside on the mere
suspicion that they “might” shoplift. These girls were Girl
Scouts doing extensive service projects to earn the Gold
Award, active in Greek Orthodox youth organizations, and
daughters of a regional Girl Scout leader and respected
medical doctor. Of course, the store owner didn’t know
this- only that they were teenagers.

Unfortunately, a minority of irresponsible teenagers
colors the conceptions that many people have of ado-
lescents and young adults as a whole. While it is frus-
trating, I hope that all of us will rise to the challenge of
conducting ourselves in a positive manner as ambassa-
dors for our cultures—— whether it be the Washington
and Lee student body, young adults, or natives of a
geographical region. I

Rising to this challenge includes the responsible use
of alcohol. Pollina’s experience is an example of how alco-
hol abuse by some of us affects all of us. It, among other
things, affects our reputation in the town of Lexington,
and non-abusers of alcohol bear that stigma along with
the abusers.

Rather than remaining bitter about our treatment by
police ofﬁcers, let us prove, through our behavior, that we
are worthy of respect.

Sincerely,
Julie Fitzer ‘03

Sacriﬁce privacy for safety

Dear Editor,

Granted, it seems Pollina was unduly detained and even
viliﬁed during the events she described. Does that minor
inconvenience really merit such a hostile response? Have
the events of this past school year not taught
us to err on the side of caution? Does the sort of atmo-
sphere promulgated by this school’s social system—— es-
pecially during Spring Terrn— not demand constant vigi-
lance in the name of student and resident safety? There
are assuredly far more students who’ve taken the wheel
while unfit to drive than there are students who’ve been
undeservedly accused by local police. Just a little reminder
to maintain perspective.

Sincerely,
Daniel Sozomenu ‘O1

y Christine Metzger

TALKbaCk: What will you be doing during the summer?

    

“Going to Leningrad,
4 Russia.”
-Thomas Smitherrnan ‘04

 

“Living in Cape Cod.”

_Lucy Hinkle ,04 applications.”

“Filling out medical school

-Andrea Ceccarelli ‘O2

 

“Basic Airborne Training at
Fort Bemring.”
-Brian Tinklepaugh ‘O3

  
  

 

 

MAY 29, 2001

W&E

2 ﬁling-tum iﬂhi

IFE

PAGE 3t

photo courtesy of Lenfest Center
How CAN I CHOOSE JUST ONE? Bobby, (Blair Williams) plays a ladies’
man in the Lenfest production of Company. ’

photo courtesy of Lenfes Center
MARRIED LIFE IsN"r ALWAYS BLISS. Susan, (Sarah Heatherington) and
Peter, (Brad Haugen), announce their divorce to Bobby in Company.

 

Javapalooza presents

THE DEBUT or
 Wick Ruehling

  Monday, May 28
7:30-10:00 p.m.
BGD Quad (rainsite GHQ)

and the Nebuchadnezzars

Featuring Wick Ruehling, Alex Wilkins, Bo Vaughn and Matt. Mcwilliams

This is the last Java of the year! Make sure you're there!

THIS WEEK omx: rm: ICE caam mom swam THINGS!!!

HOLDING HANDS. Shrek and Princess Fiona share a private
moment. Mike Myers provides the voice for Shrek, who the hand of Fiona, Cameron Diaz.

by Mike George

STAFF WRITER

The makers of the new animated hit
Shrek must have been looking out for
parents. The vast majority of movies
made for children often find little appeal
with adults. Give me ten parents who
actually enjoyed Barney ’s Big Adventure
and I’ll summarily eat my hat.

Sometimes a film will work on two lev-
els, attempting to appeal to both children
and adults. However, the jokes don’t of-
ten appeal to parents and their children
at the same time. Parents will laugh at
one joke and their children will laugh at
another.

Shrek’s humor, however, is layered,
appealing to adults and children for dif-
ferent reasons. Kids and adults are
laughing, but now they are laughing at
the same time.

Shrek molds its story around the world
of fairy tales. A simple moral tale about
the importance of inner beauty, Shrek is
both touching and entertaining.

When an evil lord attempts to rid his
kingdom of its fairy tale creatures, the
home of a cantankerous ogre is beseiged

 

Baltimore
100 Light Street
410-539-0000

by characters from many of history’s
great children’s stories. In order to free
himself of his univited guests, Shrek
makes a deal with the evil lord.

In exchange for clearing out his home
of its unwelcomed guests, Shrek must
rescue Princess Fiona from the clutches
of a fierce dragon. Seeking to solidify his
power, Lord Farquaad intends to marry
the princess and thereby make himself
king. Along the way, Shrek encounters a
host of odd characters and somehow
finds a way to love.

Shrek is at least worth the price of ad-
mission, if not much more. Voice talent
is provided by many of Hollywood’s top
performers. Mike Myers voices Shrek
with a distinct Scottish broge. Myer’s
Shrek, though ugly in appearance, can’t
help but be loved by the audience.

Eddie Murphy steals the show as
Shrek’s donkey sidekick. Murphy’s char-
acter can’t ever seem to shut up, but the
words that come out of his mouth always
seem amusing. John Lithgow is also
amusing as the fiendish Lord Farquaad.

Shrek is worth seeing just for the so-
phistication of it’s computer animation.
Shrek’s animated characters and scen-

Congratulations

 

   

We look forward to being
a part of your future. .

LEGG Investment

MASON Banking

www.leggmason.com
Member NYSE, Inc. - Member SIPC

Philadelphia

1735 Market Street
10th Floor
215-496-8300

A n€l,,rCuiahi I 

Mellon Bank Center

ery are far and above anything ever seen
before. Shrek’s animation and special ef-
fects seem amazing to watch.

As much as I enjoyed this film I was
disappointed with a few of its shortcom-
ings. Shrek seems too simplistic at
points, presenting motives and charac-
ters with little to do but fill up space.
Much of the comedy in Shrek is based
on bad puns or double meaning which at
times made you groan more than laugh.

I was also dissapointed that the cre-
ators of Shrek made the usually hillarious
Mike Myers a straight man. It seemed he
was there only to foil the hilarious com-
ments of Eddie Murphy. ’

Although I had some problems with
Shrek, I do think it is worth seeing once.
Eddie Murphy makes the film watchable
through his Outrageous humor.

Refences to other films dotted within
Shrek make it worthwhile. An extended
parody of professional wrestling had me
rolling in the aisles. -

Although Shrek was made to appeal
to children, much of its humor and plot
is geared towards adults. Overall, Shrek,
is worth seeing, if only for its simple mes-
sages and witty charm.

Reston, VA
12021 Sunset Hills Rd.
Suite 100
703-345-1150

 

Photo Cortesy f IMDb.cm
competes with the evil Lord Farquaad, John Lithgow, for

 

PAGE 4

Watson wins Male Athlete of the Year

of the Year, for example. Although wrestling junior Ezra Morse

has the opportunity to make a big play,” running backs
coach Gene McCabe said of the 5-foot-6, 175-pound Geor-
gian. “Because he is so versatile — he can run, catch, and
block -— and he is so explosive, there is no question that he
is our most valuable player on offense and special teams.”

By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

Sometimes a journalist’s job can be quite simple.
Take the selection of this year’s Ring—tum Phi Male Athlete

and lacrosse senior Pope Hackney, among others, had terriﬁc
seasons for their respective teams, no one matched the perfor-
mance of Washington and Lee senior tailback Marc Watson.

“We know that anytime we put the ball in his hands, he

Watson’s numbers reﬂect McCabe’s talent assessment.

The senior, who has one more year of eligibility remaining
due to a redshirt season in 1999, rushed for 1,325 yards on
6.0 per carry, scoring 12 touchdowns on the ground. In
addition, he averaged 28.8 yards per kickoff return and
caught 26 passes for 205 yards out of the backﬁeld.

Then there are the records: all-purpose and rushing

yards in a game, rushing yards in a season, all-purpose
yards in a career — just to name a few.

Watson, however, modestly disagrees with McCabe’s

assertion.

“To be honest, I really don’t consider myself a go—to

guy,” Watson said. “There is a lot of talent on the offensive

Borges return

By Ian R. Mcllroy

SPORTS WRITER

 

Senior women’s lacrosse attacker Liz Borges has been

named Ring-tum Phi Female Athlete of the Year.

In her final season, Borges led
Washington and Lee’s women’s la-
crosse team in goals with 45 and total
points with 59. She also led the team
with 98 shots and has collected 48
ground balls.

Despite taking a year off, this Divi-
sion lll All-American competitor has
racked up 105 goals and 41 assists for a
total of 146 points in her collegiate ca-
reer, which is fourth all-time at W&L.

For these feats, Borges has won numerous distinc-
tions. A week ago, she earned second-tearn All-American
honors from the Brine/Intercollegiate Women’s Lacrosse

Borges

Marcoux, Wheeler tabbed as outstanding freshmen

teams,” said Jan Hathorn, who
coached both players this year.
“Fontaine came to us with a history
of scoring goals, and Lee saw the need
to help us to score goals and stepped
up her game to do so.”

Despite the apparent offensive
prowess of the two freshmen, neither
one will acknowledge that she brings
anything extraordinary to her team.

“Soccer is a game where every
player is important, and a breakdown
anywhere on the ﬁeld can cost a goal,”
Marcoux said. “While the job of the
forwards is to get a ball in the goal,
that can only happen if the midfield
distributes to us, and that can only
happen if the defense clears the ball

Ring-tum Phi File Photo
IMMEDIATE CONTRIBUTION. Forward Fontaine
Marcoux led the Generals to the ODAC title
game with team highs in goals (14) and assists
(nine) as a freshman.

Proko advances to

By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

Washington and Lee sophomore Erika Proko advanced
to the NCAA Division III Women’s Tennis Individual
Championships in San Antonio on May 21-22, receiving
All-America status in singles competition.

Proko upset Pomona-Pitzer’s Sheree Schwartz, the
toumament’s sixth seed, 7-5, 6-2 in the opening round on
May 21. The sophomore then knocked off Amherst’s
Stephanie Fong 6-4, 6-2.

Elena Blanina of Methodist eliminated Proko in the
quarterﬁnals with a 6-4, 6-2 victory on May 22.

Junior Melissa Hatley fell in the first round of the tour-
nament, dropping a 7-5, 6-2 decision to Denison’s Lauren
Gerlach. Hatley and Proko lost in the opening round of
doubles competition to Trinity’s Lizzie Yasser and Abbe
Ulrich by a score of 6-2, 6-2.

Women’s lax players grab honors

Junior defender Eloise Priest and senior attacker Liz Borges
were named to the 2001 Brine/Intercollegiate Women’s La-
crosse Coaches Association All-American team.

S

    

Ring-tum Phi Fil Photo
CAT AND MOUSE GAME. Senior tailback Marc
Watson left several defenders playing catch-
up, including Sewanee’s Brian Tyler.

side of the ball, so no one has to carry a go—to guy label.

“I feel that I contributed to the team a decent amount
this year, but either of the other two running backs (sopho-
mores Dyllan Rankin and Chris Sullivan) 1 rotate with
would be able to do the same if they had the opportunities
I had last year.”

For now, though, Watson is the one getting the call in
the huddle. McCabe grants that Old Dominion Athletic
Conference foes know that Watson is going to get the

Coaches Association by leading W&L’s offense, which
ranked 19th in Division III in scoring.

Earlier this year, Borges earned First Team All-Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference and All-South honors and
landed a spot on the ODAC All—Toumament Team after
firing in two goals during a 6-2 victory over Lynchburg in
the ODAC Championship.

In addition, she was named ODAC Player of the Week
twice as well as being selected as Division III National
Player of the Week for the week of March 19.

Whether in practice or a game, Borges was the perfect
team player.

“The lacrosse team will miss Liz’s work ethic and
passion for the game,” women’s lacrosse coach Jan
Hathorn said, “Liz is a dream to coach, because she
knew how much she loved the game and she wanted

to be a part of the team regardless of her role on the
ﬁeld.

“Very unselﬁsh and very much a leader. .. she is a won-
derful young lady.”

By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

For most athletes at the collegiate
level, the freshman year is one of de-
velopment and familiarization with the
ins and outs of a particular program.

Someone for-
got to inform
Washington and
Lee freshmen
FontaineMarcoux
and Lee Wheeler
of the women’s
soccer and la-
crosse teams, re- " ‘
spectively, who Wheeler
have been selected as the Ring-tum Phi
Freshman Athletes of the Year.

Marcoux led the Generals on the
soccer ﬁeld with 14 goals and nine
assists on a team that advanced to
the Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence championship game. Wheeler,
meanwhile, was second on the la-
crosse team with 35 goals and third
with 46 total points for the ODAC
champions.

“Both of these ﬁne people offered
a scoring punch for their respective

    

out of the back.”

fensive weapon.

SOIL

In addition, Priest and freshman goalie Joanna Perini
were named to the USLacrosse All-American squad, and
Priest was selected to the 360Lacrosse.com All-America
team. Priest was named to the second team on both, while
Perini was an honorable mention selection.

Priest became the seventh General in school history to
be named to the first team after leading a defense that
yielded just 6.09 goals per game. Borges led W&L on the
offensive end with 45 goals and 14 assists. Perini posted a
goals—against average of 6.05 in 2001, fourth-best in Divi-
sion III, and a save percentage of .633, good for seventh.

Three W&L seniors
selected to play in all-star contest

Three W&Limen’s lacrosse players have been selected
for the North-South All-Star game, held at Rensselaer
Polytechnical Institute in Troy, N.Y., on June 9.

Midﬁelder and Old Dominion Athletic Conference
Player of the Year Pope Hackney, attackman Matt Dugan,
and goalie Wes Hays, all seniors, were selected to partici-
pate.

W&L was ranked No. 3 in the ﬁnal USILA Division IH
poll, ﬁnishing the season with a 14-1 record.

Playing on the defensive wing,
Wheeler wasn’t expected to post
such hefty offensive numbers in 2001.
However, she took on the role of a
goal scorer when it became necessary
that the Generals needed another of-

The Baltimore native feels that
W&L’s unanticipated success this
year was the result of a chemistry
that developed throughout the sea-

@112 itttng-tum ilﬂlii

PORTS

ball, but he believes that the Generals’ offense is balanced
enough to make a defense pay for focusing on the tailback.

“Any team in our conference knows they have to stop
our running attack to be successful,” McCabe said. “For-
tunately, we have some other players in the offense who
are very capable of making plays, which will help take
some of the pressure off of Marc.”

On this point, Watson can agree with his coach. Fur-

thermore, he believes that the rest of the offense can de-

velop quietly around its star attraction.

“Next year, I would have to say the most important
contribution the running backs can make to the offense
is to be a constant threat,” Watson said. “This will be
signiﬁcant, as we have a young quarterback who will be
relying on an experienced backfield to take the pressure
off of him.”

During the spring, Watson competed with the track
and ﬁeld team, narrowly failing to qualify for the NCAA
Division III Championships in the 100-meter dash. How-
ever, Watson and the Generals, who started 4-0 in 2000
but ﬁnished the season 5-5, are hungry to return to the
gridiron in the fall.

“There is no question that dropping those last ﬁve out
of six was disappointing,” said Watson, again deferring
credit to his teammates. “However, I do feel that it has
motivated the returning players to get better, and they
have responded this offseason by working very hard in
the weight room and on the track.”

s from year off to lead W&L

Playing lacrosse at Washington and Lee has, according
to Borges, “meant more to me than I ever thought it would.
It has taught me the value of hard work and teamwor 

Borges credits her coaches and teammates for her col-
legiate success.

“We all push each other to play at our best,” Borges said.

In her three years on the lacrosse team, Borges remains
proudest of the team’s two ODAC championships and
subsequent national tournament bids. More importantly,
she has no regrets about her lacrosse career.

“Obviously, it would have been nice to play all four
years instead of taking a year off,” Borges said. “But I
needed to take the year off to focus on academics’, and I
think I made the right decision.”

A psychology and pre-med double major with a 3.42 GPA,
Borges plans to go to medical school. Currently on the waiting
lists at the medical colleges of Virginia, Johns Hopkins, Loyola,
and Maryland, she hopes to gain admittance very soon.

In her future endeavors, the Ring-tum Phi sports staff
wishes her all the best.

 

“The chemistry on the team got
better every game we played,”
Wheeler said. “I don’t think I con-
tributed more than any other person
on this team. Each individual mem-
ber brought something different and
equally important to the team.”

Wheeler’s goal scoring came in
handy in the ODAC Tournament in
late April. She scored 12 goals in four
games to lead the Generals to wins
over Guilford, Roanoke and
Lynchburg, and an accompanying
NCAA Tournament berth.

“Before the tournament began, I
watched a lot of our game tapes to
help me get prepared,” Wheeler said.
“Any goals I scored were just a part
of an entire team effort.”

Although neither Marcoux nor
Wheeler will take credit for her accom-

plishments on the ﬁeld, Hathorn mar-
vels at the possibilities for the pair in
the future.

“The greatest part of coaching
them was that they are just freshmen,”
Hathorn said. “The prospect of where

before the end of their careers is very
exciting, and it’s fun to be around
such great potential.”

Men’s lacrosse receives seven
360Lacrosse.com selections

W&L was well represented on the 360Lacrosse.com
Division III All—America team, released on Wednesday.

Dugan and Hackney eamed first-team honors to lead a
list of seven Generals. Dugan scored 38 goals and 25 as-
sists to lead W&L, setting a school and ODAC record for
290 career points in the process. Hackney scored 50 points,
including 37 goals, on the season.

Hays and senior defenseman Pete Iwancio claimed sec-
ond—team recognition. Senior midﬁelder Bernie Norton re-
ceived third-team honors, and sophomore midﬁelder Tom
Melanson and junior defenseman Eric Kontargyris were
named honorable mention.

Hays led Division III with a 4.91 goals—against aver-
age, also finishing 17th with a .647 save percentage.
Norton scored 24 goals and 18 assists in 2001. Melanson
contributed just 14 points, but won 197 of his 268
faceoffs.

In addition to Hays, Iwancio and Kontargyris helped
lead a tough defense for W&L. The Generals allowed just
4.87 goals per game for the season, the best team average

in Division HI.

they will be and what they can achieve 1

 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
  

MAY 29, 2001

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  

 
  
  
 
  
   
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
   
 
  
  
   
 
  

   
  
  
 
 
  
 
  

   

 
 
 
 
  

  

 
   

  

 
  

  

 
   
 
  
 
   
 

national quarterﬁnals, earns All-America singles honors

Borges, Proko warrant Verizon
Academic All-District recognition

Borges and Proko were named to the 2001 Verizon
Women’s College Division Spring Academic All-District

Ill squad, an honor voted on by members of the Collegiate .

Sports Information Directors of America.

Borges, a double major in pre-med and psychology,
posted a 3.42 grade point average. Proko amassed a 3.69
GPA while majoring in neuroscience.

Both players were second—team selections from a field ’
of 16 schools across the Southeast.

Sigler named to second

team of All-South Region squad 4’

Senior pitcher David Sigler was selected to the Ameri- "

can Baseball Coaches Association/Rawlings Division IH
All-South Region Team, released May 22.

Sigler compiled a 6-2 record with a 2.86 ERA in 2001,
working 66 innings and striking out 48 batters. The senior

completed seven of his nine starts as he helped W&L win ;,

a school—record 23 games.

 

ﬂ

A 37.756‘

 

JAMES   

  

  

‘“f5-’.'’ 1

 

 

 

 

 

 

     
 

 

 . t 3'” .. 
{<6 5 Z.  “"’f‘f‘.’.‘f,’.f.:_Z":, ;:,,.~-*~ ‘-;  wsmr ireeax
t‘.z,to‘¥.~~ . i       .
‘ '  4 * '  ‘aw

.. ‘ -I '1 ~   win, ..i .    v —,r   ~--t. L  .  ...., my s ‘ 2'  E   Pl'_\ll_ AI, 4.

'  Sl~’t”>R‘l‘5 I 5

i   .1. iii-m'i‘3 6

 24/’? 2

 Sf.I()E~1l:i£~3t. 5
l M   \‘i§Ri'_‘:l.\:;"x 24.45%: ‘ E .e.\.t:lc.-:~:mi', St:I{’i'lEL.\ilr‘»iE. 

b
— c oo expan s
A

i By MIKE AGNELLO “Aftersoine misgivings, ...Iamlo0lCing forward

I Assosisip Epnoii to making the mosst of our new space,”. he said. i
I 3. Peppers decided on the space in the Um-
Recent Commerce School expansion into the versity Center after consulting with former Presi-
University Center has forced three student organi- dent Elrod and University Architect Tom Contos.
i o zations and one university staff member to relocate. The University Center was an obvious choice
i Due to increases in the number of students because of its windows and bathroom access,
o taking C—School classes, two new classrooms Peppers said. The rooms are set up to resemble
t were added in the University Center. One class— C-School classrooms down to the smallest de-
 room will be in the old Mock Convention ofﬁce. tail. Both have large screens, computer-run pro-
‘ 3 The other will consist of space formerly occu- jectors for presentations and the same blue car-

pied by the Calyx, the university yearbook, and pet from the C-school.

e Director of Leadership Development Burr Datz. University Center Secretary Carol Calkins said
Datz moved across the hall to the old Ring-tum the two classrooms have created more traffic in
Phi ofﬁce. The Phi and the Calyx moved to the the building, as weH as abusier appointment sched-

V old Rockbridge Weekly office on the corner of ule. Several university organizations have already
Washington and Jefferson Streets. asked to book the roorris for evening meetings.

,, The C—School has experienced a dramatic “Classrooms get used more often than of-
growth in majors in the last five years. Currently, fices,” Calkins said.

s four of its ﬁve maj ors—management, economics, C-School expansion is not the only cause of of-
accounting, and politics—are also the four most ﬁce-shuﬂlingintheUniversityCenter. WLUR, recently
popular majors at Washington and Lee. Accord- made homeless by Reid Hall’s renovation, is moving

ﬂ ing to the 2000-2001 University Fact Book, nearly into the space formerly occupied by the Women’s

- 40 percent of students are C—school majors. Com— Center. This move will force the Trident to relocate.
‘ p merce School Dean Larry Peppers said he regret— Although the newspace is only a few yards away, it
ted taking space away from student organiza- will be about half the size of their current ofﬁce. Tri-

p tions, but that the expansion was necessary. dent Executive Editor Amanda McConnell said her

“We’ve been scheduling classes in other staff will begin the short move around Christmas.
- _ _ buildings for years,” Peppers said. “It comes The Trident, The Ring-tum Phi, WLUR and

5 I\,1,\Ry Gm/T/,eR;,,g.;,,,,, p/,,' down to students needing classroom space.” Mock Convention will all eventually have offices

RAISIN INTHE sum: APPROXM-\TE[.Y 1,000 or \‘(’&L’si:i<iim', smrr AND SIUDENIS BAKED BENFXIH AN $iir:cALnoRTln\iAsCumi.DHnrnmnrzid.\.\xnE.irDirsi\r>srimAtxiriiisi.msrir)oi<,DnsiREoF Calyx Editor Neal Willetts said he changed his in the new University Commons. The Commons

s ArinixioossirvoNriiEFiri\rl.itNDLI<r\cniELhi\i:isn’sC<im1itiioNFm«is5WhIr\rsmi;SFrr5. Br3r— ll-IEELEZL/UIH\£HIl_l.§.’THE ll/oR1DBnFoRE,i\oArm<]1*ii:s,iriiaiii1Rr>orAsE\ix-\'o1iiiEsmrs mind about mOVing Out Of the University Center. are tentatively set to open Fall 2003.

W&L ' ' m ' m m m
. continues its Fresh en housing proble sforce Jpperclass en to ove
BY MATTHEW MCDERMOTT ‘  
-t residential search . . .
horror lT\ CHIEF
V ' ' . .
Trustees hope to announce appointment byApr/I wtth the largest heshmeh class tn the
n _ _ _ _ University’s history, even upperclassmen are feel-
By MATI-IIEw MCDERMOIT been devised, which willbeforrnalized ing the housing Squeeze _
n EDITOR IN CHIEF at the Beard of Trustee meetmg 011 “We had to move the residents of the first ﬂoor of
Sept 25- Gaines (Residence Hall) to Woods Creek,” said As-
Ten days after former president By October, a Search and Screen— Sociate Dean of students Courtney Penn who over.
‘ John Elrod’s death, the Board of ing Committee, composed of trustees, saw housing this summer.
Trustees took the first step to select— professors, students, alumni and par- No one was denied a place in the Woods Creek 3 ,  _ H ;_i . ,
ing anew president by unanimously ents will gather the names and re- Apartments, heweven Space was reserved by not MARYGUY/THE Ri\c—miPH1
n electing Laurent Boetsch ’69 acting sumes of potential candidates. accepting law school applications afier the June 9 Ei~r)siii2Un+iz<i.iss\i+r<osrri;FRhs-hm()RrsrmxQ»Mnrninrmsr-YEAmu1MsrAmnrikrrism.ino\m1«snmnnmus
presldeflt of Washmgton and Lee By Ja““aI7* the Screening C°m‘ deadline. 496. By the end of the month, I knew we “were ‘freshmen.
UmV‘eTS1tY- mlltee W111 “anew llile hst efeandldates Penn estimates that perhaps two suites were ﬁne.” Penn was assisted in his assignments by
V W C to a group of ﬁnahsts’ Wh°Se names Saved for Ilpperclasslnen this Way. Besides moving freshmen into at1aditionallyupper— Bonnie Walker, secretary to the dean of fresh-
have great will be Submitted te the B°a1'd’5 This overﬂow was necessary because of the classmen dorm the second ﬂoor of Davis was given men and Isca King now currently night man-
0 0 n f i_ ' Trustee N Ominating Committee: made unprecedenced size of the class. over to men, the third ﬂoor of Baker to women. ager,of the Co-op. ’
‘ gene‘? In “P of eurrent and Past trustees and “Coming into the year, we thought we had 496 This was Penn’s first year doing freshmen as— “I was impressed with how everything got
i 3 T T Y SeVe1'31fae“1tY ’_nember5- _ _ freshmen,” said Penn. “We were able to place signments, atask normally reserved for the dean of done,” King said.
if i B o e t s c h, The Screening Committee will be
, ' w h o s e aided by the standing President Ad- '
k n o w l - visory Committee, according to Sur— Uri-TED  I l I R 
5 edge and face and Sessions. Members of that G   0
leadership faculty committee include Partlett, - -
v P I ,, C e , P,i,i,.,,,, Session,’ William,’ and Campus rad/o stat/on to reopen Jan 2001
W h" — M h ' ' ~ -
toiis 1:1? d L\LRrNrBorisoi‘69 Ev:hser}I3l::1l:hl:l:sf§:i:: l£\fIdf:e1:si:i BY LATRINA STOKES mg a Vldeo tape‘
‘ P ’ ’ ’ In dd’ ' , h ff b —
V‘ Lee On ﬁrm ACINGW-SIDN Suzanne Keen, Law Professor Brian STAFF WRITER iiovos d:1at\$E3Rtv:iis1t:ons:ii
g I _O u n  , _ , , Murchison’ Chemistry Professor While campus radio sta— ﬁomafull time director, whose
4 durmg thls time of transmon’ Sald Mlchael Pleva’ Polmcsj P’°feSS9’ tion WLUR—FM waits for new position was created this year.
J. Frank Surface, Rector of the Board Robert Strong and Spanish Associ— broadcasting lioonsos the din Ham-ngion was inv oiv C d
of Trustees. Boetsch joined the ate Professor Cec'le W t-S ttl . - ~ ’ -
' W&L faculty in 1976 from Middlebuiy Sessions arlid Siciifacfe :1lso 3/avieshwlll be glint‘ N0 Stu- wltdh Sporitis bimactliciast  as
, _ _ i _ en s ows, spo s, or news un ergra ua e, en ire
College. He served as associate of stressed that alumni input is impor- will be bioadoasi nniii Jnnn_ when the public relations of_
} the college from 1989-92, aschairof the tant, and would be a factor in com- my ﬁoo took over management
R Lan d fr ‘ ' ‘ _ - . . .
        
’ ' ’ ' forced the studio to relocate ment. .

Vdtfr 1996 tilhiA3 ‘t— " ' ‘— ~ - H -

11:2“ Om “n S "g appom  ::;ln‘:i°e:dem1° and admm to the University Center. The The format 1S not go-
. , ' antenna, which once sat on ing to change, but expect
¢ The Board also Conﬁrmed Once top the journalism depart— the quality to improve, ” he
Boetsch’s appointments of Phi— the presi— inoni was moved noni. the said
losophy Professor W. Lad Sessions dential fi- , - - ' -
p as Acting Dean of the College’ Dean n a 1 i S t S student pavilion and re- Professor Bob de Maria,
of the Wnnams School Larry Pep_ have been quires new approvalifrom the the previous manager, super-
. d pers as Acting Vice President for i n t 6 I _ Federal Communications vised the radio station in ad-
Academic Affairs and Politics Pro— v i e w e d C0 ssloni - dmol-1 to dlrectmg TV Rm-
‘ fessor Kenneth Ruscio as Acting the Nomi-’ f Althigugh  Ft:/I W111 diuctl0nH amiii teachmg
t t t t . ' '
A I School‘ Commit‘ some benefits in the down Other membersiof the
“Acting President Boetsch asked tee will dine ooinmnnnv ans nis o welcome
me (to be Acting Dean ofthe College) deliver its Lin a certain nsnooi Losi said because the radii;
F'd,Ih hhdb’ - ,. .. ’  . .
E: z:henw::keI:d0:idt saaifi ia egltoﬁ r e C odm LtRIty()PgpII:;zs,,m1Nc,vI<1:, there s a silver hmng. We can station is a commumty entity
Monda ,, Sessions Said y ﬁloenn 2: ' nmmrormmmmm take our time to really train the that serves the town as well as
. “Lid (Sessions) Larry (Pep- the Soar: freshmen,” said Brendan the college.

 

 

pers) and Ken (Ruscio) are excellent
and well—respected academic lead-
ers and will serve well in these vital
University positions,” said Boetsch.
“Their experience, talent and lead-

i ership will ensure a smooth transi-

tion as we look ahead to the return
of students and a new, exciting aca-
demic year.”

Until recently, an ad hoc faculty-
trustee planning group chaired by
Surface has been running the search
process. The planning group is made
up of three other trustees, Law
School Dean David Partlett and Phys-
ics Professor H. Thomas Williams, Jr.

According to a report jointly re-
leased by Surface and Sessions, 21 more
comprehensive search process has

of Trustees in March. The new
president’s appointment will be an-
nounced in April.

The Board will likely be assisted
by an independent academic execu-
tive search firm, Surface said. Inter-
views have begun with several firms.

“The University’s last search
upon the retirement of President
John Wilson drew an impressive ar-
ray of candidates that included col-
lege presidents and higher educa-
tion leaders from across the coun-
try,” Surface said.

“It is clear this search will attract
the highest—caliber candidates given
Washington and Lee’s stature as one

of the country’s best liberal arts col-.

leges and schools of law,” he said.

.\L\1THE\\" l\lt;Drii\1<rrr/ The R2’;/pm/1/I’/22'

WREO(El)2T}l[€§lHl.OFRllD HAM,H().\lE<7F"lHE}OLRMI]$\lSt}l(X)l,ESHRO[DFD\VTlH FINFSASlT.~W<f*\IISSll§l1»L\'Il-\l.lLF:\O\1\Tl<)N.

 

Harrington ‘O1, new director of
programming and on—air op-
erations.

New and returning
DJ’s will have more time to
learn how to use the equip-
ment and practice than in
previous years, Harrington
said.

“That in itself is going to
help,” said Ben Losi, one of
two student managers. “We’ll
find out who’s really interested
and dedicated enough to go
through the full training or
wait a semester.”

DJ’s could previously
broadcast on the air just
days after receiving 15 min-
utes of training and watch-

Losi said the staff ul-
timately hopes to see the
investment in new re-
sources become a solid
base for the studio to be
located in the University
Commons.

For now, WLUR is limited

to broadcasting on the
Internet with sports coverage.
It has also added syndicated
shows to be included in the
wider variety of prograrnrriing
for next term. (http://
wlur.wlu.edu)
A For more information
about working with WLUR,
students should attend
Thursday’s meeting at 7 p.m.,
location TBA.

 

 

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 10,2001



Our new ofﬁce

The Ring-tum Phi is moving on up. We’ve left
behind our humble attic room in the University
Center, trading it in for a six-room ofﬁce com-
plex on 31 Washington St.

Beneﬁcial though it may be, the move was not
voluntary. The Ernest Wrlliarns 11 School of Com-
merce (which since its inception has steadily, qui-
etly extended its inﬂuence) needed more space.
Not content with its midcarnpus, three- story temple
to capitalism, its leases in the Science Building, or
its stake in the Colonnade, it turned covetous eyes
to the top of the University Center. The ofﬁces of
the Ring-tum Phi, the Calyx, L.I.F.E., and Burr
Datz were swapped and shufﬂed: Datz and
L.I.F.E. ended up on the other side of the hall, the
Phi and Calyx were kicked off-campus.

At first our new office was nothing to look
at: the carpet was raggedy, the walls splotchy,
and the bathroom unspeakable. Insulation piled
the halls like drifts of new-fallen and leperous
snow. Habitat for Humanity could have built a

' new house with the planks, nails, and screws
that littered the basement.

That all changed with the help of some people
whom the Phi would like to thank. Heartfelt ap-
preciation goes to the Law Review, which donated
pro bono seven chairs, ﬁve desks and two book-
cases; to John White of University Computing,
who long in the afternoon could be found knee
deep in LAN cables; to the Reeves Center, who
let us cart off her choicest paintings; to Randolph
Hare, who still owes us blinds for the front win-
dow; and most of all to Carol Calkins, a pillar of

strength.
Our new look

Everyone except freshmen may notice that
there’s something different about this week’s
Phi. True, the top-quality reporting and
photography are still the same, a welcome lift
for the working man at the end of a hard
Monday. But the layout has been significantly
altered, which calls for some explanation.

The most noticable chance is our abandonment
of the venerable Old English ﬂag font. This was
not due to a callous disregard of the Phi’s rich
104-year history. Rather, we recognize that the
look of the school paper has changed with the
decades, reﬂecting the aesthetics of the times it
publishes in. There is nothing unique about the
Phi’s old mast: nearly half of all American papers
use Old English. In Lexington itself, the Calyx
and the Cadet—our yearbook and VMI’s
newspaper~—— also use the same look.

All other changes have been motivated by
the desire to have a cleaner, lighter page. Bylines’
boxes have been removed, and an extra talkback
box added. A more signiﬁcant addition is the staff
editorial box, which was dropped for a year but
now returns to inform the campus on sundry
matters. An alternate headline font and sports
stat box are also new features of the paper.

Though well aware of the legacy of former
executive editors Emily Barnes and Stephanie
Bianco, whose work cemented the Phi’s
position as the best laid-out publication on
campus, we seek to improve again.

TEE RING-Torr Pro

PINIONS  

BREIT T. KIRWAN
OPINIONS EDIIOR

EMAIL r<1RvrANB@wtuEDU

Run, RevrenSha1pton, run

Rev. Al Sharpton of Brooklyn, New
York, recently armounced his decision
to form an exploratory cormnittee to
examine his chances of gaining the
Democratic nomination for President
in 2004.

Following his release from prison
on the Puerto Rican island of Vieques,
Sharpton stated that this committee
would convene in the fall while he
travels to ten cities on a “Freedom
Ride” bus tour. Conservatives should
sincerely hope that this committee,
lead by Harvard’s Comel West, gives
Rev. Al the go-ahead to run.

It would be ridiculous to expect the
rotund Reverend actually to win the
nomination, but two other scenarios
bode well for eight years of W. After
losing the nomination, Sharpton could
decide not to run or to continue as an
independent. Should he decide‘ to end
his quest for the top spot, the follow-
ing scenario will play out.

The millions who supported
Sharpton, mostly blacks, will be terri-
bly disenchanted. While still rela-
tively unknown nationwide, he enjoys
immense support in New York. He had
once nearly forced a run—off in the race
for Democratic nominee for New York
City Mayor. His plarmed bus tour and
a serious run at the nomination may
gain him millions of supporters. He
claims that his presidential bid is mo-
tivated by the Democratic party’s fail-
ure to deal with the inequities in voter
access and outright disenfranchise-
ment that came

  

COUIUESY OF AHO0.

HEY, HEY,HEY:Hor+mrr,REv.AI.SHARPrr)N\urr.RLr<K)RPREsrDExT.t\i)DE11\rJ1.tr\UrrrHt\r(:roRYioPRrsrDBwTBLsrt

represent the very things that the Rev-
erend dislikes in the party. Moreover,
a huge black turnout was crucial to
making the past election as close as it
was in many key states, with Florida
being just one example. If black tum-
out is hurt by Rev. Al’s failed run, the
Democratic nominee will ﬁnd it very
difficult to assemble a majority.

S h o u l d

to light during
the Florida
post-election
mess. He also
cites the Democrats’ move toward the
center and away from policies that
help blacks and other “oppressed”
minorities.

If Sharpton runs his campaign as
an attack on the mistakes of the Demo-
cratic party, as he has said he plans to
do, his supporters will not be moti-
vated to volunteer and vote for a John
Edwards or an Al Gore, two men who

°ght of the Aisle
Brett T. Kirwan ‘O4

Sharpton instead
decide to con-
tinue his bid for
the Presidency
as an independent candidate, he will,
by splitting the black vote, take with
him millions of voters who would have
otherwise voted Democratic. Much
like Ralph Nader in the last election,
Sharpton would spoil the chances of
the Democratic nominee. A Democrat
simply cannot win a national election
without near unanimous support from
blacks. Additionally, an egomaniac

such as Sharpton is unlikely to give
up his campaign for the good of the
party, especially after running a cam-
paign which criticized it. He is pro-
pelled by a desire to occupy the power
vacuum created when Jesse Jackson
was hurt by marital and funding scan-
dals. He saw how Jackson’s presiden-
tial run catapulted him to instant, but
sustained, national fame and he wants
to gain similar stature.

Unfortunately for Rev. Al and his
White House dreams, he is now al-
most a caricature of himself, growing
to be grossly overweight and leading
idiotic crusades, such as the one
which sought to reinstate a Euclid,
Ohio, girl expelled for performing fella-
tio on fellow students in a school
stairwell. Sharpton can do no good
for the Democratic party, but, should
he indeed run, will do good for
America by helping to ensure a sec-
ond term for President Bush.

 

THE  

Editor-in-chief MatthewMcDermot1
Associate Editor Mike Agnello
News Editor Alison Trinidad
Opinions Editor BrettT.Kirwan
W&Life Editor Amy Blevins
Sports Editor 2 Jeremy Franklin
Asst. Sports Editor Dave Crowell
Layout Editor Katie Howell
Photo Editor MaryGuy
Business Manager Paul Seifert
Circulation Director Charlie Tonelli

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editor-in-chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be in the University
Center, by 5 pm on Friday to appear in the following week’s
edition. The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit subn1is-
sions for content and length. Letters and colurrms do not
reﬂect the opinion of Me Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi.wlu.edu

Annual Subscription Rate: $30

Political centrism is cowardice

Fear of the extraordinary, lack of conviction leads to fascism, genocide

The ignorance and cowardice of this nation is embod-
ied in political centrism. Political centrists are among the
most arrogant and smug groups in this land. They smite
ideologues, Right, socialist, and libertarian, with labels of
“extremism,” which is simply to say, “abnormality,” that
supposedly make them unﬁt for power. These feeble people
fear all that is extraordinary, from re-

ogy to retain it. Bill Clinton, the Tammany political ma-
chine, and the Italian Christian Democrats are clear ex-
amples of this phenomenon.

My ﬁnal and most aggressive refutation of centrism is
that it becomes a vehicle of pride that blinds its believers,
through arrogance, to the great injustices that they actu-

ally support. As pragmatists, they mock

ligious conviction to patriotism, from
a zeal for social justice to moralism.

The idea of political “centrism”
is anyway a temporary illusion,
lacking permanence in the domains
of time and location. By nature, a “centrist” means some-
one who poses no threat to the essential power struc-
ture of the system and who accepts the broad ideologi-
cal line of the regime. For example, acentrist in modern
America believes in the modern Constitution, checks and
balances, a strong imperial military, an active (socially)
liberal judiciary, regulated market capitalism, and mini-
mal social welfare.

However, a centrist in early America would have hated
the idea of a peacetime army or an anti-religious judiciary
and would not understand centralized capitalism or wel-
fare. Likewise, a “centrist” position within the Politburo
of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union or of China
would obviously embrace quite different positions from a
“centrist” at the Court of Versailles. Hitler was even a
centrist in Nazi Germany who eliminated reactionary—mon—
archist and anti-capitalist elements. A centrist is neces-
sarily one who is beholden and resigned to the powers
that be.

Yet precisely because of this great resignation, often
driven by a rationalist—materialist ethic, “centrists” who
take power through centrism (as opposed to becoming a
centrist within a new system) are most likely to plunder
the nation through corruption. Lacking all principles, their
road to high office is marked by deal-making with political
machines.

Such moderate tyrants enrich themselves through their
high office while appealing to the peoples’ fear of ideol-

TALKEAc1<:

 

 

“My family.”
-Tomoko Nagawa ‘OS

The Zealot

Thomas Srnitherman‘O4

 

“Family and food.”
-Prenab Singh ‘05

all those who do not simply accept the
way things are as the natural result of
historical progress. Centrists are dia-
lectical materialists who also seem to
believe in the “end of history.” Out of
a desire to be respectable, centrists will support whatever
the political elites decide.

Eventually, history judges and condemns them for these
mistakes. And believe me, they are still occurring. Igno-
rant people do not notice the tragedies they support be-
cause they wish to understand the present as they have
been taught history.

In other words, they have never been told that all evil,
selﬁsh, and imperialistic missions have justiﬁed themselves
on “humanitarian” emotions. Nobody says, “I support
immorality. I am pursuing this policy so that the rich have
more money. I want to bomb Serbia so that we can install
a puppet government and extend our military domination
of Eastern Europe.”

Centrists like to justify the present by pointing out the
past (Hitler killed 15 million, Stalin 30, Mao 50, the Crusades
. . . . ) in order to appear morally superior. They do not care
to think of the 1 1 million (primarily of hunger) who die due
to world economic inequality induced by globalization or
of the 35 million abortions in America in 28 years.

Although most regular people who call themselves
“moderate” may hold a host of different views that may
not seem consistent or even centrist, and indeed such
people sometimes adopt the term out of ignorance or apo-
litical leanings, the aforementioned qualities of the “cen—
trist” is true for educated people. The empty cloak of the
centrist is smeared with blood and history will judge him
accordingly for his cowardice.

 

“Familiarity.”
—Emily Vander Schaaf ‘O5

 

‘Nothing.”

—Francisco Mejia ‘05

PAGE 3

EC and SJC should
consider reforms

In 1787, Philadelphia was abuzz as delegates from
all of the United States convened with the Vision of
founding a new, more perfect government for its citi-
zens. When all was said and done, the new govem-
ment was founded on three distinct branches, tied
together with a unique system of checks and bal-
ances. Now, over two hundred years later, the Con-
stitution of 1787 still governs with fairness and bal-
ance.

At W&L, however, we ignore the example set by
our Constitution’s Founding Fathers and have a stu-
dent government that breaks up the duties of the
three branches between two separate bodies. Since
the Honor System, our biggest means of dictating
s t u d e n t
Common Sense Policy’ is

subject to re-

onathari Wortham ‘04 view this

year, we
should use this opportunity to change the way our
student government operates. There are several prob-
lems with our system of student government that, if
addressed, could maximize efficiency, promote more
student involvement, and decrease allegations of elit-
ism and bias without sacrificing tradition.

Since the honor system is the only rule we have
at W&L, a full legislative branch similar to Congress
would be unnecessary. Nonetheless, some univer-
sity policy is regulated through the distribution of
the student activity fees.

The current system of having the Executive Com-
mittee hold budgetary hearings and distribute money
based on these hearings could be improved by cre-
ating a Student Activities Fee Committee. I propose
having ten seats on this committee, of which at least
seven seats could be appointed by the EC. This
committee’s only function would be to research the
groups asking for money and to evaluate the poten-
tial benefit to the W&L community of appropriating
money to these groups.

Separation of this function from the EC would al-
low the EC members to focus on their other duties,
while this new committee does all of the work. When
the university gives away its coveted Honor Schol-

   

arships, it does a thorough investigation of the stu- -

dents’ records. A dedicated committee would give
us an advantage in this similar process.

Our student government could also be made more
effective through an enlargement of the number of

people .on the EC and SJ C. This year, almost ﬁve hun- ,

dred freshmen entered the university. Many analysts
expect the trend to continue, as the slumping economy
causes many to enter college, instead of pursuing a
job in the technology industry, for example.

Being at a small college, we have the unique op-
portunity to encompass between 1 and 2% of our
student body in the student government, and Ibe-
lieve we should take advantage of it. The EC and SJC
should be composed of at least twenty-one students
each. This would give more people an opportunity
to be involved in student government, which will
make it stronger and more inﬂuential.

Also, accusations of unfairness will dissipate, be-
cause a larger number of seats will give non-Greek
affiliated students more of a chance of being elected.
The percentage of non-Greek affiliated students in-
volved in many activities is anemic and ought to be
increased by policies such as this one.

Although our Honor System is unique in that it
has no set rules, some rules need to be set in order to

insure consistency and fairness. The fact that the ‘

current Honor System is pliable as times change (and
thus values change) is very good; however, lying,
cheating, stealing, and batteryvwill never be honor-
able. Why not build a clause in the honor system
that says something along the lines of: “If the EC or
SJC finds one guilty of this, he will be expelled.”
This clause would strengthen the foundation of our
rules and encourage compliance. Students would be
respectful of the rules, without the residual fear that
arises as a result of the annual Lee Chapel Honor
System Orientation speech. This would also stream-
line the EC/SJ C process, as they would only be asked
to determine whether the person in question per-
formed the act of which he was accused.

Implementation of these strategies would un-
doubtedly be a good thing for student government
here at Washington and Lee. These policies would
give student government a more representative tone
as it performed tasks more efficiently.

Also, the element of tradition would be retained as
the distinguishing single-sanction clause is strength-
ened by one of these new strategies. I encourage the
committee that will evaluate the Honor System to exarn—
ine its implementation as well and urge it to consider
these strategies.

Freshmen, what do ou miss most about home?

 

“Space.”
—Anne Tompkins ‘O5

 

  

at

 

MONDAY, SEPFEMBER 10, 2001

Otnxtthns

Hands off the Alaskan oil

On Thursday, August 2, 2001, the
House of Representatives approved

_ legislation that is a cause for great

concern. We’re talking about the kind
of thing that makes you say, “Stop
the world, please; I’d like to get of .”
I’m referring to the Bush
administration’s Energy Bill.

The bill was considered a triumph
by the current Republican Com-
mander— in— Chief because he believes
that drilling in Alaska’s Arctic National
Wﬂdlife Refuge is somehow important
to the nation’s energy needs. The truth
of the matter is that it is believed the
reserve will provide a supply of oil that
would last a mere six months. Does this
justify ripping up an area of the refuge
the size of South Carolina? Further-
more, this oil shouldn’t be available for
another 10 years. Clearly, this does
nothing to alleviate the current prob-
lem. Meanwhile, White House Energy
Secretary Spencer Abraham praised the
House’s actions “a tremendous victory
for America. . . an important step toward
meeting our long—term energy needs
and reducing our dependence on for-
eign sources of energy.” Riddle me this,
Secretary Abraham. How does a six-
month supply of a non-renewable en-
ergy source fulfill a long-term energy
need?

Here are a few more details about
this bill that have me a bit puzzled.
The bill in its entirety is an amalgam
of four bills produced by eight sepa-
rate House committees that will pro-
vide almost $27 million in tax breaks
over the next ten years for the “devel-
opment of energy sources, to be al-
lotted to the coal, gas, oil and nuclear
industries.” Keep
in mind that many
energy compa-
nies dipped into
their pockets to
fund goodold
George’s dodgy trip to the White
House. Furthermore, the bill is a prod-
uct of a three-month Cabinet level
study led by Vice President Dick
Cheney. Cheney conferred with vari-
ous interest groups to form the bill,
but, curiously, the White House con-
tinually refuses to name which groups
helped to draw up the bill. Could it
possibly be the same ones beneﬁting
from the $27 million in tax breaks? I,
for one, would prefer to know who

u

last or CENTER
NICHOLAS RAMSEY ‘O3

exactly is deciding America’s energy
needs.

What’s more, Bush continues to
call his planning ﬁscally responsible,
stating alternative energy sources are
too costly. With $9 billion of Social
Security surplus needed to fund the
budget (numbers supported by both
Congressional Democrats and Re-
publicans, but still questioned by the
White House), Bush’s
ﬁscal responsibility is
quite questionable.
Meanwhile, European
nations are researching
alternative energy
sources like oceanic underwater tur-
bines. The President’s home state is
now one of six using wind energy.
Windmill technology is now so ad-
vanced that one can power 300
households with a cost of just two
dollars more per kilowatt—hour than
fossil fuels. That is a ten-year ﬁxed
rate. With the current state of fossil
fuel supplies, those prices can do
nothing but climb.

One last important point is the

C(‘iL1(IT<§1’OFY;
DowNwrnrDruurNG:BusH’sPrAi\1ioDRun.r<ntEAr\l\lVR\toniDnrrn1nr£1ANnsoxrJE\tnH RIGSS.L\1lIAR”IO'[HlSO.\E

harm done to the environment. Stud-
ies now indicate that the vegetation
density in the Alaskan Arctic has in-
creased in recent decades in more than
half of the areas monitored by scien-
tists. Ask any biology major and he
will tell you that this means the tem-
perature in the region is climbing. In
his energy speech given in St. Paul,
Minn., on May 17, 2001, the President
stated that “we can build roads of ice
that literally melt away when summer
comes and the drilling then stops to
protect wildlife.” The fact still remains
that you have disturbed a natural eco-
system for a marginal supply of fuel.
Alternative energy sources were a
mere mention in the speech, clustered
together in one sentence, before Bush
outlined the plan that will line the oily
pockets of fossil fuel companies. It all
seems more of a thank you note for
campaign donations than planning
for the successful and responsible
use of America’s energy potential.
The bill’s fate now rests in the hands
of the Senate, so for now we play the
waiting game.

 

IFC/Panhe//enic Press Release

“In memory of President Elrod, the Greek community of
Washington and Lee encourages the entire student body,
faculty and staff of the University to come to the first
alcohol-free tailgate. Enjoy free food and live music and
celebrate W&L athletics with the spirit and support Presi-
dent Elrod gave to our athletic teams.

“On Saturday the 15th at 11:30 a.m., come join this
age—old tradition of donning ties and sundresses and
congregating as a community. Experience W&L spirit at
its best. IFC President Quincy Springs says, “Go for the
basic reason of supporting your football team and stay
for the duration. We want to show support for our broth-
ers and sisters on the field by attending the athletic
events.

“We’1l see you all Saturday.”

Additionally, brunch will not be served in the Dining
Hall on Saturday morning, but will be available free of
charge to all students, including those without a meal.

Kappa Alpha wins awards

Washington and Lee’s Kappa Alpha, Alpha Chapter,
was recognized by its national organization as the “Most
Improved Chapter” at the Order’s National Convention
and Leadership Institute this summer in Savannah, Ga.
The chapter was recognized because of its dramatic im-
provement in all areas of operation over the past year.
Achievements cited include the chapter’s 2.98 overall
GPA, its $3000 donation to MDA, and its success in
recruiting.

The chapter was also recognized with the top ﬁnance
award for conducting outstanding ﬁnancial operations,
demonstrating a thorough understanding of every aspect
of chapter ﬁnances, and maintaining a working budget
throughout the year.

  

PAGE 3

Car accident ties up traffic

Just before 5:20 on Saturday afternoon a green Ford
Explorer driven by Fiji Mike Hodge ‘02 of Marietta, Ga.,
struck a black Subaru Forester driven by a Lynchburg
resident at the comer of Nelson and Jefferson Sts. Neither
driver, nor Hodge’s female passenger, was injured in the
collision. Traffic was delayed until wreckers could remove
the two vehicles.

W&L unveils Customs, the new
freshman orientation program

Customs, the new program, is designed to introduce
first-year students to different areas of campus life: study
abroad opportunities, library basics, community service,
diversity, student judiciary procedures and campus health.
Lasting six weeks, activities include a world bazaar at the
dining hall, a jazz concert, volunteer projects and several
ﬁlms.

“We’re trying to provide something other than orien-
tation,” said Dean of Freshman Dawn Watkins. “Customs
provides a fun way to connect with campus life.”

Prizes such as skydiving and snowboarding tickets are
being offered to encourage freshmen to attend the sched-
uled activities. Although the activities are open to the
entire campus community, only freshman are eligible to
win the prizes.

Freshmen who attend at least one program from each
category will be entered into the prize drawing, scheduled
for Thursday, October 18. Freshmen are asked to swipe
their university cards or sign in to record their attendance.

“As far as I can tell, (the freshmen) are excited,” said
Watkins. “Attendance has been fabulous.”

Participating organizations include the Student As-
sociation for International Learning (SAIL), the Minor-
ity Student Association (MSA), Lifestyle Information
for Everyone (LIFE), Project Horizon and Habitat for Hu-
manity.

Restaurant closing for renovation

City Steak and Subs, which is now under new manage-
ment, will be closed on Friday, Saturday and Sunday for
renovation. It is scheduled to reopen Monday.

Tuesday

2*

   

7:30 p.m.— International Perform-
ing Arts Series. Music from Venezu-
ela. Irene Farrera & Aquiles Baez. Lee

7:30 p.m.— Film Society. “Amores
Perros” (Mexico, 2000). Directed by
Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu. In Span-
ish with English subtitles. Rated R.
Troubadour Cinema.

Saturday

Hall of Fame Weekend.

7: 30 p.m.— Film Society. “Amores
Perros” (Mexico, 2000). Directed by

Chapel. Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu. In Span-
ish with English subtitles. Rated R.
Fﬁday Troubadour Cinema.
Hall of Fame Weekend_ 8 p.m.— Sonoklect. Ahmad Jamal.
Lenfest Center.

 

Tuestlav. sentemher 12. 2001
A 9:00 n.m.

 
  
  

Room 221 1

 

 

 

 

PAGE 4

THE. Ruse-*i‘iTt»i PET
&L1EE  

AMYBIEVINS
W&I.l1'-E EDHOR
EMAIEE EDU

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2001

Campus mourns loss of Elrod

Students, faculty, community to attend memorial service scheduled for Thursday, September 14 in honor of beloved former campus leader

  

FILE PHOTO / The Ring-i/M1 Phi
AT RIGHT-IN MEMORIAMI TEE [ATE ntEs1Di;\T AND Hrswirr. m.\\'rrtsE\tnH A srrDE.\T. Pkrsujevr El RODWAS l\‘i\‘O\V.\J IOR H15
C‘\Rii\GRElATK)i\YilPS\5(lllll<l|SSlL‘DE.\‘IS HEmm=DsrtDE\TsToHsH< >usErr>RDst\Ti1A\D\V;is.i(rT\smTntts~.\xr: ox carts
THEFiRoD’si~io\iE\vAsTiiEnA(£ ToRsrLDr.\TRErmio\s Kxoux FOR n1o\iDN;A Ho\iEroRARr;lciTs,TiiEl?TR(T)irT\1Eiiis
BEl30.\1EAPARl‘OFSTLDl~l\TllFE EutooAis>inDEsiR113rsiN\‘l&L’sAnrmcsLrr}ss. UsDat\EATH ErroD’s1EADi§niiEJ,\i0’&L\rAs
FIRSTNAMHDTO US. l\~’nrs t/:*WoRTD Rnoizfs IlSl'()FTOP .75 uermi . ARTS (I()llH;l§.

Five minutes with Dean Sessions
Acting Dean discusses new leadership role

BY MATTHEW MCDERMOTT

BY MIKE AGNELLO
Ass0c1ATE EDITOR

University President John Elrod
died on July 27 after a long bout with
cancer. Students, faculty,
administrators, and alumni praise
Elrod for his leadership and
character. ‘

Elrod leaves behind a legacy of
scholastic and professional
achievement. He served as President
of Washington and Lee and Dean of
the College from 1983 to 1995. In
addition to his accomplishments at
W&L, Elrod, a former philosophy
professor, was a noted scholar on the
phliosophical works of Hegel and

admiration of Elrod by attending his
July 29 funeral service in Lee Chapel.
Among those attending were Rev. Pat
Robertson ’50, Virginia Military
Institute Superintendent Josiah S.
Bunting HI, and University Rector J.
Frank Surface ’60.

Surface said he enjoyed working
with Elrod and admires his passion
for the university.

“We mark John Elrod’s death with
profound sadness,” Surface said, “and
we honor him by carrying out his wish
that Washington and Lee continually
strengthen its mission to fully
educating students in the principles of
honor, civility, and intellectual inquiry.”

Elrod perpetuated these

Kierkegaard. principles by carrying out his duties-.
Administrators ‘ _ In the last five

credit Elrod with ‘N0MATIERWH0liEWASWfIH,llEMADETT1E1\l years, the W&L

completing 1;H3[J~1~HEYW]3{EV[3RY]1(,1P0I(rAN-1~rIt()H1}‘y[” c a m pdu 3

W&L’s transition e x p a n e

from a declining IAUREMBOEISCH rapidly.

all - In ale ACTING PRESIDENT During

institution to an
academic powerhouse, begun while
Elrod was dean of the college and vice
-president for academic affairs.-
During his presidency, W&L
was first named among the top 25
liberal arts colleges in the country
by U.S. News & World Report, and
is currently ranked 12“‘.
Several university and
community leaders showed their

his tenure, Elrod
oversaw the contruction of sorority
houses and a parking garage.
Construction also began on the
University Commons, a new ﬁtness
center, and the renovation of Reid
Hall.

Dean of the College Laurent
Boetsch was named acting
president following Elrod’s death.
Philosophy Professor W. Lad

EDITOR IN CHIEF

Dean Sessions has been an active member
of campus life for three decades. Sessions,
a member of W&L faculty since I 971 is the
Chair of the Philosophy Department.He is
the University’s Jo and James Ballengee
250th anniversary professor

Sessions served as an associate dean of
the college from 1992 to 1995. Sessions
was acting Dean until Dean Boetsch’s
appointment in 1996.

Sessions holds a doctor of philosophy
degree from Yale, a masters degree from
Union Theological Seminary and a
bachelor ’s degree in English literature from
the University of Colorado at Boulder.

What impelled you to take up the
job? ~

As corny as it sounds, a sense of duty.
Self—iriterest (and maybe even prudence) lost
out to the call of the community. I want to do
the best I can for Washington and Lee in these
transitional times. This school is poised for

greatness, if we can sustain our momentum.

How long is your appointment?
I was asked to serve as acting dean of the
college for this academic year.

What do you hope to do while Dean?
I want to do my part in helping others keep
things running smoothly and well in the
College. I am particularly keen on
continuing to attract superb new teachers
(faculty searches) and in general
strengthening W&L’s profound
commitment to the liberal arts and sciences,
but there are too many detailed matters to
mention.

Are you eager to get back to
teaching, or are you considering
applying for the position fulltime?

I do miss teaching, though I have tried to
keep my student advisees (including six new
freshmen advisees) as a way of reminding
me about the central focus (student learning)
of this place. My crystal ball right now says

‘They are totally different, and have quite

.
ACENGDEAN
“back to teaching Fall 2002”.
Do you consider administrative work
as fulﬁlling as teaching?

different rewards and frustrations. I must say,
though, that committee meetings just don’t
measure up to the thrill of reading Immanuel
Kant.

  

Did

For the first time in 26 years there
know? were no students in the health center
during orientationweekend.

Sessions was named acting dean
of the college. Boetsch said he
most admired

said. Boetsch added that Elrod was a
joy to work with and to know on a
personal level.

“No matter who he was with, he
made them feel they were very
important to him . . . everybody was
his friend,” he said. “He had great
courage and decency.”

Sessions, who met Elrod in 1965
while they both attended Union
Theological Seminary in New York
City, said he has been grieving since
Elrod’s July 29 funeral. Sessions said
Elrod was an extraordinary husband
and father and a great man in addition
to being an excellent administrator.

“He was a kind, considerate
peacemaker . . . a role model in
character and self—discipline,”
Sessions said.

Student Executive Committee
President Rob Naftel ’02 worked
closely with Elrod on student
government issues. Naftel said he will
miss Elrod’s guidance.

  
    

PHOTO ILLUSTRATION BY MATTEW MCDRMOTT/The Ring-tz4r/2 Pin

“He always was gentle but strong.
He was wise in ways that you took him
for what he said .

Elrod for his “HEWASAK]ND’C0NSIDERA]EpEACHwAKER__ . . you trusted
passion for the  Naftel said. ,
.university. 'AR0[EM0DE‘INCHARACH;‘RANDSHF' E 1 r o d
“ H i s DISCIPLINE” displayed this -
greatest legacy is W. LAD SESSIONS ’ ‘strength by
his great vision keeping his good
for W&L’s ACTING DEAN’ or THE COLLEGE nature and
future,” Boetsch professional work

habits throughout his illness. In one of
his final public appearances, he spoke
to several thousand cancer survivors
at Lexington’s “Relay for Life” and
participated in the event. Elrod insisted
a positive attitude was essential for
dealing with his illness.

“I don’t think there has been a
single day I haven’t felt positive about
life,” Elrod said. “I can’t imagine
living with cancer without this
attitude,” Elrod said.

Elrod was buried in Stonewall
Jackson Cemetery on Nelson Street.
He is survived by his wife Mimi, their
sons Joshua and Adam, and two
grandchildren.

The university community
will gather in Lee Chapel on
Thursday from 12:00 to 1:30 pm.
to celebrate Elrod’s life and work.

Sessions, when asked if he had
anything else to say about Elrod,
managed only three words.

“We’ll miss him,” he said.

snc 111123 PUHOJV moN

WALK DOWN MEMORY LANE: W&L students walk across the new circle installed in the walk leading up to the Co-op. The
circle reads: “In memory of the magniﬁcent hilanthropic support of Henry H. andd Anne G. Woods 2001.”

 

*Position open to students of any major.

 

Does $money$ excite you?

Chances are the l?i.ng—eLun Phi Business
Office is the place for you.

MM

5 , §

¢,:..,$.,.,; V. 5,,.....§   WA! ,,,  fee?
§M°‘‘’,2»t{% : 2 . z.i,w,§
*-...,,.se.s§, Se. ,.,e>‘w,.i...t '3,,,.,-/ six ,

°”’ll&:X‘§

Are you interested in working
for one of the university’ s
finmt institutims?

Contact Paul Seifert at seifertp@wlu.edu
for more infonnation or call the Phi office at X4060.

I and. wil ling pro speti:
i:::us iness endeavors.

 

in

ii
at

is

 

9’ Invitational Saturday.

, points.

   

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2001

T.l.lE. RtNt;~Ti;M Fl--ii

  

jEitEi\rYtRA1\i<iiv
SPORTS EDITOR

EMAri_-rRANi<iiN_]@wiii.i3Dii

PORTS

W&L sets th for str ason

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

Washington and Lee volleyball coach Bryan Snyder
couldn’t have asked for a better weekend to open the 2001
season.

Snyder, entering his second year at the helm of the
Generals’ program, saw his team win three of four matches
in the W&L Invitational despite starting three freshmen
and adjusting to a new scoring system.

After breezing through two matches Friday, W&L
played two regional powers Saturday, knocking off Chris-
topher Newport in four games before dropping a four-
gaine match to Catholic.

“If we play as well the rest of the year as we played
against Christopher Newport today, we’ll have a great
season,” Snyder said. “Christopher Newport is better
than any team we beat last year. Catholic, with the ex-
ception of Emory, will be the toughest team we play all
year.

‘‘I’m very pleased with the potential that we have, and
I think we’re going to get better all year.”

First-year player Michelle Chastain was named to the
all-toumament team, while classmates Jennifer Lux and
Emily Wolﬁng played like anything but freshmen.

The Generals also got their first look at the new rally
scoring system. A point is awarded on each serve, and
games are won with 30 points instead of the traditional
15. Serves that hit the net and continue across are live
balls.

“It keeps the ﬂow of the game going, it makes it a lot more
exciting,” Snyder said. “It changes your strategy. If you get
behind later in the match, you have to play a little bit tougher;
if you’re ahead, you might have to play less aggressively.”

On Friday, W&L defeated St. Mary’s 30-25, 30-23,
30-27 and Shenandoah 30-24, 30-13, 30-18. Senior
middle blocker Lindsay Ruckert, also named to the all-

Field hockey oses
narrowly in 1st ever
varsity, ODAC game

FROM STAFF REPORTS

NORFOLK — The Washington and Lee ﬁeld hockey
team began their first season as a fully-sponsored var-
sity sport with a 2-1 defeat at the hands of Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference opponent Virginia Wesleyan.

The squad was upgraded to a full—tirne varsity sport last
December after competing under developrnental vaisity.sta—
tus. ‘ T

Wesleyan struck ﬁrst, scoring the only goal of the
first half at the 16: 15 mark. '

The Generals tied the match at the 48:28 mark when
sophomore Kelly Taffe scored an unassisted goal.

The game remained tied until Wesleyan’s Lindsay
Mike beat Deidra MacLeod for the game-winning goal
with less than ﬁve minutes left.

MacLeod made six saves on the afternoon.

The Generals return to conference action when they
travel to Hollins on Wednesday for a 4:30 p.m. match.

Generals open season with 2-2 tie

WASHINGTON — The men’s soccer team opened
their season by posting a 2-2 tie with non-conference
foe Catholic on Saturday.

The Generals found themselves in a quick hole when
Catholic scored just 2:30 into the game. After Dan Finn
scored for Catholic later in the first half, W&L needed
to ﬁght back from an early 2-0 deﬁcit.

Late in the first half, sophomore Jacob Stoehr scored
the first goal of the season for the Generals to cut the
lead in half. Senior Paul Wallace assisted on the goal.

The Generals pounded the Cardinals all day,
outshobting Catholic 27-6. W&L junior goalkeeper Tim
Foley made two saves on the day.

Another one of those shots ﬁnally found the net
when W&L senior forward Andrew Grimes scored near
the end of regulation off an assist from sophomore
Bret Grote.

The Generals host cross-town rival Vl\/II on Wednes-
day at 4 p.m. —

Duncan wins Va. Wesleyan Invitational

NORFOLK — Junior Burke Duncan led the women’s
cross country team to a fourth-place ﬁnish by winning
the Virginia Wesleyan Invitational with a time of 19:50 on
Saturday morning.

In W&L’s first meet of the year, Duncan was fol-
lowed by seniors Gretchen Tencza, who ﬁnished tenth
with a time of 21 :58, and Lucy Rankin, whose time of
22:48 was good for 21st place.

Eastern Mennonite won the team title with a total of
33 points. Roanoke (52 points) and Lynchburg (84) also
placed ahead of W&L, which ﬁnished with 92 points.

W&L men turn in second-place finish

NORFOLK — The Washington and Lee men’s cross
country team used a steady pace and a solid core of
runners in order to place second at the Virginia Wesleyan

The Generals ﬁnished with 70 points and followed
Roanoke, which won the team title with a total of 28

Sophomore Andy Schorr led the Generals with a
third—place individual ﬁnish, rumiing a time of 27 :32.
Junior Will Teichman ﬁnished in 29:03 to claim 12th
place and freshman teammate Steven Chambers fol-
lowed six seconds behind to take 13th.

Both cross country teams will compete in the Gen-
erals Invitational Saturday at 10 a.m.

MARY GLT/T/re Ring-tum PM

THE OLD AND THE NEW: (From left) Senior Leslie Fischbeck and freshmen Jennifer Lux and Michelle Chastain prepare to receive a serve from St. Mary’s in the
Generals’ 30-25, 30-23, 30-27 win Friday on day one of the W&L Invitational. The Generals opened the season by winning three straight matches before losing
in four games to Catholic. Chastain and senior Lindsay Ruckert were named to the all-tournament team.

tournament team, recorded 12 kills, three aces and six
digs against St. Mary’s. Lux contributed 37 assists
and seven digs.

The Generals beat Christopher Newport 30-23, 30-20,
21-30, 30- 1 8. Ruckert contributed 14 digs, 13 kills and four
aces, and Chastain had 12 digs and nine kills.

In W&L’s 24-30, 28-30, 30-21, 21-30 loss to Catholic,
Lux had 46 assists and 12 digs, and senior Leslie Fischbeck
tallied nine kills.

Snyder believes that the play of Lux is something that
the Generals didn’t have in 2000.

‘She’s learning everybody’s timing and tendencies, and
they’re trying to learn hers as well,” he said of Lux. “Last year, we
were very predictable. This year, Jennifer is good enough and
smart enough to move the ball all around and get all the offen-
sive players involved. She did an outstanding job all weeken .”

W&L plays Centre, LaGrange and Hollins in the Centre
Invitational Saturday.

Hornets handle Generals

Lynchburg resumes ODAC women’s soccer dominance with 4-1 win over W&L

BY DAVE CROWELL
Ass1sTANT SPORTS EDITOR

In last season’s Old Dominion
Athletic Conference championship,
the Lynchburg women’s soccer team
needed three overtime periods and
a deﬂected shot in order to win 2-1
and end Washington and Lee’s sea-
son.

This time around, the Hornets took
advantage of some mistakes by the
Generals and ensured a safe 4-1 vic-
tory Friday.

In Neil Cunningham’s W&L coach-
ing debut, the Generals fell behind early
when Lynchburg’s Nicole Wisniewski
placed a shot just out of the reach of
freshman goalie Emily Barker.

Neither team managed to score
again until the second half, when
Lynchburg’s Suzanne Weller scored
the game—winning goal in the 59th
minute. Weller also assisted on
Lynchburg’s third goal less than three
minutes later.

Lynchburg’s tight defense slowed
the General’s attack all day, limiting
the front line 10 only eight shots.

“I think our lack of experience
showed during some lapses in fo-
cus and mechanics,” Cunningham
said.

A number of freshmen impressed
Cunningham, including midfielder
Romney Wilson, who moved around
the ﬁeld and cleared the ball very well,
and forward Maggie Hope.

W&L avoided the shutout when
senior Kate Bidwell scored their only
goal with less than two minutes left
on an assist from sophomore Fontaine
Marcoux.

“I thought for 80 minutes it was
very even,” Cunningham said. “For
ten minutes, though, we lost our fo-

Football falls
hard to Hopkins

FROM STAFF REPORTS

BALTIMORE — Washington and Lee managed just
164 yards of total offense as Johns Hopkins handed
them a 34-3 season—opening loss Saturday.

Senior Marc Watson, the 2000 Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference Player of the Year, rushed for just 19
yards on 12 carries. Junior Chris Sullivan ran eight
times for 22 yards and caught two passes for 44 yards.

Sophomore Peter Dean, making his first start as
W&L’s quarterback, completed 14 of his 26 attempts
for 137 yards, but he also threw a pair of intercep-
tions.

Matthew Andrade’s 28-yard field goal and Adam
Cook’s three—yard TD run gave Hopkins a 10-0 half-
time lead.

Senior Brad Wiginton drilled a 35-yard field goal
with 9:40 left in the third quarter to put the Generals
within a touchdown. But another Andrade field goal
and three fourth quarter touchdowns put the game
away for Hopkins.

W&L meets Guilford in their home opener Saturday.

cus on defense, and you can’t do that
against Lynchburg.”

“You can get away with that
against most teams, but Lynchburg Macon fora4p.m.ODAC match.

 

MARY GLY The Ring-tum P/71

SEASON OPENER: Sophomore Meghan Hayde drills a goal kick in the Generals’ 4-1 loss to defending Old
Dominion Athletic Conference champion Lynchburg Friday at the Liberty Hall ﬁeld. W&L attempted just
eight shots against the Hornets, including senior Kate Bidwell’s late goal.

will make you pay.”
The Generals will return to action on
Tuesday, when they travel to Randolph-

: PAGE 5

SCOREBOARD

W&L INVITATIONAL

Champion: Catholic University
Most Valuable Player: Lindsey Sheppard, Christopher _Newport

All-Tournament Team

Lindsey Sheppard, Christopher Newport
Nina Richardson, Christopher Newport
Liz Carden, Catholic

Bridget Guetle, Catholic

Lindsay Ruckert, Washington and Lee
Michelle Chastain, Washington and Lee

Friday, Sept. 7

W&L defeated St. Mary’s 30-25, 30-23, 30-27

Christopher Newport defeated St. Mary’s 30-20, 30-22, 30-17
W&L defeatedshenandoah 30-24, 30-13, 30-18

Catholic defeated Shenandoah 30-17, 30-12, 30-18

Catholic defeated Christopher Newport 30-22, 30-23, 31-33, 30-25

Saturday, Sept. 8

W&L defeated Christopher Newport 30-23, 30-20, 21-30, 30-18

St. Mary’s defeated Shenandoah 21-30, 30-28, 30-21, 30-27

Christopher Newport defeated Shenandoah 3331, 30-16, 28-30, 28-30, 3015
Catholic defeated St. Mary’s 30-25, 30-13, 30-20

Catholic defeated W&L 30-24, 30-28, 21-30, 30-21

W&L SCHEDULE: SEPTEMBER 10-16

Tuesday, Sept. 11
Women's Soccer
W&L at Randolph-Macon, 4 p.m.

W&L vs. LaGrange, 2 p.m.
W&L vs. Hollins, 4 p.m.

Football

Wednesday, Sept 12 Guilford at W&L, 1 p.m.

Men’s Soccer
VMI at W&L, 4 p.m. Women's Soccer

W&L at Eastern Mennonite, 2 pm.

Field Hockey
W&L at Hollins, 4:30 p.m. Field Hockey

Randolph-Macon at W&L, 3 p.m.
Saturday, Sept. 15 ‘

Cross Country
W&L Invitational, 10 a.m.

Men’s Soccer
Averett atW&L, 3 p.m.

Volleyball (Centre Invitational)
W&L vs. Centre, 10 a.m.

I ODAC FOOTBALL GLANCE

Sept. 8 Results
Johns Hopkins 34, W&L 3
Bridgewater 49, Shenandoah 0

Riding
W&L at Radford, TBA

Ferrum vs. Emory & Henry

Sept. 15 Games

Catholic 28, Franklin & Marshall 7 Guilford at W&L
Guilford 28, Methodist 6 Bridgewater at Christopher
Hampden-Sydney 20, Gettysburg 14 Newport

Randolph-Macon 26, Christopher
Newport 10

Randolph-Macon at Denison
Emory & Henry at Sewanee

 

 

PAGE 6

  FALL

TIII; RlN('3«l‘UA'l PIII

PORTS

jI'«RI:«Iv1YFRAI\II<IIN
SPOKIS EDIIOR
FMAII: I=RAAI<IiI\I@wIDI3DII

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2001

Generals’ goal, plain and simple: return to top of ODAC

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

It’s been a long time since Washington and Lee took
home an Old Dominion Athletic Conference title, 1985 to
be exact.

But that’s not something that seventh-year coach Frank
Miriello and his Generals plan to live with for very much
longer.

“Our goal is first and foremost to get into position to
play for the conference title,” said Miriello, the 1996 ODAC
Coach of the Year. “Our last two conference games are
against Bridgewater and Emory and Henry, and they are
preseason picks to win the conference.

“Hopefully, we will take care of business early in the
season and be in position to contend at the end of the
season.” V

W&L returns two players who were arguably the
best on their respective units last year, fifth-year senior
running back Marc Watson and senior linebacker Jeff
Bahl. Watson set a school record with 1,325 yards rush-
ing and added 12 touchdowns in 2000, while Bahl led
the Generals with 108 tackles — 16 for a loss —— and five
sacks. ..

“Marc and Jeff bring excitement to the program,”
Miriello said. “Jeff is a captain and a role model for the
younger players in the program. He plays with a passion
for the game, he plays with intensity and enthusiasm.

“Marc can go to the house at any time. His ‘A—game’ is
as good, if not better, than any running back that has
played for the Generals.” .

Sophomore Peter Dean, a converted defensive back,
will handle quarterback duties after beating out classmate
Sean McGarvey in preseason practice. Junior Chris
Sullivan, one of a handful of players Miriello is expecting

to have a breakout season, will get the ball on handoffs
and through the air.

Bahl is not alone in the defensive front seven, as jun-
iors Matt Stavish and Andrew James and sophomore Ben
Krasnoff “possess good size and playmaking ability” at
the linebacker position, according to Miriello. Senior Jeff
Powell and sophomore Brian Becker will ﬂank sophomore
Jess Lipsey on the line.

“The strength of the defense lies in the front seven,”
he said. “Our defensive front three are as good as we have
had here in quite some time. The linebacker corps has
more speed than we have had in a number of years.”

But the Generals do have several question marks en-
tering 2001, namely in the secondary and on the offen-
sive line. Junior Mat Rapoza, a Second Team
D3football.com All-America selection for the now-de-
funct Swarthmore program in 2000, should provide im-
mediate help for the latter.

As for the secondary, senior cornerback Chris
Shortall and sophomore safety Lee Walker return. Jun-
ior Davis White, a pass—catching tight end in his first
two seasons in Lexington, has been moved to the other

. safety position.

“We are attempting to play with a little more speed on
the defensive side of the ball,” Miriello said. “Davis can
deﬁnitely help us.”

In addition to the Eagles and Wasps, Miriello believes
that the Generals must put forth a better performance
against teams such as Catholic and Harnpden—Sydney,
both of whom beat W&L last year.

Outside of the ODAC, the Generals are looking {br-
ward to most teams on the non-conference slate.

“We enjoy playing Johns Hopkins, Centre, Sewanee,
and in the past Swarthmore,” Miriello said. “Those insti-
tutions are somewhat similar to W&L based on the aca-

FILF. PH

FEATURE BACK: Fifth—year senior Marc Watson, shown here rushing for some of his school-record 1,325 yards in 2000, will look to lead the Generals
in their quest for their first Old Dominion Athletic Conference championship since 1985.

demic credentials for acceptance. They provide us with
somewhat of a ‘level playing ﬁeld,’ if you will.

“There is no opponent in the conference that pro-
vides us with a similar situation,” he added. “There-

fore, conference play is much more difficult week in
and week out. Our overall schedule demands that we
play our ‘A—game’ each and every Saturday. That is
not easy to do.” '

New coach doesn’t lower expectations for W&L in 2001

Women’s soccer team must replace 6 seniors and adjust to a new head coach after taking Lynchburg to 3 oveitimes in last year’s ODAC championship match

BY DAVE CROWELL
AssIsTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The Neil Cunningham era of
women’s soccer at Washington and
Lee begins this week, with high ex-
pectations but a note of uncer-
tainty.

Cunningham inherits the program
from Jan Hathom, who guided the
team for 14 seasons before resigning
last summer in order to concentrate
on the lacrosse program.

W&L returns twelve players from
last season’s squad that went 12-6 and
advanced to the Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference championship, only

to be defeated by Lynchburg 2-1 in
three oveitimes.

“I’m excited to not build a team from
scratch,” Cunningham said. “I’ve in-
herited 12 experienced players that
reached the ﬁnals last year.”

Those experienced players will still
need to work hard to lead a dozen
freshmen that contain no knowledge
of last year’s emotional final.
Cunningham will expect leadership
from his three co—captains, seniors
Kate Bidwell and Drew Powers and
junior Jenny Thomas.

“The three captains are doing a
great job,” Cunningham said. “I’m
looking for all the upperclassmen to

show the freshmen what it takes to be
a leader.”

Despite a wealth of upper-class
experience, Cunningham still needs
to fill six spots vacated by gradua-
tion, including the goalie position,
where the Generals will miss Lauren
Harris.

Harris received First Team All-
ODAC and Second Team All-Region
honors last season, finished her ca-
reer with a 1.00 goals-against aver-
age, and made 20 saves to keep the
Generals alive in the ODAC cham-
pionship.

Cunningham hopes to ﬁll this va-
cancy with two freshmen, Emily Barker

 

BASICING IN THE GLORY: The Washington and Lee men’s soccer team poses for

Tall order for men’s soccerteam

Dominion Athletic Conference championship. W&L will attempt to follow up

a team picture after defeating Virginia Wesleyan 1-0 to win the 2000 Old on the most successful season in school history.

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

Veteran men’s soccer coach Rolf
Piranian has quite a dilemma in 2001.

The 26th-year manager must fol-
low up on the most successful sea-
son in school history, as the 2000
Washington and Lee team reached the
South Region ﬁnal of the NCAA Di-
vision HI playoffs before falling to
Christopher Newport.

“It’s obviously the best season the
school’s ever had, so that was a
benchmark for us,” Piranian said. “It
was a great year for us, so I think
we’ve got to understand that season
is behind us and start from scratch.”

The first concern for the Generals
will be replacing ﬁve seniors, four of
whom started, from a team that went
19-2 last season and won the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference cham-
pionship.

“(Midﬁelder) Jon Wilson was one
of the better players I’ve had a chance
to coach here,” Piranian said. “’Ihere’s
a whole lot of chemistry that’s going
to be difficult to replace.”

W&L’s primary concern in pre-
season practice has been the lower-
than-expected performance of the of-
fense, which returns senior Andrew
Grimes and junior Brad Murphy,
among others.

“Right now we’re not scoring a lot
of goals,” Piranian said. “We thought
we should and could, but we haven’t
been. We’re still in the formative stage,
but I think we should have a very
good offensive team.”

Defense, however, should not be
a concern for the Generals. Juniors
Tim Foley and Brad Heam bring ex-
perience to the goalkeeper position,
and W&L also returns Second Team
All-ODAC junior Paul Negron and
senior Paul Wallace, who shares cap-

tain duties with classmates David
Kodack and Rick Schnatz.

At midﬁeld, 2000 ODAC Rookie of
the Year Philip Miller is back for his
sophomore season, and junior Sean
Hardin and sophomore Jacob Stoehr
are two of “quite a distinguished
group” of outside midﬁelders, accord-
ing to Piranian.

“(Defense) is important any time
of the year,” he said. “We see that as
it should be a strength. We think we
have a very good defensive club.”

Despite any preseason struggles,
the Generals should be prepared to
take on all comers in the ODAC in
defense of their title.

“We’ve kind of gone through a
bumpy preseason, so it could be a very
good team, but it could be a very aver-
age team if the kids don’t step up,”
Piranian said. “The potential is very
good on paper, but we haven’t seen as
much as we want to on the ﬁeld.”

Catch all the latest sports stats

in the Ph/7

and Abigail Pfeffer.

“We have two freshman goalies
and we might play them both through-
out the season,” Cunningham said.

W&L hopes to combat the inexpe-
rience at goalie with a strong, con-
trolling midﬁeld that includes each of
the three captains.

Leading this group will be
Bidwell. She’s found great success
at midfield, garnering three All-
ODAC selections while scoring 23
goals and adding nine assists dur-
ing her career.

Rounding out the midﬁeld will be
sophomore Heather Coleman, who
played in all 18 games and tallied eight

goals last season.

“I think our midﬁeld will be the
key,” Cunningham said. “Our success
will depend on our ability to control
the midﬁeld.” .

The defense will be led by sopho-
more Meghan Hayde and senior
Kristen Pranke, two players with ex-
perience at a key position.
Cunningham expects them to join the
three captains as the key leaders for a
young squad.

Sophomore forward Fontaine
Marcoux, First Team All-ODAC and
All-State as a freshman, returns to lead
the Generals’ attack. Marcoux scored
14 goals and added nine assists last

season.

Sophomore Susannah Hewlett
will complement Marcoux at forward
and create a potent one-two punch,
with freshman Maggie Hope receiv-
ing a large chunk of playing time as
well.

A number of freshmen should re-
ceive quality minutes, but the respon-
sibility and desire to avenge the heart-
breaking loss to Lynchburg will fall
on the upperclassmen.

“These seniors want to go out on
top and I think we’re ready to play,”
Cunningham said. “Practice is great,
but nothing is like the feeling of a real
game.”

l-

Java @ The GHQ presents . . .

The

Larry Keel
Txperience
Live at Java @ The GHQ

W&L University
Monday, September 10 @ 9pm

Stompin Appalachian Soul
with the 2—Time Telluride Festival Flatpickin’ Champion

www. larrykeel . com

(540) 291-1426

__J o

 

V W

    

 

‘ MONDAY, SERTEMEER 10, 2001

5 BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

p. The Washington and Lee field
hockey team enter their first season
at the varsity level, but they’re any-

‘ thing but inexperienced in both the
Old Dominion Athletic Conference
and the NCAA.

“ The Generals compiled a 4-8 record
last season, their last as a club team.
Senior Allison MacQueen, who scored
a team—high eight goals in 2000, be-
lieves that the experience of the retum-

y ing players will give them a good start-
ing point for Division 111 competition.

“We will be playing many of the
same varsity teams this year,”
MacQueen said. “Teams change ev-

ﬁ ery year, so we don’t know what to
expect of other teams, and they don’t
know what to expect of us. The re-

a turning players bring a lot of experi-
ence, talent and maturity to this team.”
D Meanwhile, first-year coach
Wendy Orrison is anything but new

‘to the ODAC, as she has spent the
last four seasons down Interstate 81
at Hollins University.

' “I think my knowledge of the
ODAC teams will be useful,” Orrison

FALL SRO

‘Making the move to varsity

, ’ Field hockey mixes returning players with large freshman class in 1st season of NCAA Division III competition

PAGE 7

FILE PHOTO

CELEBRATION DAY: Members of the W&L ﬁeld hockey team celebrate after a goal at home in 2000, their last
season at the club level. The Generals moved up to NCAA Division III competition this year.

said. “I know some of the better teams
and players to watch out for, and I
also know some of the coaching
styles. This will help in game—day
preparation a good deal.”

Seniors Courtenay Fisher and
Carolyn Pressly will serve as captains

for the 2001 squad. The Generals also
return senior goalie Deidra MacLeod.
MacQueen believes that W&L will
beneﬁt from a talented freshman class
as well.
“Without younger players, a pro-
gram cannot continue to be competi-

tive,” she said. “We have eight fresh-
men this year who are great players
and will lead the team in the years to
come.”

Despite her hopes for the team,
Orrison is wary of two opponents in
particular this year: Wednesday’s
match against Hollins and the Oct. 17
tilt against ODAC power Eastern
Mennonite.

“The EMU game is always a big
contest because of their dominance
in the conference,” Orrison said. “I’m
looking for all of the games to be close,
well—played matches. It will be awk-
ward to play Hollins on the 12th, and
I don’t particularly look forward to it.”

MacQueen believes that the Gen-
erals’ success will depend upon their
collective mindset.

“Anything we want to do,” she
said of what W&L can accomplish,
“as long as the entire team is in each
game mentally.

“Our team looks very strong,”
MacQueen added. “We are very
strong, both offensively and defen-
sively. There are no weak players on
this team. I think Coach Orrison plans
on using our bench often to capital-
ize on the talent of the entire team.”

:New General, same mission for W&L

5, BY IAN R. MCILROY
SPORTS WRTTER

g Inheriting a team that has never ﬁnished lower
than third at the Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence championship meet in 13 years, new Wash-

‘ ington and Lee women’s cross country head
coach Amy Schuckert has high hopes for this

4 season.

“Our No. 1 goal is to win the conference charn—
tpionship,” Schuckert said. “Also, we would like
to focus on a strong ﬁnish toward the end of the
gseason and have our sights set on placing in
the top ﬁve at the NCAA South/Southeast Re-

ogional Championship.”

Schuckert, a two—year captain of the cross
country and track teams at Allegheny Col-
9lege, was a six-time NCAA national qualifier
for the track team and a two—time qualifier in

. cross country. She also earned All—American
‘honors in the 800 meters and was a 12-time
conference champion in track and cross coun-

try.

After serving as the graduate assistant coach
for Pittsburgh State University in Kansas the
past two seasons, Schuckert assumes her first

head coaching role in Lexington.

Junior Burke Duncan and senior Gretchen
?Tencza, the team’s co-captains, form the core of

’Men’s team looks to keep

" BY IAN R. MCILROY
SPORTS WRTTER

1'

Returning four of their top run-
. ners from last season’s team, which
finished fifth out of seven teams at
the Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
'ence championship, the Washing-
ton and Lee men’s cross country
‘team appears poised for a success-

ful season.
Head coach John Tucker, who
q helped the team bring home their first
championship in 1997, will welcome
back captains Ken J ackman, a senior,
and David Hicks, a junior. Junior Will
Teichman and sophomore Andy

’ Schorr also return.

Together with a promising recruit
1‘ in freshman Wes Bell, the men’s cross
country team has all the pieces in

I 5 place to make a return to the top of

the ODAC in 2001.
F “I think we have a great shot at
the ODAC championships” Schorr
‘ said. “With a tighter top seven run-
ners, we’ll be better able to challenge
9 and push each other than in previ-
ous years.”
Schorr, the top retumee, led W&L
in every race last season on his way

returning runners Schuckert will look toward.
Duncan followed up a solid freshman sea-
son with an even better sophomore campaign,
becoming the first W&L runner to compete at
nationals since 1995. She garnered All—ODAC
and All-Region honors for the second consecu-

tive season.

Schuckert said.

team and to be leaders.”

ships last year.

CI'0WIl.

to earning First Team All—ODAC hon-
ors, as well as All-State and All-Re-
gion accolades in his rookie campaign.
He is well aware of the rise in talent
on this year’s squad.

J ackman, the lone senior on the
roster, is a three—time Second Team All-
ODAC selection. He will be looked to
for leadership on the young squad.

“With only one senior and two jun-
iors, experience will play a huge fac-
tor,” Jackman said. '

Hicks will be out to improve upon
his sophomore season, which saw
him ﬁnish 21st at the Virginia State
Meet in a personal best time of 27:22.
He showed signs of excellence by
helping W&L to a second-place ﬁn-
ish at the Roanoke Invitational when
he ran to an individual ninth—p1ace fm-
ish in 28:47.

Teichman began last season
slowly, but came on extremely strong
to post a career best time of 27:33 at
the NCAA Regional Meet.

Bell, a heralded freshman from
Dalton, Ga., could prove to be a valu-

able runner for W&L. In high school, ’

he was a two—time captain and three-
time all-state selection in cross coun-
try. He wrapped up his career by fin-

She also improved on her third-place ﬁnish
at the ODAC Championships, turning in a run-
ner-up performance last year.

“Burke possesses the qualities we need to
lead from within — leading by example,”

With the graduation of the 2000 ODAC cham-
pion, Duncan is the top retumee in the conference.
Along with her fellow co—captain Duncan as
well as seniors Lucy Rankin and Lauren Paxton,
Tencza remains determined to “encourage the

“We all have the determination to improve,”
added Tencza, a two—time All—ODAC selection,
including a second—team pick after finishing 1 1th
with a time of 21 :38 at the ODAC Champion-

Faced with a tough schedule to prepare them
for the 2001 conference championships,
Schuckert and her squad are determined to
bring home their third consecutive ODAC

   

success running

Tor RUNNER RETURNS: Burke Duncan, the first W&L cross country athlete to
run in an NCAA national meet, is back for her junior season. The Generals
have a new coach, former Pittsburgh State graduate assistant Amy Schuckert.

,

READY TO RUN: The W&L men’s cross country team, hosts of the annual Generals Invitational, will
attempt to improve upon last season’s fifth—place finish in the ODAC championships.

ishing third in the state last season.

But with Bell suffering an early
season injury, the team must maintain
their composure.

Recognizing the need to remain
healthy down the stretch in October,
Jackman said, “We (the upperclass—
men) will have to help the team focus
on training and being tough mentally.”

W&L opened the season with a
second-place finish Saturday in the
Virginia Wesleyan Invitational.

  . Interested in having an active Voice
~ in Washington and Lee athletics?

., Join the P121’ sports staff.

Positions are open now for Writers to cover W&L fall sports,

9- including football, soccer, volleyball, ﬁeld hockey and cross country.

9 For more information, email Jeremy Franklin at franklinj@wlu.edu.

in the W&L Invitational on Friday. In a preseason coaches’ poll, the Washington and Lee volleyball
team was picked to win the Old Dominion Athletic Conference.

Volleybal

team prepared for

run at ODAC championship

BY DAVE CROWELL
AssisTAxT SPORTS EDITOR

With the return of nine letter win-
ners and four starters from last
season’s 20-10 squad, the pressure
to succeed lies heavily on the Wash-
ington and Lee volleyball team.
Added to this pressure is a recent
tradition of winning, exempliﬁed by
the No. 1 preseason ranking in the
Old Dominion Athletic Conference.

The Generals have appeared in the
ODAC championship game each of
the last six seasons, claiming victory
in four of the matches. Along the way
W&L has racked up 145 victories.

But don’t expect coach Bryan
Snyder’s team to wilt under a little
pressure.

“I think we’ll respond well,” the
second—year coach said. “We were
picked to win last season and were
in a very good position. Even after
some difﬁcult times, we came one

point from another championship (in .

a loss to Bridgewater).”

The main factor in W&L’s return
to the top will be senior middle
blocker Lindsay Ruckert, the ODAC
Player of the Year each of the last
two seasons. Ruckert also garnered
selections on the first-team All-
ODAC and All State teams each of
her three seasons.

Ruckert posted a team—high 322
kills last season and added 40 aces,
65 blocks and 215 digs. Entering the
season, Ruckert stands a mere 169
kills from breaking the W&L and
ODAC career record.

“Lindsay is one of our co—cap-
tains and does everything for us,”
Snyder said. “She is our best hitter
and one of the best servers and de-
fensive players we have. She under-
stands the game so well.”

Unfortunately for ODAC oppo-
nents, the Generals will offer one of
the strongest frontcourts in recent
memory, not just one scoring threat.

Senior co-captains Leslie
Fischbeck and Lee Charbonnet will
provide Ruckert more scoring op-

portunities while compiling their own
numbers.

Fischbeck came on strong at the
end of last year, posting 57 kills in
the ODAC tournament and garner-
ing an all—toumament selection.

Charbonnet missed a large part
of last season due to injuries but
earned second—team All—ODAC hon-
ors her sophomore season. Snyder
looks for Charbonnet to play a huge
role in detracting attention from
Ruckert.

In addition, two freshmen,

Michelle Chastain and Emily Wolﬁng, A

should immediately add more punch
up front. They come from strong vol-
leyball programs and will provide valu-
able size for the Generals.

“We will definitely have more op-
tions on offense,” Snyder said.
“Lindsay will be moving around a
lot and we should have at least four
consistent, potent scoring threats.”

One area where the Generals lack
experience is at the setting position.
Graduation claimed both of the set-
ters on last year’s squad.

Fortunately, freshman Jennifer

Lux stepped up during the pre—_
season and won the starting job for V

the opening game.

“She has looked great and has
exceeded all my expectations,”
Snyder said of Lux. “I believe she is
a step up from the past.”

Due to a change in the scoring»

system, the keys to success will be
serve, serve receive, and defense.

Under the new rally scoring, a point A
will be awarded with every serve, .

even with a sideout. Games will be
won with 30 points instead of 15.

The Generals’ defense will be A

strong with Ruckert, junior Stacey

Kimmel and sophomore defensive M

specialist Kari Lassen, all consistent
playmakers in the backcourt.
Regardless of rule changes, W&L

should offer a strong team capable

of living up to the pressure.

“The girls have been working real
hard and are eager to make a state-
ment after last year,” Snyder said.

Fnrsnmnu Fmowsnir

Fnrsnmtii: Bowl: mm Gel‘ run run Allll FEIIIIWSIIIP
on Tiiunsnnvs AT 6:30 Ill linmts limiiuusr.

Great Wﬂv I0 IIIBBI IIIIIBI‘ IIGSIIIIIBII
and unnerclassmenl

SPACE DONATED BY THE RING-TUM PHI

 

RY GUY / The Rirzg-rim: Pi '
NET PLAY: Senior Lindsay Ruckert blocks a ball during the Generals’ three—game win against St. Mary’s ‘

    
 

£T>§RNe"." I

Nsmi:

Tar. (I2-max: 0? THE i..xt=F.72MI5.
Wxm:  '13. ¥F...m,mEs_.S1=<,.ms,
()1>:xr<>.\'s

‘K

Lmezq L~‘«.Y(}1."1‘

3?‘

   

235$ EX‘!’i';'Ri

 

 »

CRUITM

 

 

QLI TKENS
D0 ym: \>m'r‘1*r;'1:-xrgv. ramx‘
22¢ 124:2‘ ‘L1NMB.sz'1‘x"s x>az';.~m:z<
r;x"1‘zzA;u:1uc::r:.«:xz ()R($ANIZ.-‘{l'i{)N?

Du was wax  Ti") 23:: W11‘ 01- A 1(I4~
‘3Ai{~{:L1i) 'num'rLo; 3‘

1);: mm wan‘? TO Mrrnr we
_1é0i>.:\~1.u':zs AT THY PHI?

 

 

}»E«:>:\1>.'n', S '

University nee.

  

U

K

A

A

5

8.

#

  

S "578 . 755
R5552. ._ ..
V, [5 Q-+‘i\x:tIrI.» I321: l'tt‘l~I Wtltlii 1? 'P.«.<;I-1 at 

fl  ‘~:-. t.\'~.

 
   

  

   
 

  

  

 

  
 

 

5.3 A 1.
l.i1:>l§{i< ass
\t3’&l..I:-ié.a

 mi»: (3

L3! L24 in}

 

 

 

 

 

W&L a/umnus presumed dead; friends mourn

I’
BY MIKE AGNELLO
ASSOCIATE EDITOR
‘ Washington and Lee has
. likely suffered its ﬁrst casualty
of Tuesday’s terrorist attack on

the World Trade Center and

~ 0 Pentagon.
James Gadiel ’00 worked
for bond brokerage ﬁrm Can-
tor Fitzgerald

floor of
Tower One
of the Trade
Center. He
wasnotlisted
among the
company’s

 

JAMES GADIEL _
. :00 SUIVIVOIS on

an 6I1’lCI'-

' gency web site. A representa-
‘ tive at New York’s Crisis Cen-
ter said Gadiel was not treated
at any area hospitals and is still
missing. In several interviews
’ it this week, New York City res-
cue workers said, at this point,
there is little chance of ﬁnding
‘ any survivors.
I Cantor Fitzgerald was
one of the companies that

. suffered the most employee
casualties. Of the more than
‘ 1000 employees, fewer than
400 survived. CEO Howard
T Lutnick said he does not
know how to handle the situ-

" ation.
“I have to do something

‘ for the 700 families,” Lutnick
said. “Seven hundred fami-
lies. Seven hundred families.

on the lO3rd '

Gadiel, originally from
Kent, Conn., was an econom-
ics major and a member of
Sigma Nu fraternity. W&L’s
Lambda chapter is already
mourning his death.

Chapter Chaplain Ben
Segal led the chapter in prayer
before dinner on Friday. Sigma
Nu National Headquarters sent
a dozen white roses to the
house.

Chapter President Matt
Jacobs was Gadie1’s “little
brother” during his freshman
year. Sigma Nu and several
other fraternities at W&L as-
sign older brothers to mentor
pledges, and ﬂie relationship
resembles that of two brothers.

Jacobs said Gadiel’s
probable death has devastated
the chapter.

“It’s been tough, espe-
cially for the older guys who
knew James better,” Jacobs
said. “We’ve been leaning on
each other.”

Segal said he admired
Gadiel’s easygoing personal-
ity.

“He had a lot ofpoise 
emotions canrunhighinafra-
ternity house, and he always
stayed calm and was able to
keep a level head,” Segal said.

Jacobs said he is grieving
intensely, and will miss Gadiel.

“He was the first one to
make me feel really welcome
at (Sigma Nu),” he
said”(Gadiel was) a really car-
ing, nice guy, a stand-up indi-

    

C T’
TIME FOR REFLECTION. A silent vigil before Lee Chapel drew hundreds of participants, including students,
professors, and community members. The event was held the night of the terrorist attack on the World Trade
Center and Pentagon, when many students were still in shock, worried about family in New York or Washington,
D.C., and angry about the assault on their country. The next day, students moved quickly to organize Red Cross
aid, blood drives and counseling programs. Reassurances from former students poured into the Alumni Office,
forcing a seven—day work week on Colin Tate ‘O1, Asst. Dir. of Alumni Programs for Online Communications.

 

National tra e for schools, cit

Lexington college students reactpatriotica//y to tragedy

BY LATRINA STOKES
STAFF WRITER

An outpouring of patriotism and sup-
port in the local community mirrored na-
tionwide sentiments in the aftermath of last
week’s terrorist attack.

In the hours immediately following the
tragedy, some Washington and Lee faculty
cancelled classes or led discussions on the
loss of life and students’ sense of insecurity.

A specially-tplarined prayer and wor-
ship service hosted by Generals’ Christian
Fellowship Tuesday evening began a string
of religious services, including a meeting
held by W&L’s newly developing Unitar-
ian Universalist organization.

“Our meeting has different people with
different expectations coming together and
collectively and spontaneously praying,” said
GCF President Brad Wiginton. “Afterwards,
we had a worship time and it was great to see
people giving a sacriﬁce of praise.”

Community members scrambled to
donate blood to victims in New York and

Washington, D.C. However, the Red Cross .
suggests that students participate in Chi_

Psi’s late October blood drive, now that
local centers are full.
W&L Peer Counselors are also avail-
able to help. -
“An important factor for Peer Coun-
selors in reaching out to other students is
that we are trained with sensitivity and eyes

to see symptoms of grief and hurt,” said’

Berdine Edgar, Peer Counselor president.

At the Virginia Military Institute, Cadet
Counselors are fimctioning in much the same
way. Their ﬁrst priority was to get cadets in
contact with family members in the affected
areas, said senior Magnus Nordenman, ca-
det-in-charge of the counseling staff.

A call from the Virginia National
Guard has directly involved ﬁve cadets with
national efforts.

In Lexington, patriotic displays are ev-
erywhere: American ﬂags have appeared in
store windows and on car antennas; red, white
and blue ribbons abound on shirt fronts.

Despite such shows of unity, some fear
that their religious beliefs or backgrounds
will make them the targets of discrimina-
tion or violence.

Arabs and Arab Americans have re-
ported incidents of prejudice across the
country, stemming from the hijackers’ iden-
tiﬁcation as Muslims.

“Anybody who treats Muslims nega-
tively because of the insanely despicable
actions which took place is ignorant,” said
W&L senior Shazi Niazi, founder of the
Muslim League. “Hatred is the source of
such devastation and has never done any
good in this world.”

Niazi said that the negative stereotype
has also affected other Muslims who fear
that the league may be extremist.

VMI cadets are likely to react just as
any other students rriight, said Colonel Dale
Davis, director of international programs
at VMI. ,

“I think the cadets at VMI are sophis-
ticated enough to differentiate between
terroristsand Muslims," Davis said. He
added that studying the language is impor-
tant in recognizing that the country has al-
lies as well as enerrries in the Middle East.

The carnage did not leave the W&L
and VMI families unscathed. Chris
Edwards ‘00 of W&L lost an aunt and uncle
aboard one of the hijacked ﬂights. Jonah
Glick ‘90 of W&L lost his brother Jeremy.

Among the missing are: VMI alum-
nus Lieutenant Commander David Will-
iams ’9l, presumed dead; W&L alumnus
James Gadiel ’00, presumed dead; and
W&L alumnus Rob Schlegel ’85.

“We’re keeping our fingers crossed,”
said Rob Mish ’76, director of alumni

l;\FOGRAPHIC BY KATIE HOWELL/T/Jr Rir1g—rrm1 Phi

on the Rat Disciplinary Committee, one being the

Although Acting Public Relations Director Chuck
Steenburgh would not comment on a third dismissal, Ca-
det Captain Michael Zanetti conﬁrmed that the president
of the Honor Court was also dismissed Friday, in relation

' “The class was shocked by the position the adminis-
tration took,” said Zanetti. “The cadets were high rank-

The dismissals have jeopardized the status of the dis-
missed cadets’ military appointments to the Marines and
the Air Force. Disrriissal is typically grounds for with-
drawal of a commission, Steenburgh said. If the appoint-
ments are withdrawn, the cadets may have to enlist to re-
pay the U.S. Department of Defense their scholarships.
Steenburgh added, however, that each individual service
can evaluate the disciplinary actions of VMI and deter-

Four other cadets received penalties of a lesser na-

Cadets interviewed on the streets of Lexington said.

VMI administration acted radically to promote a positive
public image. Almost twice as many rats, or freshmen,
have withdrawn this year in comparison to the same time

“It’s wrong,” one third classman said. “Everyone’s
pretty upset, because (the administration) did not follow

‘ I can’t say it without crying,” vidual, and we’re all better for
he said. having known him.”

‘ . . . . I . . .. ..
.   Slll(l€I1tS Illlllllly
, Dismissals of 3 ﬁrst classmen trigger widespread Corps disobedience

‘ president.

l

, to Thursday’s dismissals.

' ing, well respected and had excellent track records.”
‘ .

9

F
l‘ mine whether or not to retract the commission.

ture and remain at school.
Q
‘ Fir Prioro The Ring-tum last year.
BY ALISON TRINIDAD
It NEWS EDITOR
usual disciplinary action.”
- F In an act of student protest at the disrriissal of three

 

cadets, most of Virginia Military Institute’s Corps of Ca-
dets refused to march in a scheduled parade last Friday.

“Our brother rats have been wrongfully dismissed.
Because of this, your leaders have decided to take action,”
said Mark Grigsby, first, or senior, class president, to the
Corps Thursday evening. “We will be stepping up, taking
control andpolicing our own.” ,

According to a statement released by VMI’s of-
fice of public relations, one cadet was suspended for
a year and two dismissed on Thursday for “disciplin-
ary reasons related to the training and discipline of
new cadets.’’ ,

“VMI’s Ratline, (when) properly administered, be-
comes a cherished part of the experiences of every VMI
cadet,” said VMI Superintendent Major General Josiah
Bunting.’ “When cadets who are responsible for adminis-
tering this system, however, step over the carefully pre-
scribed lines of conduct that are established for them, our
reaction is swift and, in some cases, severe.”

Cadets argue, however, that the “lines of conduct”
were not clearly deﬁned and that the disrriissals were ir-
regular and abrupt. _

“We had no time to defend ourselves,” said one of
the disrrrissed cadets. “We were already hung and executed
before we stepped into that room.”

The dismissed cadets were both first classmen and

Zanetti said that each branch of cadet government
acted to alter campus life at VMI to demonstrate the ca-

“ dets’ displeasure with the adrninistration’s decision to dis-

miss.
The rats were taken out of the ratline Thursday after-

noon as the first instance of protest. Steenburgh said sus-

pending the ratline is the customary way to express disap-
proval.

Yet, that evening, rumor of a step—off spread through
the Corps.

A last-ditch bargaining‘ method used by the Corps, a
step—off is when the Corps refuses to participate in or ac-
knowledge the military and regimental procedures of VMI.
The Cadet, VMI’s weekly student newspaper, reported that

' the Corps has not stepped off in over a decade.

First-class leadership called the entire Corps to at-
tend a meeting Thursday night in Jackson Memorial Hall,

a meeting that faculty and administration were not invited ‘

to attend. 7

Honor Court President Shawn Joyce addressed the_Corps.

“It is our belief that administrative control has reached
dictatorial proportions, in effect undennining the mission
of the Institute, which is to produce honorable men and
women conﬁdent in the functions and attitudes of leader-
ship,” he said. “The administration has essentially removed
the ‘leadership’ aspect from our Corps leaders, from the

SEE VMI, PAGE 2

SEE REACTION, PAGE 2

Work-study wages jump 60cents

Few returning students aware of change; Minimum wage remains $5.15

BY IMRAN NAEEMULLAH
STAFF WRITER

Life just got a little richer for Washington and Lee’s
work— study students. This year, the University announced an
increase in work-study wages from $5.15 an hour to $5.75
an hour.

The work—study program provides on—campus jobs
that are tax—free and funded by a federal grant matched
by a 25 percent contribution from W&L, said Associate
Director of Financial Aid Kim Ruscio.

Students must qualify for the job by demonstrating
ﬁnancial need. Over 300 W&L students are participat-
ing in the program this year, said Ruscio. Those students
work everywhere from Evans Dining Hall to Leybum
Library to the Office of Student Financial Aid itself.

The present minimum wage of $5.15 in Virginia was
set in 1997. The first increase since then, the raise has
generated a positive reaction among the student body.

‘“It’s great. It’s good to know that wages have gone

up,” said senior Joey Ajayi. “Of course, prices have prob-
ably gone up as well. Still, the increase is welcome.”

Work—study supervisors are also supportive of the
wage increase. Vicki Sessions, circulation supervisor for
Leybum Library, appreciates the work her employees per-
fonn.

“We couldn’t run the library without them,” she said.
“They deserve the increase.”

Ruscio noted that the increase equalizes the pay be-
tween work—study positions and those jobs on campus
that students can apply for regardless of ﬁnancial need.

Sophomore Ian Mcllroy said the wage increase
brings pay up to parity with non-cainpus part-time jobs.

“I’m very happy about the increase in wages,” said
Mcllroy. “IfI can make $6.15 an hour bagging groceries,
I shouldudeﬁnitely be able to make $5.75 an hour here.”

Ruscio said the increase in wages has not put a strain
on the work—study budget. While there is obviously a
ﬁnite number of j obs the University can provide, there is
presently no need for a budget increase, she said.

University wireless

project progresses as planned  

Access from fraternity houses expected online by end of Fall Term

BY MEG HASTON
STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee students should be able to
access the Internet from anywhere on campus by the
end of this year, said University Computing Direc-
tor John Stuckey.

This assurance rests on the success of the wire-
less project at W&L, a project that involves install-
ing “access points” at key places on campus so that

a student with the proper technology can access the

web without a cable.

The process is simple: a wireless card the size
of a credit card is installed into a student’s laptop.
Wireless technology uses radio waves, not wires, to
transfer information between computers through a
network of access points. Through this setup, the
student can access the web from a carrel in the li-
brary, a dorm room and even outside.

This new technology is already installed at the
law school, where students are finding the wireless
Internet access “very convenient,” Stuckey said.

Fraternity houses are next on the wireless docket,
with expected completion set for the end of Fall term.

“What we’re trying to do is enhance the cover-
age of the campus,” Stuckey said. To accomplish this,
a network signal installed in the Sigma Chi frater-

nity house will allow the other fraternity houses to
utilize the technology. University Computing has al-
ready installed access points in the library and sci-
ence center. ‘

While many students have found the new tech-
nology convenient, it is not without its disadvantages.
Stuckey calls the technology “hit and miss,” noting
that students must be within a few hundred feet from
an access point and that obstacles in the path of the
access points may reduce the efficiency of the sig-
nal. Additionally, the wireless connection can at times
be slower than a wall connection; the more students
using an access point, the slower the connection.

The project has also proved to be expensive:
around $100,000 so far. As this technology improves
at a rapid rate, the equipment will need to be updated
frequently, which will add to the cost of the project.
The wireless cards are also pricey; they can cost a
student anywhere from $100-$180.

“I think it was inconvenient to pay so much
money to buy the wireless card when I only use it in
the library,” said freshman Mackenzie Morgan.

When the project is completed, students will be
able to use both wireless and hardwire wall connec-
tions. The project is not an exchange, Stuckey said.
Students will be able to choose the connection that
suits their personal preference. ’

    

PAGE 2

N EWS

ELRODME.\l0RlAL

IN MEMORIANI. Hundreds of students, staff, faculty and Lexington area residents honored the latejohn W Elrod, W&L’s president who dicdjuly 27 .

MEG FmuuRA/ T/Je Riizgrzwr P/22'

VMI from page 1

Steenburgh said.

Although VMI administration did not conﬁrm that Joyce

E mail news briefs to

 

Love Your Body Day

Rockbridge Valley NOW and tl1eW&L Office of Health
Promotion is sponsoring a video and discussion on
Wednesday, Sept. 19 in Noithen Auditorium.

“Redeﬁning Liberation” shows how advertising pro-
motes unhealthy body images. Freshmen who attend can
swipe their ID card for the Customs Program.

Play to address gender issues

In the hope of heightening awareness of gender is-
sues and misconceptions, the Dean of Freshmen and the
Office of Health Promotion have invited a one-man play,
“Crimes Against Nature,” to illustrate the absurdities and
contradictions of the “ideal man” and “ideal woman.”

The performance will be held in Keller Theater of the
Lenfest Center at 8 p.m. on Thursday. Freshmen who at-
tend can swipe their ID card for the Customs Program.

W&L president search committee chosen

Confirmed members of the new committee are: Harlan
Beckley, Brian Murchison, David Partlett, Mike Evans, Larry
Peppers, Randolph Hare, Mike Pleva, Linda Hooks, Chair
Lad Sessions, Suzanne Keen, Bob Strong, Stacy Mcboughlin

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2001

‘O2, Cecile West-Settle, David Millon, Tom Williams.
Barbara Taylor of the Academic Search Consultation
Service (ASCS) in Washington, D.C., was hired as the

' University’s Presidential Search Consultant. Taylor will

begin her work with the University immediately. She will
be on campus September 17 - 19 to meet with the Presi-
dent, Rector of the Board J. Frank Surface, members of the
Presidential Profiling Committee to begin the
development of the presidential profile.

An open forum is scheduled Wednesday, Sept. 19,
from noon to 1:30 p.m., in Lee Chapel, for the W&L com-
munity to express its views on the presidential search.

iicketed for mourning

Lexington police ticketed first year law student Kim
Bryant late Tuesday evening for parking in a yellow zone
on Washington Street. Bryant said she parked illegally
because no legal spaces were available to attend the si-

lent vigil in front of Lee Chapel for those who lost their «

lives in the terrorist attacks in New York, Washington and
Pennsylvania that same day.

W&L students and faculty gathered by the hundreds,
sharing thoughts and prayers with others, seeking emo-
tional support from their peers.

Director of W&L Security Mike Young said that the
University did not alert the police of the vigil, making the
city’s officers unaware of possible parking problems.

Bryant had an agreement with W&L Security until
her disability sticker arrived, but the D-Hall side of Wash-
ington Street falls under Lexington Police jurisdiction.
Bryant will have the opportunity to protest her ticket when
she appears in court.

cadets who have proved their merit over the course of the
past three years.”

Joyce informed the Corps that, until administration
readmitted the dismissed cadets, the Honor Court would
not conduct status checks and would leave_ the Officer of
the Day decertified. That means that cadets on confine-
ment can walk freely through town and that the random
checks on proper uniform or “rat knowledge” are not con-
ducted. Joyce emphasized, however, that non-adniinis—
trative violations of the Honor Code, such as lying, cheat-
ing or stealing, would still be prosecuted.

The Honor Court is responsible for teaching and en-
forcing the honor code. It pervades the every aspect of
VMI life and depends on the vigilance of every cadet,

was disrriissed on Friday, cadets said that he was expelled
due to the actions taken by the Honor Court on Thursday.

Discussions between cadet leaders, alumni and ad-
ministration continued throughout the weekend.

Zanetti emphasized the need for Corps unity. This
was not to be a step-off but a step—up.

“This isn’t for someone’s rank, this is to salvage
cadetships,” he said. “We want to bring our guys back.”

But disobedience at VMI will not be tolerated,
Steenburgh said.

“As a military institute, (the refusal to march) was a
substantial infraction of regulations,” he said. “It’s unfor-
tunate that the Corps decided to do that. There will be
consequences.”

24

Today
8:30 p.m.——-Java at the
GHQ. Jon Shain.
Tuesday, Sept. 18
' 8 p.m.+Faculty Recital.

    

Chris Magee, trumpet. Keller
Theater, Lenfest Center.
Wednesday, Sept. 19
Noon—Open forum,
sponsored by presidential
proﬁle committee. All mem-
bers of Washington and
Lee community invited to
participate. Lee Chapel.

Thursday, Sept. 20

10 a.m.—Study Abroad
Fair until 3 p.m. Stemmons
Plaza (rain site: Great Hall,
Science Center).
Friday, Sept. 21

7:30 p.m.—— Film So-

ciety. “Best in Show’/’«

(USA, 2000). Directed by

Christopher Guest. In
English. Rated PG-13.
Troubadour Cinema.

7:30 p.m.—Second
City, national comedyl
improv group. Keller The-
ater, Lenfest Center.
Saturday, Sept. 22
Fallbegins.

INFOGMPHIC BY KATIE Ho\mi./ T/ie Ringmm Pbi

REACTION from page 1

programs. “We’re pray-
ing for all our alumni in
those areas, and hope
they get a sense of com-

fort soon.”

The W&L Alumni
Office has no official
word on either Schlegel
or Gadiel.

U.S. President

George W. Bush has di-
rected the country to go
on with business as
usual, just as W&L ad-
ministration and faculty
has urged students to

carry on as closely to
normally as they can.
That means that Ca-
reer Services will be con-
tinuing with its plans for
recruiting in the New York

area, said Career Services
Director Beverly Lorig.
As of Friday, no em-
ployers had contacted
the office to cancel a
visit. Anderson consult-

ing kept its scheduled
visit last Friday, but there
is no guarantee that other
companies will.

“Many of the firms
are dealing with the trag-

edy,” Lorig said.
“They’re in the midst of
it. Recruitment is not a
priority.”

Businesses all over
the world will be watch-

ing American stock mar-
ket, which reopened to-
day.

0 Mike Agnello, Katie
Howell and Alison Trinidad
also contributed to this story.

 
 

1:30 n.m.

Tnursrlav. Sentemlier 20. 2001

  as 15"”
ei!l"'5

A dramatic comedy, directed by Barry Levinson, looks
at the changing times of the mid—50's and focuses on
issues such religion, race-and class distinction. one
of the characters attends W&L.

law school. Front lawn
nain site: Iloremus ltvm  

 

 

gee

FIIEE movie, HIEE sot! drinks,
HIEE nolleorn. Sllonsorerl mi
Ilillel. Bring a liIanIiet.pg

5

 

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17,2001

Sliii“t5li“iﬁD1ToR1AL

'I‘uesday’s events in New York City and
Washington, D.C. caused undue amounts of
pain, shock and horror to the Washington and
Lee community, this country and the world.
Students, most of whom know somebody in ei-
ther place, consoled each other and tried to
make sense of these heinous crimes against
humanity. The mettle of our university, and more
importantly our great nation, is being tested.

Since most of our generation came of ma-
ture age, our country has been bitterly divided
between blacks and whites, for or against abor-
tion, even hanging and dimpled chads. The
American dream, that sense of unrufﬂed opti-
rnism that allowed us to achieve a dispropor-
tionately high number of great things, seemed
to have disappeared. Kids killed each other in
school, and parents murdered their children.
American unity, in decline since the late 1950s,
vanished in the bitter generational conﬂict over
the Vietnam War and had never recovered.

All this came to a screeching halt Tuesday.
For the first time in a long while, every Ameri-
can stood up and took notice. Hardened CNN
correspondents, known for their stone counte-
nances, openly wept when interviewing family
members of those still missing. People all over
the country organized blood drives and donated
literally tons of food, clothing and medical sup-
plies to aid the New York rescue effort. Politi-
cians who previously were not on speaking
terms stood together, denounced the atrocities,
and agreed to back the president, ﬁnishing off
with a spontaneous rendition of “God Bless
America.”

The evil men who perpetrated these odi-
ous crimes underestimated our ability to re-
bound, and they will soon see our determina-
tion to strike back. .

If any good can come of these tragedies, it
is the newfound sense of perspective they have
given us. We will think twice before whining
about our stressful class work, or how our world
is going to end because we did not get that choice
internship. Most importantly, we will realize that
there is a world outside of Lexington, and people
need our help.

To the W&L community: give clothing,
blood and prayers to those in New York and
Washington. Every little bit helps.

To the rest of our nation: stay strong. We
must not recoil in fear, because that is precisely
the aim of terrorism. We should instead show
those guilty for these atrocities that despite all
our shortcomings, we are a nation united against
evil aggression and the slaughter of innocent
people. We must not rest until terrorists every-
where understand that the resolve of the Ameri-
can people carmot be broken.

prohibitive. No human life is too insigniﬁcant to
avenge. For the second time, we must bring
truth to Linco1n’s immortal words: that the gov-
ernment of, by, and for the people shall not per-
ish from this earth.

No challenge is too great. No fear is too J

Matthew Mcbermott
Mike Agnello
Alison Trinidad
Brett T. Kirwan
Andrew Latirner
Amy Blevins
Jeremy Franklin
Dave Crowell

Katie Howell

Meg Ferrara

Editor-in-chief
Associate Editor
News Editor
Opinions Editor
Asst. Opinions Editor
W&Life Editor
Sports Editor
Asst. Sports Editor
Layout Editor
Photo Editor
Photographer

Paul Seifert
Charlie Tonelli

Business Manager
Circulation Director

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editor-in-chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be in the University
Center, by 5 pm on Friday to appear in the following week’s
edition. The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit subn1is-
sions for content and length. Letters and colurrms do not
reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi.wlu.edu

Annual Subscription Rate: $30

THE Rm;-Tort PHI

PINIONS

44l\I .. A At.‘.xL'.n. i.‘

OPlNlONS EDIIOR
FMAIl:KlR\X/ANB@\)VLlJEl)U

Fighting a wr we must wn

On Tuesday morning, the
United States was attacked by a
faceless enemy, one who hides in
darkness and commits his evil on
unsuspecting, innocent civilians.
As Prime Minister Blair commented,
this was not only an attack on
America, but an attack on our way
of life, on our very civilization.

And as President Bush has said
several times now, the attacks on the
World Trade Center and the Penta-
gon were acts of war. Moreover, in
this war, there can be no middle
ground; there is no chance for peace
without victory. The barbarians who
struck us so deeply have shown that
they have nothing but abiding hatred
for America. This is truly total war.
There will be no end until either we or
they are utterly destroyed.

America has already attempted to
ﬁght terrorism without total commit-
ment. Following the 1993 attempt to
topple the World Trade Center and
the 1995 bombing of the Murrah
building, Congress passed the Anti-
Terrorism and Effective Death Penalty
Act of 1996, which made financially
liable the countries that supported
terrorism.

Unfortunately, the Act was not
enforced and when Stephen Flatow
in 1998 attempted to sue Iran, in
retrbution for his daughter, Alisa’s,
death in an Islamic jihad bombing, he
faced Clinton Justice Department law-
yers in court.

At the anniversary of the Pan—Am
103 bombing, President Clinton bit his
lip and reminded the mourners that he
felt their pain, but achieved only a weak
compromise that sent the two men di-
rectly responsible to The Hague for
trial, while leaving Libya blameless and
any other country
that may have been
responsible. The re-
sult of these half-
hearted attempts to
defeat terrorism and our general sense
of invulnerability was Tuesday’s hor-
riﬁc destruction.

Unless America, in conjunction
with a global coalition, acts swiftly and
forcefully to defeat terrorism and the
governments that sponsor it, we can
expect nothing but to be drawn into a
never-ending conflict, like that be-
tween Israel and the PLO.

We have a target. The evidence
against Osarna bin Laden, an exiled
Saudi millionaire, is mounting. Presi-
dent Bush has named him as the prime
suspect in these attacks. Those who
have been identiﬁed as the perpetra-
tors have been connected with his or-
ganizations.

Secretary of State Colin Powell’s
mission to Pakistan has resulted in

Letters to the Editor

E 0 statement on terrorist attacks

Dear Editor,

RIGHT or THE AISLE
BRETT T. KIRWAN ‘O4

(bumpy OFASSOOA TFD

Acts or WAR: Atrocities like Tuesday’s bombings will happen again unless America commits to total war.

that country demanding that the
Taliban turn over bin Laden, who has
been living in Afghanistan since 1996.
The Taliban government of Afghani-
stan, a radical Sunni Muslim sect de-
spised by many other Muslim states,
has long aided and harbored bin
Laden. Without its complicity, attacks
like this could not
take place. The
Taliban must be
treated as an equal
enemy of the United
States. As long as
the governments which support ter-
rorism exist, so will terrorism. A war
which truly seeks to destroy terror-
ism must also destroy the corrupt re-
gimes in Afghanistan, Libya, and Pal-
estine.

Many of TV’s talking heads,
however, have argued that the best
way to solve our problem is to cap-
ture and execute only those directly
responsible, perhaps bin Laden and
his lieutenants with a few members
of the Taliban thrown in for good
measure.

However, this gingerly approach
has already been tried against aban-
doned Afghan camps and a Sudanese
aspirin factory. Pinpoint cruise mis-
sile strikes conducted from hundreds

of miles off-shore or miles in the air
will not sufﬁce. We must strike hard
with the full force of our military.

Fortunately, in his weekly radio
address, President Bush revealed the
govemment’s plan to conduct a long,
heavy but carefully constructed re-
taliatory attack. He also stated
America’s intention not only to exter-
minate the animals responsible, but
also to destroy their homes, busi-
nesses, places of worship, govem-
ment buildings, and military institu-
tions.

The American public must recog-
nize that we are in a total war, much
like World Wars I and H but also very
different in that our enemy is too cow-
ardly to face us. Instead we must hunt
them down like dogs, drive them from
their dens, and ensure that this will
never happen again.

The cost may be high. Additional
American lives might be lost and in-
nocent civilians might be killed in the
countries we target. Nevertheless, we
must do what is necessary to achieve
final victory of terror and its practitio-
ners. We must be ready to ﬁght with
the attitude voiced by Sen. John
McCain on Thursday, ‘‘I say to our
enemies: We are coming. God may
have mercy on you, but we won’t.”

Sincerely,

Please answer your call to duty, whatever it may be.

The Executive Committee of the Student Body

The magnitude of the terrorist attack on America on

September 11, 2001, has become evident to each of us, no
matter our age or background. We at Washington and Lee
University often speak of our community, but on this day
our community became much larger. Today, when we speak
of our community, we refer to one nation, uniﬁed in a cause
to save lives, protect one another, and punish an aggressor.
We, as members of this greater, united, American commu-
nity, have a duty to all who have fallen, to the families of
these individuals, to those who laid the framework of this
mighty country, and to all of those who will follow, to do
everything within our ability to aid in the restoration of our
country. Just as General Robert Edward Lee understood his
duty to his country after the Civil War in aiding though
education in the restoration of a broken land, we must now
realize our duty to our nation in its time of need.

Do not ever allow yourself to believe that you cannot
make a difference; you can and you will! There will be many
calls to duty over the next few days, weeks, months, or
even years. But the most immediate calling for all of us is to
give blood. We strongly encourage every able member of
our community to give blood at his or her soonest conve-
nience, even if this is a week from now—it will still be needed.

Death row inmate seeks correspondence

Dear Editor,

I am a male prisoner on death row at Arizona State Prison
and would like mail from anyone who would like to write and
who would enjoy receiving letters from mein retnm. I am with-
out family and have already been in this cell for over 17 years.

This life has been a hard and lonely one and I would be
grateful for any company anyone would care to give. Please
feel free to talk about or ask whatever you are curious about.
Being a condemned prisoner, I am kept strictly isolated and
locked in my cell.

Anyone interested please write:

Michael Correll #5 1493

Arizona State Prison/P.O. Box 3400

Florence, AZ 85232
Sincerely,

Michael Correll

Editor is Note: The Arizona State Prison conﬁrmed that
Michael Correll is indeed a long-time death row inmate.
His case is currently under appeal.

PAGE 3

Orientation needs
Improvement

“Customs” system is adequate, but
informal interaction is more valuable

“Confusion” is the key word in the ﬁrst few weeks
of life as a freshman. Challenges are thrown in our di-
rection every minute of every day, both in class and
out. So many new experiences hit us so quickly and the
days are so packed with discovery that time even seems
to slow down to accommodate it all; the passing of
these last two weeks has felt like two months. The
situation can easily become overwhelming, especially
once classes start.

As much as we’d like to believe otherwise, we
freshmen do need guidance in order to process the
deluge of infor-
mation. Thus, the
university is
saddled with the
delicate and difﬁ-
cult task of familiarizing new arrivals with the nuances
of campus life, not only on the social front, the most
pressing concern at the outset of orientation, but also
academics and athletics. On the whole, the university
does a respectable job, yet there is deﬁnitely room for
improvement.

Orientation can inform us of the basics of col-
lege life, from the polices of the Honor Code and the
three strike system to when the dining hall opens
and how the university card works. For the most part,
it does these things well.

These sorts of things are easily digestible in as-
semblies and organized discussions, and they must be
shared in order to make sure everyone is one the same
page. However, there remain certain things that, no
matter how hard the administration, upperclassmen,
and alumni spend and plan, just carmot be taught in an
assembly.

While I cannot blame the university for trying, I
can say that tolerance carmot be learned from a single
two-hour play. Dean of Freshman Dawn Watkins has
the right idea in spreading out these lessons over a
longer time period with the new Customs program, yet
only time will tell if students are willing to participate in
what can now only be called an experiment. I would not
expect it to succeed wildly at the outset; rather, it will
take at least a few years of ﬁne-tuning before it be-
comes an institution.

Neither can a slew of orientation programs auto-
matically instill a palpable sense of community. It does
not matter how many times speakers have issued their
numerous warm welcomes to the university commu-
nity or how many times we are all gathered in the same
room, I still feel as if I have a long way to go until I have
found my place at Washington and Lee.

I don’t have the fanatical devotion to the school that
I’ve noticed in alumni, yet then again, I haven’t had time
to get involved in the school affairs. While it is by no
means a failure on the part of organizers, it is just some-
thing that cannot be accomplished in such a short span.
Communities are built over time. Once again, the
attraction of an extended program becomes clear.

Yet as I’ve found, orientation doesn’t begin and
end with school-sponsored events. My greatest re-
source for knowledge of the “ins and outs” of W&L
has been informal conversations with upperclassmen,
such as dorm counselors and the brothers I meet at
fraternity parties. All have been helpful and willing to
talk with freshmen, and while it may seem like common
courtesy to them, it means so much more to an inse-
cure newcomer like me.

Additionally, there were the pre-orientation out-
doors and outreach programs, and while I regret not
participating in those events, I do know that nearly
everyone who participated took with them the valu-
able insights of their group leaders. Whether they real-
ize it or not, upperclassmen shape the freshman orien-
tation experience more than just about anything else.

Keeping that point in mind, it is clear that the Big
Brother and Big Sister pro gram is an aspect of orienta-
tion worthy of further attention. While I appreciated
what my Big Sister had to tell me, I wish that I had been
in contact with her sooner.

Other freshmen mentioned to me they never got in
touch with their Big Brother or Big Sister, which makes
me believe that the entire program could be in need of
(at best) a little more rigorous discipline or (at worst) a
comprehensive overhaul.

Ultimately, the lesson I learned from observing fresh-
man orientation is that oftentimes the informal means of
communication proved more useful than scheduled ac-
tivities. School-sponsored events can only go so far,
and it’s the one—on-one communication that the under-
classmen truly need during those ﬁrst few steps into life
at Washington and Lee. Because of all the support I’ve
received, I’m looking forward to a great four years here
with more anticipation than I ever could have expected.

" DOE—ETED FRESHMAN
ANDREW LATIMER ‘O5

TALKBACK: areour feelings about the new tailgate?  

“The food is deligh .”
-Peter Moore ‘03

“Iwishthatthereweremorepeople.”
-Thaxton Mauzy ‘02

“Best ever.”
-Pres. Boetsch ‘69

“Greatoppoitunityto socialize.”
-Austin Calhoun ‘03

-Anne Richey ‘O3

  

 

PAGE 4

- 

700 C lal9’s forum for hate

Religious right leaders Jerry
Falwell and Pat Robertson have the
tragic events of Tuesday all ﬁgured
out. Falwell joined Robertson on his
television program, the 700 Club, to
deliver a message that is among one
of the most frustrating things he has
ever uttered.

“I really believe that the pagans,
and the abortionists, and the
feminists, and the gays and the
lesbians who are actively trying to
make that an alternative lifestyle, the
ACLU, People for the American Way
—— all of them who have tried to
secularize America - I point the ﬁnger
in their face and say, ‘You helped this
happen.”’ That’s right, these two
believe that all those named have
forced God “to lift the curtain and
allow the enemies of America to give
us probably what we deserve.”

With Robertson sitting—in as
Falwell’s yes—man, nodding at every
uttered word, the two continued to
blame others.

Apparently the United States
federal court system and others are
also to blame for the secularization of
America as they continue to drive God
out of the public square. The
Constitutional protection of
separation of church and state
apparently doesn’t
matter. Abortionists
are to blame because,

“... when we kill 40
million innocent little
babies, we make God mad.”

Reaction to the comments thus
far has been anything but positive.
Ralph G. Neas, President of People for
the American Way called the remarks
“absolutely inappropriate and
irresponsible.” He went on to add that
the remarks were clearly against
President Bush’s plea for national
unity. A spokeswoman for the
American Civil Liberties Union said
the group, “will not justify the Falwell-
Robertson remarks with a comment.”
There has also been universal

LEEr OF CENTER , ,,

 
   

  

COLWITFSY C

J

AMEN! Falwell, well—l<nown religious blowhard, went too far in blaming the attacks on gays and abortionists.

disapproval and ‘outrage from
organizations representing gays,
lesbians, and pro-choice supporters.
Falwell continued to be
unrepentant later in an interview with
The Washington Post. The
conservative zealot stated the following,
“I put all the blame legally and morally
on the actions of the
terrorist/’But,

America s secular and

N1cEoLAsRAnsEY‘03 anti-Christian

environment left us
open to our Lord’s [decision] not to
protect. When a nation deserts God and
expels God from the culture . . . the result
is not good.” The White House,
however, did make a statement calling
the remarks, “inappropriate,” adding
that, “the President does not share
those views.”

Now these statements really
speak for themselves, but I, for one,
am outraged that two shameless,
judgmental men would push such an
agenda under these circumstances. I
cannot imagine even a small faction

of individuals that lost their lives in
this tragedy agreeing with the
statements of Falwell and Robertson.

I am even willing to push the
envelope on this and ask, how is this
different from Hitler blaming the Jews
for Nazi Germany’s woes? How does
this differ from Osama bin Laden and
his followers blaming America and the
rest of the Western world as the cause
of their problems?

In my view, these statements have
badly tarnished the reputation of the
religious right, and I am happy to see
the White House making a point to
separate itself from the statements.

What terriﬁes me the most is that
people turn to Falwell and Robertson
for religious wisdom and counsel.
Right now we are at a time when many
Americans are struggling to find
strong footing in their faith.

If anyone watching these two
were to agree with these statements
and jump on their bandwagon, it would
only be another life lost in what is
clearly the greatest American tragedy.

   

Representative Barbara Lee, Democrat of
California’s Ninth District, was the only Congressman
to vote “Nay” in Saturday’s roll—call vote to grant Presi-
dent Bush the authority to use “all necssary and ap-
propriate force” against terrorists. Her refusal to sup-
port America’s defense of freedom and Western civili-
zation has earned her the inaugural Coward of the Week
award.

The Senate voted 98-0 in support of the measure.

Late Friday, saying that “Far too many innocent
people have already died,” she made an made an im-
passioned plea for restraint, but
failed to sway a single one of her
House colleagues.

Representative Lee, who
serves on the House Committee on
International Relations, and has a
Masters in social work from the
 University of Cailfornia at Berke-

, RANK[N ley. Since her entry into Con gress,
Lee has been a strong advocate for diplomacy. She
joined in introducing legislation for the creation of a
U.S. Department of Peace as well as a Peace Academy,
which would provide a four—year curriculum in “peace
education.”

 

and of increasing humanitarian aid to the Communist

 

C1)L'RIF§YOFUI\HV’l-1?:SfIY(F(A:Allf(XLNlA ArBi=ru<nEY
LEFIY: Represenattive Lee serves California’s ultra—liberal Ninth District,
just east of San Francisco in the Berkeley and Alameda area. She

succeeded her former boss, Rep. Ronald V. Dellums.

New Yorker recounts her agonizing week after

Being from New York, with a sister in Washington,
D.C., this last week has been nothing short of agoniz-
ing. To take my mind off the last week, I was looking
through my photo album, ﬂipping through pictures of
the last couple of years, when I came across pictures of
my senior prom, held atop the World Trade Center.

Shot after shot of dolled-up faces smushed together,
and I remember shoving the camera into any unfortu-
nate, unoccupied passerby with the demand, “Take a
picture of me and my date. Make sure you get the view
in the background!”

It_ was a really big deal for us to have our prom
there, and that fact never escaped any of my class-
mates’ attention as we commemorated our final days of
high school dancing above the New York skyline.

Then I began looking through pho— 
tographs from the summer and stopped , I
when I found pictures from the =
Radiohead concerts held in Liberty
State Park, right in front of the Statue of
Liberty. Always a picture junkie, I had thrust my ille-
gally confiscated disposable camera into some alterna-
rocker’s hands: “Just get a picture of me with the Twin
Towers behind me.”

It’s especially hard for me to write about the attack
on America, because I generally try to convey my
article’s message with a mild infusion of humor. And
this week, when I was asked to write something, before
everything happened, this article was going to be about

  
    

the joys of living off campus, or something else of equal
consequence.

Existing in the proverbial W&L bubble never both-
ered me until this week, when I suddenly feel so far
removed from reality. When some-
thing like this happens, it is such a
painful exercise in putting things in
perspective.

Two nights before the attack, I
got pulled over (something new and
different), and my roommates said, “well, look on the
bright side, maybe your name will be in the paper.”

Two days later, the only thing I see in our country’s
media sources is an inﬂux of articles detailing every
angle of the tragedy. I was worried about a $30 ticket;

now there’s over 200 stories of debris

NQRTHERNER’s EXPOSURE filtering through the streets of New
KRIS POLLINA ‘03

York City.

My eighteen-year-old sister at
Georgetown calls me every Saturday
and Sunday morning so I can hear about her freshman
weekend transgressions. On Tuesday, as I repeatedly
attempted to call her, all I cared about was whether or
not she was alive. When I finally did get through, she
said the only window in her tiny freshman dorm room
overlooked the burning Pentagon.

I stared out the window of my own house and was
overcome with the frustrating sensation that it was dif-
ficult for me to really think anything I do is important,

. . . I came across pictures of my
senior prom, held atop the World
Trade Center.

LE1§lNG'l"CIN:
COFFEE
—-ITPT’ .

§':|'i"r.- .'IA‘fa}ffﬁl'a.-'a.5a?d‘.'q'_g.'

H$PRl3.'-ED -C.-'I.P'Pl.l'C'C'|l‘«lCI'- BN5lIl..S - l‘rll.|FFll*lS - '§.§l"-.C'l$5.r'u"'l'l'$
9 ‘r'|'P.‘5T WASIIDEGTDN STREET * LISliEf'n'G'l'U'N + -‘ill-ll-|5$${i

.“'— ,
,_._-.s.-_____--.__
,, .
.,_ . ' "
‘ha

I

+_ .

‘IE, -’.:.,.:.,..-: .._- .. ..
'*-‘_f.:..'..'.-.._-_-_I'_-.'__'._._' 

after watching the NYC skyline crumble to the ground.

Though I generally try to avoid waxing existential,
this calamity was like the straw that broke the camel’s
back in my overwhelming suspicion that perhaps my
complacent adolescent existence is
trivial.

helplessness, I think about VMI and
how they’re probably contemplat-
ing whether or not they’ll be de-
ployed to the Middle East by the end of the week, while
I’m mulling over a metrical analysis of Thomas Hardy
poetry.

It’s almost to the point where I feel guilty being
happy when I wonder how many of those World Trade
Center workers were handicapped and were physically
deterred from even the hope of escaping.

How many children have been
rendered orphans in the last week?
How can I afford to worry about
anything in my simple collegiate
realm when there’s a much greater
stake at hand?

Never in our country’s span of history has it seen
something like this. To be alive and, moreover, old enough
to be aware, during this time, disturbs me even more.

When my dad talks ad nauseum about the Vietnam
War, I can do nothing but nod in awe. Years and years
from now, when I’m relating this time to my own kids,

She championed the cause of being soft on Cuba 4

To aggravate my feelings of

How many children have been
rendered orphans in the last week?

MONDAY. SEPTEMBER 17. 2001

oward of the Week

Arr irregular feature of the l{2’;z,g»z‘///22¢ I9’/ii Opinions $%‘;.‘it‘.t'.l{)I3.

Representative Brbara Lee D-Calif.

    

Powwow: Rep. Lee meets with Al Gore, who also failed to meet the call of duty

island following her attendance in a
“citizen’s delegation to Cuba.” One
of her first actions in Congress was
to criticize the bombing of Iraq, say-
ing that the U.S. had a “special, ur-
gent need to exhaust all diplomatic ap-
proaches.” Apparently, the Gulf War
didn’t “exhaust all diplomatic ap-
proaches.” She also identified AIDS
and world poverty as national security issues, calling for
increased global aid to be offset by drastically decreased
defence spending.

In her speech on Friday, Representative Lee referred
to the Gulf of Tonkin resolution. Her vote puts her in good
company, with the only two dissenters in that vote, Sena-
tors Ernest Gruening D-Alaska and
Wayne Morse D—Ore.

Lee will also share history with
Jeanette Rankin, the first female mem-
ber of Congress and the only person
to vote against declaring war on Ja-
pan in 194]. Rankin also voted
against declaring war on Germany in
1917. She only served two terms, leav-
ing in 1943. Neither Gruening nor
Morse was re—elected following his “nay” vote. We hope
the same happens to Representative Lee.

Brett Kirzmm aim’ /l/7r/rem L,a/2)?/€110/zfrl/11/fed to f/Jff piere.

terrorist strike

they’ll probably do the same courtesy reaction.

And if I still have my old photo album, I can show
them pictures from my senior prom, and from the con-
certs at Liberty State Park, and it will probably depress
me even more then.

For now, I’m working on regaining my sense of
reality and abandoning my self—deprecating sentiments
of triviality, while still praying for those who were in-
volved firsthand.

Even as I reread this article, I realize how much I
have been taking for granted in my last twenty—and-a-
half years on this earth. While we will continue to mourn

GRUENING

MORSE

for those who have been affected by this senseless act ,

of terrorism, I keep trying to see a sliver of hope or
some degree of optimistic karma, perhaps in the way
that America has come together, perhaps as the life af-
firming implications of it all.

As Kevin Spacey said at the
end of American Beauty, “I can’t
feel anything but gratitude for ev-
ery second of this stupid life.”
Difficult as it may be to feel any-

thing but grief and vengeance, I do believe that ev- »

erything happens for a reason, and by the same to-
ken, everything works out for the best.

My heart goes out to anyone who lost someone,
and I hope that someday America can regain its sense
of reality, too.

God bless America.

trnrrrsraenurttzilleo.eve|.eonr

 

 

Tmmmuwm

 

  

W&LlFE EDITOR
EitiH;BiE\r\sA@\xiu.n1J

 

LIFE

A ‘. MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2001

   

:Amer1ca stands her ground

A

VVVVV!"?V?"’?’!"FVV"!

 

I4E‘-~.§‘~.4r‘'~4‘r'~¢

/

Ihﬂﬁﬁ t/'9-v"'v'\
Iv

 

I-

 

*T5L*‘'_~-F1-'! '*

is E... NELSON ST. LEXINGTON (540 A) 4454-4435

ON.-« M04104? NIGHT FOOTBA
r.~ 8~’8ALLTc9u‘RNEY
D.- LA’DIE$NIGl£T~ gaau.
H." KARAOKE
FRI: D.J.J‘(€}E
SAT.~ “DJ. MIX-MASTER M4343
sum.- NFL sun Y TICKET

In nun . -'u_ 4 u t. u -u-‘nu nu nu --n u ----.4 -I; n ---‘u--V | |||

9 wt 4
_‘:-'.i_

4}r}4&v3/-L4}*é»4 nyﬁ/.-'y'.i 4 M 4
~‘4-4_‘~..r~..-4

nu--. -I'|- unuuuu .-
-

 

i

 

 J l1wzf.: raafﬁonr‘ scrum‘ wimawrxrs 4

4

H.

 GREEN 'S%t=L44l"[1_'§4l-if) BAKE? _?CJ_l_'a=1_TE? 

‘I-

444;-rmvﬁia 9*"
gr _

-'-t
NNr~..r»‘-~.=_r--.1:-‘-~;-_~. N i'~.s--.5-~.-4

3

 

.,__.‘f...

I u
' -'--nu nu 4 cu u a nun: uuﬁu

‘K

  
 

/
XN\I\4‘_s\EtssP+4N¥3&\r\t\s§¢\t\¢\N\\V\\/

  
 

 

PAGE 5

Alumni Survivors

As reported to the Alumni Office, not an official or complete list of names

Nick Adler

Kris Ahrend
Edwin Allen
James Ambrosini
Virginia Apple
Jay Arnold
Meredith Attwell
Jim Awad

Scott Babka
Brian Bagdonas
Jeff Bailey
Marshall Barroll
John Battarazzi
Joyce Bautista
Aaron Beam
Pearson Beardsley
Alison Beardsley
Tom Becker
Darien Berkowitz
T. Blair

Jake Blumenthal
Bret Bowerman
Rolan Boyce
Justin Brady
Christine Bragg
Guy Brossy
Aaron Brotherton
Christopher Brown
Kim Brunson
Shep Buckman
Sascha Burns
David Buschman
Dave Butow
William Buxton
Robert Buxton
Chris Calton
Childs Cantey
Jessica Carter
Derek Caner
Christopher Cartmill
Rich Cassone
Erika Cassutti
Peter Cavalier
Brendan Chao
Richard Chapman
Roland Chase
Maureen Chase
Greg Chow
William Christ
Timothy Cleans
Tim Cleary

Gary Coleman
Jeff Cook

Josh Cook
Ashley Copps
Dana Cornell
Dan Cotter
Sean Cronin
Mark Crosby
Taylor Crothers
Jim Crutchﬁeld
Kevin Cumbus
Andy Cunagin

George Currall
Michelle Dawson

Richard deAlessandrini

Stephen DeLisle
Dave Demilt
Chris Dewhurst
Annamarie Dewhurst
Janet Doliveria
Ali Dominick
Charles Doumar
Mirella Dragleva
Patrick Driscoll
Anthony Dvarskas
Scott Dynan

Kip Ebel

Ryan Elliot

Mike Everitt
Adam Faillace
Meagan Fernstrum
Philip Ficks

John Fidler
Megan Fink

Chip Flanagan
Walter Foster
Key Foster
Courtney Fowler
Larkin Fowler
Jamie Fuller

Ann Fuller

Allen Gillespie
Kelly Gillespie
William Gilmer
Wesley Givens
Jonah Glick
Walter Goldewski
Ross Goldstein
Lynette Goodman
Keith Grant
Brian Greef

John Gula
Dayton Haigney
Henry Harrison
Erin Harrson
Grellan Harty
Josh Harvey
Christy Harvey
Laiiy Hautan
Sarah Hawkins
Geoffrey Haydon
Jed Hazlett

Mike Healey
Josh Herrity
Tom Hespos
James Hodge
Hollister Hovey
David Hunter
Eric Hunter

Julie Hwang
Andrew Jacobson
Jason Jenkins
Deena Johnson
David Johnson
Sarah Jones

J.P. Josephson
Ashlie Kauffman
Doug Kaufman
Gregory Kendrick
Joe Kerr

Mike King

John Kingston
Mark Kinniburgh
Shelby Lamar
Maynard Lanoux
Kristin Lawrence
David Lawrence
Jeff Lee

Carolyn Lee
Armistead Lemon
David Levinson
Hillary Lewis

Tina Locatelli
Charles Lockyer
Kristen Lockyer
Scott Lofranco
Suzanne Lucas
Carrie Luria
Robbie MacNaughton
Dana MacNaughton
Torn Maddi

Matt Malloy

Ken Manganiello
Doug Martinson
Gam Mattingly
Michael McAllister
Brennan McBride
Megan McCloskey
Mark McDannald
Dave McDannald
Sean McManus
Francis McWilliams
Ryan McWilliams
Erin Meeker
Gordon Meeker
Cathy Merritt
Mike Miles

Alden Miles

Liz Miller

Jason Miller
Danielle Mires
Mark Mitschow
Hui Chu Mon
Price Moncrief
Kathleen Moroney
Stacy Morrison
Brian Murtaugh
Meredith Mylnar
Tara Newell

Chris Noland
Trevor Norris

Jeff Nuckolls

Matt O’Brian
Andy Olmen
MarguerineOmdorf
Thomas Otis
Jennifer Owens
Keryn Paier

Peter Parker

Bill Parks, Jr.
Jessica Parrillo
Jenny Peil
Keith Pelt
Gwendolyn Perrilliat
Dana Petersen
Stephen Philipson
Blair Postman
Elissa Pruett
Billy Putnam
Colleen Quinn
Emily Ramey
Tyler Ratcliffe
Becky Rees
John Refo
Hilary Rhodes
Katherine Riddle
Dave Ridlon
Keith Rinn
Denis Riva

John Robinson
Elizabeth Rodd
Timothy Ronda
Steve Ross
Ashley Rowe
Chris Santora
Marc Santora
Jill Schatz

Laura Schramm
Scott Schroeder
Alex Sedgwick
Alyssa Sellers
Kelly Sewell
Andrew Shapira
Paul Shea

Ben Sherman
Crystal Simpson
Alex Skove
Kristi Slafka
Elias Smith

Tobi Smith
Scott Smith
Mason Smith
Marshall Snyder
Dansozomenu
Chris Spletzer
Vivian Stone
Courtney Stovall
Ben Swinburne
Nate Taylor
Keith Taylor
Jackie Terrebone
Chris Testrake
Matt Theodorakis
Jason Treat
Jamie Tucker

J ulieann Ulin
Nathan Urquhart
Tina Van der Steel
Peter Van Son
Laura Vaughan
Thomas Vinson

Andrea Wahlquist
Robert Walker
Lauren Walter
Amy Washburn
Bryan Watkins
Lauren Weedon
Mary Welder
Jim Wenke
Richard Whalen
Katherine Wheelock
Bruce Whipple
Matt Widener
Hunter Williams
Lindsay Wills
Lauren Willson
Ali Wilson

Kim Wilson
Edwin Wilson
Chris Wilson

An Wise

Amy Wood

Lee Wright
Stephanie Wright
Jon Wright
Geoff Wright
Jonathan Wright
Bob Wyckoff
Dorothy Yuan
Eric Zavolinsky

JEREMY FRANKLIN
SI>ORTs EDITOR
EMAIL: ERANI<LINj@\ruI.EDU

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17,2001 *

TEE R1; ?(’;§—~’l7t,‘%'l\’i PI-II

R... PORTS

Generals smoke Guilrd in home, ODAC opener I

 

Offense, defense click as W&L drops
Quakers 27-6 for first win of the year

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

Washington and Lee racked up 380 yards of
total offense and forced two key turnovers on
defense to knock off Guilford 27-6 in the teams’
Old Dominion Athletic Conference opener Satur-
day at Wilson Field.

Sophomore Peter Dean completed 20-of-34
passes for 227 yards, and junior Jay Thomas
caught eight of those for -124 yards. Junior Chris
Sullivan ran for 100 yards and one score, and
senior Marc Watson found the end zone twice.

“We’re trying to start a tradition where we
must not ever lose two in a row,” said W&L coach
Frank Miriello, whose team dropped a 34-3 deci-
sion to Johns Hopkins last week. “Whenever we
lose a game, we’ve got to come back with a ven-
geance.

“We’1l do whatever it takes not to lose, and
that’s what happened today.”

W&L’s defense limited Guilford to 201 yards of
total offense and made a pair of big plays to pre-
vent the Quakers from crawling back into the game.
Sophomore Tim Wells returned an interception 21
yards to set up a ﬁeld goal in the second quarter,
and senior Jeﬂ Bahl recovered a fumble in the fourth
quarter with the Generals nursing a 13-6 lead.

“They were moving the ball pretty well at those
points,” Bahl said. “It was important, especially
when the game was close, that we made a few big
plays on defense. When they’re trying to come
back and they turn the ball over, it just takes the
air out of their offense. The defense gets on their
heels, and that’s all she wrote.”

Mike Ketchum, in his 1 1th year as head coach
of the Quakers, believed his team made too many
errors to have a shot at winning the contest.

“We just made way too many mistakes to try
to win a football game,” he said. “Every time we
made a mistake, they capitalized on it beautifully.
Our biggest problem now is that we’re going to
have to ﬁgure out if we can play football without

Men’ssoccerworking upto

IN THE TRENCI-IE5: The Washington and Lee offensive line, one Of head coach Frank Miriello’s concerns for the team entering the 2001 season,
helped the Generals accumulate 380 yards of total offense Saturday against Guilfordjunior Chris Sullivan carried the ball 19 times for 100 yards
behind the lines run blocking, and sophomore quarterback Peter Dean threw for 227 yards and was sacked just Once.

making mistakes all over the place.”

Watson capped off a nine-play, 52-yard drive
with a TD run from six yards out and senior Brad
Wiginton hit a 25-yard ﬁeld goal to give the Gen-
erals a 10-0 first quarter lead. The Quakers then
drove down inside the W&L 10 to open the sec-
ond quarter, but Matt Sanders missed a 26-yard
ﬁeld goal.

Wiginton hit his second ﬁeld goal from 39
yards following Wells’ interception.

Guilford put together another long drive early
in the third quarter, but W&L stopped them in
the red zone and Sanders missed another ﬁeld
goal. After forcing a three-and-out, junior quar-
terback Oren Robinson threw a 16-yard TD pass
to classmate Chris McKinney.

The Quakers held on defense and got the
ball back in W&L territory. But Robinson

BY DAVE CROWELL



if lEI=I. RI\AsTA\ .v\/ The Ringtmi

fumbled on the second play of the drive, and the
Generals responded with a 60-yard drive and a
Sullivan eight-yard touchdown.

On W&L’s next possession, a 21-yard dash by
Sullivan and a facemask penalty got the Generals to
the Guilford 20. Two plays later, Dean completed an
18-yard pass to Thomas, and Watson then ran in for
the score from a yard out.

W&L stays at home but steps out of ODAC play
Saturday against Centre College. For now, though,
the Generals know that they took care of business
in their home and conference opener.

“We decided to push (the Hopkins game) aside,
and the ODAC season is the season that really
counts,” Bahl said. “We stayed relatively focused
and had a good game plan. It’s nice to get a win and
realize we have a talented squad. It was time to get it

going.”

Taffe scored her fourth goal of the

2000 championship form

BY GEOFF WHITE
SEORTs WRITER

The men’s soccer team faced two
challenges this week. They were un-
able to play to their full potential
against VMI, and fell victim to bad for-
tune in an overtime heartbreaker
against Averett.

The Generals won their ﬁrst home
game of the season Thursday, edging
outVM1 2-1. Sophomore Jacob Stoehr
opened the scoring for the Generals
12 minutes into the match, off an as-
sist from sophomore Philip Miller.

Less than a minute into the sec-
ond half, junior Brad Murphy took a
long pass from Miller and ran the ball
down the ﬁeld to beat VMI goaltender
John Simmons with a brilliant shot to
the far post. Although the goal was
ofﬁcially unassisted, Murphy gave
credit to teamwork.

“(Miller) created the play,” he said.
“I just made the run.”

Although they held the lead for
most of the game, the Generals’ play
was marked by several near misses.
VlVlI was ﬁnally rewarded for winning
several ball control contests when, in
the 64th minute of play, Austin Will-
iarns scored for the Keydets off an as-
sist from Jonathan Rios.

Despite the victory, coach Rolf
Piranian was far from happy with his
team’s performance.

“It was ugly,” Piranian said.
“We’re going to play better than this.
We’ve got to.”

The team came into Saturday’s
match in much better form. The Gen-

erals got on the board first, when
freshman Brian Pirkle dodged a de-
fender and stepped forward to beat
the goaltender with a low shot to the
far post.

Although this would be their only
goal of the game, the Generals passed
perfectly, cutting through a weak at-
tack and midﬁeld only to be denied by
Averett’s stingy defense. Junior Brad
Heam was outstanding in goal, mak-
ing two key saves late in the ﬁrst half.

Four minutes into the second half,
senior Generals defenseman Rick
Schnatz was called for pulling an op-
ponent down in the defensive box.
Averett was awarded a penalty kick,
and Chris Barocas scored the tying
goal. _

The Generals immediately set out
to regain the lead. Time after time they
attacked the Averett net, coming just
short of the go-aliead goal; several
shots sailed just over the crossbar.

VVith 15 minutes left in regulation,
Andrew Grimes put a shot past
Barocas. But the referee ruled the Gen-
erals offside, disallowing the goal.

The Generals owned the ﬁrst of the
two sudden-death overtime periods,
but were unable to convert. Three min-
utes into the second OT, Averett
sophomore Ake Soderstrom scored
off a throw-in to win the game.

“We didn’t convert,” Piranian said.
“We wasted a lot of great opportur1i—
ties.”

The Generals, now 1-1-1,open their
Old Dominion Athletic Conference
schedule with a road match against
Lynchburg on Thursday.

Volleyball wins Centre invite

FROM STAFF REPORTS

DANVII_.LE, Ky.—'lheWashington
andLeevolleyballteamirnprIovedto 8-1
by sweeping their ﬁve matches in the
Centre College Invitational.

The Generals defeated Centre,
LaGrange and Hollins on Saturday
and knocked off Rio Grande and
Emory and Henry on Sunday to win
the tournament.

Senior Lindsay Ruckeit was named
tournament MVP, and classmate Leslie
Fischbeckwasalsonamedtotheall-tour
narnentteam. '

FreshmanMichelleCnastairiposted 12
killsinW&L’s30-21,30-21,3021winover
Ceritre.l’<isthbeckliad10killsarrdsixblod<s

IntheGenerals’30-17,30-26,30-22vic—

tory overLaGrange, Ruckerthad 14kil]s
and nine digs.

TlietoumarnentMVPhad13ldllsand
ninedigsasW&LendedSaturday witha
30-2,30Z3,30-11winag,ainstHollins.Se-
nior Sara Heusel set a school record for
aoesinagarnewithseveninthethirdfrarne.

The Generals picked up where they
1eﬂotfwitha30-23, 26-30, 30-23, 30-23
win over Rio Grande on Sunday. Ruckert
ta1liedawhopping25 kills, andfreshman
Jennifer Lux had 52 assists.

W&L capped off the weekend and
securedthetouinarnentwinwitha21-30,
30-22, 30-20, 30-19 victory over Emory
and Henry.

The Generals the Wasps again
Wednesday when they open the ODAC
athome at6:30 pm

 

AssIsTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee field
hockey team christened their new
home on Saturday afternoon, playing
the first of many home games on the
$2.5 million W&L Turf Field. Despite
a furious late-game charge, the Gen-
erals fell to Randolph-Macon 4-3.

“It’s nice to get the ﬁrst one under
our belt,” coach Wendy Orrison said
about the inaugural home game. “I
think we assumed that we’d have a
huge advantage on the turf, but we
really didn’t during this game.”

Randolph-Macon took advantage
of a relaxed W&L squad with three
unanswered goals in the first half. Jun-
ior forward Mara Friedman scored
first for the Yellow Jackets with 16:30
to play. Randolph-Macon followed
with two more goals in less than 15
minutes.

“I was disappointed by Friday’s
practice,” Orrison said. “I don’t think
we practiced seriously and it showed
in that first half.”

Despite the problems before half-
time, the Generals (1-2, 1-1 Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference) gener-
ated a huge rally and put forth a great
second half effort. Sophomore Kelly

season with 21:50 left in the game.

Freshman Grace Barlow moved W&L
within a goal when she scored off an
assist from classmate Meredith Walker.

When Randolph-Macon scored
with 4:42 left in the game, the Yellow
Jackets placed W&L in a tough
spot: down two with relatively little
time left. But the Generals definitely
made. Randolph-Macon earn this
victory.

Sophomore Jessica Lake scored
with 2:20 left in the game and the
Generals threatened within the ﬁnal
minute, but the running clock ended
W&L’s chances.

“I was disappointed in the first
half, but very impressed by the play
in the second half,” the first-year
coach said. “So far, we’ve been a sec-
ond-half team, but we need to learn
to play a full 70 minutes.”

The Generals showed a similar
pattern on Wednesday afternoon,
but their late outburst overpow-
ered Hollins and the Generals took
a 3-1 victory, their first of the sea-
son.

After a scoreless first half, Hollins
struck first just 39 seconds into the sec-
ond half. The Generals trailed for the
next 15 minutes until Taffe started aquick

Women’s soccer icks up

IIE PHOTO

CONSERVATIVE TACKLE: Sophomore Heather Coleman attempts to steal the ball from Lynchburgs Amanda
Taylor in this Sept. 7 photo. W&L rebounded from a 41 loss to the Hornets with Old Dominion Athletic
Conference wins over Eastern Mennonite and Randolph-Macon. Lady General’s take on Bridgewater at
their next game on Tuesday, September 18 on the W&L fields.

Dean shines in second start under center for W&L I‘

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

Just several weeks before Frank
Miriello began his seventh season as
head coach of the‘Washington and
Lee football program, he faced a grave
problem.

Due to injuries suffered in 2000,
junior Bobby Littlehale and sopho-
more Zack
M c Q u i g g
weren’t playing
football this year,
leaving Miriello
and the Generals
with few options
at quarterback.

Enter sopho-
more Peter Dean, somewhere on
the depth chart at defensive back
last season.

“The middle of July, we don’t have
a quarterback,” Miriello said. “We
called Peter and said, ‘How about
moving over from defense to of-
fense?’ And he did.”

After throwing two late intercep-
tions in the Generals’ 34-3 loss to
Johns Hopkins on Sept. 8, Dean re-
sponded by completing 20 passes
in 34 attempts for 227 yards in
W&L’s 27-6 win over Guilford Sat-
urday.

“Peter has been just a wonder-
ful surprise,” Miriello said. “He’s
getting better every single day. Just
a wonderful performance (Satur-
day), so we’re really pleased with
Peter’s play.”

Eight of Dean’s 20 completions
were thrown to junior wideout Jay
Thomas. The sophomore quarterback
said he beneﬁted from Thomas’ abil-
ity to create without the ball.

 

“He was getting open,” Dean said.
“I was just putting it there. Sometimes
he was just so wide open, and I had
plenty of time.” 1

That time came from another of
Miriello’s preseason concerns: the
offensive line. The Generals must

feel a lot better after amassing 380 9

yards of total offense against
Guilford.

Part of that can be attributed
to junior Chris Sullivan, who ran
19 times for 100 yards and one
touchdown, and senior Marc
Watson, who rushed for 60 yards
and two scores. The presence of
those two in the backfield —— or,
as happens often, as a slot re-
ceiver — makes life much easier
for W&L’s signal caller.

“It’s nice (to have Watson and
Sullivan available), especially when

you run those are patterns,” Dean said. 2 V

“I throw the ball literally ﬁve feet, and

they just take off. It takes so much 4

pressure off, especially late -in the
game.”

Dean didn’t play a perfect game 1‘

Saturday, as the Generals scored just
one touchdown on three first half pos-
sessions inside the Quaker 10. That

included coming up empty just before 2’

halftime, thanks in part to an over-

thrown pass to senior tight end Will ,,

Wilson on second—and-goal from the
three.

“I was a little disappointed in not *1

being able to take that one in there,”
Miriello said. “We missed a golden
opportunity. We’ve got to work on
that, but that will come.”

If Saturday was any indication, )

Dean will provide the Generals with

success from both in and outside of “

the red zone.

Second half surge W&:

 

   

BALI. CONTROL: Washington and Lee junior Kathleen Gibson (15) attempts to scoop up a loose ball while

fending off two Randolph-Macon defenders in the Generals’ 4-3 loss Saturday at the W&L Turf Field.’

Sophomorejessica lake, who scored with 2:20 remaining in the game, looks on.

tliree- goal spurt with an unassisted goal
with 19:07 to play in the game.

Taffe also scored what turned out
to be the game-winner seven minutes
later, this time off an assist from
Barlow. Lake added a goal for insur-
ance with 10:15 left, assisted by fresh-
man Ali Santoro.

Senior Deidra MacLeod made

FROM STAFF REPORTS

The Washington and Lee women’s
soccer team earned its first victory of
the 2001 season with a 3-1 defeat of
host Randolph-Macon on Thursday
afternoon.

Freshman midfielder Martha
Allgood scored her first collegiate
goal a mere 2:38 into the game off
an assist from sophomore forward
Fontaine Marcoux. This gave
W&L a lead it would not relin-
quish.

Marcoux added a goal of her own
only eight minutes later, her first of
the season, to give the Generals a
2-0 lead before halftime. Fellow
sophomore Meghan Hayde assisted
on the score.

Senior midﬁelder and captain Kate
Bidwell scored her second goal of the
season late in the second half to build
a 3-0 lead. Randolph-Macon avoided
a shutout by scoring their lone goal
with 1:56 to play.

Freshman goalkeeper Emily
Barker made five saves and earned
her first collegiate victory for the
Generals.

seven saves in goal. "‘

“I think Kelly Taffe was awesome

and made a huge difference in both.q_

games,” Orrison said. “(Freshman) Kitt
Murphy and (sophomore) Maitena

Moure also played very well.” 1

Washington and Lee returns to ac-

tion on Wednesday with a 4:30 p.m. , K

home contest against Roanoke.

pair of road wins 1

In Saturday’s action, W&L con-

tinued their winning ways by dis- JD

posing of Eastern Mennonite 3-2 in

Old Dominion Athletic Conference A

play.
After the Royals struck midway
through the first half, sophomore

midﬁelder Heather Coleman scored ‘ “

less than two minutes later to tie the

game at 1-1. Marcoux and Hayde as-

sisted on the play.
Unlike the

game against

Randolph-Macon, the Generals faced 4

an uphill battle, as Eastern Menno-

nite scored a second goal before the-,4

end of the half. W&L, though,
quickly erased the deficit with two

quick scores only six minutes into the 2'

second half.
Senior Drew Powers tied the game
in the 48th minute and Bidwell added

the garne-winner for her third goal of y

the season. Marcoux assisted on both!’
goals to tie a school record for assists _
in a game with three.

She also accomplished the feat in

a game last year against Ferrum. J1

The Generals meet ODAC foe
Bridgewater in a 4 p.m. home contest

on Tuesday. 4,

 

l\/lI=HLSRIvAsrAvA/Tbe Rzr1gtumP}1i‘

V’

  
  
 

  

N1

,;.
P

2 3 MONDAY. SEPTEMBER 17. 2001

  
  

oro . .

- 5 HOME MEET: (Above) Senior Lucy Rankin runs in Saturday’s W&L Invitational. (Right) Sophomore

_’- ’ Andy Schorr, who won the men’s individual title, and junior David Hicks begin the race. (Below)
' ‘ Junior Burke Duncan won first-place honors in the women’s meet.



BY DAVE CROWELL
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee men’s and women’s
cross country teams played host to a field of six
teams Saturday at the annual W&L Invitational.
The women placed second and the men took third
place in a tough invite that saw Old Dominion
Athletic Conference foe Roanoke sweep the team
championships.

Junior Burke Duncan won her second race in a
row, following on the heels of her victory last week-
end at the Virginia Wesleyan Invitational. Duncan
ran the race in a time of 27:58.66.

“As captain this season along with Gretchen
(Tencza) I just try to lead by example mostly, by
giving 100 percent every practice, and keeping
people focused and spirited,” Duncan said.

Senior co—captain Tencza placed eighth in the
ﬁeld of 44 runners, ﬁnishing the race in a time of
22:24.53, and classmate Lucy Rankin ran the race
in 22:46.19, finishing 10th.

“Our team’s greatest strength is in its unity and
its focus,” Duncan added. “Every workout we put
in 100 percent because we know that to remain

‘Cross country provides optimistic run

1" Duncan, Schorr win individual titles at W&L Invitational as teams turn in 2nd, 3rd-p/ace ﬁnishes

ODAC champions we have to train harder than all
the other teams.”

In the men’s race, coach John Tucker received a
strong effort from his entire team, but especially
from sophomore Andy Schorr, who won the men’s
competition in a time of 27:58.66.

“Andy gained a lot of confidence on a slow
course on Saturday,” Tucker said. “He now knows
he can run with the best in the ODAC.”

Junior Will Teichman followed Schorr, placing
ninth out of 51 runners with a time of 28:55.40.
Senior Ken Jackman finished 14th on the home
course in a time of 29:26.85.

In the team competition, W&L finished third
behind Roanoke and DeSales University.

“We had a good team effort,” Tucker said. “We
improved but have a way to go. If we continue to
work hard though, we’ll be strong by the end of
the season.

“We have a very firm foundation on which to
build,” Tucker added. “I feel we have a legiti-
mate shot at third place, or perhaps second, in
the conference.”

The men’s and women’s teams return to action
on Sept. 29 at the Roanoke Invitational.

  

 

 

...........4.~...:.;a_.»-—..a.~«, . _

SATURDAY’S FOOTBALL YARDLINE,

W&L 27, Guiltord 6
Guiltord 0 0 6 0 — 6
W&L 10 3 0 14-27
First Quarter

W&L —— Watson 6 run (Wiginton kick), 7:00
W&L — FG Wiglnton 25, 2:13
Second Quarter
W&L — FG Wlginton 39, 9:02
Third Quarter
GC — McKinney 16 pass from Robinson (kick tailed), 2:24
Fourth Quarter
W&L — Sullivan 8 run (Wiginton kick), 10:27
W&L — Watson 1 run (Wiginton kick), 6:15

A —- 2,700
(30 W&L

First downs 10 17
Rushes-yards 36-129 43-153
Passing yards 72 227
Return yards 104 74
Comp-att-int 6-16-1 20-34-0
Sacked-yards lost 1-5 1-7
Punts-avg 7-339 6-355
Fumbles-lost 2-1 0-0
Penalties-yards 4-20 6-57
Time of possession 24:10 35:50

INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS

RUSH|NG—Gui|tord: Robinson 19-65, Ballard 8-38, B. Lockhan 6-19,
Smith 1-4, C. Lockhart 1-4. W&L: Sullivan 19-107, Watson 18-60,
Overstreet 4-12, Dean 1-(-7).

PASSlNG—Gui|tord: Robinson 6-14-1 72, Smith 0-2-0 0. W&L: Dean
20-34-0 227.

RECElVlNG—Guiltord: McKinney 4-57, Lamotta 1-11, B. Lockhart 1-4.

W&L: Thomas 8-125, Watson 5-43, Sullivan 3-39, Rankin 1-13, Overstreet
1-4, Callaham 1-2, Vltta 1-1. '

MISSED FIELD GOALS—Guilford: Sanders 26, 31. W&L:
Wiginton 19.

.--. .»..«.-—...—.u;-no ~». .....g»y-. .

R E R D Write for the Phi! Contact
W  y___ W SCO BOA JeremyFranklin at

W&L SCHEDULEZ SEPTEMBER 18-24 :’Xa‘C“iun§1“g‘JvC:l,:;g:“S‘:_f:)‘::i‘:1:;:,:rI1tS
Tuesday, Sept. 18 Sept. 22-24 ‘
Golf Women’s Tennis

Buck Leslie Invitational, 8:45 a.m.

Women’s Soccer
Bridgewater at W&L, 4 p.m.

Wednesday, Sept. 19
Field Hockey

Roanoke at W&L, 4:30 p.m.
Volleyball

Emory & Henry at W&L, 6:30 p.m.

Thursday, Sept. 20
Men’s Soccer
W&L at Lynchburg, 4 p.m.

Sept. 22-23
Men’s Tennis
W&L Fall Classic, 9 a.m.

ODAC FOOTBALL GLANCE
Team ’ Conference Overall
W L W L
Washington and Lee 1 0 1 1
Bridgewater 0 0 2 0
Emory and Henry 0 0 2 1
Randolph-Macon O 0 2 1
Catholic 0 0 1 1
Hampden-Sydney 0 0 1 1
Guiltord ' 0 1 1 2
Sept. 15 Results Week of Sept. 22
W&L 27, Guiltord 6 Bridgewater at Johns Hopkins
Randolph-Macon 43, Denison 25 Centre at W&L

Sewanee 20, Emory & Henry 13
Bridgewater at Christopher
Newport, ppd. '

W&L at Rolex Tournament (Mary
Washington), TBA

Saturday, Sept. 22

Field Hockey

W&L at Catawba, 11 a.m.
Volleyball

Randolph-Macon at W&L, 11 a.m.
Women’s Soccer

RMWC at W&L, 11 a.m.
Football

Centre at W&L, 1 p.m.

Men’s Soccer

W&L at Randolph-Macon, 2 p.m.

Monday, Sept. 24
Women’s Soccer
Sweet Brlar at W&L, 4:30 p.m.

Randolph-Macon at Catholic
Davidson at Emory & Henry
Hampden-Sydney at Guiltord

 

 

The Washington and Lee Cd_/)/X

University Yearbook

invites

all returning students

- to pick up their Can/x

by emailing the editor, Neal \X/illets (wi1letsr@vvlu.edu),

or by stopping by the Calyx office

during normal hours of operation

  
 

  ' I -

Be sure to register for Colonnade Connections www. alumniconnections.com/w/u

llmnctnss
Srunrurs

ALUMNI OFFICE and CAREER SER

invite you to be a part of the

atest Technological Achievement

Come to the Co-Op

on September 20th

’ between 10am - 2pm
and pick up your

registration packet and FREE GIF 

To be Continued . . .

l

 

    
 

9}‘

p (3
EMAILTHEPHI

THE .RlNG-~TU:\rI Pill HAVEANYQUESHONS?.¢

CRUITMENT “W
PAGE 8 ' MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2001*"
i 1

You can goto Ring-tum Phi staff meetings!

l

  Emfy Moﬂdqzy 42‘ 7:00 pm, 5/M779

 3 7 W/as/9z'n(g2‘oﬂ St, comer of _ E17515/9z'7¢<gz‘o7¢ cmderson   

/
/

  Anyone, regardless of c/cm orpreviom e><pm'eme ‘  

THE Rrxcrruivi PHI L ‘
Statewide award—w1nn1ng news coverage .
“Sophisticated, worldly, jazzy”  

Tl-ilifl R.IN(}-TUi\'il Pi-:l1i

PINION ,
Bhstering and brutally honest «  
“I can’t believe I read that”  "

W&tl“EEl“‘

Smiles are never far away with the softer side of news ‘  
“Sensational, sophisticated, sleek”  

TEE RilNG-TLEM Pl?-ll

PORTS    
The most comprehensive W&L sports coverage in history;

“My goodness, this is splendiferous”

  

THE Ri£NG-’fUMi PEI

AYOUT       3:

Work with the Evil Queen of Picas

“It’s crossed the line from dedication to obsession” '

* e

 

 

TI-:-' l~‘.I~.-- I’: .1‘?-=¢
TNSIDE
COW.-\Rl'J or ITIE  (D PAGE 4

I

 
   

 

orr. . . .at x.,\ r...
PHOTO COLIAGE (13 PA

  

R55“2—-
v. Idit
no.3

_.

HE

 

 

Vt

NGTo=.\' AND l..I:I-:I?'Ni‘\»"1iRSiITi

WASHINGTON AND  UNIVERSITY

 

NG-TUM

Niiaws
OI>INIoNs
\l{»"&l;II-"E
SRoRTs
24/7

SCOREB(_),»\RD

"-J i_\J  L1’! 1.).) [J

‘\’«:iI_I.'.\E2 (IEV, No. lil

i’.E:>;:NG:'o.\, VzRG:NI_A 2445[i

l\il0E\‘=DA‘t', S.r::>'I:s:DEER_ 24, 200i

HUNG TO DRY. About two inches of water covered the
second floor of Graham—Lees Thursday night.T0wels, rugs

MEG FERRARA/ Tlie Ring-tum Pii

and laundry lined the Graham—Lees courtyard and front
wall Friday, the only remaining signs of the ﬂooding.

, Permanent collection jars to be placed throughout campus and community

BY MEG HASTON AND lMRAN NAEEMULLAH
STAFF \X/RITERs

‘P Freshman Tran Kim taking ini-
tiative to help the country recover
from recent terrorist attacks. The
Richmond native is raising money for
the American Red Cross, which is

9

playing a large role in relief efforts in ._

both New York City and Washington,
D.C.
, “Seeing all the people that
died, all the families, it’s so tragic.
I didn’t like the feeling of being
o helpless,” Kim said.
With assistance from Dean of
Freshmen Dawn Watkins, she orga-
0 nized a relief fund drive on campus
because organizing an immediate
5 blood drive was nearly impossible.
The fundraiser, held last
Thursday in front of the Co-op,
Praised almost $900.
“During this kind of situation, you
V tend to feel so negative about the world

b

and pessimistic about human nature,”
said Kim. “Knowing that there are so
many good people who are willing to
be so generous with their time and re-
sources is very heartening.”

Fundraising efforts will con-
tinue indefinitely.

Collection jars will soon be
placed in locations such as Evans Din-
ing Hall, the University Center, local
stores, churches and the fraternity and
sorority houses.

Watkins will write the Red Cross
one large check for the combined efforts.

“It has been a pleasure work-
ing with Tran,” she said. “I was ex-
cited to see a freshman step out and
work hard on this project.

“She is surely an asset to the
Class of 2005 and Washington and
Lee University.”

Kim informed the campus of
the many blood drives held in
nearby cities and towns in the days
following the tragedy.

1AA chapter meets
-on W&L campus

. Meetings provide students help for addiction

BY DAPHNE TRAINOR
STAFF WRITER

Q A local chapter of the nationwide
Alcoholics Anonymous organization
Q. has added itself to the list of services
devoted to the well—being of W&L’s
Q student body.

Those interested now have the
option of attending meetings at
Fairfax Lounge.

Alcoholics Anonymous is an
international organization for men
‘ and women struggling with a drink-

ing problem. Membership is open

to anyone.
1 According to the organization’s
website, AA “is nonprofessional,
p self—supporting, nondenominational,
multiracial, apolitical, and available

5 almost everywhere.”

There are no age or education re-

. quirements.
Although AA was already pro-
viding services in the Lexington-
' . Rockbridge area to students as well
as community members, this is the
Q first time that meetings will be held

V on campus.
g The organization’s meetings
have been well received by many.

Junior Will Coffman, the only
p student member of the Alcohol
Task Force established last year,
said AA meetings are an option

It

 

 

open to those who think they may
need help.

“(The meetings) are a good
outlet for anyone who thinks they
need to go or who just wants to see
what (the meetings) are like,” he
said.

Although the Task Force was
not directly responsible for bringing
the AA meetings to campus, it had
previously recommended an in-
crease in substance-control options
on campus.

The Task Force lends its full sup-
port to the meetings.

W&L Health Educator Jan
Kaufman, the driving force be-
hind these meetings, considers
AA to be an excellent resource
for “students [who] are unsure
whether or not they have a prob-
lem or are concerned about their
level of drinking.”

Kaufman said the meetings can
help identify whether an addiction
problem exists or not.

“Attending a few meetings will
provide the answer to the question ‘am
I addicted?”’ she said.

While some say that the
University’s focus has been on pun-
ishment and regulations, the addition
of AA meetings on campus draws the
focus back to the students them-
selves, Kaufman added.

Students will have an opportunity
to donate on campus next month. Chi
Psi fraternity will sponsor a drive in
the Doremus Gym on Tuesday, Octo-
ber 23, from noon to 6 pm.

This drive should be the first of
several, said N abor’s Service League
President Carroll Thompson.

“NSL is fullywsupportive of
(the blood drives),” Thompson
said. “This is something
that...seems especially important in
light of recent events.”

But collections and blood drives
aren’t the only campus efforts.

Last Wednesday, Evans Dining
Hall sponsored “Skip a Meal,” a pro-
gram that donates the money other-
wise spent on meals. Greg Pearce,
associate director and executive chef
at D—Hall, said the participation of
460 students raised approximately
$1035 earmarked for the Red Cross.

For more information on how to
help, call 1-800-HELP NOW.

 

BY ALISON TRINIDAD
NEWS EDITOR

Three freshmen toss-
ing a football on their
dorm hall accidentally
knocked out a sprinkler
head last Thursday, ﬂood-
ing the second floor of
Graharn-Lees.

“We were trying to get
a hall-length pass,” fresh-
man Trent Hawthorne said.
Hawthorne, who was on
the receiving end of the
pass, jumped into his room
for towels after the water
began rushing out.

The incident happened
at about 9:30 pm in the se-
curity-side of Graham—Lees,
alsoatfecting someﬁrst—ﬂoor
rooms. No one was injured
and the only damages re-
ported included soaked rugs,
towels and laundry.

Junior Dan Tortora,
the hall’s dorm counselor,
was in his room watching a
movie when he heard some-
thing that sounded like a
ﬁre extinguisher going off.

 

IFreshmen ﬂood Graham-Lees

,“The sprinkler head
was shooting out a nasty,
smelly, gray water,” he
said. “You could barely
see because of the trust. It
smelled like a rainforest.”

Tortora immediately
called University Security
and the Physical Plant.

Hawthorne said
someone from the Physical
Plant tried to turn off the
streaming water by hitting
the sprinkler head.

“The (Physical Plant)
guy hit the sprinkler head
with a doorstop or some-
thing to try and divert the
water,” Hawthorne said,
“but then it came out
three— or four-tirnes worse,
all on his head.”

“It was a mess,” said
Director of University
Security Mike Young. “It
took a while to shut off
the water.”

Young said the water
continued to pour even
after the water valve was
shut because the water on

SEE FLOOD, PAGE 2

:Student coordinates relief effot

 
   

MEG FERRARA/Tire Ring-tum Pliz‘

HELP! Tran Kim (right) sits outside the Co-op to collect
money for the New York and Washington, D.C., relief
efforts. Kim, a freshman, organized a relief fund with help
from Dean of Freshmen Dawn Watkins. Proceeds will go

to the American Red Cross.

W&L CRIME STATISTICS

Burglaries

994 1995 1996 1997 1998

 

1999 2000 2001

Drug Violations

994 1995 1996 1997 1998

 

1999 2000 2001

Liquor Law Violations

655
65
645
64
63.5 ~
63
625
62
615
1997

1998

1999

 

2000

2001

BY MIKE AGNELLO
AssocIATE EDITOR

Students frequenting the Snack Bar or GHQ
are finding higher prices and fewer choices.
Both campus dining locations have
trimmed their menus and raised prices to cover
costs. The GHQ drastically reduced the num-
ber entrees, offering fewer than 10 items. The
GHQ lost nearly $50,000 last year. Dining Ser-
vices Director Gerry Darrell estimates that
W&L’s only choice for restaurant-style dining
lost more than half of its business to meal plans
at the new sorority houses. As a result, only the
most popular items, such as the Colonnade Club
Sandwich, were kept.
Darrell added that the cuts were necessary
to keep the GHQ open, and that a few new items
were added.
“We were really getting hammered,” Darrell
said. “There was talk of closing the GHQ, and
we came up with the menu to allow us to reopen.”
Junior Myles Svendsen cats at the GHQ
several times each week. Svendsen said he was
shocked by the reduced menu size.
“There’s basically nothing on the menu
now,” Svendsen said.
Dining Services has also attempted to boost
the number of GHQ patrons. Last year, fresh-
men were allowed to eat one meal per week in
the GHQ. This was raised to three per week
after last year’s losses.
The Snack Bar has also felt the squeeze
of dining services. Specialty items, such as the
black bean burger, were removed from the
menu. Prices have also gone up-10-20 cents

VMI cade s  
assault PiKA

BY JONATHAN WORTIIAM
STAFF WRITER

Virginia Military Institute cadets attacked two Wash-
ington and Lee students and one alumnus early Saturday
Sept. 15 at Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity, witnesses said.

Scott Hook ‘00 said two plain-clothed males
“mooned” the PiKA house through the living-room win-
dows at around 2 a.m. Several sophomore PiKA brothers
went outside to assess the situation. Hook followed.

PiKA had a party earlier that evening, which was bro-
ken up by the police. The house was almost empty and
campus security had left before 2 a.m.

Hook said he and his sopho-
more brothers shook hands with the
men, who introduced themselves as
VMI cadets. Soon after, a cadet ran
through the group and started swing-
ing atone of the PiKA sophomores.

Hook took a step toward the
ﬁght in confusion, he said, and was
slammed against the house mother’s
door. After having his head knocked
against the door, Hook fell to the
ground unconscious. Witnesses say
that the cadet who was beating the sophomore PiKA
dropped him to begin punching Hook in the head.

There are still bloodstains on the house mother’s door.

Hook was treated at Stonewall Jackson Hospital for
a fractured jaw and a lost tooth. His jaw is wired shut,
forcing him to drink from a straw for the next six weeks.
Hook worked as an event marketer, where he visited col-
leges to talk and distribute pamphlets. Since he is unable
to smile and talk to people, he had to quit.

Later that morning, W&L junior John Polena, a PiKA
brother, was also attacked by plain-clothed cadets behind the
Beta Theta Pi fraternity house. He lost two front teeth and was
treated at Stonewall Jackson Hospital, where he saw Hook.

Hook, who worked in New York City and witnessed
the World Trade Center attack, said he came to Lexington
to take a break from the chaos.

“I would never ﬁght anyone in a million years,” he
said. “There’s no reason to do it, especially after 5,000
people died only three days before.”

VMI Public Relations Director Chuck Steenburgh
said that he was not aware of this speciﬁc situation.

“Any conduct that discredits VMI and the Corps of
Cadets is taken very seriously,” he said. “Both the Corps
of Cadets and VMI have their own methods of discipline,
and both are equally serious.” '

When asked what punishment would be rendered
in a scenario like this one, Steenburgh said that he
could not comment.

The case could go before VMI’s Officer of the Guard
Association, in which the likely punishment would be four
months of confinement and other service duties, said a
VMI first classman (senior). It could also go before the
Honor Court, the Corps’ highest disciplinary board. If

Scott Hook ‘00

SEE PIKA, PAGE 2

Dining services
cuts menus, services

on most sandwiches and 10-30 cents on spe-
cialty drinks such as Stewart’s sodas. Pizza was
raised from $1.50 to $2 per slice. Snack Bar
Manager Jeff Lynn said all increases were
small, and were necessary to offset price in-
creases by suppliers.

“All increases are a direct result of price
increases to us from our vendors,” Lynn said.

Some students were upset about the re-
duced selection of healthier items such as the
black bean burger and turkey burger. Sopho-
more Joe Mueller, a vegetarian, said he almost

ate at the Snack Bar.

“I was kind of upset about it,” Mueller said.
“It’s nice to have more choices.”

Although the price increases and smaller
menus might be necessary to cover costs, Din-
ing Services cannot explain their huge markup
on wholesale prices. Lynn admitted that the
Snack Bar charges 50 percent over cost for sand-
wiches and prepared food, and anywhere from
60-80 percent over cost for snacks. By contrast,
Stop In Convenience Store charges approxi-
mately 30 percent over cost. A Nature’s Valley
granola bar, which costs 75 cents at the Snack
Bar, can be bought for only 49 cents at Stop In.

Dining Services Associate Director Gre-
gory Pearce said dining services takes great care
in pricing its selections, and that such dispari-
ties in price are rare.

“I’d say that across the board, you get bet-
ter deals with us,” Pearce said.

The university requires that dining services
must make more money than is necessary to

SEE FOOD, PAGE 2

    

 

 

always ordered the black bean burger when he A

  

  

PAGE 2

PIKA from page 1

found guilty, the cadets would be expelled. Due to restric-
tions of double jeopardy, only one board can try the case.
The first classman said the incident has been “hush-
hush” around barracks. He said the cadets responsible
have high-ranking friends in the regiment.
“Somebody’s lying, because the stories are differ-
ent,” the first classman said. He asked not to be identiﬁed.
PiKA President Brendan Malone said his fraternity

NEWS‘

um$wAh%

will not risk any future incidents.

“No VMI [cadets] will be allowed in our parties from
now on,” Malone said.

Hook sent a letter to University Security Director
Mike Young, W&L Acting President Larry Boetsch and
VMI Commandant Col. Eric Hutchings, asking for help in
identifying the responsible cadets. Young forwarded the
letter to Lexington Police Department, which has a sepa-
rate investigation pending.

Alison Trinidad also contributed to this story.

FOOD from page 1

The university requires that dining services must
make more money than is necessary to cover costs. Din-
ing services sets a goal to meet all its costs and return an
extra 10 percent to the university. Pearce said these mon-
ies are not proﬁt.

“lt’s more like a contribution,” he said.

Pearce cited the attempts to keep the GHQ open,
new menu items and the new meal plan options as ex-
amples of dining services going the extra mile for stu-
dents.

“We in Dining Services are committed to serving
(students’) needs,” he said.

FLOOD from page 1

reserve had to empty. He said the re-
served water smelled badly because
it had stood so long in the pipes.

Tortora said two guys had
stripped to their boxers within 10
minutes of the rupture and dove
into the water. Female freshmen
from the third ﬂoor came down with
cameras, he said.

A group—effort clean-up had tow-
els hanging out to dry the next day.

“It was really cool, because the
whole dorm came with mops to help

out,” Hawthorne said. “At least a
dozen people were pushing mops. The
girls from the third ﬂoor started a towel
collection for the guys.”

Both Dean of Freshmen Dawn
Watkins and the Physical Plant sys-
tems director carne to help clean up.

“Dean Watkins was soaked,” said
freshman Jesse Cook.

Cook was taking a Spanish
test in his room when the sprin-
kler broke.

“Black water just started pouring
under the door,” he said.

Cook waited until the water

had subsided before leaving his
room and, instead, blocked his
door with a towel and a load of
laundry. He said Tortora instant
messaged him to make sure every-
thing was all right.

As of yet, no disciplinary action
has been taken. Young said Security
knows has not had a chance to speak
to the responsible party. Tortora said
the freshmen are apologetic and
should not be punished harshly.

“It was just a bunch of guys play-
ing football,” he said. “We’re going
to play lacrosse from now on.”

 

Laptop stolen

Two weeks ago a computer was stolen from sopho-
more Corinne Mathieu. Her Dell laptop was taken from her
carrel at Leybum Library, a facility continuously open to
the public.

Last year there were 17 burglaries into locked facili-
ties, in addition to the theft of 18 bicycles left unlocked
and unattended.

Director of Security Mike Young credits the
university’s strong honor system with such low numbers.
However, most thefts occur where the public has access.

Young warns, “If it’s important to you, don’t leave it
alone!”

Alumnus to speak on investing

Bill Miller ’72, CEO of Legg Mason Funds Manage-
ment Inc., will deliver a public address entitled, “The Out-
look for the Economy and the Market After the 11th of
September.”

Miller is regarded as one of the best mutual fund manag-
ers in the country: His fund is the only one to return higher

MONDAY. SEPTEMBER 24. 2001

proﬁts than the S&P 500 every year for the last decade. He
will also lecture during

The free lecture, sponsored by the Commerce _‘ '

School, will be held tomorrow night at 7 :30 in Lee Chapel.

Women’s leadership conference

Smith College is hosting the National Collegiate
Leadership Conference for Women on October 12- 14 in
Northampton, Mass. The conference is open to all col-
lege women interested in leading sports, government,
residence life, diversity groups, community service and
religious organizations. For more information contact 1

Amanda Adams, adamsa@wlu.edu. A

GASD formed 

Students disappointed in the effectiveness of Live 5

Drive and Safe Ride may soon have an alternative to get
a ride on weekend nights. Several students formed a

committee to replace Live Drive and Safe Ride with a 

single organization, Generals Advocating Sober Driv-

ing, or GASD. tg '

Members of the committee said they want to pro-
vide detailed maps of off—campus party locations so
that no student will have to worry about getting a ride.
Currently, students often cannot get rides from many

off-campus locations and wait as long as twenty rnin- 4

utes for the Live Drive or Safe Ride vans to show up.
The committee is trying to promote the organiza-
tion and receive funding from the university.

CRIME REPORT

The last issue incorrectly stated 1

Wednesday, Sept. 19

Hit and run. Car parked along Citations:
duPont Hall tagged between 12:30
p.m. and 4:30 p.m.

Noise violation. Sigma Alpha
Epsilon Fraternity.

Week of Sept. 10-16

1 Drunk in public
4 Minor in possession

Information provided
by Unversity security.

that work study wages were tax
free.The IRS regards work study‘
wages as taxable earnings; however,

to reach the first tax bracket.

Phi to accurately report the news. We

fact errors to phi @ wlu. edu.

in

CORRECTION g

most students do not make enough ‘a
It is the policy of the Ring- tum*

encourage our readers to report any‘

     

advertising works.
this

with

you're reading aren't you?
the Phi.

details.

advertise

Call 462-4060 for

wetlnestlav. santemher 26. 2001
9:00 II.m.

Jbinusfouranrfirstdeintell

      

2%];

eta»
'Ibday I
8 p.m..—Classics Club

movie. “Spartacus.” Com-
mentary by Prof. Miriam
Carlise. Northern Auditorium

8:30 p.m.—Java at the
GHQ. Open mic night.
'Iliesday,Sept.25

3 p.m.—Lect11re. Chris
Sautter, “The Florida Vote
and the Future of Re-
counts.” Moot Court-
room, Law School.

5 p.m.—Galler Recep-
tion. “Drawing Italy:

    
 

7



W&L Student Work from
Spring Term Abroad.”
duPont Gallery.

7 p.m.——SLAC/BARC
meeting. Science Center 214.

7:30 p.m.—Speaker.
William H. Miller III ‘72,
president of Legg Mason
Fund Advisers and portfo-
lio manager, Legg Mason
Value Trust. Lee Chapel.

7 p.m.——Student
Technology Training.
PowerPoint Presentation
Software. Tucker Multi-
media Center, Room 408,
Tucker Hall. To register,
go to
tmc.wlu.edu.

http://V

8 p.m.—Lenfest Series.
Garth Fagan. Keller Theatre,
Lenfest Center.
Wednesday, Sept. 26

7 p.m-—0uting Club info
session. Outing Club House.
Thursday, Sept. 27
Yom Kippur.

8 p.m.——Independent
women. Fall intramural sports
info session. Doremus, 500-
level classroom.

Friday, Sept. 28

7:30 p.m.— Film Soci-
ety. “Croupier” (England,
1998). Directed by Mike
Hodges. In English. Not
rated by the MPAA. Trou-
badoirr-Cinema.

BIIIIIII 326
90|llIllBI'GB SGIIIIOI

Saturday, Sept. 29
10 a.m.—Mountain
Biking. Pedlar ATV Trails.‘
Outing Club House.
Noon—KA/Theta,
charity carwash for NY,
D.C. victims. $5, cost. 12-4
p.m. Freshmen parking lot. ’
7:30p.m.—F1lm Society. ,
“Croupier’ ’ (England, 1998).‘
Directed by Mike Hodges. In
English. Not rated by the?
MPAA. Troubadour Cinema.
Sunday, Sept. 30 *
7:30 p.m.—General’s
Christian Fellowship. “Be the
Unexpected.” Lee Chapel.
Email events to

phi@wlu.edu. .

‘V

5

If

is

 

 

6’i

 

  

’ MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 24,2001

 RlN{}—Ti at PIE

TAFF EDITORIAL

W&L’s next president, and
why students shouldn’t
expect to help select him

Members of the student body rightly com-
plain that they have little to no inﬂuence in the
selection of Washington and Lee’s 23rd presi-
dent. The “listening forums” held in Lee Chapel
are open jokes. The president should be “hon-
est,” “fair to fraternities,” “understanding.” Not
much to argue there.

Including one undergraduate on a faculty-
dominated Presidential Search Committee is a
token gesture. Reminiscent of the Alcohol Task
Force, that single student is adrift in the cur-
rents of professorial and administrative agen-
das, with minimal power to steer the process to
student interests.

Besides, no matter how inﬂuential a student
 could be, how can he begin to adequately repre-
. j  sent his 1700 undergraduate peers? And could the

. Board of Trustees afford for him to represent us?
I Consider the president’s duties. As Presi-
 dent of the Corporation of Washington and Lee,
_ he is its chief executive ofﬁcer. He is the only
‘  member of the Board of Trustees who does
,, not need to seek reelection after ﬁve years, or
is limited to two consecutive terms. He is ex
oﬁicio chairman of the faculty and appoints
and is a consulting member of its committees.
W And ﬁve deans, three directors, two vice presi-
i dents, and the university counsel report to him.
From admissions to discipline, the Presi-
 dent can mold the student body, encouraging or
; discouraging certain types of behavior--say, al-
:14 cohol consumption.

It is very possible that the Board will look for
an enforcer to lay down the law for the new al-
cohol policies. There are precedents. Many be-
‘ lieve that Dean of Students David Howison was
f brought in to strong-armthe Fraternity Renais-
I sance.

 And it is not merely for convenience that we
 have been using the masculine pronoun. We can
be almost certain that the next president will be a
. married white Protestant male, over ﬁfty, from an

ing wrong with any of this. We’re just not expect-
ing anything else. And since the ofﬁce demands
national standing, expect a politician who has never
been publicly wrong or inconveniently right.

TEE li.ti\lG~"i”Ulrt Phi

Uitiii i i. l'\il\\mi\
OPINIONS EDHUR
El\tIAII.'l<lR\ltlii‘\rl3@\l(/Ill.lEl)U

PINIONS

W’s masterful spech inspires

I hope that Americans, on both
sides of the aisle, now realize that they
elected a strong, decisive, purpose-
ful President. George W. Bush is cer-
tainly the right man for the job. Even
his worst detractors and harshest crit-
ics must acknowledge that his ad-
dress to the nation on Thursday night
was a brilliant performance.

Without question the best—deliv—
ered speech of his career, Thursday’s
address should be remembered by
history as a deﬁning moment in Ameri-
can oratory. The content was beauti-
fully written, both forceful and fair, de-
livering a strong message, expressing
sympathy for the victims, and boldly
announcing America’s firm resolve to
defeat the terrorist threat.

He was resolute. “Our grief has
turned to anger, and anger to resolu-
tion.” Expressing both sorrow and
esteem for the fire and police men who
gave their lives, Bush told Americans
that we must refocus our energies to
ensure that this never happens again.

The speech was constructed to
answer America’s questions. Why did
this happen? “They hate what they
see in this chamber: a democratically
elected government.” Bush attempted
to put in understandable terms the
sheer madness that would drive some-
one to commit such an act. He ex-

 

<rxrmsYc1=ABt;Nnvs(n\i
THE ROCK: President Bush shared his conﬁdence, resolution, and grief with America.

upperclass. background. Certainly tl1er.eis.nQth-., I

plained that, “They hate our free-
doms.”

How are we going to respond.
The President pointed out that,
“Americans should not expect one
battle, but a lengthy campaign unlike
any other we have seen.” This war is
not about revenge. America has no
bloodlust and our military will make
every effort to avoid civilian casual-
ties. That is why the
President delivered
our demands to the
Taliban. They had
they option to end
this war without any further blood-
shed. Instead, they have chosen to
reject out proposals for peace and “will
share in their fate.”

There have been and will be no
hastily designed missile attacks to
placate those calling for blood. The
President has directed our military to
conduct an operation that will not end
until terror is exterrninated.

RIGHT or THE AISLE
 America’s resolve

The best line came about halfway
through. ‘”I'hey’re heirs to all of the mur-
derous ideologies of the twentieth cen-
tury. By sacriﬁcing human life to serve
their radical visions, by abandoning
every value except the will to power,
the follow in the path of fascirn, Nazism,
and totalitarianism. And they will fol-
low that path all the way to where it
ends in history’s unmarked grave of dis-
carded lies.”

The President
yet again announced

and, simultaneously,
drew a line in the sand between our
righteous campaign for justice and the
despicable attacks on innocent civil-
ians. Moreover, he reassured Ameri-
cans by comparing the al Qaeda ter-
ror network to the enemies we have

faced in _the past. Although hidden,

there exists an enemy that we will seek
out an defeat no more definitively
than we defeated the Nazis or Impe-

rial Japan. Bin Laden is not that dif-
ferent from Hitler or Tojo; we will ﬁnd
him and he will be killed.

What was most noticeable, and
most meaningful, however, was the
honesty with which the speech was
delivered. President Bush truly
meant every word, and the tears that
welled up in his eyes when he held
aloft the policeman’s badge were
not for show, but were a genuine
display of emotion.

Unlike his predecessor, who
would have bit his lip and professed
that he felt our pain, President Bush
truly does sympathize. His emotions,
his concern, his anger, and his reso-
lution, came through in his speech
and no one doubted their genuine-
ness.

After President Bush’s address,
America can be certain that the ter-
rorism will be exterminated. As he said,
“We will not tire, we will not falter and
we will not fail.”

OTE OF THE WEEK:
at
‘L I’M NEVER REALLY HUNG
R OVER ANYMORE. I MEAN, I
D‘

I AM, BUT NOT LIKE DURING

t FRESHMAN YEAR.
-- SOPHOMORE GIRL TO FRIEND

Editor-in-chief MatthewB.McDemiott

 Associate Editor Mike Agnello
r News Editor Alison Trinidad
0 Asst. News Editor Latrina Stokes

F Opinions Editor B1-ettT_Kii-wan
 Asst. Opinions Editor Andrew A, Latjmer
W&Life Editor Amy Blevins
SPOITS Editor Jeremy Franklin

 Asst. Sports Editor Dave Ci-owell

V} I-WOW‘ Edl70r KatieJ.Howell

‘ Photo Editor Mai-yGuy

, ‘.3 Photographer MegFen-ara

Business Manager Paul Seifert
Asst. Business Manager William Litton
 Circulation Director Charlie Tonelli

,‘ The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editor-in-chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be in the University
Center, by 5 pm on Friday to appear in the following week’s
edition. The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submis-
sions for content and length. Letters and colunms do not
reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi.wlu.edu

L Annual Subscription Rate: $30

Letters to the Editor

America must respect mosques, etc.

Dear Editor,

I disagree with Kirwan’s statement that “externiinat—
ing” those responsible for terrorism must inlcude,
among other things, destroying their places of worship.
In fact, destroying their places of worship is a danger-
ous move as it could possibly be interpreted by the
Islamic world as an anti—Muslim statement. ‘Instead, let
us show that we understand the difference between
Islam as a religion and the terrorists who happen to be
Islamic, and leave the places of worship alone. Destroy-
ing mosques is analogous to destroying churches
because the KKK claims to be Christian. Places of
worship are sacred expressions of human spirituality
and as such should be respected.

Sincerely,
Julie Fitzer ‘O3

Student recalls friends who perished in WTC

Dear Editor,

On August 28, as I was departing from my ﬁrst visit to
New York City, in Penn Station, I noticed a Jew in traditional
dress, a Hassid I think, and I watched him for a few seconds as
he descended an escalator.

Iremember thinking to myself that if only we could under-
stand why this man is what he is, why he goes this way and
not that, why he wears black and not white, then we would
know everything. But that was an idle thought, probably
extraneous to what I’m trying to say.

A few days before I was at a family friend’s house in New
Jersey having dinner with a New Yorker, a Jewish man, and his
wife. Idrankbeer, and everyone else drankwine. The man was
what you could call stereotypical, and he reminded me of the
scene from Annie Hall. He’s a real Jew, I thought to myself.

Maybe I’m a bigot for thinking that, but I did, and there’s

TALl<BAc1<:

 

 

“Chicken ﬁngers rock

 

no use getting away from the truth. He was affable and gre-
garious, and we discussed his daughter’s lack of academic
direction, the frustrations of working in large corporations,
and the beauty of the Semitic languages. He showed us the
pictures from his family’s trip to India. I found out a few days

ago that he worked in the World Trade Center and did not,

escape.

And yet much dearer to me is my friend and brother James
Gadiel, newly employed in the ﬁrm of Cantor Fitzgerald, of
whom my memories are all happy. I didn’t meet up with James
in the city; he was an entry—level broker and didn’t have much
time, I guess, but then I didn’t really try. The last time I saw him
was Fancy Dress. We ate at the same table, he and Mary side
by side as usual.

Of these three Jewish men, the ﬁrst will remain unknown
to me; the last two are brought together in a mountain of
destruction. I was going to end this by saying goodbye to the
dead in their ancestral tongue.

But the only word I know for that is Shalom, which I think
also means “peace,” something that was robbed from them in
their ﬁnal moments, and that may not be afforded to us who
carry on the memory of these days.

Sincerely,
William Martin ‘03

Representative Lee is not a coward

Dear Editor,

I would not characterize Representative Lee as a cow-
ard. An unpopular stance does not automatically makes
one a coward. In fact, I would be more inclined to charac-
terize the holder of an unpopular stance, such as Lee, as a
brave person who is not afraid to stand up for
her principles.

Sincerely,
Julie Fitzer ‘O3

Patriotism  
Isn’tantI-Muslim

Americans must reject senseless hatred

The events of Tues., Sept. 11, 200 l—and the en-
suing days since then—have forced us all to go to bed
every night as a nation of one. No longer can we act
only for ourselves; whether we like it or not, we are a
nation at war.

Not a conventional war by any means, but a war
where the greatest enemy is the unknown. We must
unite in the face of evil by showing resilience against
the enemy. I ask you to unite against one of the enemy’s
friends, unjustified violence.

As you read this, know that in this land‘ of the
free and the brave, there are people who wish it
were otherwise. Someone shot to death Waqar
Hasan, a
storeowner in Dal-
las, Texas. Some-
one murdered
Balbir Singh Sodhi,
a gas station owner in Mesa, Arizona. Someone
killed Adel Karas, a market owner in San Gabriel,
California.

Each of these three gentlemen was an American.
Only one of them was Muslim: Mr. Hasan. Mr. Sodhi, a
Sikh, and Mr. Karas, a Christian, died because they
looked like stereotypical Muslims with their dark skin
and dark hair.

The man who charged with shooting Mr. Sodhi,
Frank S. Roque, said as he was being arrested, “I’m a
patriot. I’m a damn American all the way,” as quoted
in the New York Times. Mr. Roque is no patriot: real
Americans believe in the sanctity of life, and display
that by supporting punishments for those who kill
others.

_ Today, just like yesterday, and just like tomorrow,
we will live with the shadow of last Tuesday’s despi-
cable acts of cowardice. Our hearts still grieve, and we
yearn to heal our wounds.

We are all suffering, and our lives will never be
quite the same for what has happened. Yet, we cannot
let this emotional heartbreak fuel a ﬁre of hatred within
ourselves. ,

President Kennedy once wrote, “Those who
cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat
it.” In 19205 Germany, a proud and once strong
people were angered by the ridiculously low living
conditions brought about by the ruins of war. This
anger led them to accept the leadership of a man
named Adolf Hitler, who went on to lead the Ger-
mans into another horrific war, duringwhich he mas-

RIGHTTIIING RESPONSE
IMRAN NAEEMULIAH ‘O5

’ sacred 11 million people. We all know that Hitler

blamed and justified his acts on the Jews, who were
by and large innocent of the charges Hitler leveled
against them.

America in the year 2001 is very different from
19205 Germany, but the same anger and feeling of des-
peration is present. We have a very easy scapegoat in
the Muslims of America.

President George W. Bush recently visited the Is-
lamic Center of Washington, D.C., and while he was
there, he made some very courageous and necessary
statements. Among them he said, “The face of terror is
not the true faith of Islam. That’s not what Islam is
about. Islam is peace.” President Bush further noted
that America counts millions of Muslims amongst its
citizens, and they make an “incredibly valuable contri-
bution to our country.”

He reminded us that, “in our anger and emotion,
our fellow Americans must treat each other with re-
spect.”

Most importantly, President Bush emphasized that
American Muslims must feel safe. He said they should
not be fearful while they shop for their families, while
they go about their daily routines. Our ancestors fought
long and hard for this freedom of life; let us not destroy
it ourselves.

The core values of Washington and Lee Univer-
sity are honor, leadership, and learning. We can and
should apply these values to every aspect of our lives.
In doing so, we will heed the advice of our President
and uphold our freedom.

Let us be honorable by behaving as gentlemen
and ladies, as General Robert E. Lee taught during his
presidency at W&L. Gentlemen and ladies do not make
others feel unsafe or uncomfortable as a result of their
actions; rather, the true mark of a gentleman and a lady
is that they make others feel at ease.

Let us be leaders, by not stooping to the level of
the terrorists and using violence to vent our anger and
ease our pain. Let us be learners, by ensuring that our
actions be lessons worth remembering.

America will survive, and we will be strong. To-
gether, we will ﬁght our unknown enemy, and we will
destroy it. We shall unite together as a country. “We”
must mean all Americans.

riteD-hall chicken dish?

 

 

 

“The one that doesn’t

” “The one Called p°_rk:n the “The Cordon Bleu.” “Chickens tender, with honey.” , _ ”
my worl . Sloppy Joe mix. James Wright ‘O5 Mam» J_ Wright ‘O2 taste hke chicken.
—Michelle Chastain ‘05 —Mike Diverio‘05 -Brian Tinklepaugh ‘03

 

  

 

PAGE 4

It’s unduly amusing to observe
and study the ways in which W&L
has changed since my freshman
year. By amusing, I mean slightly
disturbing.

Our revered bubble has morphed
so greatly in the last few years that I
tentatively hypothesize that we will
be attracting a completely different

; group of perspectives in the years to

come.
I have been doing extensive re-

‘ search outside the

Co—op, a.k.a. the
Cooperational Fa-
cility of Glory, and
have taken note of
the following transformations and/
or annoying nuances:

1.) The Lexington Police, I’m
not even kidding, have a Wanted
Dead or Alive poster of me in their
headquarters. I can’t go a mere week
without getting pulled over, typi-
cally for “drunk driving” while I’m
sober.

But if not that, there’s always a
whole plethora of moving violations

in perilous times, conservative group works to divide nation that is looking for unity

NoRTHERNER’s EXPOSURE
KRIS POLLINA ‘03 as

that can peg me with. My favorite
was when after I blew a zero on the
breathalyzer, an unnamed officer
said, “You know your gas tank door
is broken. How long has it been this
way?”

I’ m sure the only reason he didn’t
give me a ticket for this was because
he probably saw another W&L driver
whose car looked suspiciously colle-
giate.

2.) There has been rampant cell
phone usage inun-
dating the campus
of late. The

school is so small

that I imagine the
only conceivable conversation could
be, “You’re in Payne? No kidding! I’m
in Newcomb! Huh!”

Anyone at the other end of the
line, because of geographical and de-
mographic statistics I don’t care to
go into, would be within 50-foot ra-
dius of you.

3.) After a careful examination of
last Saturday morning, I noticed some
differences between tailgating last

Uiiiivions

year and this year.

Logistically speaking, it’s a lot
harder to maneuver around this
year because you’re limited to walk-
ing up and down sorority row, with
no freedom to roam and frolic like
deer in a meadow. In addition, the
capricious social attitude was some-
what lacking, a mentality that fu-
els the success of Parents’ Week-
end.

4.) All the construction going
on is making me nervous. And my
sympathies extend to the J -school
students who are forced to have
their classes in such small quar-
ters.

I guess there’s a certain
ironic sweetness to being able to
say, after you’re a world-re-
nowned journalist, that you
learned everything you know in
a trailer park.

5.) D—hall prices went up. I
long for the days of slithering into
the D—hall for Sunday brunch,
swiping my unlimited meal plan
card, and eating 14 or 15 bowls of

cereal.

My roommates and I went this
year, and we each all had to part with
$7 to eat a peanut butter and jelly
on a bagel.

I guess dietary habits have
changed in the past couple of
years, too, proportionate with D-
hall inﬂation.

6.) Last, but not least, the new
alcohol policies. I absolutely will
not go into a ranting and raving
diatribe.

Actually, I’m not going to say
anything at all about it. Just that it’s
definitely changed a degree of the
W&L lifestyle.

It’s a rough time to be a joumal-
ist around here. It’s like walking on
eggshells talking about alcohol here.
Everyone’s sick of hearing about it.
No one wants to antagonize the ad-
ministration. Good thing I changed
my major.

I’m not really complaining. None
of the aforementioned differences
have kept me awake at night; I’m just
asserting how much, in the span of

Junior reﬂects, on changing face of W&L campus

   

MONDAY. SEPTEMBER 24. 2001

¥

FILE PHOTO / Rnvc-TLMPH1
THE WAY IT USED To BE: The new alcohol policies have relegated to the past the days

of well-lubricated alumni socials on the Hill.
two years, W&L has changed from now, when I am sitting on my porch,

its original form. Like a metamorpho- and the crink in my knee is foretell-
sis. ing rain, I will still remember W&L

Or maybe like Darwin’s theory fondly, even with rising D—hall
of survival of the fittest. Years from prices.

This week’s topics for an editorial were limitless. But
it was not until a friend pointed out a small mention on the
front page of Friday’s Wall Street Journal that I decided to
do some digging into a particular organization.

I decided to take a look at the American Conserva-
tive Union, and I realized that even in a time where our
nation should be united, party lines are still first on some
people’s minds.

During a time when our Republican President is plead-
ing with Congress to stay uniﬁed, the ACU is planning a
mud slinging ad campaign against Democrats. The sub-
ject of this campaign is the controversial national missile-
defense system.

The ads will take the names of certain Democrats
that are against the treaty-breaking defense network, say-
ing the following: “Do you know (your Democratic rep-
resentative here) is trying to prevent President Bush from
protecting America?”

The real truth here is that these Democrats are attempt-
ing to keep America from throwing money at missile defense
when our money could be much better spent at the moment.

What’s more, we all saw the protests and heard the words
of Europe’s political leaders against this missile—defense sys-
tem. Many of these Democrats are realizing that building this
system, which Russia has stated would make all treaties we
hold with them null and void, is just bad politics.

In an international society such as our little planet,
you simply cannot do whatever you want because you
have the money to throw at a problem.

Money. Now I am no economist, but that is an inter-
esting topic at the moment. Does America have then
money to spend on this defense system right now?

Well, have you seen the performance
of the Dow since it reopened? Miserable,
as to be expected. All this in a time when
people are driving around with bumper stick-
ers stating, “Thank me for your tax refund. I
voted for Bush.”

Honestly, I think that money would be better suited in
the hands of the government now. No tax refund could
serve as the kick in the pants the economy needs right now.

Again, I am going to remind everyone that Congress
was telling the White House before all this occurred that
the $9 million Social Security surplus was needed just to
balance our budget this year.

Thus, we have a problem. We as a nation are now to
largely fund an international war on terrorism. It sounds like
a great idea. However, it seems impossible and very costly.

Now do not think that I have no respect for the im-
portance of our military. My sister who is an Ensign for
the United States Navy would have my head on a plate.

I am also not stating that we should not make some

 
 

""""""""" ”LEfF7§i5CEi§i~El"

sort of military strike against Osama bin Laden’s terrorist
regimes and the nations that we know are harboring them.

However, the full reach of his network is yet to be deter-
mined yet. The Bush administration is currently at odds over
who all is to blame. Some are saying get bin Laden, while others
are wondering if Iraq is not also to blame. There is still as of
now, too many unanswered questions.

I am saying the members of the Ameri-
can Conservative Union should remem-

NICHOLAS RAMSEY ‘O3 ber the words of the President in his ad-

dress Thursday night. “We will direct ev-
ery resource at our command — every means of diplomacy,
every tool of intelligence, every instrument of law enforce-
ment, every financial inﬂuence, and every necessary
weapon of war — to the destruction and the defeat of the
global terror networ 
What the American Conservative Union does not
realize that this is not solely a military battle. We are
seeking people in shadows, hiding in all places, and
troops, bombs, and aircraft, may prove to be part of
the solution, but our military alone cannot win this
war. A war that Bush himself stated is against more
than ninety nations holding terrorists.
We have them in our own borders. We cannot forget
the deadly bombing in Oklahoma City where a male, white,
American citizen attacked his own countrymen. Terror-

ists are everywhere, which is what is most frightening.

Meanwhile, the ACU is stating Democrats will sup-
port “meaningless treaties and (continue to) confer moral
equivalence on the nation’s enemies.”

While the grassroots organization states it realizes that
this would in no way protect against the type of attack Ameri-
cans saw on the September 11, they say should serve as a
wake—up that missile-defense is needed. I am not so sure.

The days ahead will prove to be among the most difﬁ-
cult that Washington has every seen. As the President said,
we need to employ all our resources of diplomacy, intelli-
gence, ﬁnance, law enforcement, and national defense.

The ACU needs to understand that at this point, ,

America’s resources can be infinitely better served
in these places rather than throwing more money at
controversial idea from the Reagan era. It remains
to be seen if a missile defense system will even work.

We do know, however, that our diplomacy with
our allies will work. We do know that investing more
money in our intelligence forces will work. We do know
that the power of the dollar is vital as a weapon against
these terrorist networks.

We also know that our current weapons of war can

be well employed in this battle. But most importantly, we .

know that a nation of united elected officials working
together is the best weapon America has.

‘ .

    
    
  
   
   
     

 

u_} u. .

 ti :“s:_c5z; rs

- 5 '

'lu—u-n ‘nu us 1 u--‘in’

t\t



/i/iﬂﬂ/iﬂﬁﬂﬂ/iﬂ/I/i/i/tﬂ/l

13 E. NEISDN ST. LEXINGTON [Still ) 4&4-4433

WEDNESDAY NIGH T 15

LADIES NIGHT
"" free-vjukezlaoxzallz 
* cflrénlo specials’
*  $50.00 
ally World/( Wulmwrf)
. i3.ti9i‘f~'iEZ.§$Tl5'~?liC'lt1-1-ll‘ 3,4-‘.5113 
 -GR_i3’3t+'-‘TSail‘ié4fF?"ifii‘ii’-.‘9""f3*i'i.<~’5’l?’ =i’*?lT=4iT‘9r- 

IiNiNNlt|iIi#|#i#i#I

tP-.!r“\_‘|F\.!?'-lI‘\ir‘\-.*l~ It 4i‘P'~J"-J.Ir"'~.£I"'~.'lI"'~lI"‘~£r'

N t-"kt.-r*-.§-..=ir -t-tﬁ§-.i~‘-t- -t~.;M"xu\.a

iv

 

   

 
  ~ ~ 



 

  
 

llnll A/141.4 \ Au.)

 E Rl;\'{5-~'l‘lfZ\i PHI W&LlFE EDITOR
&LIFE Wee
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2001 PAGE 5

Customs, new freshman orientation program, starting slow in its first year
of inception, lacks attendaoe by new students

AGAINSTNAIURE

BY MICHAEL LEE
STAFF WRITER

Iate-night
librarian
reviews job

MELANIE HARRIS
STAFF WRITER

W&L’s admissions office has
consistently chosen a student body
composed of freshman who left high
school as active volunteers, captains
of sports teams, leaders in student
government, editors of school publi-
cations and much more. Many don’t
realize that the faculty and staff drawn
h L to our university also boast notable
A activities that would impress any col-

lege admissions board member.
Only night owls on campus
. would recognize one of these staff
p members: Wanda Pickle, the night
; desk attendant in Leybum Library
since the fall of 1995.
Pickle works from 12 to 8 a.m. as-
sisting patrons, checking items in and
.9 out, reshelving and preforming library
support activities. Pickle conducts
,. searches and makes reports for ad-
rriinistrative use.

“I really like this job, andllike the
midnight shift,” Pickle said.

Pickle worked in a variety of occupa-
tions in her years before coming to W&L.

Pickle has worked in payroll at a
children’s garment factory, at adrnis-
sions in a large city hospital in the

he Customs program is off to a rocky start, if Thursday

evening’s “Crimes Against Nature” presentation is any in-
dication. Although the event was pro moted heavily in the Cam-
pus Notices and in posters in the freshman dormitories, few
freshmen attended. Dean of Freshmen Dawn Watkins said that
the Customs program was suggested before she took office,
but acknowledged that it was her responsibility to carry it
through its inception.

Because many Customs programs are not
yet completed, Watkins did not know how many
freshmen are still eligible for the prizes that make
up the incentive program for Customs atten-
dance.

Watkins pointed out that the program was
being evaluated as it progressed, and she hoped
most freshmen had taken the opportunity to learn
more about the

Chris Kilmartin, the one-man show per-
former in “Crimes Against Nature” is a pro-
fessor of psychology at Mary Washington
College. Kilmartin, a father of two, has per-
formed the show at numerous colleges, from
Virginia to Nebraska.

The autobiographical performance por-
trayed a boy learning masculinity as he grew

up. The boy learns life lessons, ev-

D.C. area, as asecretary atalocal high W&L commu— . . erything from his father’s “Awk-
school and at the Natural Bridge. nuty. I W111 be saddened If only 50 or 60 ward Paternal Lecture Series” to sex
Pickle said, “By the Grace of God, Of those freshmen were able to complete the education in a Catholic school.

it was my good fortune to be hired to
work here at W&L’s Leybum Library.”
Pickle’s varied resume earned her the
honor of receiving an award for “Most
Unusual Jobs” at a high school reunion.

students at-
tending the
C u s t o m s
events, some
appreciate the

In the performance,
Kilmartin mentioned how men tend
to keep one seat in between each
other while at the theater. Three
freshmen had created this “Homo-

program, if for no other reason than

that the majority of students will not

have been ex osed to the richness of
P

“It was better than ‘Having the Most
Gray Hair’ or ‘Being Bald!” said Pickle.
In the free time her late-night job

new approach
to orientation.
Freshman Corey

tradition here.
DAWNWATKINS
DEAN or FREIIIMEN

Safety Zone” when they first sat
down.
The Customs program was

Harmon liked

the Customs

program so much that he contacted Dean
Watkins about finding an alternate program
to attend when he discovered that would be
forced to miss a session because of a class
commitment.

“I was surprised that more people aren’t
doing this program — it’s very different than any
other orientation,” said Harmon. When asked
how he felt the programs could be improved, his
only suggestion was that they should not be
made mandatory, or students will not enjoy them.

Unfortimately, Corey’s enthusiasm was not
shared by the freshman class. Only thirteen people

allows, Pickle stays busy as a business-
woman and outdoorswoman. Pickle
and her husband rent canoes, kayaks
and tubes on the James River. The
couple owns and operates Wilderness
Canoe & Kayak at Natural Bridge, a
business they started in 1994.

Pickle and her husband live in a
250—year old log house on about 30
p acres on the James River at Natural

Bridge Station.
“It’s hard work, long days, and
Q very little free time during the sum-
mers,” Pickle said, “But we like it.”
To add to her busy life, Pickle also

originally to be called Passports.

The name was changed to prevent
confusion with the publication from the Of-
fice of International Education with the name
Passports.

The Customs program is designed to pro-
vide a longer orientation period for freshman
and teach them more abdutwhat being a stu-
dent of W&L is all about by teaching them
more about the customs, values and traditions
of W&L.

The program offers rewards including a
ten speed mountain bike and a skydiving trip.
This is the first time W&L has used such a
large portion of its budget to pay for student

A spends much time sewing for her were in the audience at Lenfest Center incentives.
granddaughter and participating as an on Thursday night. Five of the fresh— I . d th t 1 ,t “Crimes
4. active member of her church. men stayed afterwords for an hour to was Surpnsc a more peop C “en Against Nature”

Pickle is thrilled with the stu-
dents, community and faculty here at
Washington and Lee University.
“Most of the students I see—what
3 are they doing up so late, don’t they
know it is a school night?——are smart,

_‘ courteous, studious.” said Pickle. “I like
the fact that their scope is so broad,
their interests are so diverse.”

doing this program — it’s very different
than any other orientation.

COREYHARMON

discuss the program. Project Horizon
members also stayed afterwords to an-
swer questions.

Freshman Jeb Brooks attended
the event. Brooks said he likes the
Customs Program.

“The programming has been very effective,
and has done a good job of getting students
involved,” Brooks said. Brooks was eager to

was sponsored
by the Office of
Health Promo-
tion and Dean of
Freshmen.

Jan Kaufmann, director of the Office of
Health Promotion introduced Kilmartin. The
show was also facilitated by members of LIFE
(Life—style Irifonnation For Everyone) and dorm

f Pickle said she envies the many see the show because he had eaten dinner with counselors.
opportunities W&L students have. the performer. . “I will be saddened if only 50 or 60
p “The future is wide open to them, ........ _, Chris Walker said “the presentation was freshmen were able to complete the pro-

 

and I am so pleased to see them take
full advantage of what is offered to

1 them.” said Pickle.
Pickle appreciates the close-
’ ness and inclusiveness that re-

good enough to merit more people coming,”
but grudgingly admitted that he had only at-
tended to take a break from his Latin home-
work.

gram, if for no other reason than that the
majority of students will not have been ex-
posed to the richness of tradition here,”
Watkins said.

neighbor’s garage. In the performance, I\'ilmartin
said this was the first time he was exposed to
pornography and how he later learned how damaging
it was to women.

O00}-I LA LA: “Oh look, there’s a rabbit on the cover of
this magazine. This must be about animals.” Chris
Kilmartin reeriacts the time when as a young teenager
he and friends stole and read dirty magazines from a

    
  
 
 

sults from a network of involved
¢ membe-rS~ ' ' ' BIC Wite Out Plus with foam brush 2.15 ‘ 1.79
h 1 The  comniunity a1: 3 6  S I I   1 I I Kodak27exposure,onetimeusecamera 13.95 12.99
. W ° 3. ‘S 5° .”‘° “SW 3”‘ ‘“° .6 ° Lady Speed Stick gel 399 2.95
V I away in the library every night while Olds , D d I _ al 279 229
_ most people sleep, but I am not for— ' _ plce 60 eram Ongm ‘ '
  . gem... Pickle Said. ..S0meb0dy CV8 overall cheaper for even/da y items than 00 op Cherry Chapstick 1.89 1.39
makes sure that I know what is going Pfoduct C0-Op CVS RENU multipurpose solution 4.69 3.99
* on in the W&L community and I 6BIC original shavers 2.69 2.39 Sudafed severe cold formula 5,19 799
i know I can be 3 Part Of it” R€€S€’S PB CUPS 0-69 0-55 Tylenol extra stregth gel caps 4.99 3.89
t I 5° “W “me Y°“’“‘ “P We Pilot Precise rolling ball pen 2.09 1.99
M étudying Sr hage anv1:,rgzt(i3.g:1tut.)_ Bounce fabric softener sheets 2.79 2.99 _ _ _ , ,
9 . mg’ “OP Y 3“ See an 3 1° 6 1“ Results ﬁnd that Sudafed, Glue sticks cheaper at umversity shopping option.
Leyburn. She would be delighted to Herbal Essence Shampoo 439 3'99 - - - - -
A hear from you. Glue Sm (yellow, Orange, fuschia) 0'79 099 Information compiled by W&Life editor, Amy Blevins.

,$YR.¢i.CU=.5E§
UNEVERS TV

 

Space donated by The Ring-tum Phi
imly

 :3 orm
Sp ‘ " "
H :2: mg "Item g1
EF r'rs:n=ce.
.A.f=rr.:-.21.

Spring Break 2002!!! Student Express is now hiring sales reps. Cancun features FREE meals and parties @ Fat Tuesdays-
MTV Beach Headquaters. Acapulco, Mazatlan, Jairnaica, Bahamas, South Padre, Florida. Prices from $469, with major airlines.
24,000 travelers in 2001. Call 800-787-3787 for a FREE brochure or email: bookit@studentexpress.oom. wvvw.studentexpress.oom

    

 

V M _ 
int; Riéxtse-T*:i,::Rili Pitt SPOKISEDIIOR

I   PORT 
PAGE 6 MONDAY, SEPTEMBER, 24, 2001

42-10 Win

Centre pays back 2000 home loss

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

BY MATTHEW A. COUKSEN
SPORTS WRITER

Colonels otaerl rol to

  

Centre College amassed 447 yards of
total offense Saturday as the Colonels ran
over Washington and Lee 42- 10.

The loss for the Generals (1-2) comes
after a solid performance last week against
Guilford in the home and Old Dominion
Athletic Conference opener in which the
Generals limited the Quakers to 201 yards
of total offense.

This week, however, was a different
ballgame altogether. The Generals totaled
only 166 yards of total offense on 63 plays
from scrimmage, only three fewer plays than
Centre. The difference in the game: the Gen-
erals were 0—12 on third down conversions.

“We just didn’t convert on third downs,”
said junior tight end Jay Thomas, who scored
W&L’s only touchdown on the afternoon.

W&L’s offensive performance was
unsettling. They just could not con-
vert the big plays. Sophomore Peter
Dean and freshman John Barnwell com-
bined for 81 yards passing and com-
pleted only eight passes on 28 attempts.
Sophomore Sean‘McGarvey completed
two of his three passes, including the

One year after getting trounced by Washington’ and
Lee at their own Farris Stadium in Danville, Ky., Centre
College had revenge on their minds Saturday. \

The Colonels avenged last season’s 45-7 loss, and then
some, by stomping the Generals 42-10 at Wilson Field.

“There was definitely revenge on our minds after get-
ting beaten so bad last year,” said senior quarterback Drew
Mildren, who completed 15-of-23 passes for 190 yards
and two touchdowns, both to classmate Joe Guthrie.

Centre jumped out to a 21-3 first quarter lead, extending
that to 35-3 by halftime. Coach Andy Frye, who earned his
first win against W&L in four tries, thought that his tearn’s a
momentum kept the Colonels rolling through the entire half.

“We got them early, and that was the big thing,” Frye
said. “We exploited the special teams early,. and we got
two big runs from Jeremy Britt. Before you know it, they’re
struggling like we were last year.” .,

Britt, a sophomore who joined the Colonels this year,
rushed for 150 yards, 130 of which came in the first half to
complement his two TD runs. Senior Brian Britt returned
an early punt 57 yards for a score and later intercepted a
pass from sophomore Peter Dean. 4

The younger Britt believed that his offensive line held
the Generals’ defense at bay every time he took the haridoff.

MARY L rz-tmPhi

LONG DAY FOR W&L: junior Chris Sullivan is brought down by 15 times for 74 yards, but the Colonels outgained the Generals 447-

0 O O O
    B    Despite playing even with Old than our last game, and we showed .,
I Dominion Athletic Conference oppo- the conference a lot.”
_ _ I ' O nent Roanoke for more than 80 rnin- Senior Deidra MacLeod made four st
Campbell ends up 5th overall as W&L frmshes 17 strokes ahead of closest ODAC opponent in home meet uteswednesdayetheWeshmeten and  in net for the Generals.
8 Lee ﬁeld hockey team is still looking Roanoke senior Jodi Godbout fin- A
By JEREMY FRANKLIN “We were happy with the score Senior Kyle Ulep was second for Guilford-sponsored events next for their first varsity win at the W&L ished with three saves, including a
SPORTS EDITOR that we had,” W&L coach Gavin W&L withacombined 152, followed month: the Tom O’Byrant Invita- Turf Field. key step on W&L senior Courtenay .
Colliton said. “I think that the guys by junior Chuck Green at 154 and se— tional Oct. 1-2 in Greensboro and Maroon junior defender Nicole Fisher in overtime. ' 8
Junior Chip Campbell shot a com- were a little disappointed, but we’re nior Curtis Bethea at 156. Junior David the Aubrey Apple Invitational Oct. Yodice scored off across from the right Although she was pleased with her
 bined 146 as the Washington and Lee setting the table for the rest of the Haase ﬁnished at 158, just out of the 8-9 in Clemson, N.C. corner with 3:06 remaining in the first team’s performance, Orrison still knows S
; golfteam placed thirdiiitlie BuckI_.eslie season. With a 303 average those two scoring for the Generals. “We think we can compete with 15-minute sudden death overtime to her team has several aspects to improve.
I Invitational, held Monday and Tuesday days, that’s pretty good.” Colliton was satisfied with (Guilford) and win the title this year,” give her team a 1-0 win. The Generals “We’ve got things to work on,” she L 7

TD Pass to Thomas. Centre sjarrod Zywein (40) as Eric Heyman looks on. Sullivan rushed 166 on offense with a 42-10 win Saturday at Wﬂson Field. “The line did a greatjob blocking,” he Said. “I did-n,thave C.
At times, though, when it seemed the Senior Centre quarterback Drew Mildren on the Generals’ first possession of the ers. It was a land of cumulative fatiguing ef- to worry about anybody touching me for at least ﬁve yards,”

chains might start moving for the Gener- completed 15-of-23 passes for 190 yards game, senior kicker Brad Wiginton launched feet, I guess. There was no emotion out there, Frye, in his fourth year as the Colonels’ head coach, says 7

als, an interception or a penalty would fur- and two touchdowns. The Colonels’ effec- a 33-yard ﬁeld goal to make the score 7-3 which was very disappointing to me.” his team’s offense is the best that he’s seen in his short »

ther diminish any chance of a comeback.

Junior running back Chris Sullivan had
a solid performance through a series of
dives, traps and draws that moved the ball
for the Generals. Sullivan had 74 yards rush-
ing on 15 carries for the day.

In front of a home crowd of 2,200, W&L
seemed to be anesthetized. Though time
of possession was nearly even, with Cen-
tre having the ball 3:04 longer than the
Generals, the Colonels used their time to
score points.

tive passing attack was complemented by
its ground game, led by sophomore run-
ning back Jeremy Britt.

On Centre’s first possession of the
game, Britt ran 44 yards around the right
end into the Generals’ end zone for his
first of two touchdowns on the day. Fol-
lowing a Nicholas Zilich point-after kick,
the Colonels led the Generals 7-0 only 1:07
into the contest.

To answer the Colonels, after one first
down and five consecutive rushing plays

with 10:50 remaining in the first quarter.

The Colonels followed with four unan-
swered touchdowns on a punt return im-
mediately following Wiginton’s first quar-
ter field goal, a reception for Guthrie, an-
other run by Jeremy Britt and a run by
Travis Bell to end the first half.

At halftime, the Colonels were leading
W&L 35-3, and they would never look back.

“It seems like we couldn’t tackle their
backs,” W&L coach Frank Miriello said. “Our
defensive backs couldn’t tackle their receiv-

Senior linebacker and captain Jeff Bahl
had this to say about the overall defensive
performance: “It really just snowballed on
us. After that punt return (for a touch-
down), they really had us on our heels.”

Not until early in the fourth quarter did
W&L score again, when McGarvey hit
Thomas for the 34-yard strike. Wiginton’s
extra point made it 42-10.

The Generals return to ODAC play Sat-
urday with a 1 p.m. road contest against
Randolph-Macon.

tenure at the helm of the program. Centre had 305 yards of
total offense in the first half and 447 for the contest.

“Our offense is a lot better than it’s been the last three
years, but that’s because we’ve got a lot of seniors who’ve
matured,” Frye said. “Our running game has improved drasti-
cally, from being one-dimensional last year. We’re just better.”

The Colonels now return to Southern Collegiate Athletic
Conference play, where they meet another W&L opponent.

“Next week, we’ll be facing a tough Sewanee team, and
they’ll probably be undefeated too,” Mildren said. “It’ll
be a tough one. That’s the SCAC, and that’s important to
us for playoffs and everything like that.”

W&L opens ODAC play with a buzz

Wasps, Yellow Jackets no match for preseason conference favorite as volleyball wins both matches at home

MARY Gn'/ T/Jr Ring-lrmr P/Jr‘

LICENSE TO KILL: Freshman Michelle Chastain (13), who finished with 10 kills,
prepares to attack a ball in W&L’s 30-19, 30-28, 30-17 win over Randolph-Macon
Saturday at the Warner Center. Senior Leslie Fischbeck (21) watches the play.

 at the Lexington Golf and Country Club.

Cainpbell’s ﬁfth-place finish was

 part of the team’s two-day total of 606,

 which placed it “I was pretty pleased,” he said. “We have a pretty balanced Colliton is more directin express- the first win since I’ve been coach- W&L dropped to 1-4 on the sea- 4

I behind Averett “I struggledalittle bit the first day, team,” Colliton said. “Any given ing his team’s g0alsin2001-02. ing here that we’ve had on turf,” son Saturday with a 3-0 loss to

; (576) and and held it together pretty well. day, we could have two or three “We don’t think about the other Roanoke coach Julie Mazer said. “It Catawba in Salisbury, N .C. Kristin *
 Christopher The second day, I just played guys down that low, so there’s not ODAC teams, we just keep them at was abig game, because it was acon- Pannenbacker scored just 26 seconds "

1 Newport (584). pretty solid.” a lot of pressure on any one of them. bay,” said Colliton, whose team fin- ference game.” in off an assist from Taryn Gordon
 Drexel wound Toni Karj alainen and J anne At the same time, we need to con- ished 17 strokes ahead of the clos— W&L coach Wendy Orrison was Gordon added a goal at 23:24, and ‘l
g up fourth with Mommo each turned in a combined tinue to take strokes off what they est conference foe in the Buck Leslie pleased with herteam, which did every- Kristin Zweizig secured the final mar- 0* 3

 ascore of611,
 and Roanoke
T rounded out

3 the top ﬁve at

 

Campbell shot a 74 on Monday,
following that up with a 72 on the sec-
ond day of competition.

141 for Averett. Third and fourth in
the individual standings belonged
to Christopher Newport, as Ryan
Greer shot a 142 and Chris Kline

BY DAVE CROWELL
AssIsTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington~and Lee vol-»
leyball team began its 2001 Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference sched-
ule with a pair of impressive victo-
ries over Emory and Henry on
Wednesday and Randolph-Ma-
con on Saturday morning.

The Generals defeated the
Wasps 30-22, 30-23, 30- 15, then doini—
nated most of their contest against
the Yellow Jackets, coming up with
a 30-19, 30-28, 30-17 victory.

“It’s a great start,” coach Bryan
Snyder said. “I’m glad because
Emory and Henry and Randolph-
Macon are not bottom-of-the-bar-
rel teams. Those are the teams nip-
ping at our heels and hungry to
knock us of .”

In Wednesday’s matchup, the
Generals (10-1, 2-0 ODAC) were led
by senior outside hitter Lindsay
Ruckert, who totaled 1 1 kills and ﬁve
digs.

Junior Stacey Kirnmel posted 10
kills and seven digs, while fresh-
man Emily Wolﬁng added 10 kills,
three aces, and 10 digs. Freshman
setter Jennifer Lux recorded 30 as-
sists.

“We had a very balanced effort

Campbell’s performance, adding that
any one of W&L’s top ﬁve can lead
the team at any tournament.

hit this weekend.”

The Generals will now look to
compete with Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference powerhouse

on Wednesday,” Snyder said. “Ev-
eryone seemed to step up whenever
we needed some big plays.

“We have ﬁve great ‘offensive op-
tions, which takes pressure off of any
one player.”

The Generals received a number
of tremendous efforts to ensure a vic-
tory on Saturday.

W&L dominated play in the first
and third games, but met some ﬁerce
resistance from the Yellow Jackets,
who reeled off a late run and at-
tempted to avoid a 2-0 deﬁcit.

“We struggled in the second
game, but I think we handled the pres-
sure very well,” Snyder said. “When
they got the late rally, we took a timeout
and responded with a sideout. We
made key plays when we needed to.”

Ruckert and freshman Michelle
Chastain each amassed 10 kills, while
Ruckert added nine digs.

Kimmel played strong defense,
contributing ﬁve digs while adding
eight aces. Lux ﬁnished with 31 as-
sists.

“(Lux) has really done a great job,
taking control of the offense and
moving the ball well,” Snyder said.
“She’s been able to get everyone in-
volved on the court.”

The Generals travel to Guilford on
Tuesday for a 6:30 p.m. match.

Campbell said. “We have everybody
returning, so we have a good core
group of players.”

Invitational. “We’re trying to gain
ground on Guilford.

“We have a goal, and that goal is
to win the conference and get to the

OT loss leaves field hockey

searching for first hoe win

MFJ-{UL SRIVr\S1‘A\’A/ The Ringturn Phi

ROLLING ALONG: Freshman Ali Santoro scrambles for a loose ball in W&L’s 1-0
overtime loss to ODAC opponent Roanoke Wednesday at the W&L Turf Field.

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

fell to 1-3 in the ODAC despite
outshooting Roanoke 8-5.
“It’s a big win for us, because it’s

thing but walk away with the victory.
“We set ﬁve goals for the team,

and we did four of those,” Orrison

said. “The only goal we didn’t achieve

“I’m very, very proud of the girls,”
she added. “We accomplished so
much. We played 110 percent better

said. “There are things to work on ev-
erywhere — transition from defense
out, transition from offense out.”

gin at 19:55 ofthe first half.
The Generals return to ODAC ac-

  

O

‘I

tion Wednesday with a 4:30 pm. road _

match against Randolph-Macon

 623. came in at 145. Guilford. W&L travels to two national championship.” was to score, woman’sco11ege_
 Cover W&L athletics for the Phi. Contact Jeremy Franklin at irank|inj@wlu.edu or x4060. j
it

 

 

 

1

en’s tennis opens with W&L Fall Classic  

tr

e

MONDAY, DEIYFEMBER A4, .4001

DPORTS

    

MARY CITY The Rir1g—l1m P/27‘
ART OF THE BACKHAND: Senior Rhysjarnes delivers a backhand in a match in this
weekend’s W&L Fall Classic. W&L won one singles ﬂight and one doubles ﬂight
in an event against The College of Newjersey, Davidson and VMI.

BY IAN R. McILRoY
SI>oRrs WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s tennis team faired
very well during its Fall Tennis Classic as the Gener-
als took one singles ﬂight and one doubles ﬂight
Saturday and Sunday.

Participating in the tournament were teams from
The College of New Jersey, VMI and Davidson.

“We knew the competition would be tougher
since VMI and Davidson are both Division I
squads,” coach David Detwiler said. “But we didn’t
feel any added pressure. We’ve got everyone back
(from last spring) and added even more depth to
the lineup with a good recruiting class.”

Freshman Marshall Viney took the champion-
ship of the No. 4 singles ﬂight, defeating Rob Gould
of Davidson, 7-5, 6-2 in the ﬁnals.

In the No. 2 singles ﬂight, sophomore K.C.
Schaeffer was the runner-up, dropping the champi-
onship match to Davidson’s Jonathan Britt, 6-2, 6-1.

Freshman Paul McClure was the runner-up in the
No. 3 singles ﬂight, bested by Geoffrey Mullen of
Davidson, 6-2, 6-1, in the ﬁnals.

Also impressive in early round singles play,
sophomore Austin Kim made an amazing come-
back, winning a crucial third set tiebreaker by the
score of 8-6.

In the championship of the No. 2 doubles ﬂight,
McClure and freshman Jeff Lusk took on their team-
mates in sophomore Graham Nix and senior Zac
Vuncarmon. After a heated match, the experienced
combo of Nix and Vuncannon emerged with a 9-8
(2) victory.

Detwiler has high expectations for his crew this year.

“We have the experience of having gone to na-
tionals last year, and we are eager to go back,” he
said. “Our goal as a squad is to ﬁnish the season in
the top eight nationally.”

The Generals, currently ranked 13th, return to
action on Oct. 6-8 in the ITA Southeast Regional -at
Swarthmore College.

PAGE 7

W&L plays at |TA

FRDM STAFF REPORTS

FREDERICKSBURG—'Ihe Washingtonandbee
wornen’s tennis team advanced two singles competi-
torsandonedoublesteamtotheﬁnalsofthelTA
Southeast Regional at Mary Washington on Sunday.

JuniorErika Proko, the No. 1 seed in the touma-
ment, defeated sophomore teammate Elizabeth Law
6-3, 6-1 to reach the semiﬁnals. Proko was sched-
uled to face Anjani Reddy of Swarthmore College
today for the chance to compete in the ﬁnals.

If she reaches the ﬁnals, Proko might see a fa-
miliar face, freshman teammate Lindsay Hagerman.

Hagerrnan guaranteed a spot in the semis by
defeating senior teammate Melissa Hatley 2-6, 6-4,
6-1. She will now face Steffany Slaughter of Mary
Washington to decide the second ﬁnals spot.

Proko and Hatley, who defeated Hagerrnan and
senior Sallie Gray Strang in the semiﬁnals, will also
compete for the doubles championship against the
team of Jody Cogar and Samantha Coldren.

SCOREBOARD

CC - B. Britt 57 punt return (Zilich kick), 7:59
CC - Guthrie 16 pass from Mildren (Zilich kick), 3:57

SATuRDAY’s FOOTBALL YARDLINE

Second Quarter

CC - J. Britt 6 run (Zilich kick), 6:24
CC - Bell 15 run (Zilich kick), 1:40

Emory and Henry at W&L, 4 p.m.
Field Hockey
W&L at RMWC, 4:30 p.m.

Thursday, Sept. 27

W&L SCHEDULES SEPT 25-OCT. 1

Centre 42, W&L 10 Tuesday, Sept. 25 Saturday, Sept. 29
Centre 21 14 7 0 - 42 Volleyball Cross Country
W&L 3 0 0 7 - 10 W&L at Guilford, 6:30 p.m. W&L at Roanoke Invitational
First Quarter Field Hockey

CC - J. Britt 44 run (Zilich kick), 13:53 Wednesday, Sept. 26 Bridgewater at W&L, 11 a.m.
W&L - FG Wiginton 33, 10:50 Men’s Soccer Football

W&L at Randolph-Macon, 1 p.m.
Women’s Soccer

Virginia Wesleyan at W&L, 1 p.m.
Men’s Soccer

W&L at Virginia Wesleyan, 2 pm.

Third Quarter Rugby Volleyball (Emory Tournament)
CC - Guthrie 37 pass from Mildren (Zilich kick), 12:35 W&L at VMI, 4 p.m. W&L vs. Milligan, 4:30 p.m.

Fourth Quarter W&L vs. Emory, 7 p.m.
W&L - Thomas 34 pass from McGarvey (Wiginton kick), 12:12 Friday, Sept. 28

A — 2,200 Volleyball (Emory Tournament) Sunday, Sept. 30
W&L vs. St. Benedict, 2 p.m. Women’s Soccer
CC W&L W&L vs. Greensboro, 4:30 p.m. N.C. Wesleyan at W&L, 2 p.m.
First downs 18 13
Rushes-yards 40-250 32-53 Sept. 29-30 Monday, Oct. 1
Passing yards 197 113 Women’s Tennis Golf
Return yards 106 193 W&L Fall Festival, 8:30/9 a.m. Guilford/Tom O’Byrant Invitational
Comp-att-int 16-26-1 10-31 -1
Sacked-yards lost 1-1 0-0  FOOTBALL GLANCE
Punts-avg 7-42.7 10-42.5
Fumb1eS_|os1 o_0 0_o Conference Overall
l’f.2§'2?i§2;2§.... :32, 2:...  -W 3 aw i
' ‘ Hampden-Sydney 1 0 2 1
INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS “'f“"1"91°" 3"‘ '-°° 1 ° 1 2
RUSHING-Centre: J. Britt 15-150, Bell 7-36, Engleman 5-26, B"°'9°‘”a1°’ ° ° 3 °
Mildren 7-22, Coakley 2-11, Beinkampen 2-4, George 1-2. W&L: Em°'y_a"d Henry 0 0 2 2
Sullivan 15-74, Watson 13-21, Dean 1-9, Barnwell 3-(-51). Ca?”°''° 1’ 1 1 2
PASSING-Centre: Mildren 15-23-0 190, Johnson 1-2-1 7, Coakley G“'"°"1 1’ 2 1 3
0-1-0 0. W&L: Dean 5-20-1 52, McGarvey 2-3-0 32, Bamwell 3-6-0 29. Sept. 22 Results week of soon 29
RECElVlNG—Centre: Guthrie 5-109, Gomez 3-32, Woodall 2-9, Centre 42, W&L 10

Bell 2-7, Engleman 1-13, Santos 1-11, Beard 1-9, Smith 1-7. W&L:
Thomas 2-43, Wilson 2-22, Watson 2-18, Rankin 1-16, Callaham 1-9,
DeBard 1-7, Sullivan 1-(-2). .

Bridgewater 50, Johns Hopkins 27
Randolph-Macon 24, Catholic 20
Davidson 23, Emory & Henry 6 ,

W&L at Randolph-Macon
Bridgewater at Hampden-Sydney

11 Catholic atLaSalle

MISSED FIELD GOALS-none. Hampden-Sydney 59, Guilford 7 Guilford at Greensboro

W&L lNVlTATlONAL OLD DOMINION ATHLETIC CONFERENCE STANDINGS

   
 
  

Results l|'OlTl the   BUCK     
lnvItatIonal, held Monday and Tuesday at the
Lexington Go” and country moo; Conference Overall Conference Overall
Team W L T W L T Team w L w L
Team Results W35hl"91°" and 1-994 1 0 4 1 0 Washington and Lee2 0 10 1
1. Averett 287-289-576 LI_/nfxiiburg 3 0 0 5 0 2 Bridgewater 2 0 3 1
2. Christopher Newport 296-288--584 V|F9|"|3 W9S19Y3_" 3 0 0 5 2 0 Roanoke 2 o 7 5
3. Washington and Lee 305-301-606 Eastern Mennomte 3 2 0 7 2 0 Eastern Mennonne 2 o 5 7
4. Drexel 306-305-611 Bridgewater 3 2 0 5 2 0 Ly,,c,,bu,g 1 1 7 3
5_ Roanoke 3o9-314_623 Randolph-Macon 3 2 0 3 5 0 Swee1B1_1ar 1 1 7 11
6. N.C. Wesleyan 306-316-624 Roanoke 2 1 0 5 2 0 1111111118 1 1 2 8
7. Lynchburg 312-315-627 RMWC 1 2 0 3 2 0 Rando1ph_MacO11 1 2 8 6
8. Hampden-Sydney 323-306-629 Hollins 1 4 0 2 4 0 ~~
9. Randolph-Macon 317-314-531 Gui|iord_ 0 2 0 2 3 1 E"1°’Y 3"“ ”°”'Y 1’ 1 6 ‘1
10. College of Wooster 318-314-632 3Wee1B"aT 0 3 0 2 5 0 RMWC 0 2 4 8~
111 Bnogowato.» 340.309.1549 Emery and Henry 0 4 0 2 6 0 Guilford 0 4 2 12
12. Virginia Wesleyan 325-325-650
14. VMl 328-326——654 S000 H00
15_Chowan 329_337__666 Conference Overall Conference Overall
16. Newport News App. 340-344-634 T1?a!“_ 1” L T W L 1 193"‘ W L 1 W '- T
VIrgInIa Wesleyan 4 0 O 6 3 0 Lynchburg 4 0 0 7 0 0
Individual Top 10 Washington and Lee2 0 0 3 1 1 Eastern Mennonite 3 0 0 6 4 0
11 T°niKarjalainen1AVeren  Emory and Henry 2 1 0 4 2 0 ROSHOKE 3 1 0 4 2 O
2_ JanneMommo1AVe1.en 69_72_141 Hampden-Sydney 1 0 0 7 1 1 Bridgewater 1 1 0 3 1 0
I  Ryan Greer‘  72_70__142 Roanoke 1 0 0 6 1 0 Vlfglnla Wesleyan 1 1 0 3 4 0 .11
' 41 Chris Kline,   1 2 0 3 4 0 Sweet Bnar 1 2 0 5 4 0
. 5. Chip Campbell, W&L 74.72.44; Gullford _ 1 2 0 2 5 0 RMWC 0 1 0 2 4 0
6-   221:1 2 2 2 3 2 2  1*: 2 3 2 2 3
7. Nathan MaGee, Drexel 75-72-147 1 °F’ ' 3°01‘ 311,09 ' °
1 Watch the Generals take on the Keydets Thursday at4pm on the VMI Front Lawn e. eostoncraaaocmveren 72-75-147 B"°9°Wa*" ° 3 ° 1 5 1’ “°'''“s ° 3 ° ° 6 °
1 _ _ 9. Jeff Michner,Drexel 71-76-147
‘ A(lm|SS|0ll IS free. 10. W.D. Ferriel, Lynchburg 76-75-151 Edltor’s note: ODAC Standings are updated through games of Sept. 22.
’_ 1
Q ,
0
‘W  O O O r)

It s PHI time!

  

 

PAGE 8

SPORTS

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER /.4, Alltrgigg

Women’s soccer catches fire as ODAC play heats up

W&L improves to 4-1 in conference
play with a pair of 4-1 wins at home

BY GEOFF WHITE
SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee women’s soccer team im-
proved to a four-game unbeaten streak Saturday by
soundly defeating Randolph-Macon Woman’s College.
Before Saturday’s match, the women beat a previously
undefeated Bridgewater team by" an overwhelming
score of 4-1.

Bridgewater drew first blood in Tuesday’s match only
eight rriinutes into the game. The Generals then opened
up their offense, assaulting the Eagles with four goals
before halftime.

Senior captain Kate Bidwell scored ﬁrst for the Gener-
als. Sophomore Fontaine Marcoux then scored two rapid-
fire goals. The first was off an assist from freshman Rom-
ney Wilson, and the second was unassisted.

Sophomore Meghan Hayde ﬁnished the scoring in the
first half, and the halftime score of 4-1 did not change
throughout the second half. Freshman goalkeeper Emily
Barker made seven saves to ensure the win.

The women returned to action on Saturday against
Randolph-Macon Woman’s College. Barker had an
easier day this time, having to make only two saves for
the Generals.

The opposing goaltender saw a bit more action, stop-
ping 14 W&L shots and letting in four goals. In all, the
Generals unloaded 31 shots against the WildCats.

Bidwell scored ﬁrst, assisted by Marcoux. The sopho-
more eamed another assist, helping classmate Susannah
Hewlett score her first goal of the season.

Piranian nails down 200th career win

Mi//er scores all 4 goals as Generals knock off Lynchburg and Rando/ph-Macon to open conference play

PHOTOS BY MARY GU\’/ The Ring-mm P/1i

OFFENSIVE POWERS: (Above) Sophomore Fontaine Marcoux dribbles the ball upheld in W&L’s 4H win over Randolph—Macon Woman’s College on Saturday.
Marcoux had a goal and two assists against the WildCats. (Right) Senior Kate Bidwell also scored a goal in Saturday’s contest.

Hewlett fired another goal home in the second half off
an assist from senior Drew Powers. A penalty kick for the
WildCats resulted in their only goal of the game.

“I’m disappointed about conceding one late, but it was
the best team performance so far,” head coach Neil

Heam made six saves in net on the

BY DAVE CROWELL
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

Sophomore midﬁelder Phil Miller
scored four goals in two games to
help propel the Washington and Lee
men’s soccer team into Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference play and
give coach Rolf Piranian his 200th
career victory.

Piranian, a W&L alum who is in
his 26th year as head coach, holds
a 200-172-20 (.510) career record
and is the winningest coach in
W&L history.

junior goalie Brad Hearn said. “He’s
been here a long time and it’s great to
see him have the success he’s had.”

Miller quickly started his offensive
outburst in Thursday’s 2-1 victory
over Lynchburg. The 2000 ODAC
Rookie of the Year opened the scor-
ing on an unassisted goal at 24:34 of
the first half.

Miller extended the Generals’ lead
to 2-0 when he scored at the 63:29
mark, this time off an assist from fresh-
man defender Brian Pirkle.

Vlfith solid play in goal from Heam,
the two goals by Miller provided all
the offense the Generals would need.

day, despite giving up a late
Lynchburg goal with less than 14 min-
utes to play.

On Saturday afternoon, Miller
picked up where he left off, scoring
another unassisted goal at the 37:00
mark to give the Generals a 1-0 lead
over Randolph-Macon.

The one goal provided plenty of
offense, as junior Tim Foley made nine
saves and earned his first shutout of
the young season. The shutout was
the 12th in his W&L career.

Miller cushioned the lead when he

“We’re very happy for Coach,”

scored his second goal of the game at

Cunningham said.

Marcoux avenged the late goal, scoring one of her own
with 11 minutes left in the contest to provide the ﬁnal
score of 4-1. Freshman Caroline Francht got the assist on
the ﬁnal goal.

Marcoux, who now has seven assists this season, was
named the most recent Old Dominion Athletic Conference
Player of the Week.

The Generals (4- l , 4-l ODAC) will play Sweet Briar at
home on Monday at 4:30 p.m.

the 57:48 mark off an assist from
sophomore Bret Grote.

The victories on Thursday and Sat-
urday gave the Generals a quick 2-0
start in ODAC play and a strong
launching pad for the season.

“It’s a great stepping stone,” Hearn
said. “We had a rough start and
played some ugly games.

“Now we’re starting to play well
and I think we get better every time
we step on the field.”

W&L hopes to move their con-
ference record to 3-0 on Wednes-
day when they host Emory and
Henry at 4 p.m.

Would you like your Calyx?

Time’s running out. . .

If you would like to remember any part of

your college years,

And you don’t think you will embarrass your

children,

email Neal Willetts at willettsr@wlu.edu

If memories aren’t important to you,
why bother continuing your existence?

Are you doing your duty?

+

  

 

rF- 372 . 75 S
la 55 '1
v. I 0‘ ‘t’
V10 , T}§{§';i’> .-mu TRIE



D <1) PMII»: 3

  

.\‘ ’

       

     

 

THE

 
 

 

  

 

Yfanu

.tI>LEEll

NG—TUM

 

‘i(.}’fT{)7 

 

‘%lVERSlil"Y

JAMES‘.  t-EY:'sUHr‘~I t.-'.E.i.’~' '2,
WASHIINEVCJN -& LE Uﬂrfﬁf’

, , -.q:‘g(«2'-i-rfvgiv V’

OCT [1

PHI

   
 

2*; Y

 

2200!-

 

 

\’«:aI.:'\I.. _..‘.7  IX

 

A

BY MATTHEW MCDERMOIT
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF

Forty—five clubs tried to crack
5 open the $366,372.13 pinata that
the Executive Committee dangled
V . at the 2001 Fall Budget Allocation
Hearings.
The E.C. is responsible for divid-
‘ ing this money, largely received from
student activities fees, among W&L’s
A g campus organizations.
The top three recipients were the
Student Activities Board, $84,707, the
‘ Student Bar Association, $56,500, and
Contact, $50,000.

. 6 Eight clubs received no funding.

The E.C. currently does not fund
groups with speciﬁc political or reli-

” gious positions. Last year, the E.C.
denied GCF funding.
‘ Other organizations, such as

LIFE, do not seek appropriations.
5 Because the club receives money from
the administration, the E.C. is reluc-

gj tant to fund it.
This may be the reason why the
Student Association for International
g Learning received about 10 percent

of its budget request, said SAIL Sec-
retary Jason Reynolds, a junior.

“We’re very disappointed,” he
said. “The E.C. expects the deans will
pay for everything.”

The organization had asked for
over $20,000, but received little more
than $2,000. Junior Agnes Flak, the
chair of SAIL who presented the
club’s budget, will meet with the ad-
ministration this week to make up the
shortfall, Reynolds said.

Other organizations are also hurt-
ing.

The Journal of Science, which
received $4780 last year, was granted
no money.

The budgets of Southern Comfort
and Women’s Club Lacrosse both went
from $1,000 to zero dollars.

Junior Neal Willetts, however,
was “extremely satisfied” with the
funding of the Calyx, the university
yearbook.

“Last year I was very nervous,
because it was my first time in an E.C
budget hearing,” he said. “This year,
I knew the format and what to expect.
It wasn’t as nerve-wracking.”

 Budgets spread thin

Executive Committee allocates over $366,000 to campus organizations

The Calyx received $9,000 ear-
marked for its standing debt. The
publication receives most of its
money through a $45 fee leveled on
all students.

“There are a number of factors
that we take in to consideration when
deciding how much money to allo-
cate,” senior Carling Dinkler, E.C.
secretary, said.

“First and foremost, we have to
see how much money we actually
have to get out,” Dinkler said.
“Then we look at how many people
are actively involved or affected by
the organization. We also take into
account how the organization has
used its money in the past (and)
what sort of revenue they produce
for themselves.”

The process takes 12 to 14 hours,
over two days, Dinkler said. ‘‘It is
time consuming, strenuous and, at
times, frustrating.”

“I really do not think that the stu-
dents understand the amount of work
put into the budget,” Dinkler said. “I
know that I did not before I was
elected to the E.C.”

* Frsmen to choose class reps

 

in finding ways to win the approval and
votes of their classmates.

Some of this year’s freshmen said that they
would not vote because they did not know the
candidates. They agreed that this was one of

the serious ﬂaws of the election process.

“(The candidates) use the posters to get
their name out,” said Justin Baccary, a candi-
date for the executive committee position.

Many candidates and voters share the
opinion that it would have been better if
the candidates were given the chance to
make speeches to express their views.

‘‘It seems that these elections are a
matter of popularity, rather than real quali-
fication,” said one freshman.

“I understand your concern that your
classmates don’t know each other well
enough yet to make an informed decision,”
Hamil responded. “However, it is necessary
to fill these positions as soon as possible
so that their work can begin. Hopefully the
election itself will stimulate cohesion

The qualities that freshmen said they are
looking for in their future representatives are

most often honesty, sincerity, responsibility

and good organizational skills.

“I hope that these people are really will-
ing to contribute to our community and (that)
they are not just trying to improve their re-
sume,” said another freshman.

Election results are expected by Tues-

V 
 BY VIRGINIA VESELINOVA
V STAFF WRITER
Election time is here again. The annual elec-
~ tions for freshman president vice president ex-
‘ ecutive committee representative and student
judicial council representative are going to be
held tomorrow in Evans Dining Hall.
§ Freshmen will be able to vote during the
D-Hall’s regular working hours. This year,
there are four candidates for president, two for
# vice president, seven for EC rep and Ill for
SJC rep.
All entrants had to petition for candi-
" dacy by collecting the signaturesiof 50 of
their classmates. Once they received sup-
‘ port from their classmates, they could start
campaigning.
Votin Regulations Board co—chair
8
‘ Joseph Hamil, a sophomore, explained the
rules of the campaignin process: cam-
g
j A‘ paign signs are to be no larger than 8.5 by
11 inches; signs may not be posted adja-
cent to each other to create larger si ns; within the class.”
8
5 signs may not be posted on the Colonnade,
trees, the ground or on glass of any sort.
Each candidate is limited to 15 signs and
V the total campaign expenditures must not
exceed $20 per candidate.
4 The election campaign started last
week when the walls of the dormitories and
‘ jg}, BROOKS/Tb, R,',,g_,,,,,, p;,, the dining hall were covered with various
PICKME! Political hopefuls accost students exiting the D—Hallwith campaign P°5teT5- A 50Ph0m01'Cs h0W€V6f, Sald that
‘ promises. Sophomores say last year’s campaigns were more creative. thc Candidates last Year were mm‘: CreatiVe day. 10 P-UL

. W&L goes Global

, New academic program scheduled to begin Fall 2002

4 BY MIKE AGNELLO
A ‘ ASSOCIATE EDITOR
‘- The new Global Stewardship

Program, designed to augment inter-
( national studies at Washington & Lee,
will debut next fall.

The program will fund additional
courses, speakers and study abroad
programs. Students interested in in-
_temational affairs will have the option
of earning a certificate in global stew-
ardship in addition to their chosen
degree. Associate Professor of R0-
mance Languages Jeff Barnett was re-
cently named to head the program.
Barnett declined to be interviewed for
this article.

Director of International Educa-
tion William Klingelhofer said the
program will expand W&L’s already
sizable course catalogue.

“(The Global Stewardship pro-
gram) will offer more curricular op-
tions,” Klingelhofer said.

According to the program’s web
site, students interested in earning the
certificate would apply at the end of
their freshman or sophomore year. If
accepted, they would take two “foun-
y dation courses.” The first course will

focus on geography and culture and
examine human impact on the envi-

&

ronment. The second course will
cover environmental and political
problems facing the world in the 21st
century.

During the sophomore or junior
year, students will be required to
choose a specific interest or region
of the world to study. Candidates for
the certificate will also be required
to take at least one language course
at the 300 level.

During the junior or senior
year, students will be have to study
or work abroad for at least a 12-
week semester. After returning to
W&L, they would complete a
“capstone seminar” and present a
research paper.

The program also includes a
“Global Learning Initiative” de-
signed to add specialized classes to
the curriculum and bring speakers to
campus. Faculty would apply for
“Global Course Development
Grants” to fund the added costs. The
program is primarily funded by a
$525,000 grant from the Christen A.
Johnson Endeavor Foundation, given
last year.

Klingelhofer said he is excited
about the new program.

“It moves us forward in a very
positive direction,” he said.

OPEN CAVITY

HEADS DOWN. Construction in front of the Warner Center last week tore up the
gymnasium, leaving holes gaping and wires exposed to the forces of nature.

 

je RoORs/ re rig-rm /iz

I.\lFOGMPHlC BY KATIE How I./The Ring-rim Plii, Photos courtesy’ of '1‘luC'Iz_ly.\-

New organizations
emerge on campus

Special interests (range from religion to human rights

BY KATIE HOWELL
LAYOUT EDITOR

Following in the tradition of
other student organizations on cam-
pus, students have established new
clubs this fall, including The Chal-
ice, Photography Club and United
Students Against Sweatshops.

The founders of the new orga-
nizations found the nature of Wash-
ington and Lee’s student-run gov-
ernment and organizations allowed
for easy creation and assimilation
into W&L campus life. Freshman
Susan Somers, who founded United
Students Against Sweatshops
(USAS), said this lack of bureau-
cratic red tape surprised her.

“So far, all I have done to estab-
lish this group has been to send out
interest surveys by campus notices,”
Somers said. “It has been really easy
and I have gotten response from
many students.”

Somers said W&L needed a
USAS group because many students
are not aware of sweatshop and labor
problems in this country and around
the world. She hopes the new organi-
zation will help to spread awareness
to the W&L community.

Somers said approximately 10
people have expressed interest in

Cadet re

BY LATRINA STOKES
AssIsTANT NEWS EDITOR

Today the Virginia Military In-
stitute released a statement regard-
ing the final disciplinary action of
three frrstclass cadets, whose punish-
ment divided administration and
Corps.

. Two weeks ago, three cadets
were dismissed and one other sus-
pended for improper conduct during
the training and discipline of first-
year cadets, or “rats.”

Two of the dismissed cadets were
on the Rat Disciplinary Committee,
one being its president. The third was
the president of the Honor Court.

After the cases were reviewed,
one cadet was reinstated last week,
said Cadet Capt. Michael Zanetti,
“with very stiff penalties.”

The public relations office
would not comment on the fate of the
other two cadets.

In a show of defiance and dis-
agreement with how the cases were
handled, the Corps nearly employed

USAS and the group plans on hold-
ing their first organizational meeting
sometime next week.

“On a long-term basis,” she
said, “some projects we might
want to attempt include trying to
get the campus bookstore to sell
only sweat—free clothing and
products.”

Somers said USAS often works
in coalition with other campus
groups such as the Minority Stu-
dents Association, Gay/Straight Stu-
dent Alliance or with women’s
groups. .

USAS believes these organiza-
tions would be interested in discuss-
ing sweatshop issues because the
groups often have specific needs re-
garding sweatshops.

“Women that are employed in
sweatshops are often more abused
than other employees; therefore, a
women’s organization on campus
might be interested in discussing these
issues,” she said.

Somers hopes to form different
groups within the organization that
can talk about different issues relat-
ing to domestic sweatshops. She said
that later the group might address
issues of worldwide sweatshops.

SEE CLUBS, PAGE 2

admitted

a rarely-used bargaining tool, the
“step-off.” During a step—off, the
Corps refuses to obey all administra-
tive procedure.

The Honor Court also an-
nounced that it would prosecute
honor violations but refused to con-
duct routine status checks of proper
attire or “rat knowledge.” In addi-
tion, it would not enforce confine-
ment to the post until fellow cadets
were reinstated.

Although this situation caused a
rift, a kind of solidarity remains.

“Our attitude is one of family,”
Zanetti said. If the Corps of Cadets
have a problem then they can
wrangle with their superiors until it
gets solved as will the administration
with them.

“But when the rest of the world
gets involved we put aside our dif-
ferences and become a unified fam-
ily.”

The cadets are now putting ev-
erything behind them as the situa-
tion becomes resolved and order re-
turns, Zanetti said.

 

 

 

    

Tuesday blasting to disrupt PhoneMai/

Tomorrow from 10 a.m. to noon, construction crews
will be blasting away rock at the site of the University
Commons, next to Grahatn—Lees.

The PhoneMail system will be taken out of service
starting at approximately 9:45 a.m. and continue until after
the test blast is complete. During this outage, PhoneMail
will not answer calls or otherwise be functional. Phones
will ring until answered or the caller hangs up. Ifthe line is
being used, the caller will receive a busy signal.

A siren will announce a warning ﬁve minutes before the
blast and follow with three shorter signals one minute before.

/nteitaith breakfast serves up unity

The National Conference for Community and Justice
will sponsor its annual Interfaith Breakfast at the Vinton
Baptist Church on October 16th in Vinton, Va. (near
Roanoke) from 7:15 to 9 a.m.

Contact Dean Courtney Penn for more information.

Free food for women by women

The Women’s Forum is having its annual faculty-
student dinner on Tuesday from 5:30 to 7 p.m. in Gaines
Gatehouse. The event is designed to allow both women
students and faculty to get to know one another in a ca-
sual setting. All campus women are invited.

Fundraiser succeeded

The car wash, sponsored by the Kappa Alpha frater-
nity and Kappa Alpha Theta sorority, raised $300 for the
New York and Washington relief funds. Patrons paid $5 to
have their cars washed at the freshman parking lot last
Saturday. Both organizations would like to thank every-
one who participated in the fundraiser.

A/umni band goes big time

Alumni band Ringsend recently made the Richmond
Times-Dispatch with news of the group’s first album, “Ver-
tigo.” Chris Edwards, Anthony Allen, Chris Tully and Josh
Harvey released their first CD this weekend.

Playing together for almost two years, the members
made a recent move to Richmond to become full—time mu-
sicians. They started playing fraternity parties and local
clubs. Now the group hopes to make a splash on the re-
gional music scene.

W&L junior’s car burgled

BY IMRAN NAEEMULLAH
STAFF WRITER

The past week has been a rather
traumatic one for junior Neal Willetts.
In addition to having the usual stress
of classes, he has also had to deal
with a case of losing his identity.

Willetts attended tailgate Satur-
day, Sept. 22, while his Jeep Wrangler
was parked with the top down in front
of Fairfax Lounge on Washington St.
In his Jeep were two items of value: a
black Eddie Bauer leather backpack,
and inside of it, his wallet. His wallet
had $2, his credit card, checkbook,
driver’s license, W&L ID and Social
Security card.

When Willetts returned to his
car and noticed that his bag was
missing, he was neither surprised
nor worried. He ﬁgured he hadn’t
brought his bag with him. After
searching for the bag, however, he

discovered that it was nowhere to
be found.

“I frantically retraced my steps,
driving all over Lexington to every
place I thought I could have con-
ceivably left it,” Willetts said.

Unfortimately, his search bore no .
fruit. After calming himself, he realized
that he had left the bag in the back of
his Jeep after all, leading him to con-
clude that his bag had been stolen.

He alerted University Security,
canceled his credit card and stopped
payment on all remaining checks in
his account. He then began the pro-
cess of obtaining new ID cards and
replacing his credit card, checkbook
and other missing documents.

The credit cards and check-
book were easy to replace, as were
his insurance cards and medical pre-
scription cards. Not so easy was his
driver’s license, for which he needed
proof of identity.

  
  
   
     
   
    
  
     
    
    
  
 

MONDAY. OCTOBER 1. 2001

“It was a Catch—22 situation.
where to obtain one very important
proof of identity, I needed others that
I didn’t have either,” Willetts said.

Fortimately, Willetts’ mother sent
him his birth certiﬁcate, along with oop-
ies of his tax forms from last year, al-
lowing himto obtain his driver’s license.

Willetts has now recovered all
of his replaceable documents, and
the $2 cash is no significant loss.
Gone, however, is his faith in the
honor system.

“I have now become tyrannical
about things I wouldn’t have been
before like locking my car and leav-
ing my things lying around,” he said.

Willetts still hopes that the
thief will come forward and return
his belongings. Anybody with any
information of what happened or
the whereabouts of Willetts’ pos-

sessions is encouraged to contact 4

University Security.

CLUBS from page 1

Photography Club founder sopho-
more Emily Taylor also found the W&L
environment an easy place to create a
club based on her interests.

The Photography Club began in
much the same way as USAS, and it
plans to help people get access to dark-
room facilities, learn to develop photos
in a darkroom and help people grow in

photography skills through construc-
tive criticism within groups.

“We can learn through other people
and other people’s work,” Taylor said.

Based on interest shown following
publication of a campus notice regarding
the club, Taylor expects approximately 50
to 60 members to join the club by attend-
ing the frrst meeting this week.

The Photography Club also plans
to host speakers on photography from

around the Lexington area.

Taylor said.

its first meeting.

Club) will be a strong new club here,”

Students interested in participating in

“Hopefully this (Photography any of these new clubs should watch Cam-
pus Notices for news of upcoming meeting
times or sponsored events.

The Chalice, founded by junior
Laura Leigh Birdwell, is a non-denomi-
national religious organization that
will hold discussion groups for stu-
dents of any religious background to
come together. This group already held

CRIME REPORT

«.9

 

 

Today

6 a.m.——PhoneMail backup. Outage scheduled to last

until 10 a.m.

8:30 p.m.—Java at the GHQ. Alex Wilkins.
'I\1esday, Oct. 2

10 a.m.—-Construction blasting west of Graham—Lees.
Phonemail disruption expected.

Noon—Environmental Studies. Conversation with
Barry Lopez, winner of the National Book Award. Room

114, University Center.

4 p.m.—Glasgow Endowment Reading. Barry Lopez.
Northen Auditorium

5:30p.m.--Women’s Forum. Women faculty/student
dinner. Gaines Gatehouse.

6:30 p.m.—-Candlelight vigil. In support of victims and
survivors of domestic and sexual violence. Hopkin’s Green.

7 p.m.——Student technology training. Intro to
Photoshop, scanning. Tucker Multimedia Center.
Wednesday, Oct. 3

5p.m.— Health Professions Seminar. “Medical
school interviews.” Dr. Donald W. Lewis, associate dean
of admissions, Eastern Virginia Medical School. Room
214, Science Center Addition.

8.pm.-—Alcoholics Anonymous meeting. Coffee pro-
vided. Fairfax Lounge.

Thursday, Oct. 4

7 p.m.-—Russian Film Series. “Inner Circle.” In En-
glish. Room 221,Commerce School.

7 p.m.—-Student technology training. Intro to
Photoshop, scanning. Tucker Multimedia Center.

8 p.m.~——Shannon Clarke Lecture in English. Felicity

 lnolr       0lIlEl«‘0IIliIlJ-’

    

   



Lexie;-was Feel

at

WE'RE MOVING!!!
114 West Washington St.
OCTOBER 15th!!

Glow Stars, Posters, Incense,
T Candles, Scents .8: Inspiration

Beectsawﬁaubles
Cards, Statst«::nar~,r & Stickers
  a _-be-stew
Tots. Toes e Tﬁtts
casseaa. cm, Beaks E caieneztaa-s

‘U
r:
—Y
n
:5‘
Q)
in
(‘D
Q.
or
F?‘
o
C
_Y
:1
(D
E
5
n
or
E
O
:3

Learn to Pier Again

Luaii auo Aue igo iunoosip 0/002 2 Jo; ui pv sun ﬁuiig
‘U08 U0 17-ZI DUE "195-‘U0!/xi 9-OI U9dO

El;tISUt“ida;V’=$. Ctiitdt

A. Nussbaum, professor of English, UCLA. Reception

immediately following. N orthen Auditorium.
8p.m.——Concert Guild. Opera Roanoke presents

Puccini’s “Tosca.” Keller Theater, Lenfest Center.

Friday, Oct. 5

Homecoming Weekend——Full schedule online, http://

alumni.wlu.edu/homecorning.htm

N oon—Alumni Luncheon. Lee House, Front Lawn.

12: 10 p.m.—-Tucker Lecture. Jeremy Waldron, profes-
sor of law, Columbia Univ. School of Law. Moot Court
Room, Lewis Hall.

7:30 p.m.—Film Society. “Amores Perros” (Mexico,
2000). Directed by Alejandro G. Innanitu. In Spanish with
English subtitles, rated R. Troubadour Theater.
Saturday, Oct. 6

9 a.m.—“W&L Today.” Address by Acting President
Laurent Boetsch ‘69. Lee Chapel.

1 1 a.m.—Memorial Service. Lee Chapel.

7:30 p.m.—Film Society. “Amores Perros” (Mexico,
2000). Directed by Alejandro G. Innanitu. In Spanish with
English subtitles, rated R. Troubadour Theater.

Sept. 17-23 ‘
Lexington Citations:

1 litter violation

2 noise violations

Sunday, Sept. 23

Litter. Lee Chapel parking lot.

Fire Alarm. Beta Theta Pi Fraternity.
Monday, Sept. 24

Missing person. Southern Virginia Uni-
versity student reported missing, found later
that evening.

Confiscated beer bong. Pi Kappa Phi
Fraternity.

Drinking games. Phi Gamma De1taFratemity.
Thesday, Sept. 25

Fire Alarm. Woods Creek.

Drinking games. Beta Theta Pi Fraternity.
Wednesday, Sept. 26

Vehicle roll-off. Reeves Center

Confiscated drug paraphernalia. Phi
Delta Theta Fraternity.
Friday, Sept. 28

Report of possible drug use. Graham-
Lees, second ﬂoor.

Information provided
by Unversity Security.

BY GREG PEARCE
HEAD CHEF

Academic year 2001-02 is upon us and has
brought with it, many positive changes in Dining
Service. Students will notice changes in several
of the dining locations, and overall changes to
the dining options. We thought it would be help-
ful to inform the student body as to what has
been changed and the reasons for those changes.

The first is what is most obvious to ev-
eryone, the meal plan options for this year.
After careful analysis of data collected, stu-
dent surveys, focus groups, and suggestions,
we have added some “plans” that we think
will be more advantageous to the student
body as a whole.

a. There are four new “Flex” plans, the
Maj or Flex, Minor Flex, Legal Flex, and
the Greek Flex. Each plan has a mini-
mum “buy-in” developed for a specific
segment of our student body. These
plans have been very ‘popular, offering
students an option to use cash, but avoid-
ing the sales tax.

b. The Freshman 21 meal plan has been ex-
panded to allow three meals per week to
be eaten in the GHQ. We initiated this pro-
gram last year. It was so popular, we ex-
panded it from last year’s one meal allowed
there to three meals this year!

c. A student may add tax-free Dining Dollars
to any of the meal plans at their disc\r tion.

d. The 5 and 10 meal plans offered thigyear
may be used at any of our four dining s r-
vice locations.

e. Virtually every meal plan has a certain
amount of “guest meals” (Free Meals) al-
lowed to be used each term.

The menus both in the GHQ and the Snack
« Bar have somewhat reduced their offerings.

 
  

After careful analysis of product movement and

Paid Advertisement

Dining Services Moves Ahead

Campus Dining 2001-2002 game plan includes new meal plans, uniforms

participation, it was decided that certain gen-
erally unpopular item ould be eliminated from
the menus. However, each of the locations is
testing new products, attempting to offer new,
trendy items for the students. Examples of this
includes the new Riches Bake Product line
available at the Snack Bar, and other items
such as the extremely popular “Boardwalk
Fries” in every location.

The GHQ in particular has a very selec-
tive menu this year. Frankly, GHQ has not
generated much business the past few years
and was on the verge of reducing its hours of
operation, or even closing. In order to avoid
this we realized that we needed to be pru-
dent with the menu selection, scaling back in-
ventory, concentrating on what we know stu-
dents and faculty frequently ordered last aca-
demic year. Our focus in Dining Service is to
provide a positive dining experience, with
quality food, at a reasonable price. We be-
lieve that by implementing these changes we
are being pro-active in our attempts to meet
these objectives.

By October 1, 2001, all dining service per-
sonnel (with the exception of Evans Dining Hall
Culinary Staff), will appear in new uniforms. The
uniforms will be a Forest Green Polo shirt, with
khaki pants. In addition to the morale factor of
our staff we wish to create an environment
whereby all Dining Service employees are rec-
ognizable, as a team committed to serving the
dining needs of the University.

One of the most popular additions to
Dining Services, is the expanded hours at
vans Dining Hall. We now serve dinner until
'00 p.m., Sunday thru Friday, and 6:45
. on Saturday. Many of our students, in-
clu 'ng but not limited to Athletes, Student

' ricular c\:tivities.

   
  
  
  
   
   
  
   
   
   
   
   
  
   
   
   
  
  
   
    
  
    
   
  
    
   
 
 
 

     
   
   
 
        
    
 
   
   
   
   
      
      
 
    
 
   
     
 
   
 
  

    
         
         
     
     
       
       
   
     
   

MONDAY, OCTOBER 1,2001

S‘TIi‘ElE‘liEDIToRrAL

E.C.-spawned ﬁnancial
woes write the Phi’s epic saga-

Like all mythical heroes, the staff of the
Phi wrests with fearsome monsters.

Weekly, your editorial heroes must contest
with the relentless Deadline, the odious Com-
puter Failure -and the multiheaded Tardy
Staffwriter. These ﬁghts are not bloodless: the
monsters have recently claimed a casualty, our
W&Life editor, who resigned her post to re-
turn to news writing.

None of these foul creatures compare, how-
ever, with Inadequate Financial Support, a loath-
some ogre hatched in foul union by the Student
Executive Committee and a lack of foresight.

This is not, we hasten to add, an attack on
the E.C. We have the warmest regards for those
hardworking student-servants, and the highest
hopes for a remunerative Winter Allocation.

The E.C. tests us.

We recognize this. Just as Hera tested
Hercules, Zeus Jason, and Hades Orpheus, our
divine student representatives try our mettle,
seeking to forge our greatness in a crucible of
ﬁnancial need.

These trials will not break us. Paul, our stal-
wart Business Manager, will eventually lead his
people to solvency. t

But consider the task. With printing and
photos, it costs a little more than $600 to pub-
lish every issue. Assuming that the paper can
manage its 12 issues this term, that totals $7200.
That’s a lot of ads.

Of course, the Phi could save money. We
could change the font point size from 10 to 12.
We could run poorly-developed and obscure
pictures. We could hunch over to tabloid size.
We could fire the copy and layout editors. We
could become. . .the Trident.

But there are subjects of which we should
not make light. Some things should not be joked
about, and the Phi ’s hypothetical prostitution to
convenience is one of them.

We assure our readers, of late, grown used
to superlative writing and editing, that this will
not be. I

No matter how starved the Phi is for dough,
no matter how little the allocation and how great
the neglect, we at the paper will emerge from our
tribulation battle-scarred and -hardened, ready to
deliver the latest Phi on a sea of red ink.

OTE OF THE WEEK:

CERTAINLY, YOU MUST BE
FAMILIAR WITH
“BOOTYLICIOUS.”

— ANONYMOUS PHI OPINIONS EDITOR
DISCUSSING I-IIS FAVORITE MUSIC GROUP

TEE RINGTUM PEI

PINIONS

Vote Earley

Electorally, 2001 is not a very ex-
citing year. However, come Novem-
ber, Virginians will be voting in a gu-
bernatorial election of extreme irnpor—
tance.

Even as students from across the
nation, we must be concerned and
throw our support behind Mark
Earley. First, this election is largely a
referendum on President Bush’s per-
formance. Should Mark Earley win,
Bush will be empowered to pursue his
plans to ensure America’s security.
Students who support the President’s
bold plan for reform and his deterrni—
nation to hunt down those who have
declared war on America can demon-
strate this support by voting for
Earley.

Second, the candidates represent
a very clear choice between common-
sense conservatism and gitchy- goo,
arrogant liberalism. Mark Earley, his
running mates Jay Katzen for Lieu-
tenant Govemor and Jerry Kilgore for

Attorney General, have presented an,

innovative plan for Virginia that will
get the economy rolling again, will
continue to keep us safe and will raise
the educational standards of
Virginia’s public schools.

As State Senator, a post that he
held from 1987 until 1997, Mark Earley
worked closely with George Allen to
pass welfare refonn and was the chief
legislative sponsor of major overhauls
in Virginia’s education and criminal
justice systems.

As Attorney General, Earley
pushed innovative legislation to al-
low drug addicts to sue their deal-
ers and sought to facilitate the
prosecution of child
pornagraphers (and
doesn’t that hit
close to home after
the revelation of a
VMI History professor’s alleged
trysts). In addition, Earley has been
and will continue to be a proponent
of eliminating parole for violent
criminals. ’

As governor, Earley plans to
push legislation to cut the sales tax
on food, ensure the scheduled elimi-
nation of the car tax, and work to re-

RIGHT OF THE AISLE
BRETT T. I<IRwrrN ‘O4

 

rural Virginia and in the Northern Vir-
ginia technology corridor. Most im-
portantly, Earley will bring his expe-
rience and proven leadership to the
governorship. In these trying times,
Virginians and students who face
fighting this war should support a
man who is a friend of the President
and is accustomed to
the workings of gov-
emment.

Mark Warner,
the Democratic nomi-
nee, on the other hand, has spent his
adult life as a telecommunications ex-
ecutive. His only experience was a seat
on a transportation advisory board,
where he came up with the brilliant
proposal that people take more bicycle
rides. Warner may claim in his person-
ally-ﬁnanced ads that he is ﬁscally re-
sponsible, but he has had no experi-

for Govrnr

OOLRIESYOEYOLNC. iiiiors Fi=i)ERAiioN oEViRcr\I1A'
NONE TOO SOON: Mark Earley is the right choice for these students as well as Generals.

He and his running mates repre-
sent the most liberal ticket ever pre-
sented to Virginia voters. Collectively,
they support reinstating parole for
violent crirriinals and ending the death
penalty, stopping the elimination of
the car tax and legalizing gay marriage
in Virginia.

In sum, the Democrats have
thrown up another inexperienced, im-
mensely wealthy and obscenely pre-
sumptuous candidate who is running
to fulﬁll his lust for power and control.
Note the Democratic party affiliation.

Finally, all students, regardless of
where they live during the summer
months, can seize the opportunity to
chart the course of our now—home state.
Being a W&L student fulﬁlls the resi-
dency requirement for Virginia voter reg-
istration. This writer, for one, encour-
ages every student, regardless of party

V Editor-in-chief Matt.heWB.McDermott
Associate Editor Mike Agnello
News Editor Alison Trinidad
Asst. News Editor Latrina Stokes
Opinions Editor Brett T. Kirwan
Asst. Opinions Editor AndrewLatimer
Sports Editor Jeremy Franklin
Asst. Sports Editor Dave Crowell
Layout Editor KatieHowell
Photo Editor Mar'yGuy ‘
Photographers Meg Ferrara
Jeb Brooks
Paul Seifert
William Litton
Charlie Tonelli

Business Manager
Asst. Business Manager
Circulation Director

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editor-in-chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion of the Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi.wlu.edu

energize the economy, both here in

ence to prove himself.

affiliation, to exercise his franchise.

Trident sinks to new low with Jones

There is no better feeling than sitting down at dirmeitime
to enjoy a home-cooked meal while catching up on the
daily news. Last Wednesday night, however, was not one
of those nights. The Trident competes with this paper for
readers, and like this one attempts to accu— ‘
rately report the news. In this issue,’ The
Trident fell a few pegs on the ladder of
acceptable journalism and ethical decision-
making, The edition of The Trident that
came out last Wednesday and featured the journalistic
stylings of a junior named Ben Jones. To be blunt: Mr.
Jones made his debut in an impressively horriﬁc fashion.

Normally, when I read The Trident, I scan the
headlines, ﬂip the paper over, and proceed directly
to Michael Denbow’s weekly column. This time, how-
ever, my fraternity brother’s recounts of hilarity were
not in the middle of the back page as I had expected
them to be. In their place was the aforementioned
atrocity entitled, “Men, you are doomed so just give

up.”

For one thing, the entire idea for this “piece” (please
excuse the term; this is certainly not meant to be confused
with a piece of art) was plagiarized directly from the stand-
up comedy routine entitled, “I’m Telling You for the Last
Time,” by the famous actor and comedian, Jerry Seinfeld.
Most of Jones’ article was lifted from Seinfeld’s routine,
word—for-word in some instances, without even the slight-

A MATTER or FACT“
MATT COURSEN ‘03

est attempt to cite or attribute the quotes to their rightful
owner. How this article did not fall to the cutting—room
ﬂoor is beyond my comprehension. However, more blame
should be placed on The Trident’s editors than on Mr.
Jones himself. Though plagiarizing is de-
plorable, the job of an editor is to be the
“last stop” of the writing process. Unfor-
tunately, in this case, the editors failed to
recognize one of the most grievous and
inexcusable errors in all of journalism.

But I digress. The reason for this article is not to
chastise Mr. Jones or the editors of The Trident, but rather
to impress upon students how morally wrong it is to copy
someone else’s work. If you cannot think of anything co-
gent to write, please do not attempt to hide your igno-
rance by stealing someone else’s ideas and taking credit
for them. In most cases, you will be caught, and you will
appear much more foolish than had you written nothing at
all. In all seriousness, it would greatly behoove Mr. Jones
to take a course journalism ethics, so that he may learn the
error of your ways.

I am sure most of you are surprised at the level of my
apparent anger toward Mr. Jones. I implore you, do not
confuse anger with disappointment. Never before have I
seen such a blatant display of both plagiarism and unethi-
cal decision-making by a newspaper. As both a student and
a journalism major, I am disheartened and appalled .

Lettercto the Editor

Don't believe Jones’ plagarism

Dear Editor,

I am just one the many students horrified by Ben
Jones’ “Back Page” in The Trident last week. If you haven’t
seen Jerry Seir1feld’s “I’m Telling You for the Last Time,” I
would highly recommend it, though it is unfortunate that

TALKBACK:  Wh  

many of the jokes have been ruined, as Jones blatantly
plagiarized the routine for his article.

Such theft of material without mention of acknowledged
aid is ridiculous, and I urge everyone to ignore J ons when he
talks about the seven words you can’t say on TV, “creates”
a funny top ten list or regales you with delightful stories
about his life as a black obstetrcian living in Brooklyn.

Sincerely,
John Power ‘02

DREII 1. r\iRWA\'_

OIIMONS EDIIOR
EMA1l:KIRWANl3@WlU.EDU

PAGE 3

More guns is  
not the solution

Concealed carry wont prevent terrorism

One Wall Street Journal columnist raised a rather
unsettling answer to America’s need for tighter se-
curity: more guns! In his editorial Friday, John R.
Lott, Jr. said the United States needs to allow and
encourage more citizens to carry guns. He believes
that with more guns among the populace, terrorism
will be less likely to occur in America.

That idea itself is terrifying. I contend, although
such is greatly unpopular on this campus, that
America’s problem is not lack of guns, but rather
lack of sufficient gun control.

Lott believes screening at airports is not a true
deterrent to keep guns off planes, because airport
security could, “perhaps be bribed.”

“Excuse me —

Sir, WC,VC found 3.   

gun in your bag.”

“Oh really, NICHOLAS RAMSEY ‘03
well you can have
Mr. Benjamin here if you keep that just between us.”

“Well, I’m not supposed to, but I have been
wanting to beef up my DVD collection.”

Do any of us really believe that this type of
bribery is all it takes to get a gun on at plane? So, is
not the answer to pass legislation that would rein-
force the doors to commercial plane cockpits? Lott
says this is a good idea, but the difference in air
pressure would be a problem. I think that could be
fixed if you merely build a very wide, thin vent
above the door to regulate airﬂow. That seems
simple enough.

Lott’s solution is to put U.S. Marshals on
planes. However, he realizes that there are only
17,000 thousand of these Marshals working in
America, and 35,000 would be needed to fill every
ﬂight. Obviously, there’s a bit of a problem with
that idea.

Fuitherrnore, Lott asks, “What if an entire gang
of terrorists hijack a plane?” Clearly one officer will

not be enough to stop them.

But Lott does have a magnificently brilliant so-
lution. He states that pilots should be armed and the
six hundred thousand law enforcers should be able
to bring their guns on planes. This point is where
his article loses all credibility.

Do you realize how often both identity theft and
impersonating an officer allow criminals access to
places where they are not permitted? Thus, should
we trust the same easily bribed airport security of-
ficers to determine who is and who is not a law en-
forcement ofﬁcer? ’

By Lott’s statements, we should also trust
that these pilots and officers would not abuse
this privilege themselves. Meanwhile, the FBI,
the CIA, and police forces the nation over are
trying to find crooked officers right under their
noses.

Lott continues to say that guns should not be
limited solely to airplane use. He wishes our govem-
ment would encourage off-duty officers and respon-
sible citizens to carry guns in all public places. Well,
I have been worried about a terrorist ambush in the
mall lately. And I know there was some kind of co-
vert operation going down in the frozen foods sec-
tion of Kroger on Tuesday.

There is one real problem with this solution. You
cannot stop a terrorist with the threat of a gun if he
is merely going to kill himself anyway. Obviously,
the idea of dying is the point.

Lott uses Israel, where almost ten percent of
citizens carry concealed weapons, as an example. I
do not think that anyone would want the United
States to become more like Israel, a nation plagued
by more violence and governmental problems than
it can possibly deal with.

As for the real reason I feel compelled to write
this, I believe the last thing that the recent attacks
should be used for is to support laws to allow more
guns on our streets. More guns in the hands of
citizens leads to more accidental killings, more of
them being stolen or sold to criminals, and the con-
stant fear of wherever you go, someone around you
probably is packing heat.

I for one would like the freedom to walk around
without the fear that government regulations have
put more guns into the hands of my fellow citizens.
Yes, I realize that responsible gun owners cry foul
anytime that there is mention of keeping guns from
citizens. '

Realize it is not you that I am worried about. Per-
haps it is the “right” that an outdated Amendment grants

that is America’s true gun problem.

 

 

“I don’t have time.”
-Dave Harrison ‘05

  

‘My classes are harder than I

thought they would be.”
-Mary Hahn‘05

“t ast en
intersting enough.”
-John Goshor ‘05

 

“I haven’t heard about them.”
-Natalya Hoopshack ‘O5

    

“Because going to
parties is more fun.”
-Mike Whitecar ‘O5

 

 
 

As I attempt to write this column,
the computer derails my train of
thought every few minutes with an
annoying beep. A message pops up
on screen: “hey how ru.” Could this
be some diabolical program plotting
to warp my sense of grammar right in
the middle ofia newspaper assign-
ment?

I only wish the story were that
interesting. Instead, I find myself deal-
ing with yet another person, a person
I do not even know, a person whom I
do not even care to know, and a per-
son who has just interrupted my work.
I close the window and struggle to
collect my thoughts once again.

When I downloaded my ﬁrst copy
of America Online Instant Messenger,
I did not foresee this scenario at all.
“Keep in up—to—the-second contact
with your friends around the world! ,”
the banner read in ﬂashing neon-
green letters. “Never use your phone
again! Save on long distance bills!”

Best of all, the program was ab-
solutely free. How could I miss? As it
turns out, Very easily. After all, noth-
ing is really free; what I saved in

money I have lost in time and energy.
Worst of all, I am not alone.

Instant message mania swept the
globe less than six years ago with the
advent of ICQ, a powerful, yet simple,
program that allowed users to con-
tact each other anytime and from any-
where. Students unwittingly em-
braced it, particu-

,   
Instant Messaging has high price: time, grammar,

struggling to keep up with several
conversations at once resorted to cre-
ating their own primitive language of
slang, using terms such as “g2g” (got
to go) and “ttyl” (talk to you later) in
lieu of the antiquated “good—bye” or

“see you soon.”
Spelling also fell by the way-
side as surfers became

larly for its imme- COGENT COMMENTARY ever lazierg oddities
diacy and ability to ‘ like “kool,” “stopid,”
talk with multiple ANDREW LATIMER  and “supr” infiltrated

people simulta-
neously, two features that a plain old
telephone cannot offer.

Instant Messenger, or AIM for
short, arrived later, but it quickly sur-
passed all expectations by ensnaring
over 45 million members worldwide.
Notably, of all Americans in our age
bracket who use the Internet, sev-
enty-four percent use some sort of IM
program, be it ICQ, AIM, Yahoo! Mes-
senger, or MSN Messenger, just to
name a few.

But sadly, with the rapid ascent
of this telecommunications marvel
came the even swifter fall of grammar,
manners and privacy. Teenagers

the lexicon with sick-
ening speed. If linguists criticized
the state of the English language
with young Americans before, just
wait ten more years. They’ll be stab-
bing their eyes out.

Even more troubling are the so-
cietal implications of IM. A survey
published this June by the-Pew Insti-
tute stated that 13 percent of adoles-
cents on the ‘net have dumped a boy-
friend or girlfriend with a text message,
a fate far worse (not to mention far
more cowardly) than the dreaded
phone break—up.

Yet that statistic is telling of the
insidious appeal of IM. Being the

non-threatening mode of communica-
tion that it is, IM poses a convenient
crutch for those who are too shy to
talk face-to-face. Quite simply, it’s
nothing but a gadget for virtual her-
mits and, like the television some ﬁfty
years before, will invevitably change
our social landscape for the worse.

Then there’s the natural question:
why don’t I just erase the program
and rid myself of this scourge? Ask
anyof the other 45 million users: it’s
addictive. Most set their computers
to automatically load messaging pro-
grams whenever they boot up, and
so it’s fair to say the vast majority
have worked IM into their daily rou-
tines. And as the saying goes, old
habits die hard.

Even for the casual users who
only talk with friends, the siren song
of IM is hard to resist, especially with
dedicated Internet connections at
college. Who could say no to having
a dozen friends at your ﬁngertips at
once? In fact, most of the conversa-
tions I have online are with friends
who are self-proclaimed
“technophobes,” “Luddites,” “com—

MONDAY. OCTOBER 1, 2001

spellig

  
   

mrimsmrii-rr».UM\FltsrrY(>r SoUrHAnno\

NOT YOUR BUDDY: Students waste hours each day sacriﬁcing manners and grammar to keeping in touch.

puter—haters,” or “bumbling morons.”

Instantaneous communication
brought with it instant headaches
and worries for those who were un-
fortunate enough to be hooked by

the hype. The only solution might
be to stand up to this new technol-
ogy and resist its... ’you’ll have to
excuse me, the screen’s blinking
again. g2g “Click.”

Bush, Ashcroft should reconsider plans to increase investigative powers

Oouirrr~sYoi=Y!

COMING TO AMERICA: Will future immigrants regard our country as the land of free following Bush’s response to the Septll attacks?

Many individuals strive to reach
America, the land of the free. I came here
with my father as a refugee from Vietnam in
order to taste the fruits of liberty. Unlike
many other refugees who lost their lives
struggling to come here, I was lucky to have
made it here safely and succeeded in adapt-
ing to American culture. There is no better
place to live.

I still feel that way, but the recent propos-
als made by the Bush administration calling
for broader powers to be allotted to authori-
ties to ﬁght terrorism make me wonder if there
perhaps is no land of the free anywhere.

This is a different time period, and many
of us young people are facing an intema—
tional tragedy for the first time. We were alive
for Desert Storm, but this “war” is on a differ-

ent scale. We didn’t confront any hindrances '

to our Constitutional rights, but that may not
be the case this time.

There is a scary possibility that Ashcroft’s
proposals may pass because as much as I dis-
agree with them on the basis that they abridge
our civil liberties, I also see a need for them.
Thousands of Americans died on September

11. How many more must die before we do
something to protect our nation?

Though I do support measures to give
the authorities more powers to better ac-
cess electronic information shared between
possible terrorism suspects, I strongly dis-
agree with the proposals to 
detain aliens for an indefi— "
nite period of time without
a stated reason. It is rea-
sonable to question an in-
dividual, but not to detain them for an un-
specified amount of time that may range
from two days to two months. It is a sacri-
fice that we, as Americans, should not be
forced to make.

People are rash, and they are at their rash-
est now, and it is these rash people that run
our country. As such, it is crucial to keep them
in check before things go too far, as happened
in WWH and the Red Scare. I am extremely
sympathetic towards Muslims and aliens liv-
ing in this country‘ because they will face these
measures at their extremes.

I spoke with a Pakistani friend of mine
who attends Oglethorpe Univ. in Atlanta, and

 

Tiun or Tnoucnr

  TILIN K1M‘05 _

she received stinging remarks the day of the
attacks. For the first time I had no advice for
her. What can you say to a friend who con-
fronts racism? It is hard to ﬁght ignorance,
and I fear that, aside from the pain of the
incidents, the ignorance that often surrounds
these situations will further
rack the nation.

It is a difﬁcult decision
to make: whether you
should protect yourself and
your fellow citizens or preserve your
country’s existence. We as Americans are
called on to be patriots and so we patriots
we need to be, but at the same time, we also
need to mindful of our leaders’ actions.

It is important to remember that these
people are merely human beings and are try-
ing their best to do what is best for us citi-
zens. They are interpreting the situation as
they see it. So at the same time that we need
to be patient and perhaps endure a tempo-
rary loss of certain rights, we also need to
voice any concerns we may have so that a
temporary forfeiture does not turn into a
permanent dispossession.

 

 

ANIEX

Visit us again for pleasant memories and ﬁrst quality merchandise

for men and women.
MENS LADIES
Corbin Bowdon
Gitman Foxcroft
W&L ties and belts (Exclusive) Richard Sport
Woolrich Corbin
K. Gordon Woolrich
Enro Leon Levin
Trafalgar Belts LanzGowns

1 11 West Nelson Street
463-273 1

VISA

THE COLLEGE TOWN SHOP

MASTERCARD

Fine Jfoobs 8: gigzfs .pnorn
lrzelanb. Scoclanb.
an?) the Bnitfsh Isles-

Gift Ceuﬁipicates '
KI'l%, Tanfans. & Alzczessonies
Belleek. Royal Tana. & Donegal China

Auﬂronzed cafrhrress Glass Gallery

Céftict
C onnectlon

& Inisb Meals b3r'|.VIa1!.

4

    

Music Paints

F0066 Collecfahles
Cnarscal Knltavean
Religious Itenas Fine Chin
Heatheagerns Jenuelnar
Linens Books

Henalbazy Ice:-us

1 9 W. Nelson street
Lexington, VA 24450
(540) 434-6545

www.ir'Ishmea‘lsl>ymlI.ooln
w1.\nAr.csltier:>onnevx.carn
Iamaihinfoﬁcelticco .nt:x.corn
Toll Free 1-877-CELTICZ

   
 

 

=2

 

      cold   
         enicirsraoeeies.

 

  the rurznms are true?

 

1 i

 

  

4,’

  
   
  
   
   
 
  

Admitting women made the
university stronger.”

MONDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2001

MATTHEW A. COURSEN
STAFF WRITER

If you were to picture Washington
and Lee in your mind, how would you
describe it to someone who could not
see? Which aspects of the school would
be among the ﬁrst you would describe?
The well—mar1icured lawns, the pristine
sidewalks, the glorious colonnade.
Would you explain to your friend how
rarely you see litter on the ground or
trash in the classrooms? Or would you
tell them how clean everything is and
how well kept the landscaping is at all
times, no matter the weather?

What if your friend asked about
your feelings on the size of the carn-
pus, its dimensions, and your feelings
of safety here? How would you re-
ply? In general, students at this
school take for granted certain fun-
damental aspects of the southern
hospitality that exists here. I cannot
express in mere words how vastly
unique it is to walk down the colon-
nade and say “hello” to everyone you
pass. To walk into the Co-op and be
greeted warmly by a group of helpful,
cheerful people is a nice feeling and
one we must not ignore.

The purpose of this column, which
will now appear weekly on this page, is to
bring to our attention the people here who

. help make our

“I think the school’s Sch0O1greaLAS
changed for the better. opposed to.the
increasing r1urn—

ber of negative
opinion articles
written each
week about the
alcohol policy or lack of parking on cam-
pus, this column will focus mainly on the
positives about this ﬁne university.

Each week, I will interview a differ-
ent member of our staff ir1 order to show
you what they look like, what their job
is, and a little bit about their personal
life. The objective of this column is to
make us all realize how lucky we are to
have such a dedicated and warm-
hearted group of people working to im-
prove and maintain our school.

IARRYSTUART

 

LIFE  

Tue Risousit Put

. AAA)111l4\‘)-'lk4-‘ZA_Mh"\)l‘ rum .x.l1.LL41 .....i_...u

  

SUPERVJSING PAGEEDIIORS
FMA1LFu1@wuiu)u

GLAMOR: Larry Stuart and associate Thomas “Baner” Bane revel in their popularity with students.

Now that I have introduced the
column to you, let me introduce the
subject of this inaugural edition of Staﬁ’
Appreciation. Larry Stuart is a mem-
ber of University Security. You have
probably seen him driving around cam-
pus handing out tickets and “hellos”
quite evenly. In all seriousness,
though, Larry is a long—standing mem-
ber of the staff here, working as a se-
curity ofﬁcer for nearly 17 years.

When he isn’t at parties keeping
us out of trouble, or in the parking
garage politely warning us to move
our illegally parked cars, Larry is at
home with his wife and daughter. The
happy family resides in Rockbridge
County only a short distance from
where Larry himself grew up. Both
Larry and his wife are committed to

helping people each day of their lives. -

His wife, Debbie, works at Heritage
Hall, a nursing home in Lexington, and
they both enjoy raising their adorable
6-year-old daughter, Bettie Sierra.
After attending the old Rockbridge
County High School, the existing school
was built at its current location about 7
years ago, Larry enlisted in the Marine

Corps and served our country proudly
for 6 years, rising to the rank of Sergeant.
Following a brief stint in construction,
Larry was hired by W&L. The year was
1984, and Larry had just begun his sto-
ried career here. His ﬁrst year with W&L
was also the last year that the school
was all—male. When asked to comment
on his thoughts about this monumental
change, Larry replied, “I think the
school’s changed for the better. Admit-
ting women made the university stron-
ger.” Those who know him, know how
much he cares not only for the students
here, but also for protecting the students
here. It is certainly not an easy job. With
some new policies now in eﬂect, Univer-
sity Security has a larger responsibility
than ever before. It’s a good thing we
have men like Larry on our side.

In his spare time, Larry enjoys jazz
music and looks forward to attending
jazz clubs and concerts two or three
times each year. Though we did not talk
about this in the interview, I know that
Larry is a fan of the Redskins; a fact
that heavily inﬂuenced my decision to
write this inaugural column about him
rather than on another security ofﬁcer,

a Cowboys fan. Besides being a jazz en-
thusiast and a football fan, Larry genu-
inely enjoys working here at W&L, watch-
ing the freshmen grow into graduates in
four short years. To the freshmen, Larry
oﬂered some valuable advice: “Education

is one of the things
you’ve come here
for. So it’s irnpor—
tant for you to make
sure you’re devot-
ing enough time to
your studies.” For
those of you fresh-
men who do not
know Larry, intro-
duce yourself next
time you see him
around campus. He

“Education is one of
the things you’ve come
here for. So it’s
important for you to
make sure you’re
devoting enough time
to your studies.”
IARRYSIUART

will undoubtedly smile, offer a hand, and
look after you for four years.

And for those of you who do know
him, when it’s late at night, and you see a
W&L securitycarslow down nexttoyou,do
notbe alarmed. For it is probably Larry wav-
ing “hello,” knowing that he does his job
because he cares. From now on, wave back
and show some appreciation for the ways in
which Larry Stuart improves ourlives.

MARY GUY/ Tbe Ring-711

PAGE 5

Freshmen face

dining obstacles

Many students dislike lack
of eating opportunities on W&L campus

SAHAR Kuvuu
STAFF WRITER

Upon cooking our second pot of chicken alfredo
noodles within 15 minutes one recent Monday morn-
ing at 2 a.m., I looked across to my friend and said,

“The hours of the dining hall are not
what I’m used to at home, so I usually
tind something else to eat.”
CAROLESIRADA

“This has to
stop.” Whether
it’s adjusting to
dining hall
hours or a sud-
den dearth of
Mexican food
and other fa-
vorite home-
town Mexican

restaurants, freshman are slowly comprehending din-

ing atW & L.

For many, three meals a day is a stark contrast to
regular snacking at home. Dinner ‘generally ends at 7
p.m., and most students are up much later than that,
either studying or just staying out. With the long
gap between meals and still much to later in the night,
stomachs usually begin to rumble soon enough.

“Meals aren’t what they used to be,” Freshman
Tina Shen said. “Because we are in the dorms so
much, there is always a temptation to snack just to
have something to do.”

The short hours of the dining hall dinner are hard

to adjust to for
those who are
used to eating
dinner later.

“I don’tget
hungry - at
5:30,” Fresh-
man Carol
Estrada said.
“The hours of

“Meals aren’t what they used to be.
Because we are in the dorms so much,
there is always a temptation to snack

just to have something to do.”

TINASHEN

the dining hall are not what I’m used to at home, so I

usually find something else to eat.”

Besides the co-op, the GHQ and ever-trustwor-
thy Domino’s Pizza, late—night options can be hard to
come by. Hopefully, over the next few weeks, fresh-
man will perfect their dining schedule and make it to
breakfast before class and store a few frozen meals
in their dorm before running into debt with the

Domino’s man.

for

Victims of Domestic Violence

Sponsored by

Project Horizon  

TONIGHT

at

6:30 p.m.

at

Hopkins Green

All welcome.

Space donated by the Ring-tum Phi.

 
    

PAGE 6

 . ‘  M<)NDA1, UCI‘()Bl:R 1,4001

  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
   

j
EC b d 11 ° Graham Lees ﬂood 2001'
u get a ocations .
Organization Amount per year ($) 1 ~ . ' ‘ ‘ *-’  ‘ .
- 1 2000 2000-2001 2001-2002

Arete 1, 50 600 600
Ariel 5250 2725 2700 RIGHT: SPLISH SPLASH: Freshmen mop
Café Cultura 0 and clean the second ﬂoor Security side
Calyx ' 11 yooo 3000 0 hallway of Graham—Lees Dormitory last
Calyx D ebt 9000 Thursday. It all began in yvith a resident
Club Boxing 100 throvving a football, hitting a pipe and
Club Lacrosse (m) 1200 . 1550 ﬂ°°d”‘g 3 balmy-
Club Lacrosse (w) 1000 0
Club Softball 280 155
Co-ed Club Water Polo 0 4000
Contact 35900 47v000 50-000 BOTTOM LEFT: RESCUE SQUAD:
(Failm  6000 6750 $330 Residents, dorm counselors and

ame U administrators alike itched in to stem
Gay'Stralght Alliance 300 540 the rising tide tliaat occurred at
Game Club 1 70 100 approximately 9:30 p.m. The
Habitat for Humanity ' 300 6000 1000 encroaching ﬂoodwaters threatened
International Club 1800 3500 dozens of rooms.
Java at the GHQ 7500 8000
Journal of Science 2200 4780 0
KEWL - 0
Live Drive 1900
Mindbending Productions 600 BOTTOM RIGHT: EAU DE TOILETTE:
Minority Student Association 8000 14,000 14,000 Desperate freshmen attempt to divert
Nabors Sen/ice League 14,000 14,000 the How of the Graham—Lees River into
Otaku ' 100 a restroom. Physical Plant eventually
Peer Counselors 0 turned the water off, sparing most
Photography Club 250 freshmen’s rooms from serious damage. *
Political Review 1675 1500 2200
PRIDE 1 000 400 1 500
Publications Board 8 3075 5500 3000 *
R.E. Belles 100 100 0
Ring-tum Phi 4000 4000 4500 it
Rugby 1 625 3650 1 400 An. pnoros BYJFB Brooks/Tlac Rirzgtzw1P/2:’
SNAP 0 ;
Student Activities Board 77,000 100,570 84,707
Student Association for International Learning ‘ 1920 2200
Student Bar Association 51,000 60,000 56,500 . 1
Soccer 615 180 60
Southern Comfort 1000 0 ‘
W&L Cheerleading 1900
Women’s Forum 1500 3025
W&L Cheerleading 863 .5
W&L Dance 820 1250
W&L Dance and Ballet 1500 .v-
W&L Pep Club 250
W.l.T.S. 220 500 ,
Student Pavilion 51 ,775 52,475 53,350
Student Priority Reserve 9000 5500 I
Ultimate Frisbee Club 100
E.C. Reserve 4000 9000 9000 H‘
E.C. Honor Reserve 18,000 4000 4000
Student Body Working Reserve A 18000 18000 18,000
Student Body Default 1423.81 1164.01 1922.13 ¢
TOTAL 355,198.81 389,639.01 366,272.13

§ .
Spring Break 2002! !! V’
 to    Student Express is now hiring sales reps.
Cancun features FREE meals and parties @ 0 ‘ 4
_ Fat Tuesdays—MTV Beach Headquarters. e a V e ,
lessons nVaIIa|Ile Acapulco, Mazatlan, Jamaica, Bahamas, - A
. . . C
only $5 nerliali-Itourlesson Sovmﬁaﬁrnelﬂffggblirncejﬁom every-r h I ng
major a1r es. , ave ers in . a 4
co|“_act  or 800-787-3787 for a FREE brochure or
tIeminu|I@wIu.e|Iu email: d 1. ,
bookit@ studentexpress.com Y O U n 8 6 O
www.studentexpress.com. . 1 ~
I o o k y o u r‘ t.  
I V I I i
ii if th ma besl f°'° 1 ‘
ant: to write or e P .

Come to our weekly staff meetings at 7 on Monday nights
in tie Phi office, 31 Washington St.

Homecoming!

Gety(11rhaircutf<:rH1recrIru'r1gat
CuLi:Jng --1
' ‘ ]_’L7W. l\1e]srnSt.

463-9588 ’

9:;/lecuts, Ciiigpereits,  4»

Manicures and Pedicures ,

www ewv e     

 

1 is

I 4

 

3
4

jEREIvIYFRANI<IIN


iliiifiii RI; its-~TrR«I Pl--it

MONDAY, OCTOBER 1,2001

PORT
'T5Generals see win streak snapped by N .C. Wesleyan

 

1 .(v I - E’ fig-It/)1 )1

‘ EEEONE-ON-ONE: Freshman Kelley Zagol attempts to elude a Dominion Athletic Conference win Saturday atiLiberty Hall
' ':»_“'hVirginia Wesleyan defender in the Generals’ 1-0 Old Field. W/&L improved to 6-1 in the ODAC.

5.’
4* 

   men

,  Wasps,
VVesleyan

g ;.,,;.r BY GEOFF WHITE

v I

SPORTs WRITER

The Generals started to reclaim

I  some of last season’s glory with a pair

I

of wins last week, defeating Emory

‘and Henry and their old nemesis, Vir-

 ginia Wesleyan.

Q ‘.54.-

On Wednesday, the men’s soccer

, team routed the Wasps 4-0 at home.

Senior Paul Wallace started the scor-
ing, assisted by junior Sean Hardin

"aind—senior.Andrew.Grimes. — .. .. .-
Junior Brad Murphy took a shot

that hit the post, but senior Jacob
Stoehr nailed in the rebound, putting
the Generals up 2-0. Stoehr scored

5 another goal late in the half, putting

‘ the game safely out of the reach of

Emory and Hemy.

Murphy took revenge for his near
miss, scoring off a comer kick ﬁom fresh-
man Brian Pirkle in the second half.

Juniors Tim Foley and Brad Heam
split time in goal for W&L. Foley made

; two saves in the first half, and Heam

. earned four in the second.

The Generals had a much more difﬁ-
cult task on the road against Virginia

I Wesleyan. W&L fell behind by a goal

early into Saturday’s match, but Murphy

‘ helped the Generals rebound with a goal,

, tying the game before halftime.

In the second half, Virginia
Wesleyan once again went ahead with
a 2-1 lead. Grimes answered this time,
scoring off an assist from sophomore
Bret Grote.

With eight minutes to play, Murphy
gave the Generals their first lead of

 

if /12’/I/H 1/

OFFENSIVE WEAPON:_luniOr Brad Murphy prepares to play a ball in \‘(r’&l.’s wih over
Emory and Henry at home on Wednesday. Murphy scored a goal in the 4-0 victory.

the contest, and also what turned out
to be the game-winning goal. Grote
again recorded the assist.

Hearn earned the win by mak-
ing six saves. His counterpart,
Sean Wreston, tallied three saves
for Virginia Wesleyan. Both rival

teams earned two yellow cards
each.

The Generals are now 5-1-1, and
have won all four of their Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference contests.
They host Hampden-Sydney at 4 p.m.
on Thursday.

I all .night..and.think about the next

BY DAVE CROWELL
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The sting of defeat returned to the Washington and
Lee women’s soccer team on Sunday afternoon, but
don’t expect a 2-1 non-conference loss to a tough North
Carolina Wesleyan squad to put a damper on W&L’s
recent success.

Since an opening- game loss to Old Dominion Athletic
Conference foe Lynchburg, the Generals had won six
straight games, including a 4-0 victory over Sweet Briar
on Monday and a 1-0 OT win over Virginia Wesleyan on
Saturday afternoon.

“It was a very important game,” Coach Neil Cunningham
said about Sunday’s matchup. “N.C. Wesleyan has been
to the playoffs the last two seasons, and they provided a
gauge of how much we’ve improved since the beginning
of the year.

“I think we’ve come a long way in ﬁve weeks.”

Coming off a tough overtime win, W&L quickly got on
the board first when freshman forward Maggie Hope
scored off an assist from sophomore Fontaine Marcoux. It
was Marcoux’s team-high eighth assist of the season.

Unfortunately for W&L, N.C. Wes1eyan’s defense tight-
ened up, led by goalie Rachael Whicker, and allowed no
goals the rest of the way.

The Battling Bishops fought back with a goal to tie the
game, beating freshman goalie Emily Barker with 7:21 left
in the first half.

Wesleyan broke the tie when Caitlin Sanderson added
a score at the 28:47 mark of the second half. A stiff defense
thwarted the late-game surge of the Generals, including a

Late TD lifts Jackets over WL

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

ASHLAN D — Hunter Price threw
a 19-yard touchdown pass to Der-
rick Jackson with 15 seconds left to
give Randolph-Macon a 28-24 win
over Washington and Lee at Day
Field on Saturday.

Price’s game winner capped oil“ a 95-
yard drive that lasted less than 90 sec-
onds. Before that, the Generals failed to
take advantage of senior Ted Mafﬁtt’s
interception in Yellow Jacket territory,
as W&L didn’t convert on a fourth-and-
three from their opponents’ 5-yard line.

“You sit around for the bus ride
back and the evening, dream about it

morning, about the call or two you’d
like to change,” W&L coach Frank
Miriello said. “It’s agony. We just
couldn’t seem to come up with the

PAGE 7

ball that was tipped just above the goal.

“I think we were the stronger team today,” Cunningham
said. “Our fitness came through. We continued to run
with them even after an overtime game the day before.”

Earlier in the week, the Generals easily disposed of
Sweet Briar 4-0. The Generals outshot the Vixens by an
amazing 37-0 margin.

Senior midfielder Kate Bidwell provided the only goal
the Generals would need a mere 5 7 seconds into the game.
It was Bidwell’s team-leading sixth goal of the season.

Midﬁelders Martha Allgood and Ginny Helms and for-
ward Caroline Francht, all freshmen, also tallied goals for
the Generals. .

Sophomores Susannah Hewlett and Heather Coleman,
junior Jenny Thomas and freshman Romney Willson
added assists.

The conference match against Virginia Wesleyan on
Saturday afternoon proved to be a little more difﬁcult.

Neither team could muster much offense, totaling 18
shots in almost 103 minutes of play. The Generals finally
handed the Marlins their first conference loss of the sea-
son when Hope deﬂected the ball into the net with 2:01
remaining in OT.

Barker made five saves on the day to compile her sec-
ond collegiate shutout.

Despite an injury midway through Sunday’s game,
Cunningham said that Willson played very well over the
week, along with sophomore defender Meghan Hayde
and freshman defender Kelley Zagol.

The Generals return to ODAC play on Wednesday af-
temoon when they travel to Emory and Henry for a 4 p.m.
contest.

FILE PHOT

OFFENSIVE WEAPON: junior Chris Sullivan (24) rushed for 202 yards en route to
tallying 300 total yards and a receiving touchdown in W&L’s 28-24 road loss to
Randolph-Macon. Classmatejay Thomas (12) caught four passes for 61 yards.

  

  

big play at that point.”
Junior Chris Sullivan had a career
day, rushing 35 times for 202 yards

\ and catching a 71-yard touchdown

pass from sophomore Peter Dean.
Sullivan ﬁnished with 300 all-purpose
yards, setting career highs in that cat-
egory as well as in rush yards.

“He’s quite a player, and he’s a
junior, thank goodness,” Miriello
said. “All Chris needs is to put the
ball in his hands more often than
not, and we’re starting to do that
now.”

Sullivan believes that the offense
can play well against any team in the
league, provided that the Generals
bring their best game.

“We’re a good team, but some-
times we don’t show up,” he said.
“When we decide to come out and
play, we can compete with anybody.”

Price and wideout Justin Basdikis

Women’s tennis gains experience

3 Genera/s, /ed byjunior Erika Proko, charge into W&L tournament and take no prisoners

BY DAVE CROWELL
AssIsTA.\1T SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee women’s tennis
team followed up a strong weekend at the ITA
Southeast Regional by winning a number of
matches at the W&L Fall Festival and gaining
further experience.

The Generals won 24 of 32 singles matches
and 13 of 16 doubles matches in day one action
on Saturday. W&L advanced eight players to
the singles ﬁnals on Sunday.

W&L’s strong start forced a change in
usual tournament play: officials altered the
tournament format so that W&L players could
compete against opposing players instead
of each other.

Junior Erika Proko led the Generals, follow-
ing up her singles championship at the ITA
Regional with a strong weekend at home, win-
ning all her tournament matches in the No. 1
singles ﬂight.

“I think I played well,” Proko said. “We all
felt tired after a three-day tournament last week-

’ end. It was challenging, but we did very well as

ateain.”

Freshman Lindsay Hagerman and senior
Melissa Hatley also won all three of their re-
spective matches in the ﬁrst singles ﬂight.

In the No. 2 singles ﬂight, junior Brandi
Jane Wedgeworth and sophomore Liz Law
won all three of their matches on the week-
end. Freshman Marie Trimble and junior
Sallie Gray Strang followed suit in the No. 3
singles flight.

Proko and Hatley, as well as Hagerman and
Strang, teamed up to win three matches in the
No. 1 doubles ﬂight.

In the No. 2 doubles ﬂight, junior Alyson
Brice and Wedgeworth won three matches, while
Law and her partner, sophomore Ellie Simpson,
also won three matches.

“This tournament was a great help for us,”
coach Cinda Rankin said. “The W&L program
is so strong. Some of our 2’s and 3’s in singles
competition proved that they can beat the No.
1’s at other programs.” ,

The W&L Fall Festival prepares the team for
a series of matches in Philadelphia over Read-
ing Days. Proko and Hatley will also compete at
the national level shortly after that.

The series of fall competitions, however,
serves one purpose: to prepare the team for the
spring season.

“From top to bottom, everyone played well
and I was very impressed,” Rankin said. “This
will position us well for preseason rankings and
help gain selections to nationals.”

at Festival

, MEG FFl1R:\RA/ The Rir1g—tm Phi
FOLLOW THROUGH: Freshman Lindsay Hagerman won all three
of her matches in the No. 3 ﬂight of the W/&l. Fall Festival.

carried the Yellow Jackets’ offense.
Despite being picked off twice, the
quarterback completed 23-of-32
passes for 356 yards, and Basdikis
caught 12 of those for 167 yards.

Miriello knows that the second-
ary is a top priority for W&L, with
pass-happy teams such as Hampden-
Sydney and Bridgewater left on the
schedule. The Generals may convert
a receiver such as 6—foot-3 freshman
Taylor Callaham into a defensive
back.

“That’s a major concern for us,”
Miriello said. “We’re very young
in the secondary. We’re talking
about making some changes and
looking at some other personnel.
We might make a move or two to
bolster our secondary.”

After Randolph-Macon took a sec-
ond quarter lead, Dean threw the first
touchdown pass of his career, ﬁnding

F ROM STAFF REPORTS

SALEM — After a two-week
break, the Washington and Lee
men’s and women’s cross coun-
try teams returned to the course
Saturday at the Roanoke Invita-
tional. The men placed third of 13
teams, and the women turned in a
fourth—place finish in a 12-team
field.

In the women’s competition,
junior Burke Duncan won the in-

junior Jay Thomas for a 4-yard strike.

W&L took a 14-7 lead after half-
time on a 3-yard run by senior Marc
Watson. The Yellow Jackets coun-
tered with touchdown runs by David
Strong and Bush to go up 21-14.

A 29-yard field goal by senior
Brad Wiginton cut Randolph-
Macon’s lead to 21- 17 with 9:33 left.
Four minutes later, Dean hit Sullivan
for a 24-21 lead.

Next up for W&L is Catholic, which
ended the Generals’ 4-0 start with a 47-0
win a year ago. To turn that result around,
Sullivan believes that the same W&L
team that showed up Saturday must re-
surface against the Cardinals.

“We need to play like we did this
past Saturday,” Sullivan said. “We had
a couple of penalties that killed us at
times, so if we could minimize those,
that would be a key factor.”

Kickoff is at 1:30 p.m. at Wﬂson Field.

W&L runs at Roanoke invite

dividual title with a time of 19:16.
Senior Lucy Rankin crossed the
line 25th overall at 21 :30, and
classmate Gretchen Tencza was
34th at 21 :56.

Sophomore Andy Schorr fin-
ished fourth overall in the men’s race
at 26:42. Junior Will Teichman was
20th at 28: 14, and freshman Steven
Chambers placed 30th at 28:56.

W&L has another 14-day break
before the Virginia State Meet on
Oct. 13.

Next week or the sports
1 pages of the Phi...

-Continued coverage of varsity athletics
-The W&L rugby team fights for recognition
-Updated standings tortall sports

 

  

PAGE 8

W

. 1 . g i
POKE CHECK: Sophomorejessica Lake knocks the ball away
from a Bridgewater player in \X/&L’s 1-0 win Saturday at the
Turf Field. The win was the Generals’ first at home.

Volleyball splits pair at Emory

Ruckert breaks school, ODAC kill record at Gui/ford before Generals head to Atlanta

W&L again split a pair of matches

FROM STAFF REPORTS and four blocks.

DPORTS

is Eagl

    

 
    

BY MIKE LEE
SPORTS WRITER

Washington and Lee’s Women’s ﬁeld hockey
team wrapped up the week with a win, their first
ever as a varsity squad at home, Saturday after-
noon against Bridgewater in front of a small but
dedicated crowd at the W&L Turf Field.

The Generals entered the game having given
up a close overtime victory at Randolph—Macon
Woman’s College on Wednesday afternoon by a
score of 2-1 . The WildCats sealed a four—game los-
ing streak for the Generals, dropping them to 1-4 in
Old Dominion Athletic Conference competition.

In spite of that heaitbreaker, W&L showed
no lack of confidence Saturday. The Generals
took the ball first and played a tight, coordi-
nated game, pressing the Eagles back into their
territory for the vast majority of the first half.

For all of 35 minutes, Bridgwater pushed the
Generals back on defense a total of less than 10
times, and never for more than a quick breakaway
that was easily stopped by the defense. The
game was scoreless at the break.

The first six minutes of the second half

changed all of that. Once again, the Generals
relentlessly took the offensive, and ﬁnally, the
right play opened up at the right moment.

Sophomore Kelly Taffe received a perfect
cross from senior Alison MacQueen, and ﬁred
the ball past Bridgewater goalie Michelle Leach
for the only score of the game with 29:47 re-
maining to play.

“We’re very excited to get a win,” Taffe said.
“We needed the confidence. We’ve been play-
ing well, but coming up short.”

Coach Wendy Orrison was also very glad to
get a win.

‘"I“here’s been a lot of doubt on the team,” she
said. “We’ve lost games by one goal and it’s al-
ways hard. Today was a real conﬁdence booster.”

Perhaps the best indicator of the high level
of the Generals’ play was senior goalie Deidra
MacLeod’s statistics for the day: three shots
attempted against her, but not a single one got
past the defense to force her to make a save.

With this win, the Generals improved to 2-5
overall, 2-4 in ODAC play. W&L returns to the
ﬁeld on Tuesday with a 4:30 p.m. contest at
Sweet Briar.

iviomiii’, UCIOBER 1, 200,1

es to collect 1st varsity home win

MEG FF.RitAitA/ T/re Ring-tum P/12'
AT MIDFIELD: Senior captain Carolyn Pressly lunges for the ball in Saturday’s action.

The Washington and Lee volley-
ball team improved to 3-0 in Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference play with
a road win against Guilford on Tues-
day before splitting a four—game set
in the Emory University Invitational
in Atlanta on Friday and Saturday.

Senior Lindsay Ruckert tallied 15
kills to set a school and ODAC career
record in the Generals’ 30-20, 30-20, 30-
20 victory over the Quakers. Ruckert
broke 2000 W&L graduate Nancy
Reinha1t’s record of 1,221 career kills.

Freshman Jennifer Lux contributed
33 assists and 17 digs, and senior
Leslie Fischbeck added seven kills

In Atlanta on Friday, W&L
knocked off Milligan College 30-15,
31-29, 30-23 before losing to Emory
30-16, 30-16, 3024.

Freshman Michelle Chastain deliv-
ered 11 kills and 11 digs against
Milli gan, while junior Stacey Kimmel
tallied seven kills and six aces. Ruckert
added to her record with 1 1 kills in the
win, which gave W&L their best start
ever at 12-1 .

Freshman Emily Wolﬁng had 10
digs and sophomore Mary-Wommack
Barton added eight more against
sixth-ranked Emory. Ruckert chipped
in six kills and 11 digs, and Chastain
totaled nine kills.

on Saturday, dropping Greensboro 28-
30, 30-18, 34-36, 34-32, 15-81 and los-
ing to Catholic 30-27, 31-29, 30-24.

Ruckert led the Generals with 21
kills and 17 digs against Greensboro,
and Chastain had 14 kills and 12 digs.
Kimmel racked up 14 kills, 14 digs,
seven aces and ﬁve blocks. Senior Lee
Charbonnet contributed 12 digs, and
Lux collected 46 assists.

Against Catholic, Ruckert had 11
kills and nine digs, and Lux amassed
30 assists.

The Generals (13-3) return to ODAC
play with a 6:30 p.m. match against
Randolph—Macon Woman’s College
Tuesday in the Warner Center.

SCOREBOARD

SATuRDAY’s FOOTBALL YARDLINE

W&L SCHEDULES OCTOBER 2-8

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
  
   
 

Randolph-Macon 28, W&L 24
W&L 0 7 7 10 — 24

Tuesday, Oct. 2 Volleyball
Go” Eastern Mennonite at W&L, 11 a.m.
Football

   

 

Randolph-Macon 0 7 7
Second Quarter
RMC — Bush 1 run (Ping kick), 7:47

Third Quarter
W&L — Watson 3 run (Wiginton kick), 9:50
RMC — Strong 5 run (Ping kick), 6:13

Fourth Quarter
RMC — Bush 3 run (Ping kick), 14:17
W&L -— FG Wiginton 29, 9:33

A — 1,000
W&L RMC

First downs 17 26
Flushes-yards 45-222 42-121
Passing yards 152 356
Return yards 48 153
Comp-att-int 9-24-0 23-36-2
Sacked-yards lost 1-9 0-0
Punts-avg 5-368 3-380
Fumbles-lost 0-0 3-1
Penalties-yards 4-30 1-11

Time of possession 29:34 30:26

Strong 13-25.

356, Strong 0-1-0 0.

14—28

W&L — Thomas 4 pass from Dean (Wiginton kick), 0:53

W&L —— Sullivan 71 pass from Dean (Wiginton kick), 5:27
FtMC — Jackson 19 pass from Price (Ping kick), 0:15

INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS
RUSHlNG—W&L: Sullivan 35-202, Watson 5-16, Dean 3-6,
Overstreet 1-(-1). Randolph-Macon: Price 18-63, Bush 11-33,

RECElV|NG—W&L: Thomas 4-61, Sullivan 2-78, Callaham 1-6,
Watson 1-4, Overstreet 1-3. Randolph—Macon: Basdikis 12-167, Bush 2-
64, Jackson 2-38, Haggard 2-36, Buckner 2-21, Strong 2-13, Tiller 1-17.

MISSED FIELD GOALS—Randolph-Macon: Ping 39.

_ Field Hockey

W&L at Sweet Briar, 4:30 p.m.

Volleyball
RMWC at W&L, 6:30 p.m. och 6_8

Men’s Tennis
agﬂlgﬁgagoggtéra ITA/Rolex Southeast Regional
W&L at Emory and Henry, 4 p.m. (at Swadhmorel

Sunday, Oct. 7
Thursday, Oct. 4 new Hockey

Men’s Soccer

Friday, Oct. 5 lelgﬂday’ °°" 3
Held H°°k°V Greensboro/Aubrey Apple Invite

Lynchburg at W&L, 7 pm

Saturday, Oct. 6
Men’s Soccer

Roanoke at W&L, 11 a.m.

PASSlNG—W&L: Dean 9-24-0 152. Randolph—Macon: Price 23-35-2 Guilford

ODAC FOOTBALL GLANCE
Conference Overall
Team W L PF PA W L PF PA
Randolph-Macon 2 0 52 44 4 1 121 119
Brldgewater 1 0 48 42 4 0 175 89
Hampden-Sydney 1 1 101 55 2 2 135 91
Washington and Lee 1 1 51 34 1 3 64 110
Emory and Henry 0 0 0 0 2 2 77 65
Catholic 0 1 20 24 1 3 66 74
0 2 13 86 1 4 55 155
Sept. 29 Results Week of Oct. 6

LaSa||e 20, Catholic 12

Guilford/T om O’Bryant Invitational

Hampden-Sydney at W&L, 4 p.m.

Randolph-Macon 24, W&L 20
Bridgewater 48, Hampden-Sydney 42 Hampden-Sydney at Emory and

Greensboro 15, Guilford 14

Catholic at W&L, 1:30 p.m.
Women’s Soccer
Ferrum at W&L, 3 p.m.

Catholic at W&L, 12 p.m.

Men’s Soccer

Southern Virginia at W&L, 4 p.m.
Volleyball

W&L at Sweet Briar, 6:30 p.m.

Catholic at W&L, 1:30 p.m.

Henry, 1 p.m.
Ferrum at Guilford, 1 p.m.

 
 
  
 
  
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
  
  
   
   
  
 
 
  
   
   
 

 

 

we 
Estate .  , 4  513/l43ng5em.w52,a£e*
I   (fr  Tzrenda/.1

 APP:

if-53 ‘-50El3'
2.5  

    w14t.l<-INS wE‘LC<9ME

 

 

 

  
   

I,:.,,, 3 ENSEDE

‘ea; be i>t:.'rt':u'».s<? l‘.ii:E4

 

TEE

 

  

 ‘GTQN ANSI) LEE U.

LNG-TUM

iErEEsi’rY

 

PHI

 gii unwmsm‘
  

 

14

('3:>i\*E’>?\:s: 2
2003 l-~o.in.:<:  4
Si-’<>l<T.€ o

8

S<;<;-itE:EriiE:>
The Phi resumes
regular publication Oct. 22.

 

li.ia:>;:'>.=.:‘:'o.\, \."7iR(xE\'l -i 2445.-ll

arinxy, t1l;=t:i<_>:si:..i '  ‘ ‘Z

 

BY NEAL WiLLErrs
C0_\‘TRlBL'TlNG Eniioi

A four—alarm fire on Randolph Street left
a local woman hospitalized, her family home-
less and their student neighbors frightened at
3 a.m., Tuesday.

The fire, at 210 Randolph St., gutted and
destroyed the home of Patricia Blackwell and
her two teenage sons. The Lexington Fire De-
partment said the fire was started by a candle in
one of the bedrooms.

Within minutes after the fire started,
Blackwell and her sons ﬂed and warned next-
door-neighbor, Jane Rogers. As Rogers and her
husband were leaving their house, the Blackwell
home was erupting into a blazing inferno.

‘‘It was engulfed in ﬂames when I came
out the door,” Rogers said. “(The house) was
gone in no time.”

Another neighbor, Kim Mierzwa, was retum—
ing home from work when she saw the ﬁre. She
called 911 on her cell phone, and local police and
fire departments responded within minutes.

Within half an hour, the ﬁre was contained,
and Blackwell was treated for smoke inhalation
at Stonewall Jackson Hospital.

The fire’s heat melted siding on Rogers’
house and blew out some of her windows, and
damaged the attic before it could be controlled.
Virginia Power was dispatched to turn off a sec-
tion of dangerous, loose power lines.

At least six student houses are located on
Randolph Street. Junior Kris Pollina lives across
the street from Blackwell, and was awakened
by the crackling of the broken power lines.

“I wouldn’t wish that on my worst enemy,”
Pollina said.

E-mail news briefs to
hi@wlu edu

maintain extinguishers and “hands—on” use.

Voter registration ends tomorrow

Maggie Hope and Anne Johansen.

F/re extinguisher training in library
Occupational Safety and Health Association
standards require that if employees are expected to
use an extinguisher to put out a fire that they must
be trained in the use of ﬁre extinguishers. To meet
this requirement and to provide training for the W&L
community, the university will offer fire extinguisher
training during Fire Prevention Week, Oct. 7-13.
Training will include information on the classes
of fires, extinguishing agents, how to operate and

Daily classes will last about one hour and will
be conducted in Northen Auditorium in Leybum
Library. For times and more information, call Uni-
versity Safety Officer Paul Burns at 463-8175.

The deadline for registering to vote in Virginia’s
gubernatorial election is tomorrow, Oct. 9. Voter reg-
istration deadlines in other states vary. Those inter-
ested should stop by the registrar’s office for regis-
tration forms or go online and check the “Voter
Registration” link at http://registrar.wlu.edu.

Freshman election runoff tomorrow

Will Kilpatrick was elected freshman class
president and William Powell Student Judicial Coun-
cil representative. A runoff will be held tomorrow
for the executive committee candidate between

 

NEAL WIu.ETI's/ T/re Ring-in/)1 P/)7

Pollina and a roommate moved their cars
down the street away from the blaze. How-
ever, another roommate, junior Leah Robert,
was not as lucky. The heat melted her car’s
driver—side door.

One side of junior Randy Keeney’s house
faces Blackwell’s house. His roommate woke
him up before the ﬁre trucks arrived.

“From our window, the orange glow lit up
our common room just like a bunch of
nightlights,” Keeney said.

Blackwell and her sons visited the site
at about 9 a.m. later that day. While they
were rummaging through the debris, smoke
began pouring from the smoldering re-
mains. The fire department was called
again as a precaution, but the fire did not
re—ignite.

Blackwell and her sons are currently stay-
ing with relatives. Neighbors said the family did
not have fire insurance. However, the family was
able to salvage a few items from the home. One
of these items, an American flag, was hung on
the house’s front wall.

Fire destroys Randolph St. house

Neighbors rush to the scene as flames gut builiding on block heavily populated by students

 
   

, F..—\. \l’11i.iaris/ The Ring-trip; Pfll

FIRE’s TOLL. The blaze (upper left), caused by an unattended candle, left only the
skeleton of the house standing. The fire forced students to move their cars.

Students push for safer driving

Operation GASD proposes comprehensive sober driving system

BY MIKE AGNELLO
ASSOCIATE EDITOR

Students waiting as long as 30 min-
utes for a sober ride home from par1ies
could become a thing of the past.

Generals Advocating Sober Driv-
ing (GASD), a new student orgarriza-
tion forrned to enhance Live Drive
and Safe Ride’s efforts, has planned a
tentative van route that would stop at
fraternity houses as well as popular
off-campus party spots.

Senior Neely Baker, GASD co-
chair, said Live Drive and Safe Ride,
while a good start, are not enough.

“Our goal is to develop a compre-
hensive sober driving system for the
W&L community,” Baker said.

While Live Drive and Safe Ride
vans respond to calls, they also stop
wherever the driver sees students
congregating, and go wherever the
students want.

Although this works for some stu-
dents, many others wait up to 30 min-
utes for a van because some off—campus
houses are so far. GASD plans to solve
this problem by having a set route that
includes on- and off-campus locations.

The tentative route would start
at the Lee Chapel parking lot, pick
up students at the dorms, the park-
ing garage, the post office,
Davidson Park, the Coin Laundry
(on the corner of Randolph and
Henry Streets) then go to the Pole

Outing Club announces classes, trip

Starting tonight, the Outing Club will be hold-
ing kayak roll classes in the pool from 8 to 10. For
more information contact Jerome at x4065.

A white water rafting trip to the Upper Gauley
River has been scheduled for Sunday, Oct. 14. This
trip has over 60 major rapids, many of them Class
V+ whitewater. To participate, you must be a com-
petent swimmer and rafting experience is preferred.
Attendance at Wednesday night’s meeting is re-
quired. The cost is $140, which can be charged home
or paid in cash or by check.

Film Society releases schedule

October 19, 20—“Moulin Rouge!” (Australia,
2001), directed by Baz Luhrmann.
November 2, 3—“Pollock” (USA, 2000), di-
rected by Ed Harris.
November 9,10—‘”The Day I Became a Woman”
(Iran, 2000), directed by Marzieh Meshkini.
November 30, December 1-—“Apocalypse
Now”, “Redux” (USA, 1979/2001), directed by
Francis Ford Coppola
All screenings are at 7:30 p.m. in the Trouba-
dour Cinema.

House area and Windfall Hill. Stu-
dent-driven vans would stop at each
location roughly every 10 minutes.

GASD designed the route after
compiling a list of off—campus houses
and determining the easiest access
points for students wanting a ride.
Baker said she hopes Greeks and in-
dependents will contribute their
ideas. She said GASD needed repre-
sentation from a cross sec-
tion of the student
body to legitimize
their proposal.

Other ideas for
GASD’s route in-
clude installing ‘i
blue benches and
direct-dial phones at
the various stops. Senior
Baxter Lee, GASD treasurer, said he
is working on getting the Telecommu-
nications office to employ a dis-
patcher on weekend nights to assist
the vans’ drivers.

Dean of Students David Howison
is willing to help fund the program.

“When they decide on the pro-
gram, I’ll come up with the funds,”
he said.

Howison and GASD officers dis-
agree on the number of vans needed
to adequately run the program. GASD
wants ﬁve, while Howison wants to
initially fund only three.

Howison would not comment on
the difference.

CRIME REPORT

Sunday, Sept. 30

Tuesday, Oct. 2
Phi fraternity, last seen Sept. 15.
Wednesday, Oct. 3

Friday, Oct. 5

curse and abuse. 3:28 a.m.

Trespassing. Individual arrested by Lexington Police
for trespassing on W&L property. 12:45 a.m.

Vandalism. Passenger silie mirror broken off car some-
time between Sept. 29 and Sept. 30.

Missing item. Missing table lamp reported by Pi Kappa

911 call. Alumni House. 3:15 a.m.
Fire alarm. Woods Creek West. 8 p.m.

Assault and trespass. North Main Street. University Se-
curity and Lexington police called to off—campus house to
assist W&L student who wanted a visitor removed. Vistor
was issued a trespass notification and arrested for assault,

Information provided
by Unversity Security.

  
  
      

“We’re still very much in the plan-
ning stages,”"Howison said, “but
we’re making great progress.”

GASD has already received a $150
donation from the Panhellenic Coun-
cil. Parrhel President Katie Cedarholrn
said the council wants to help GASD
in whatever way it can.  *1

“We had the funds available and
we felt so strongly about the worthi-

ness of the cause,”
Cedarholrn said.
The Interfraterriity
Council is also
considering fund-
ing GASD. IFC
President Quincy
Springs said Lee
will prepare a list of
preliminary expenses, and
the IFC will pay those costs if they can
afford the price tag. So far, these ex-
penses include 5000 stickers advertis-
ing the organization. Lee said GASD
plans to mail information on the orga-
nization to every W&L parent.

GASD was formed earlier this
year after a joint leadership retreat
for the IFC and Panhel. Howison
said he admires GASD’s leaders
taking initiative in forming the or-
ganization, and hopes. it will ac-
complish its goals.

“I’m very supportive (of their
goals) and tremendously impressed
with their thoughtful consideration of
this issue,” he said.

Frats give up
drinking games

Alcohol strikes crush Homecoming plans

BY KATIE HOWELL
LAYOUT EDITOR

Possible violations of the new campus alcohol
regulations affected students and organizations the past
few weeks as one fraternity received a strike and sev-
eral students face possible charges.

University officials have accused Beta Theta Pi,

1 Phi Gamma Delta, Phi Delta Theta and Pi Kappa Phi

of drinking violations within their fraternity houses,
Interfraterrrity Council President Quincy Springs said.

The University Initiatives on Substance Abuse
approved by faculty and administration last spring
states that individual Greek organizations on cam-
pus may not have drinking games in the university-
owned houses.

Dean of Students David Howison said, “Drinking
games are a violation of the policy and constitute a strike.”

Per these policies, Fiji received a strike, $1000
ﬁne, two weeks social probation, alcohol education for
all its members and required community service hours
following the actions of ﬁve brothers inside the house
over two weeks ago. University Security caught mem-
bers of the fraternity and other students participating
in a drinking game. The [FC and the university took
appropriate measures following this incident.

Springs said the IFC handles all cases of violations
of the new alcohol policies regarding fraternities.

Fiji will appeal its case to the Student Faculty
Hearing Board later this week. A possible outcome of
this meeting could involve removal of the punishments
placed upon the fraternity. Punishments placed upon
individual students would remain in place, however.

“The fraternity was initially pretty upset about the
situation, but (it has) realized that rules have been vio-
lated,” Fiji President Bryan Carmody said. “This is a
harsh punishment, but it shows that the University is
serious about the alcohol rules, and we have decided
to move on.”

Even if the university lifts Fiji’s punishments in
the next few days, the fraternity will have already suf-
fered through two weeks of social probation during a
time period that included Homecoming Weekend.

“I don’t think that (the punishment we had this
weekend) will affect our rush,” Carmody said. “The
attraction of our fraternity is the quality of our guys.
Missing one party will not affect this.”

While Fiji suffered severe punishments following
drinking games inside the house, Beta received less
serious penalties. University Security found students
playing a drinking game in the fraternity house, said
Springs. The students involved included one fraternity
brother and four freshmen.

“There is tension in the system, and we had to work
it out the best way we know how,” Springs said.

Since only one fraternity brother was involved in the
situation, the IFC decided that Beta’s individual House
Judicial Committee should handle the problem. The coun-
cil will tum the individual’s names over to the Student
Judicial Council, however, and let them handle the situa-
tion according to individual alcohol policy violations.

“This situation was a problem because high—risk
drinking was made available to underage students,”
Springs said. “It could have been a potential disaster.”

Phi Delt and Pi Phi also faced potential charges.
In both cases, the IFC found the situations irrelevant to
the council’s policies.

University officials found drug paraphernalia in a
student’s room of the Phi Delt house. The IFC turned
this case over to university officials, who will take ap-
propriate action.

Rumors accused Pi Phi of serving Ritalin in jello
shots in the fraternity house. The IFC reviewed this
case and found the rumors untrue.

“The rules have now been tested,” Howison said.
“We are only a month into the system, and people now
know that drinking games are not appropriate.”

 

Construction disrupts library

BY PETER QUACKENBUSH
STAFF WRITER

Graham—Lees residents trying to sleep in
past noon are not the only ones inconvenienced
by the construction of the University Commons.

Leybum Library, which is adjacent to the
site, was forced to part with its loading dock
that was used to receive shipments.

“I’m not happy about it,” said Barbara
Brown, head librarian.

Currently all library shipments, which in-
clude books, computers and furniture, are de-
livered and unpacked at the main entrance. The
lobby that once housed public phones is now
the make—shift mailroom. The library staff has
found that empty boxes distract patrons.

Big shipments require a group effort. Ev-
ery three weeks, the library receives large
batches of re-bound books delivered to the
Physical Plant. A passenger van then delivers
them via the walkways on Stemmons Plaza.

Right now, Brown is working with Univer-
sity Architect Tom Comes to ﬁnd a short—terrn
solution that will accommodate both the con-
struction and the needs of the library.

Brown said extending the service road that
runs behind the Science Center to the Physical
Plant is a possibility.

The university recently brought a library
consultant to the site to make recommendations.

Planners must considef the university’s new
traffic initiative, which aims to reduce the number
of vehicles on campus. A primary goal is “trying
to get those big trucks off campus,” said Contos.

Making the campus more pedestrian
friendly may require that all packages be handled
through the university mail services.

In the meantime, the library staff will have to
put up with the extra noise. Patrons continue to
use Leybiurr’s resources, making it a warehouse
of information.

“We just need a place to bring it in,”
Brown said.

 

PAGE 2

SflRfl3l3PEDITORlAL

We’re no rah-rah rag,
but with good reason

The Phi hates Washington and Lee.

That’s what you would believe, anyway, if
you talked to the few malcontents peddling that
sort of garbage. An extended version of this
anti-Phi screed was recently launched at an
editor innocently enjoying the Lambda Chi
Tropical Party.

The Ring-tum Phi has earned that reputa-
tion among this ill-inforined minority because,
we suppose, it ran a comparison of Co-op prices
with those of local retailers. Or it discussed stu-
dent representation on the presidential search
committee. Or whatever.

This hardly equates to complaint-mon-
gering.

And if the Phi’s editorial page brings to
light perceived problem, what of it?

After all, nothing’s worse than a rah-rah
rag, which sacriﬁces objectivity to boosterism
and professionalism to prejudice. Since nearly
all high school newspapers are cast from that
mold, most W&L students are familiar with that
type of journalism.

At the Phi, however, we dig for stories and
sometimes step on toes. Hardly an issue goes
by when someone asks us not to print a minor
or not-so-rninor point.

Luckily, the university administration trusts
the Phi. We have no sponsor (read: “censor”
overseeing every page prior to printing. There
are no biweekly meetings with the Faculty Pub-
lications Control Board, which sets down rules
on semicolons and sex scandals. President
Laurent Boetsch has not installed a hotline from
the second ﬂoor of Washington Hall to 31 Wash-
ington St.

This admittedly can cause unfortunate epi- '

sodes. Doubters should consult the 1993 April
Fools’ edition, which ran an exposé on faculty
trysts, chronicled the rampages of sex-mad
administrators and printed an extended middle
finger on half of the opinions page. Excess is
the avoidable, regrettable and ever-potential
result of autonomy.

That doesn’t mean that the paper should re-
sign itself to stories headlined “fraternities thank
administration for three-strike policy” or “Laurent
Boetsch, my hero.”

It does mean, though, that you can expect the
Phi will always be honest and forthright, yet not
the University’s cheerleader.

' kinds of events.

..—.4..._.—.... ,.~._ _.._#...

Q TEE li.lN(3~TU:‘»l Pl--ti.

PINIONS       

rim .i l i. r\ll\\.\r[L\
OPINIONS Enrror
E.\tt11;i<1R\\':t\B@\twE1)tJ

Alcohol policies not so bad

Tailgating is great, but strike system, parental notiﬁcation need to be rethought

Last year, Washington and Lee stu-
dents, faculty, and administrators decided
it was time to take a stand. The misuse of
alcohol was leading to death, destruction,
and embarrassment. While the ultimate
goal is to modify the culture, as this will
be the only way of encouraging the re-
sponsible and prudent use of alcohol, we
mustkeepinmindthatourunpopularrules
and restrictions are needed temporarily.
Parties are more manageable, safer, and
less focused on alcohol. _

Still, we must continue to evalu-
ate our alcohol policy, asking our-
selves one important question: Are
we moving to modify our culture (the
appropriate choice), or are we legis-
lating alcohol away from this univer-
sity (the dangerous, irresponsible
choice)? Our goal is not to legislate
change, but to guide people to change
the way they view alcohol.

Perhaps the greatest innovation
stemming from the policy are the new
and improved tailgates. While I’m not
sure that prohibition is the best method
of making tailgate the university—wide
social gathering it’s supposed to be
(people will simply drink before or dur-
ing tailgate), having the D—hall cater
food at tailgate is an excellent idea.

This idea brings a wider variety of
students to tailgates, which makes tail-
gates more dynamic by offering other
social options than simply getting
“trashed.” Catered tailgates also encour-
age those who drink before tailgate to eat.
This kind of environment could turn into
a breeding ground for controlled, respon-
sible drinking. I encourage those who are
responsible for formulating aloohol policy
to find ways of en-
couraging these

 

The strike sys— »

COMMON SENSE
joN.=\rEA.\' WORTHAM ‘O4

 

l‘lll:I)H0'II)

BOOZELESS FUN?! Tailgates provide an alcohol—free way to get excited for games.

has reportedly shied away from indi-
vidual responsibility concerning alco-
hol (which is the only way to prepare
students for life outside college), noti-
fying parents can be erroneous and
ineffective. It is ridiculous that my par-
ents could be called for somebody
else’s alcohol
abuse. My parents
can do nothing to
change the behav-

 

tem contrasts with
the effectiveness
and pragmatism of the new tailgates. It
is unlikely that the University’s new
three-strike system is effectively elimi-
nating high—risk behavior. In fact, it is
probably leading to more high—risk be-
havior, as much drinking moves behind
closed doors. Perceived selective en-
forcement of the rules further weakens
the strike system.

However, the most ineffective por-
tion of the strike system is the notiﬁ-
cation of parents. Since the university

ior of someone

who is not their child (and in some 7

cases even if it is their child). I am not
opposed to parental notification, but a
different, more effective, and more re-
ciprocal format should be used to com-
municate to parents the happenings
of fraternity house life. _ _ __ 
One part that isucompletely lack-
ing in the new policies is personal re-
sponsibility. One goal of the alcohol
policy should be to encourage behav-
ior that will be concurrent with accept-
able behavior in post—college life.

Drunk driving is very irresponsible
and results in stiff fines or jail time in
most communities.

At Washington and Lee, we can
enforce individual ﬁnes or penalties
through the Student Judicial Council.
It is widely agreed that drunk driving
endangers other people, but appar-
ently not by the SJC. I say this be-
cause the suggested penalty in the
2001-02 Student Handbook (p. 30) is
suspension. However, in looking at
the SJC notes, I have failed to find
any students suspended for this.

Overall, Washington and Lee is
moving in the right direction. Parties
have been safer, and leadership has
been in control of parties instead of
drunk people. But we cannot rest on
our laurels. We must continue to ac-
tively investigate ways to encourage
and protect controlled, responsible
drinking. It is the only way to elirni—
nate the dangerous weekend situa-
tions that sometimes occur.

UOTE OF THE WEEK:

DON’T WORRY, rr’s
NOT FOR PHI STUFF
ANYWAY.

— ANONYMOUS PHI AssOcrArE EDITOR
AFTER ASKING FOR THE PHI’s LONG
DISTANCE TELEPHONE CODE

THE 

Editor-in-chief MatthewB.McDem1ott
Associate Editor Mike Agnello
News Editor AlisonTrinidad
Asst. News Editor Latrina Stokes
Opinions Editor Brett T. Kirwan
Asst. Opinions Editor AndrewLatimer ‘
Sports Editor
Asst. Sports Editor
Layout Editor
Photo Editor
Photographers

Dave Crowell
Katie Howell
Mary Guy

Meg Ferrara

J eb Brooks
Paul Seifert
William Litton
Charlie Tonelli

Business Manager
Asst. Business Manager
Circulation Director

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editor-in-chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion of the Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi.wlu.edu

Jeremy Franklin H W N

Letters to the Editor

Students have opportunity to pick president

Dear Editor,

I object to the (Sept. 24 staff) editorial’s claims that
students are not given a substantial voice in the presiden-
tial search process. Students have every opportunity to
make their voice heard, and need to take that initiative.
Leadership does not occur by passively waiting for oppor-
tunity to come to your dorm door. Rather, one needs to
actively seek, and participate in, the opportunities offered.

Opportunities available to the entire student body have
included the Lee Chapel forum and student forums run by
McLoughlin. A contingent of about 10 students (the exact num-
ber I do not recall) were invited to a lunch with the consultant.

In addition, the search committee has invited all mem-
bers of the W&L community to communicate directly with
the committee or with the consultant via email. This invi-
tation was sent by broadcast email. If any of you felt that
the Lee Chapel forum was a joke, then you had the oppor-
tunity to communicate your thoughts on the presidential

A search with the consultant more directly via email.

Finally, even if the broadcast email announcement
had not been made, one could have taken the initiative to
contact a member of the committee simply by asking a
member of the administration for names of contacts.
Sincerely,

Julie Fitzer ‘O3

Jones claims he cited work

Dear Editor,
“Last week two articles in the Ring Tum Phi accused me
of plagiarism (Ben J ones)?’ “I cited Jeny Seinfeld in full when

 
 

piaio:is:.Edrtor Bret:  atkirwanb @w1t: .edu ifinteresteél;

I wrote the Trident’s back page two weeks ago (Ben Jones).”
“A simple call to The Trident office will confirm the fact that I
cited all of my work (Ben Jones)?’ “For some reason, my
citation was not published- this is not my fault (Ben Jones)?’
“I am a huge Jerry Seinfeld fan and I would be just as upset as
Matt Coursen and John Powers (sic) if I believed his jokes
were ripped off (Ben Jones)?’ “I do not hold it against the Phi
or either of the two individuals who accused me of this, how-
ever I encourage them to investigate their stories more thor-
oughly in the future (Ben Jones)?’ “I wish that both of these
individuals had called The Trident to check whether or not I
cited it before they publicly berated me, however, this was not
done and nothing can be done after the fact (Ben Jones).”

“I re-iterate; I did nothing wrong (Ben Jones)?’ “I’m
telling you for the last time (Jerry Seinfeld), I always cite
all of my work and I always will (Ben Jones)”

Sincerely,
Benjamin Jones ‘03

Editor ’s Note:

It has come to our attention that Ben Jones
did provide citation for his piece in last week’s
Trident.

Matt Coursen’s article addressed informa-
tion available at press time and represented
Jones’ work fairly and honestly. John Power’s
piece in the last Ring-tum Phi was a letter to the
editor.

His statements should not be construed to re-
ﬂect the opinions of this newspaper or its editors.

 

MaNsr?,oc;m 8, 2001

Women are   *
the doomed ones 

Jones’ p/agarism not as bad
as his toenail-cur/ing boredom * .

With so much crap being passed off as journalism
today, I feel it is my responsibility to ridicule it. For this 3
reason, I have chosen to write about the exposition on
human relationships, entitled, “Men, you are doomed
so just give up.” ’

Granted it has already gotten its sufficient share
of denunciation. But most of those diatribes were just ,‘
pointing out the issue of plagiarism.

So the author made a mistake. Be nice, we’re all . V
friends here. You could be probably be little more cre- ‘‘
ative than noting the obvious. I

Women, by and large, are idiots. They have lu- ,.
dicrous ideas about men, and how to trap them.
Which is no real H _
g.’°““ Surprise “ ORTHElh\‘ER’S EXPOSURE I
since they derive
their schemes from 

KRIS POLLINA ‘03 g
magazines that

boast headlines like, “Quiz: Does He Love You?”
“What He Really Means When He Says, ‘Pass the ‘
Carrots,” and “300 Mysteries About Men Solved.”

How these publications survive is long stand— 9
ing puzzle since any moron can summarize a man’s
ultimate desire in the simple statement, “Show up g
naked. Bring food.”

Women everywhere are still perfecting the art of ‘
dressing on the guise that they “just threw on any old
thing,” and applying makeup so it doesn’t look like
they’re wearing any. 4

My personal favorite is when a girl scoffs at men
who honk at them and then feed off the ego/conﬁ-
dence boost for a week. We should be thanking those
morons who honk. Who’s to say they’re not just an-
gels placed on this earth to prevent widespread de- I‘
pression amongst insecure women?

, The amazing thing is that women’s tactics seem to 1
be working. As much as men may bitch and moan about
the inherent evil and manipulation skills women pos- ’
sess, they still fall prey to it.

It’s like a very bad street drug of sorts, where mean
always swear that it’ll never happen to them. Then it ‘
does, and it’s always tomorrow that they plan on quit-
ting. But the longer the relationship prolongs, the more
difficult it is to get out of, at least without some sort of
mental crippling. _‘

Evidence of our success is prominent. If you look
around campus, you can see women driving men crazy
everywhere. Do you think these are special, gifted, civi- a
lized women? These are the same lunatics I’m talking about.

In the end, men win out and get them in bed.

The marriage ceremony and following party are4
tragic. The party itself must be a man’s design because
there’s no way a woman would think of ordering a six-
story cake after suffering through weeks of anorexia to 9
ﬁt into her dress.

No woman would condone making out in front of ‘
everyone just by virtue of a g1ass—tinking. It was a
man’s idea to show everyone else there, “She may have
gotten me to marry her, but at least the ceremony af-*9
fords me some ass so all is not lost.”

I was recently the Maid of Honor at a wedding.
(Author’s Note: Not really, but for the sake of the sat-
ire, let’s pretend I was.) I’ve got to say that I think
“Maid of Honor” is the crafty work of a male English‘
major. The juxtaposition of two completely different
connotations evens everything out. ,,

“Maid” insinuates a creature of servitude, while
the term “honor” implies a revered mark of distinction. -;«
The two words cancel each other out and leave you
with a neutral euphemism for boring. Probably another
man’s idea. Trick us into thinking we’re special, but‘
really were all the same to them.

A lot has been made recently of “hooking up” at
W&L. This is basically because everyone wants to 7
avoid covering a mundane topic like Lexington His- _
toric Sites. If they cover something cool like “booking or
up,” they will be, by proxy, cool.

To women, sex is like a review of Cats: “I laughed.

I cried. I’ll do it a am and a am.” >
g g

To the Women’s Forum: Please don’t burn stakes
on my front lawn. Everything is grounds for a harsh
Letter to the Editor or a forum to protest any new de-
cree. Take it easy, it’s all in good fun.

So that’s my mindless rebuttal against that notori-
ous article in The Trident a few weeks ago, complete
with incoherence and devoid of transitional sentences.
I could care less if the writer copied the Gettysburg 4‘.
Address verbatim.

The real tragedy is not actual plagiarism, but in “-
being boring. It’s like Jack Nicholson said in as As Good
As It Gets, “If you don’t have anything mildly interest- ,5
ing to say, then shut the hell up.”

That’s sound advice.

   
  
  
  
  
   
    
   
   
    
   
  
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
  
       

“Illuminati.”
-Phelps Harmon ‘O1

‘They vote among themselves.”
—Jeanne Upchurch ‘O3

   

“Scott Gray . . .”
-Wogan Bernard ‘O3

“Eastem Europe (they’re weird
like that).”

—Brooke Evanson ‘O2

   
  

  

"The unemployment
line.” A )»
-Rvan Owen ‘O3

  
  

  

.-.~.

1?

   

to

. MONDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2001  , 

 Liberal fascism threatens intellectual liberty On campus

PAGE 3

Seemingly innocuous T-shirt attracts attack from passerby while on Sunday afternoon stro//; manners, decorum fall prey to unrestrained ‘groupthink’

GIRL POWER: It is not powerful enough Amazonian Masterhood (N O MA’AlVI).
Bundy sports the style that drew much
criticism when worn by our columnist.

to sway Al Bundy, a member of the
National Association of Men Against

Some people just don’t under-
stand freedom, it seems. They sup-
port it entirely when it concerns them-
selves. They ferociously protest
against anything that might impinge
upon their liberties. Yet, when you
want to exercise the same freedom,
they will not hesitate to jump on you
and attack your freedom.

I am talking about extreme liberals
and their intolerance of opposing view-
points. I began thinking about this sub-
ject when I was in the co-op, standing
in line to pay for my purchases,and a
complete stranger looked at me, got a
sick look on her face, hissed loudly
“disgusting,” and walked away.

Let me explain to you more fully
the circumstances. I was wearing a
“NO MA’ AM” T-shirt, which for
those of you unfamiliar with the show
“Married With Children,” is an acro-
nym for “National Organization of
Men Against Amazonian
Masterhood,” which Al Bundy, the

rruzim 'TOn;OOI .HIH:.FR

main character, and his friends
founded on the show.

It is, in short, an anti-feminist
slogan, and the t—shirt comes com-
plete with a big slash through the
woman symbol. A very provocative
shirt to feminists, to be sure, but
one must also realize that the t—shirt
is a joke. _

Not only was I wearing it on a
Sunday afternoon, when I would hope
that few people care (or notice) what I
wear, but more importantly, the actual
“NO MA’ AM” concept itself is ajoke.
Those who wear the “NO 
shirt generally mean no offense by it,
much less do they seek to make a genu-
ine political statement.

My attacker, on the other hand,
tried to make a statement by publicly
humiliating me in my taste of clothes.
The way she looked me up and down,
then spat out the words, and stormed
off, was meant to do as much damage
as possible.

Now I completely respect this lady’s
viewpoint——it’s her right, after all, to be-
lieve as she wants———but I must take ex-
treme offense at her extreme intolerance
and prejudice, not to mention her lack of
civility. I have seen her around campus
several times since then, and each time I
have smiled and said “hello,” in keeping
with our speaking tradi-
tion, and each and ev-
ery time she has failed
to respond in kind. My
only offense, as far as I
am aware, is wearing that T—shirt that one
day. Talk about being judgmental.

Let me make it clear: I am not an
anti—ferninist. I fully support women’s
rights, and think that anybody who be-
lieves otherwise is just plain dumb. The
T—shirt was a joke. But I draw the line at
militant feminism, where a woman thinks
she has the right to humiliate a man in
public for his views, but should he do
the same to her, may God have mercy on
his poor soul. The same male chauvin-

ism that women complain about is mir-
rored in “feminazism.” Neither side is
right, for most people will tell you that
extremism of any fonn is wrong.

What irritates me most is the way
this lady has completely avoided me,
and has never invited me to discuss her
problem with my T—shirt with her. In-

‘ stead, she has chosen

WRIGHYWING  to let her anger funre

inside of her while ig-

IMRAN NAEMULLAH  noring the issue at

hand. Not only is this
behavior cowardly, but also detrimen-
tal to the friendly atmosphere we have
on campus. After all, if we continue to
become a more diverse campus in
thought as well as otherwise, then tol-
erance of other viewpoints is a must.
The only way to do this is to discuss.
Do not let the freedoms that we
Americans believe in so ardently be
stolen by those few who would seek
to have their own freedoms valued
above others.

    

jvirginia GOP ticket chock-full of anti-homosexual bigots, opposed to gay marriage

‘F

C’

9

Last week Mr. Kirwan gave the readers of this paper
the many reasons he believes you should vote for Mark
Earley in the Virginia gubernatorial election next month. I
am going to provide you with one that should change
your mind: both Earley and Jay Katzen, the GOP candi-
date for lieutenant governor are bigots.

How so you ask? I realize that is a very harsh and
bold statement, but I believe there is great truth behind it.

These two candidates are running a campaign that is both
insulting and extremely demeaning to the gay and lesbian
citizens of this state.

I wish to begin with the Republican candidate for
lieutenant governor who has been quite outspoken on
the matter. In July of this year, Jay Katzen told the Rich-
mond publication Style Weekly, “AIDS is the product,
sadly, in most cases of a choice that people have made.

“We recognize that homosexuality is a choice. It’s a
lifestyle with public health consequences.” He also stated he
feared repealing Virginia’s archaic, unenforceable sodomy law

. as it would be “laying the framework for gay marriage.”

Firstly, the fact that in this day and age a man who
feels he is suited for an important state office believes
homosexuals choose their lifestyle is both frustrating and

V unforgivable. This is evidence that Katzen sees homo-

-O

f

sexuality not as a natural difference in sexual preference,
but rather a sexual perversion.

Later in a joint radio appearance with Democratic Lt.
Governor candidate Tim Kaine, Katzen accused his oppo-
nent of trying to kick the Boy Scouts of America out of
Richmond schools and allowing gay-straight alliances to
meet in those schools. Kaine told the Republican he knew
of no effort to remove the Scouts, nor had he heard of any
alliances meeting in the schools. However, Kaine made a
point to say that he saw no problem if either of those
groups wished to meet in schools and told

This is actually a dodgy twist of words spoken by Tim
Kaine.

The former mayor of Richmond actually said, “Gays
and lesbians should not be discriminated against in hous-
ing or employment.”

These ads came from Republican gubernatorial can-
didate Mark Earley who said “. . .(the) promise of the right
to life liberty, and the pursuit of happiness belongs to

every man, woman, and child.” The words

the audience he had “no opinion” on the LEFT OF CENTER of his speech, entitled The Pronrise of Vir-

Scouts’ discrimination against gays. , girria, were evidently not meant to include
In this radio address Kaine proved  homosexuals.

himself to be a fair and understanding in- Earley went on to say in this same

dividual who was able to ward off the bigoted insults of speech, “...I promise to be a candidate and run a earn-

his opponent.

Moreover, the Republican gubernatorial candidate
Mark Earley is not without blame in this gay-bashing on-
slaught. He has been running television, print, and radio
spots, predominantly in Virginia’s rural areas, touting the
slogan, “Virginia Values, not Vermont Values.”

This is obviously referring to the idea of gay mar-
riage. Earley and Katzen have been calling their oppo-
nents, Democrats Mark Warner and Tim Kaine as the most
liberal ticket in Virginia’s history.

GOP radio ads have been stating that one of the two
Democrats wants “to legalize gay marriage in Virginia.”

paign worthy of your support, your conﬁdence, and the
faith you have placed in me. I will endeavor to unite and
not divide; to clarify and not confuse, to be led by prin-
ciple, and not by the polls.”

Well, Earley was right about one thing. Some polls
ﬁnd him trailing Democratic opponent Mark Warner by
fourteen points. This is a sign that the GOP’s actions are
being seen as nothing more than an embarrassing attempt
to appeal to the lowest common denominator, and not as a
viable political tactic.

Furthermore, just to the Commonwealth’s north
Maryland’s Gov. Parris Glendening has put the full sup-

port of his ofﬁce behind passage of a statewide gay civil-
rights bill to ﬁnally move that measure through his state’s
legislature. Moreover, Washington, D.C., ﬁnds gays and
lesbians serving openly in all levels of its government.

So, this begs the question, what is so wrong with
Virginia supporting a measure to allow gay marriages? In
my humble opinion, nothing. While Warner and Kaine
have not openly supported such legislation, they have
not run campaigns so strongly against it like their Repub-
lican opponents.

Republicans continue to use their religious beliefs
which they believe deﬁne homosexuality as a sin. No state
legislation would force any church to recognize gay mar-
riages. This would allow civil marriages between gays and
lesbians that are performed by state ofﬁcials.

Religions may continue to do as they please in re-
gards to who can and who cannot marry. But, I do not
think that our state legislature should have power to say
who should and should not be allowed a civil marriage
license.

But most importantly, Virginia does not need a gover-
nor and lieutenant governor with such backwards, big-
oted ideas. Either gay or straight, every citizen of this
state deserves elected ofﬁcials that will both represent
them, but more importantly respect them, regardless of
sexual orientation. A

ESE="l1i.E;$§§i3?I.Zt - !;‘I?i’s.lE“l“i%.l!I;?*ffTl?*-itlll 9

as Rtairssras co:-
an "§%"l?S’;F ‘._"a.%,.:§I..lr£:.E§~a‘::tIa’-—‘..,E“’t.f..‘.t?.'*% :5. ,.aF:;i?a:r A ‘E..3T~*Z§‘iCi'W£?3+"I“0al‘-it - mam

.- at -3  Fara Tarts

RELAY FOR LIFE

T-SHIRTS.
$8-12

CALL X8490 FOR MORE INFORMATION

SPACE DONATED BY RING-TUM PHI

SPRING BREAK 2002!!! Student Express is now hiring sales reps. Cancun features FREE
meals and parties @Fat Tuesdays—MTV Beach Headquarters. Acapulco, Matazatlan, Jamaica,
Bahamas, South Padre, Florida. Price3s from $469, with major airlines. 24,000 travelers in 2001.
Call 800-787-3787 for a FREE brochure or email:

bookit@ studentexpress.com. www.studentexpress.com

BUSINESS. . .
DID THAT GET YOU
HOT AND BOTHERED?

TALK TO US. . .

OPPORTUNITIES IN AD
SALES, AD DESIGN--HELP A
LARGE ORGANIZATION

MANAGE COMPLEX FINANCES

CONTACT SEIFERTP@WLU.EDU

 

iPm

THE R§N{'§~”i‘'d .3
PAGE4   .  Mom, ocrom 8, 2001 ’

.9;

   

 
 

HOMECOMING 2001. (Top) The Catholic Cardinals ﬁnd their wings plucked by the Victorious Generals.
(Below) Galactic, a New Orleans—style funk band, unleashed soulful tunes at their preformance in Doremus
Gymnasium. (Middle) Cheerleaders frolic on the ﬁeld. (Bottom) Alumni relax in the shade of large tents "
erected across the street from the ruins—the first dme in recent history that the location has been used for

tailgating events. .9

2001 Homecoming Court

Queen

Stacy McLough|in ‘O3 (Nominated by Chi Psi)
Escort Tom Atwater ‘03

First Runner Up

Agnes F|ak‘03 (Nominated by SAIL)
Escort Raphael Penteado ‘03

2nd Runner Up .
Lizzy Swann ‘02 (Nominated by Kappa Alpha) ~

Homecoming 2001

 

MATH-IE\X’/MCDERMOITAl\1D KATIE HOWELL
SUPERVISINGPAGEEDHORS
EMAIL-PH1@\mJ£DU

MONDAYCOCTOBER 8, 2001  ii     PAGE5

HOMECOMING 2001. (Center) Homecoming Queen Stacy Mclloughlin strides across the football field with escort Tom r\t\\'ater.

, ‘ A ‘ , ' ' . . ‘ .. ‘ J) ,3 A _ . ' _ ' '
(Below) The nominees for Homecoming Queen and their escorts anxiousl} aw alt the announccment of the .001 xx inncr. Blustcrmg Mm WWW of The Cal”
GROSS: Former Homecoming Queen Catharine Christian is one in a

long line of crowned unfortunates forced to kiss Professor Keith
Shillington, a thankfully discontinued tradition.

gusts of wind kept the maids, escorts and Viewers chilly throughout the ceremony.

 

PAGE 6

Defense turns in ste ar performance,
W&L finds ways to score in ODAC victory

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

Washington and Lee forced three turnovers in the fourth
quarter and held Catholic to just 19 yards rushing to pull
out an 18-12 win on Homecoming Saturday at Wilson Field.

The Generals scored 11 points off a fumble on a punt
return and an interception by senior Chris Shortall, and
sophomore Ted Mafﬁtt’s interception in the ﬁnal minute
sealed the win for W&L.

“We came out with the intensity that we had last
week (against Randolph-Macon),” said Maffitt, who
picked off a Derek McGee pass and returned it 55 yards
to the Cardinal 11-yard line with 34 seconds remaining.
“Our defense stuck it to them. This win was huge for
us.”

After taking a 12-7 fourth quarter lead on a 32-yard
Greg Stokes ﬁeld goal, Catholic forced a three-and—out.
But on the return, senior Jeff Bahl knocked the ball out of
Denis Campbe1l’s hands, and sophomore Andrew Bahl
recovered it at the Catholic 5-yard line.

Two plays later, senior Marc Watson plunged into
the end zone from a yard out, and sophomore quarter-
back Peter Dean found Watson for the two-point con-
version and a 15-12 lead.

“We made a statement that we didn’t want to lose two
games in a row, and that didn’t work,” Watson said. “We
weren’t going to lose two conference games in a row.”

McGee ﬁnished the day with 241 yards on 22-of—53
passing. His second quarter TD pass to Nick Bublavi came
with 13 seconds remaining, prompting the Generals to step
up their pressure in the second half. _

The sophomore was sacked three times after the break,
twice by Jeff Bahl and once by freshman Matt Larsen. On
several occasions, McGee saw on-target passes fall
through the hands of his receivers.

“They dropped some passes, which helped us a little
bit,” W&L coach Frank Miriello said. “We got a couple
of big sacks and a turnover out of Ted Mafﬁtt. We ap-
plied some pressure to them, and those kids put the ball
on the ﬂoor.”

Junior Chris Sullivan opened the scoring at 14:12 of the
second quarter with a 19-yard touchdown run. The Cardi-
nals then slowly strung together 12 straight points on

Golfers beat Guilford by a
stroke in Aubrey Apple invite

PORTS
Welcome he: Generlso Cat

Tl-fit: RINCS-~Tl,?'I\If ‘Pitt

jERE'MYFRANkIlI\l
SPORTS EDIIOR
E\IA1l;FRAI\HGlI\1]@Al«1L‘.E11l

THROWING ON THE RUN: Sophomore Peter Dean ﬁres a pass
in W&L’s 18-12 win over Catholic Saturday at Wilson Field.

Bublavi’s TD, a safety on a botched punt snap and the
Stokes ﬁeld goal.

Watson’s score put the Generals up for good, and se-
nior Brad Wiginton’s 31-yard ﬁeld goal following Shortall’s
pick ﬁnished the scoring.

Sullivan, who ran 35 times for 202 yards and had 300
yards of total offense in W&L’s 28-24 loss to Randolph‘-
Macon on Sept. 29, had just 80 yards on 31 carries against
the Cardinals.

“They really had us scattered well,” he said. “It
wasn’t there today, at least not as much as last week.
You can’t have games like that every week. We defi-
nitely had a more spread-out, balanced attack this
week.”

BY DAVE CROWELL

IVIARY GL‘Y/ T/Jr Ring-lrrrrr P/11
Dean completed 19-of-32 passes for 154 yards. Cardinal
defenders Scott Lutte (97) and Jeff Tabery are in pursuit.

The Generals will look to go to 3-1 in ODAC play next
week when they travel to Hampden-Sydney. They’ll also
attempt to avenge another loss from last season, but Catho-
lic — which beat W&L 47-0 a year ago — was the big one
for now.

“After the way they beat us last year, it’s hard to
describe in words how good this feels,” Sullivan said.
“You’ve got to take it one game at a time. Every game
looks winnable. It’s a matter of whether you show up
to play. M

“We definitely have a shot at (Hampden-Sydney). Our
defense has got to be ready for all the trick plays they
threw at us last year, and our offense has just got to do
what we know how to do.”

Old, new blood keep W&L rolling

Volleyball team reaches halfway mark of ODAC season with undefeated record in league play

MONDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2001

. .
Oll C l 8 - l 2  
I , i S '
VI/in could turn W&L 3 season around I
BY JEREMY FRANKLIN ‘
SPORTS EDITOR
A week ago, Washington and Lee’s football season jg
appeared to be headed in the wrong direction.
The Generals were 1-3, one year after starting 4-0 against
the same four opponents. Randolph-Macon had scored A
with 15 seconds left just seven days earlier to steal a win
away from Frank Miriello’s team. »
Next up was Catholic, which had crushed the General
by a 47-0 score in 2000. Excuse anyone who had doubts T
about how W&L would finish up in 2001. ‘

“Catholic had a huge game against us last year,” senior
Jeff Bahl said. “We were really thinking about it.”

Now it’s the Cardinals’ turn to think, as W&L eked out an
18- 12 win Saturday before a Homecoming crowd of over 4,700.

“It’s a tremendous boost for us,” Miriello said. “We’ve

got to keep moving on, and use this to springboard us to '

a few more big wins.”

The Generals are now 2-1 in the Old Dominion Athletic g

Conference, and one 95-yard drive away from being 3-0.

Instead of falling apart after playing the Cardinals, they 4‘

appear to be on their way up. _
“Last year, Catholic just destroyed us, and our season

went downhill from there,” said sophomore Ted Mafﬁtt, 9

whose 55-yard interception return in the ﬁnal minute pre-

vented another last-second loss. “This shows we can play g

with anybody in the ODAC, and we’re here to stay.”
Bahl, who sacked Catholic’s Derek McGee twice and
forced the fumble that set up the game-winning touch-
down, echoed his teammate’s sentiment.
“We can play with the best, we’ve beaten the best,” he
said. “Now we’re rolling into some teams who have had a

V

lot of trouble with Catholic in the past. As far as our con- q

ﬁdence is concerned, we’re not doubting ourselves.”
W&L has yet to reach its peak level, if the number of
problems Miriello noticed provides any indication. '
“First downs were just terrible,” Miriello said. “We can’t
get into long second-down situations. It kills us.
“I don’t think we kept them off balance enough,” he
added. “They zeroed in on what we were doing. We’ve

4

got to keep people off balance better, and that’s what‘

we’re going to work on this week.”

But if the Generals can make that many mistakes and '7

still beat one of the better teams in the ODAC, things are
looking up for the second half of the season.

great beneﬁt for this team,” Snyder

4

$
»é

1

FROM STAFF REPORTS

KERNERSVILLE, N .C.—The
Washington and Lee golf team
placed sixth out of 13 teams at the
Greensboro Aubrey Apple Invita-
tional, held Saturday and Sunday at
the Pine Knolls Golf Club.

The Generals shot 294 each day
of the competition, placing a stroke
ahead of the Quakers in the overall
standings. W&L ﬁnished second to
Guilford in the Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference Championships
back in the spring.

Senior Kyle Ulep (70-71) placed
fifth in the individual competition
at 141. Junior Chip Campbell (71-
73) shot a 144, followed by fresh-
man Ged Johnson (75-75) at 150
and junior Chuck Green (78-75) at
153.

Senior Curtis Bethea (82-76)
ended up outside of the scoring
at 158.

Averett shot a combined 573 to
win the team competition, followed
by Methodist (576), Oglethorpe
(581), Greensboro (581) and Savan-
nah A&D (584).

Roanoke, the third ODAC school
present, was 10th at 610.

The Generals also placed ninth
in an 18-team field at the Guilfordl

Tom O’Bryant Invitational, held
Monday and Tuesday at the Cardi-
nal Golf & Country Club in Greens-
boro.

W&L’s two-day total of 616 was
a combined 28 strokes behind the
toumaInent’s host, which ﬁnished in
third place. For the Generals,
Campbell (75-76) and senior Ulep (78-
73) tied for 24th at 151. Green (79-77)
was 46th at 156, and Johnson (78-80)
placed 53rd at 158.

Bethea (83-83) and junior David
Haase (82-87) finished out of the
scoring for the Generals.

Duke won the team event with a
score of 582, and Brad Clark was the
medallist with a combined 137 for the
Blue Devils.

Oglethorpe was second at 585,
followed in the team standings by
Guilford, Savannah A&D (591),
Methodist (592), Greensboro
(596), Averett (604) and Ohio
Wesleyan (613).

Four other ODAC opponents
competed in the Guilford invite.
Lynchburg placed 13th at 637,
Hampden-Sydney (641) was 14th,
Randolph-Macon (642) ended up
15th and Bridgewater (661) fin-
ished 17th.

The two Triad-area invitationals
ﬁnished the fall season for W&L.

AssIsTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee volley-
ball team used dominant perfor-
mances on all areas of the court to
land two victories against Randolph-
Macon Woman’s College and East-
ern Mennonite and maintain a per-
fect conference record.

The Generals (15-3, 5-0 Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference) received
a heavy dose of senior leadership in
an impressive 30-19, 30-15, 30-18 vic-
tory over the WildCats on Tuesday.

Senior middle blocker Lindsay
Ruckert led the way with 14 kills,
six digs and three blocks. The two-
time ODAC Player of the Year also
continued her destruction of W&L
career records by serving one ace
and breaking the career service ace
record of 158 held by 1992 graduate
Leslie Hess.

Senior Leslie Fischbeck notched
nine kills and ﬁve blocks, while class-
mate Sara Heusel added seven kills
and ﬁve digs in a match that saw the
Generals control the entire way.

“I personally think that we can be
a very dominating team,” coach Bryan
Snyder said of his squad’s penchant
for ﬁnishing matches quickly. “But
when we do get to 20 points, we usu-
ally buckle down and put together a
nice string of points to end the game.”

ationlly rnked oonents t

UNDERT1-IE
LIGHTS:
Washington and
Lee freshman
Kitt Murphy
reaches for a
loose ball in the
Generals’ 1-0 loss
to 19th-ranked
Lynchburg at the
W&L Turf Field
on Friday night.
(Photo by Mary
Guy/ T/ye Ring-
tum P/J2)

ONLY A FRESHMAN?:] ennifer Lux goes for
an assist in W&L’s 30-19, 30-15, 30-18 win
over Randolph-Macon Woman’s College
Tuesday at the W/arner Center. In just her

In Saturday’s Homecoming game
against Eastern Mennonite, the
freshmen got the opportunity to
perform center stage. First-year

players Jennifer Lux and Emily Wolf- -

I\l.-\R\’ GLW/ T/Jr Ring-lrrr/1 P/Jr"

first year of collegiate play, Lux is close to
breaking the school record for assists in a
season. She has 588 with ﬁve ODAC

g21IIl€S and t\VO tournaments CO g0.

ing came up with key serves and
important plays to ensure the 30-21,
30-19, 30-23 victory.

“The mix of freshmen and senior
leadership is without a doubt a

said. “The freshmen are very used
to the system and the style of play.‘
Now that we’re halfway through
the season, they make very few
‘freshmen mistakes.’ ,

“Seniors provide the experience,
but freshmen often bring the ﬁre and
enthusiasm to the court.” 1

Lux amassed 29 assists, giving her
54 for the week. She already stands in g
the all-time W&L top ﬁve for assists
in a single season at 588, with five
conference games and two touma-“‘l
ments left before the ODAC Tourna-
ment in November. ‘

Ruckert totaled 12 kills and six digs
on the afternoon, while Fischbeck
added 10 kills. Junior outside hitter”
Stacey Kimmel tallied seven kills, three
aces and nine digs. A

The Generals enter the second half
of their ODAC schedule with conﬁ-3
dence, certain that a strong work ethic
can help ‘them continue the success
of this season.

“One through 15, we come to work '
hard in practice,” Snyder said. “We
put effort into every practice and it
shows up on the court. Seeing tough
competition in practice really prepares )
us for the matches.”

§

The Generals travel to Sweet Briar y .'

today for a 6:30 p.m. conference
match, hoping to remain undefeated V
in ODAC play.

oo much for 1st-year program 

0rrison’s field hockey team stll experiencing growing pains in inaugural varsity season vi 3

The Cardinals didn’t seem to take their lead very well, , 0

BY MICHAEL LEE
SPORTS WRITER

There are times when being the new kid on the block
means getting beaten up a little. Such was the case for
the Washington and Lee field hockey team this week-
end.

Friday night, Lynchburg handed the Generals a 1-0 loss
at home. Junior Linda Jack scored the only goal of the
game with 24:30 left to play in the second half, assisted by
junior Kyla Hoffman.

Lynchburg, ranked 19th in the nation, improved to 11-
1 overall, 5-0 in Old Dominion Athletic Conference com-
petition, while the Generals dropped to 2-7, 2-6 in the
ODAC.

Sunday afternoon saw a chance for Catholic Univer-
sity to avenge its football loss from the previous day. The
Cardinals took an early lead, scoring three goals in the
first 22 minutes of the ﬁrst half. The Generals were forced
back on the defensive for most of the game, unable to
pressure Catholic.

as sophomore forward Danielle Deon received a yellow
card with 2:43 remaining in the game.

The Generals used this advantage to ward away the 1*
shutout, and with 1:27 remaining, sophomore Jessica Lake
scored off of an assist from senior Allison MacQueen.‘
Nevertheless, the 18th-ranked Cardinals held off the Gen-
erals for the remainder of the game. , ,

Coach Wendy Orrison noted that the team has been
starting slow.

“We had a much better second half, and we played»;
more as a team,” she said. “We have trouble coming
out strong.” $

She pointed out that Lynchburg and Catholic are4

both excellent teams that are years into their pro--y

gram.
“We’re a first-year team, and that means we have to
work harder, but we’re up to it,” Orrison said. . 1'
The Generals host St. Mary’s of Maryland Saturday
at 2 p.m. at the Washington and Lee University Turf
Field. i

 

 

MONDAY, UCTOBER 8, Zlllll

 
  

BY IAN R. MClLROY

‘ ‘ SPORTS WRITER

. g The Washington and Lee women’s
soccer team garnered two big wins this
Homecoming week to improve their
2001 season record to 8-2.

On Wednesday, the Generals
moved to 7-1 in the Old Dominion

.1 Athletic Conference with a 4-0 win

§ at Emory and Henry. Then, the
team scored a season-high seven
goals as it shut out Ferrum on Sat-
0 urday afternoon.
With these two impressive wins, the
* Generals have gained considerable
momentum with just over two weeks
left until the ODAC Tournament.
“The caliber of play on this team
has been quite high this week,” first-
’ year head coach Neil Cunningham
said. “We’ve been able to go right
5 through the roster, and everyone on
the squad has benefited from valu-
V able playing time.”
In the win over Emory and Henry,
. freshman forward Maggie Hope,
sophomore midfielder Fontaine
Marcoux and senior midﬁelder Kate
‘ * Bidwell all tallied one goal and one
assist each.
With a goal midway through the ﬁrst
4 half, sophomore midﬁelder Heather
Coleman rounded out the scoring.
Freshman goalkeepers Abigail
9 Pfeffer and Emily Barkereachmadetwo
« saves for the Generals, securing the
A‘ team’s third shutout of the season.

' it

t Men’s socc

  

l’ AGE /

DPORTS

    

MEG FFl1R.-\RA/ The Ring-rm Phi

,1 BLOCKING our: Junior Kevin Bibona fends off a Roanoke defender in \X/&L’s 3-1
Homecoming win over the Maroons on Saturday.

 rru Collee

er leaves early-season problems behind

W&L blows past Hampden-Sydnei/, 15th-ranked Roanoke to stay perfect in Old Dominion Athletic Conference

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

Any early-season struggles that
the Washington and Lee men’s soc-
cer team experienced have vanished.

The Generals (7—1—1, 6-0 Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference) dis-
patched Hampden-Sydney and
Roanoke at home this week and are
sitting atop the ODAC standings.

“Those are enormous wins,” jun-
ior forward Brad Murphy said. “They
were in the top of the conference along
with us.”

Senior Andrew Grimes scored the
only goal of the game Thursday
against the Tigers off an assist from
senior Rick Schnatz at the 17:52

‘Generals win blowout matches
,against Wasps,

IARY UY/ e rig-tum 1

ONE-TOUCHDOWN WIN: Senior Drew Powers scored two goals in W&L’s 7-0
Homecoming victory over Ferrum Saturday at the Liberty Hall ﬁelds.

On Saturday, the Generals added
another shutout to the books with
a 7-0 win on the Liberty Hall fields.
Coleman and senior midfielder
Drew Powers each scored two
goals for the Generals, and
Marcoux, Hope and freshman
midfielder Ginny Helms tallied one
goal apiece.

Junior midfielder Jenny Thomas
dished out two assists for the Gener-
als. Her second came on a ﬂip throw-
in that was headed in by Powers.

Bidwell and freshman midﬁelder
Alison Irvin each added one assist

on the afternoon. Playing 45 minutes
apiece in goal, Pfeffer and Barker com-
bined for the shutout.

Two weeks away from the conference
tournament, the women have high goals.

“We have to keep this momentum
going and try for ‘another winning
streak,” Cunningham said. “If we do
well in our remaining conference
games, we’ll earn a high seed in the
tournament and have a strong shot at
a home game (in the opening rounds).”

The Generals return to action on
Wednesday when they travel to con-
ference rival Hollins for a 4 p.m. match.

: Coming to the Phi sports pages later in the term:
-Old Dominion Athletic Conference Tournament and
,.li postseason coverage of fall sports

, -Previews of W&L winter sports

mark. Junior Brad Hearn made six
saves in net for his second shutout
of 2001.

W&L’s offense stepped forward
Saturday against 15th-ranked
Roanoke. Murphy assisted sopho-
more Jacob Stoehr for the only goal
of the ﬁrst half, and he pushed the
Generals’ advantage to 2-0 several
minutes into the second half.

After Tsuyoshi Oshika cut the lead
to 2-1, freshman Justin Mygatt put the
game out of the Maroons’ reach with
a tally, assisted by sophomore Philip
Miller.

Junior Tim Foley recorded seven
saves in net for W&L.

“Each of our keepers have had
their moments, and it’s important to

the team that we have two guys who
get the job done,” W&L coach Rolf
Piranian said. “It’s more important
that the guy who’s out there that
day is on.”

The Generals have now won six
straight — this from a team that, in
the preseason, didn’t look like it
was headed back to the NCAA
playoffs.

“The beginning of the season, we
had problems putting the ball in the
back of the net,” Murphy said. “We’re
really starting to work well.”

With the offense improving
throughout the year, Piranian be-
lieves that W&L’s defense has
helped them shoot to the top of
the ODAC.

“We’re basically absorbing what
other teams throw at us,” he said. “The
rock of this team is our defense. That’s
the basis of our success this year.”

W&L has three conference
games left on the schedule. If they
win out, they’ll host the ODAC
Tournament semifinals and finals on
Nov. 3-4.

Murphy believes that the Generals
are en route to returning to the Divi-
sion HI playoffs now that they have
already beaten squads like the Tigers,
Maroons and Virginia Wesleyan.

“We’ve beaten the stronger teams
in our conference,” Murphy said. “So
we should be able to host the ODAC
Tournament. 1 think going in, we’ll
have a lot of confidence.”

 
    

Men’s tennis ends fall season

Match wins give Generals quarteninal ﬁnish in ITA/Rolex South Regional tournament

FROM STAFF REPORTS

SWARTHMORE, Pa.—Three
Washington and Lee men’s tennis
players advanced to the
quarterfinals and one doubles team
made it to the semifinals at the ITA/
Rolex South Region Championships
on Saturday.

After each winning a pair of
matches on Friday, seniors Rhys
James and Andrew Roberts and fresh-

man Paul McClure all won their first
match of the day Saturday, only to
lose in the event’s quarterfinals.

Mary Washington’s Conner Smith
defeated James, 6-3, 4-6, 6-2. Kayvon
Fatahalian of Carnegie Mellon
dropped Roberts, 6-3, 6-2 and Wash-
ington College’s Jose Lajarraga
knocked off McClure, 6-3, 6-1 .

James and Roberts advanced to
the final four in doubles competi-
tion, but fell 8-5 to a team from

Carnegie Mellon. Lajarraga and
teammate Seth Morgan knocked off
W&L sophomores K.C. Schaeffer
and Austin Kim, 8-3, in another
quarterfinal match.

Kim and Schaeffer each lost in the
second round of singles competition
on Friday, and McClure and sopho-
more Graham Nix were eliminated in
the second round of doubles.

The tournament concludes the
Generals’ fall season.

‘ Ileln design the united way .
r * of Iloclrhritluellexintlton welt site!

‘- Questions, comments or suggestions?
  , Contact Jeremy Franklin at frank|inj@wlu.edu or X4060.
. 
‘M,
I

*1: rr rm ' =1
, ll BIBSIG IIIWB GSIEIII.

Emall IllGlI0l'|lI0llm@VlIll.BlIlI

Space donated by the Ring-tum Phi

 

Top

five reasons
to work for The Ca/yx...

Learn photography.
Be a part of the University's oldest publication.
See o|d—schoo| file photos. (See Phi} page 5-6)
Be part of a talented, hard-working team.

1. Work next door to the legendary R/'/7_q-tum P/7/I

«ll?

 

1’.tGli 

 DPORTS
Minks improving rugby progrm, still fighting for respect >-

MONDAY, OCTOBER ts, ZUUI

SIGHTS OF
W&L-VMI:
(Above) A
Minks winger
gets tackled by
several Keydets
as sophomore
Jock Wols
looks on. (Left)
Sophomore
Joseph LeNoir
runs through a
pair of VMI
players.
(Photos by
Meg Ferrara/
T/Je Ringlum
P/J2)

   

MI FFRR \M/ The Ring-tzIzz1P/xi
OPEN FIELD: Sophomore Philip Dales returns the ball in
\X/&L’s 33-26 loss to VMI on Sept. 27.

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee rugby squad plays as a club
team, but don’t let that moniker fool you.

The Minks now have a coach, 1991 graduate Tom
Lovell, who is in his second season with the team. Lovell
has played rugby for well over a decade, including his
four years at W&L.

Since Lovell took over the program, senior co-captain
Chris Clark says, the program is “l0 times better than we’ve
been since I’ve been here.”

“It’s so much better, I don’t even know how to explain
it,” Clark said. “We’ve all learned a lot more with the help
of Tom Lovell.” -

Playing in the Virginia Rugby Union —- part of USA
Rugby, which coordinates the sport from youth leagues
all the way up to the national team —— means rules and
regulations that don’t seem to ﬁt a club team.

“We have requirements that we have to fulﬁll, very
similar to the NCAA,” Lovell said. “Most schools don’t
acknowledge the organizational level that’s there.”

Senior co-captain Abram Trosky, who has played the
sport in England and Australia and is the returning MVP
from the 2000 W&L squad, says that everything from Title
IX to the injury—prone nature of the sport prevents most

 

said. “Because there is no large-scale, endorsed college-
level competition, rugby has eluded the mainstream and
ﬁnds its livelihood mainly in scattered -men’s clubs.

“There is obvious competition for big, aggressive males
with football, but even in England rugby isn’t a huge spec-
tator sport, except for international test matches.”

W&L is 3-2 this season, including a 17-3 Homecoming
win over William and Mary on Saturday. The Minks have
established themselves as a ﬁrst—half team, as 67 of their
82 points have come in the first 40 minutes of play. Lovell
says his team must play a full 80 minutes, but emphasizes
that they’ve come a long way in terms of dedication to the
program.

“Our strengths are commitment, athleticism and learn-
ing,” he said. “One of the frustrating things with rugby is
that there’s so little involvement at the high school level.
But they’re really learning the game of rugby. This year
especially, the team has really jelled.”

The Minks are beginning to draw from a larger pool of
players. Sophomore Charlie Kimbrough, who leads the
team in scoring this year, originally came to W&L as a
soccer player.

But, as Trosky says, rugby remains out of the main-
stream of American sports. The lack of NCAA certifica-
tion doesn’t help, as the Minks must battle for practice
time with at least four teams that use similar practice
fields in the fall. They play their home matches at the

kickboard ﬁeld. :4

“Club chair Joe Lyles helps us coordinate all our ﬁelds,”
Lovell said. “With the situation with the lack of ﬁelds, the
school has done a pretty good job at getting us practice
time. At the same time, we’ve got to play second ﬁddle to

what’s going on (with varsity teams).” ‘V

Then there is the social aspect, much heavier a part of
rugby than other sports. Post—game festivities involve both
home and away teams and include food, drink and what is

known as “choir practice.” 9

“The guys work hard and play hard, no matter what
level of rugby you’re at,” Lovell said. “The tradition is the
two teams put everything they can on the ﬁeld, and after-
wards it’s truly a gentleman’s sport.

“The home team hosts a post—game party where the Q

two teams can get together and talk about the match. Usu-
ally there’s some songs that are sung and food that’s

eaten, and everybody walks away friends. A lot of sports §

don’t get together in that post-game camaraderie.”

Such a unique social scheme just may be what draws ‘

people to the game.

“The great thing about rugby is that no matter how .?

brutal the game is and what words or blows are exchanged,
inevitably the home team ends up feeding and ‘watering’
the visitors and we part friends until next year,” Trosky
said. “What other sport can claim that?”

schools from having varsity—certiﬁed rugby teams. ’
“Though nearly every decent—size university has a Onthe Web:
rugby club, only a handful have varsity status,” Trosky http://clubrugbywlu.edu .3
SCOREBOARD   v
, Java  The GH Q presents »
SATURDAY s FOOTBALL YARDLINE W&L SCHEDULEZ OCTOBER 9-22 -
W&L 18, Catholic 12 Tuesday, Oct. 9 Tuesday, Oct. 16 1*
Catholic 0 7 2 3 — 12 Golf Women’s Soccer
W&L 0 7 0 11 —— 18 W&L at Aubrey Apple invitational W&L at Guiltord, 4 p.m.
Second Quarter 1..

W&L — Sullivan 19 run (Wiginton kick), 14:12
CUA — Bublavi 11 pass from McGee (Stokes kick), 0:13
Third Quarter

CUA -— Team safety, 1:24

Fourth Quarter

CUA — Stokes FG 32, 13:23

W&L — Watson 1 run (Watson pass from Dean), 10:51

W&L —— Wiginton FG 31, 3:54
A — 4,722

CUA
First downs 14
Rushes-yards 24-19
Passing yards 241
Return yards 110
Comp—att-int 22-53-2
Sacked—yards lost 3-30
Punts-avg 9-39.2
Fumbles-lost 1-1
Penalties-yards 6-40
Time of possession 23:36

W&L
15
46-87
154
63
19-32-1
3-24
9-34.6
0-0
7-63
36:24

INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS

RUSH|NG—CUA: Ulrich 13-30, Vollono 4-5, McGee 7-(-16). W&L:
Sullivan 31-80, Watson 7-31, Overstreet 1-2, Dean 4-(-6).

PASSlNG——CUA: McGee 22-53-2 241. W&L: Dean 19-32-1 154.

RECElV|NG—CUA: Bublavi 7-90, Evans 6-55, Truxillo 4-45,
Richard 2-45, Jankiewicz 2-5, Ulrich 1-1. W&L: Watson 10-70,
Thomas 3-46, Sullivan 3-2, Overstreet 2-29, Callaham 1-7.

MISSED FIELD GOALS—-W&L: Wiginton 47, 36.

ODAC FOOTBALL GLANCE

ODAC
Team
Randolph-Macon
Washington and Lee
Bridgewater
Emory and Henry
Hampden-Sydney
Catholic
Guillcrd

®©—*—*—*l\)|’\')E
N)l\)f\7®©-‘$1’-

October 6 Results
W&L 18, Catholic 12

Emory and Henry 34, Hampden-Sydney 20

Ferrum 18, Guilford 15, OT

Week of October 13
W&L at Hampden-Sydney
Guiltord at Bridgewater
Catholic at Froslburg State

Emory and Henry at Randolph-Macon

'Week of October 20

Bridgewater at Emory and Henry
Hampden-Sydney at Catholic
Davidson at Randolph-Macon
W&L at Sewanee

Week of October 27
Bridgewater at W&L

Emory and Henry at Catholic
Randolph-Macon at Guilford
Hampden-Sydney at Davidson

Wednesday, Oct. 10
Women’s Soccer
W&L at Hollins, 4 p.m.

Thursday, Oct. 11
Volleyball

' W&L at Roanoke, 6:30 pm.

Friday, Oct. 12

Women’s Tennis

W&L at Franklin & Marshall, 1 p.m.
Men’s Soccer

W&L at Savannah A&D, 5 p.m.

Saturday, Oct. 13

Women‘s Tennis

W&L at Swarthmore, 9 a.m.

W&L at Havertord, 3 pm.

Cross Country

W&L at Div. III State Meet, TBA
Volleyball

W&L at Goucher Tournament
Football

W&L at Hampden-Sydney, 1 p.m.
Men’s Soccer

W&L vs. Guillord (at Savannah

A&D), 1 p.m.

Women’s Soccer
Carnegie-Mellon at W&L, 3:30 p.m.

Wednesday, Oct. 17

Men’s Soccer

Eastern Mennonite at W&L, 4 pm.
Field Hockey

Eastern Mennonite at W&L, 4:30 p.m.

Oct. 18-21
Women’s Tennis
W&L at Rolex National Tournament

Thursday, Oct. 18
Volleyball
W&L at Bridgewater, 6:30 p.m.

Saturday, Oct. 20

Cross Country

W&L at Gettysburg Invitational
Women’s Soccer

W&L at Roanoke, 1 pm.
Men’s Soccer

W&L at St. Mary’s, 2 p.m.
Football

W&L at Sewanee, 2:30 p.m.

Sunday, Oct. 21

Field Hockey

Christopher Newport at W&l_, 1 p.m.
Volleyball

Lynchburg at W&L, 2 p.m.

OLD DOMINION ATHLETIC CONFERENCE STANDINGS

   

Overall WoMEN’s SOCCER VOLLEYBALL
W L Conference Overall Conference Overall
4 1 Team w L T w L T Team w L w L
2 3 Washington and Lee8 1 0 8 2 0 Washington and Lee5 o 15 3
4 0 LV“°hb“'9 5 0 0 9 1 2 Roanoke 5 o 11 5
3 2 Virginia Wesleyan 6 1 0 113 0 Emmy and Henry 3 1 10 6
2 3 Eastern Mennonite 5 3 0 113 0 Rando1ph_MaCon 4 3 11 8
Roanoke 4 2 0 9 3 0
l 4 Randolph-Macon 4 4 o 4 9 o Ly.”°hb”'9 3 2 14 5
1 5 Bridgewater 3 4 1 5 4 2 B"d9e‘”"‘“” _ 3 2 1° 6
RMWC 2 3 1 6 3 1 Eastern Mennonite 2 3 8 11
Guilford 2 4 o 5 7 1 H°'”"S 2 3 5 1‘
Homns 1 5 1 2 7 1 Sweet Briar 1 3 7 6
Sweet Briar 0 6 0 2 9 0 RMWC 0 5 4 12
Emory and Henry 0 7 1 3 9 1 Guilford 0 6 2 19
MEN’s SOCCER FIELD HOCKEY
Conference Overall Conference Overall
Team W L T W L T Team W L T W L T
Washington and Lees 0 0 7 1 1 Eastern Mennonite 6 0 0 9 5 0
Roanoke 4 1 0 9 2 0 Lynchburg 5 0 0 11 1 0
Virginia Wesleyan 4 1 0 8 5 0 Roanoke 6 2 0 8 3 0 1
Emory and Henry 3 2 0 6 5 0 RMWC 4 2 0 6 5 0 ,~ ,
Lynchburg 3 3 0 5 6 0 Virginia Wesleyan 3 4 O 5 7 O — .
Hampden-Sydney 2 2 0 8 4 1 SweetBriar 2 3 0 7 5 0 I .
Eastern Mennonite 2 4 0 7 B O Randolph-Macon 2 5 0 4 9 0 _   I 1 , ,‘ V I! V
Randolph-Macon 1 3 0 6 6 O Washingtonand Lee2 6 0 2 8 0 , , ' H -  '- ’ -_ .  ' . surf" ' » ' -. ' r
 I A o 4- o  I I I I 7 0 Money  ctOber 8 8.30-midm ht
Bridgewater o 6 o 3 3 0 Hollins 6 0 1 110 " ‘    '  ' ' ' " ‘ I '’
Editor's note: Overall records may not reflect games played this weekend. _ 1'
O.

 

  
   
 
 

5
#-

‘t

it
. 

§
' #
4»

 

@737
DD 

 

     

   

V’  _WRW  W” iAME$C G. i..E‘r‘8s_lR..' l_.z‘g,:;.,,,.‘.t:..r.<  n P
"   ' W ‘>‘Hil\i‘«£3’fD:‘~I ti l‘.&"‘ ‘ z,jt’ti|!ﬂ4.;/-T"' ‘rm   ’”
W9 , H NSIDE ._m,W,   . . IRDEX
RHODES RI<_;HT<I> PAGE 3  I ;_w3 3
C()l.t‘».\l.5'/".l' .-Kl‘-'{.»lvli-‘I,=’.\.‘l:}T;’*.;\‘-, .. V
SA\’.\‘ l<II2\\'3'-.N, \\Z'HU F.v\\/«Ins 2 (")P{NI()NS 
I-IRIx<'.I.\(; I.\.II>I-:ItIAI.I.~';.\l Is.-'».r.I\. \li;i’&l..i.f*‘l‘£ 
TEAM I'sAr:I< ow TOP <1) I’Ar;E 8 S R RTQ 7
'\.'’'oI.:.Ia\'I‘IAI.z.r.:.zM:HI«:s'r'uz> ‘ _  V 
:':l~:i~‘l') I'oR Ol"_)A(,".' ‘cs Ir:-I 3-1 24/" I" M
\x";l\: U'\.";«'l\’. i'-'r;-..«'I—:I5I:I<<_‘;. SQ ,RU.3(‘)ARvQ 
,;,,x, V 2445.0 Z\ir.=xI>A‘I', (.lt”l‘(‘:l%f.;"l  20411

\}I”1l.i.'.‘.ii?. (LN  Xi.

New ca

tﬂ

   

Quartet crash in country

BY KATIE HOWELL
LAYOUT EDITOR

An SUV carrying four W&L students
ﬂipped three and ahalftimes, ejecting two of the
students, in a single-vehicle accident last Tues-
day at 7:00 p.m. The wreck, involving alcohol,
sent the students to Stonewall Jackson Hospital.

Virginia State Police Sergeant P.L.
Cheek said junior Brian Caskey was driving
senior Abby Montgomery’s 1998 M—class
Mercedes north on Route 669 near Lexing-
ton when he slid on gravel, overcorrected
the skid and ﬂipped over a guard rail. Pas-
sengers included seniors Montgomery and
Geoff White and junior Matt Kimbrough.
The accident’s impact threw both White and
Kimbrough from the backseat of the car.

According to the Virginia State Police
report of Trooper C.H. Seelke, who re-
sponded to the accident, neither White nor
Kimbrough were wearing seatbelts. Virginia
law, however, does not require adults riding
in the backseat of a vehicle to wear seatbelts.

An ambulance took Kimbrough from
Stonewall Jackson to the University of Vir-

W&L tunes in to new cable channels

Comedy ‘Central, Cartoon Network added to University package for dorms, fraternities

Other new channelsinclude the Food Network, Oxy-

BY IMRAN NAEEMULLAH
STAFF WRITER

ita

$.33?‘

GRAPHIC COURTFSY For THE RlSll\G GEM-‘ll.»\’1'lO!\ CAMPAIGN FOIDER

TENTING RED SQUARE. This
large structure (left) held an
audience while Trustee Phil
Norwood, chair of the
capital projects committee,
discussed proposed
additions

_and renovations to the
campus. Proposed additions
(above)

include a new University
Commons (1),a renovated
Reid Hall (3),

a renovated Co-op (4), and
an expanded \X/illiams
School (5).

Fe a/Ri-Phi

campai aims

 

for near

Br MATTHEW McDERMoTr
EDITOR—lN-CHIEF

To explain its need for $225 million, Washington and Lee
University invited over 400 guests to a two-day kickoff of its
“For the Rising Generation” capital campaign.

Guests were “W&L’s most generous donors, closest friends

and promising donors,” said Jim Farrar, secretary to the Board

of Trustees.

The kick—off was scheduled to follow the regular fall meet-
ing of the Board, which was moved to Wednesday from Thurs-
day to allow more time. p

The event began with dinner and a “Performance for the
Rising Generation,” with pieces from the Univesity Chorus
and the wind, string and jazz ensembles. The event, held in the
Lenfest Center, ended with a joint rendering of “America the
Beautiful.”

Friday presented the bulk of the information, with an ad-
dress by Trustee Phil Norwood, chair of the capital projects
committee.

Attendees could also listen to two of 10 seminars pre-
sented by seven deans, 26 professors and staff and students.

Presentation subjects included technology in the class-
rooms, ﬁnancial aid and study abroad opportunities.

“These seminars are a very detailed look at different as-
pects of university 1ife,” Farrar said.

The main event was Saturday’s gala, which took place in
the Warner Center. Black carpeting covered the ﬂoor, the ceil-
ing was draped and ﬂoral centerpieces—including a $600, six-
foot arrangement by the coatcheck—were arrayed.

Guests were treated to a five-course meal that included
canapes, black angus tenderloin and a chocolate cake with
blackberry and mango coulis. The food, exclusive of the
open bar, had a $112.50 price per person, according to the
catering event sheet.

“I understand that you have to spend money to get
money,” said History Professor Ted DeLaney, who attended
the event. “I just wish that wasn’t the case. I wish that some
of the money that went into the gala could have gone into
student scholarships.”

During the supper, two videos were shown. The first, a
tribute to past President John Elrod, recorded his reasons for
the construction of the new University Commons.

After the screening, Frank Surface, rector of the Board of
Trustees, armounced that the Board voted unanimously to name

quarter- billion

Qpital campaign breakdown

Academic Program . . . $119,650,000
Annual Fund . . . . . . . . .$ 20,000,000
Physical Plant. . . . . . . .$ 85,350,000

TOTAL. . . . . . . . . .$225,000,000

the Commons for Elrod. He then presented a framed drawing
of the building to Mimi Elrod, the president’s widow.

Elrod spoke of her husband’s hope that the Commons
would serve as “our family room,” a place for the University
community to engage in out—of—classroom discussions.

“I am delighted that the Commons will be named after
John Elrod.” DeLaney said. “Dr. (Mimi) Elrod was very
eloquent.” ’

The second video reemphasized the University’s need for
funds, featuring interviews with students, faculty and deans. A
CD-Rom with similar information was distributed to attendees.

Both videos were produced in—house.

To date, $168 million of the plarmed $225 million has been
raised from quiet solicitation of corporations and major donors.

The money is pegged for specific goals. Slightly more than
half, $119,650,000, will go to the academic program. Of the
remainder, $20 million will be used in the annual fund pro-
gram, and $85,350,000 for the Physical Plant.

The annual program contributes $4 million to the
University’s yearly operating budget.

The Physical Plant hopes to use funds toward the con-
struction of the $30 million University Commons and a $24
million new art and music building, to be named after past
President John Wilson.

Also planned is the $5.7 million rennovation of Reid Hall,
the $4 million refurbishing of the ﬁtness center and the $3.5
million expansion of the Williams School expansion. Addi-
tional funds will renovate the law school’s Lewis Hall, adding
a new entrance and atrium.

Administrators believe that the kick—off will generate suf-
ficient interest in the institution’s financial well-being.

“You don’t just do this (type of event) on a whim,” Farrar
said. “That’s what this is about, to get people excited.”

DUI sun/ivor warns campus

  

ginia Medical Center. A hospital administra-
tor at UVA Medical Center said Kimbrough
remains hospitalized in Charlottesville in
good condition. He would not comment on
any treatment Kimbrough received. W&L
Dean of Students David Howison, however,
said Kimbrough’s spleen had been removed.
Howison visited Kimbrough at UVA.

“Matt was probably the worst hurt of
all of us,” White said.

White had surgery on his leg, which was
broken in three places. Montgomery has dif-
ﬁculty walking from injuries she received
during the accident. Caskey suffered minor
cuts and bruises.

According to the police report, the state
charged twenty—year—old Caskey for driving
after illegally consuming alcohol and reckless
driving. This crime is punishable by either a
six—month license suspension or parﬁcipation
in the Alcohol Safety Action Program (ASAP)
with a restricted license and up to a $500 fine.

“Caskey was not necessarily drunk, but
he is under 21 which means, if he had any
measurable amount of alcohol in his system,
he can receive this charge,” Cheek said. “His

gen and Hallmark.

Recent changes affect only cable subscribers, so a

(blood alcohol content) was .02 or more,
which would be enough to be measurable.”
Cheek would not disclose Caskey’s exact
blood alcohol level.

Howison said this accident is the fourth
reported case of students driving under the
inﬂuence of alcohol this year. Under the
University’s new alcohol guidelines imple-
mented at the beginning of this school year,
Director of University Security Mike Young
will conduct an investigation of the accident
and interview both Seelke and Caskey. He
will then report to the Student Judicial Coun-
cil, who will hear the case after state courts
try the case. The SJC will determine the
University’s punishment.

Since the alcohol guidelines do not set
standards for punishment, the SJ C does not
know how it will punish Caskey. Howison
said possible ramiﬁcations could result in
suspension from the University.

“None of us are blaming anyone
else,” White said. “This could have hap-
pened to anyone else. The only thing I’m
concerned with is that we’re all in this
together.”

BY VIRGINIA VESELINOVA
STAFF WRITER

Guest speaker Blake McMeans encour-
aged students to avoid alcohol abuse during
his speech in Lee Chapel Thursday night.

McMeans’ speech was sponsored by
Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity, the varsity
volleyball team and Generals Advocating
Safe Driving.

SAE and the volleyball team sponsored in
memory of Adam Burchett and Kristin Shelton,
who died in a single-vehicle car crash home-
coming weekend last year. Burchett, the driver,
was drunk driving.

GASD co- sponsored the event as a means
of promoting its goals. GASD Budget Direc-
tor Baxter Lee, a senior, gave a short speech
ecnouraging the audience to use alcohol re-
sponsibly.

Lee also outlined the tentative plans for
GASD’s sober-driving route, which he said
will begin operating next semester. The route
will include two zones. Zone 1 will include
all on-campus housing and all other housing
within a two—rnile radius from campus. Zone

2 will include all other locations, and use stu-
dent—driven cars.

McMeans, a promising young tennis
player, started abusing alcohol to deal with the
death of his father.

After a severe car accident his senior year
in high school, he spent three months in a coma
and another year to learn to speak and eat
again. He can now walk on his own for lim-
ited time periods.

McMeans encouraged students to avoid
his mistakes by using alcohol responsibly. He
warned students that abusing alcohol can lead
to sharing his fate.

“My biggest challenge is waking up and
realizing I have to get into the wheelchair,”
McMeans said.

Despite his disability and bad fortune,
McMeans said he tries to focus on the positive.

“I love looking on the bright side,” he said.

LIFE coordinator Jan Kauffman said she
hopes McMeans’experiences affect students.

“I think he showed that any amount of
alcohol, regardless of whether it’s one beer
or 12, can make it unsafe to drive,”
Kauffman said.

RAISE THE ROOF

 

Fans of the so—called “boob tube” at Washington and Lee re-
cently got a treat. The cable TV lineup was expanded by 18 chan-
nels, announced Flash Floyd, manager of University Services.

Adelphia Media, one of the nation’s largest cable
companies, expanded its lineup in an effort to improve
the quality of its programming, said a customer service
representative.

The student body has reacted enthustiastically.

“The expanded cable is great,” said freshman Bran-
don Hieskill. “The new channels have really good recep-
tion, and I’m glad we now have the Warner Brothers Chan-
nel and Comedy Central.”

Hieskill notes, however, that the picture quality of some
of the existing channels is still not up to par. ‘

Junior Susan Slopek agrees, but she believes that the problem
will be addressed soon. Right now the new lineup has her attention.

“I was really excited when I saw we had Cartoon Net-
work, VHI and Comedy Central. I’ve been looking foward to
these since freshman year,” Slopek said.

In his announcement, Floyd did state that he was work-
ing to improve the situation. -\

University Services said that Washington and Lee was
not directly involved in obtaining more service, because
W&L’s contract with Adelphia stipulates that W&L receives
all service changes they make.

number of satellite customers did not see any changes
early last Monday morning when the stations were added.

While many students are thrilled with the new choices
and the chance to watch “Dragonball Z” and “The Essence of
Emeril,” others want more.

“It’s too little, too late,” said sophomore Colin Harding,
who plans to purchase cable eventually.

‘The only reason I’d get this deal is because it’s the only
deal,” Harding said. “Other than DirecTV, there’s no other choice.”

Many students who opt not to go with Adelphia or cannot
receive conventional cable services, go with satellite provid-
ers like DirecTV, which can carry even more stations, such as
the much-desired HBO.

“We need something that has more movies,” said sopho-
more Otto von Feigenblatt.

He would also like to see more international channels.

“They are free by satellite. There are American charmels
in Spanish for example, like Univision which is centered in
California and Miami,” von Feigenblatt said.

F1oyd’s announcement also stated that University Services
is working on getting the foreign language channels, includ-
ing SCOLA, on the lineup. Another notice will armounce if
these additions will be deﬁnite.

Von Feigenblatt’s final wish may never become a reality.

“Basically, more movies, less commercials.”

CHOIRBOYS AND CHOIR GIRLS. Washington and Lee’s choral groups took advantage of the acoustics in the
Great Hall for their Sixth Annual Science Center Serenade last Tuesday. Faculty, students, staff and

community members attended the event.

MEG FERRARA/ Te Ring-tuw P/12'

PAGE 2

§
.75
\
g .
°’§
3
§

Mrr,

WHERE’s THE FIRE? Safety Officer Paul Burns teaches Keith lrvine how to properly use a ﬁre extinguisher during Fire Prevention Week. The chemical cloud could be seen daily.

 

7 p.m.—Study Abroad. Informational meeting for
Spring Term. University Center, Fairfax Lounge.
'l11esday, Oct. 23

Noon-6 p.m.—Blood drive. Chi Psi fraternity. Doremus.

5 p.m.—- Health Professions Seminar. “Medical school
admissions,” Beth Bailey, director of admissions and Dr.
Benjamin Sturgill, associate dean of admissions, UVA
School of Medicine. Room 307, Parmly Hall.

6:30 p.m.—Teacher certiﬁcation information. Nan
Partlett, W& L director of teacher education. Guest, Dr.
Patty Westhafer, professor of education, Mary Baldwin.
Room 114, University Center. Refreshments served.
Wednesday, Oct 24

Noon-6 p.m.~—Blood drive. Lexington Baptist
Church, Houston Street Ext.

7 p.m.—Politics filmfest. “Somewhere in Time”
(1980). Directed by Jeannot Szwarc. Room 221, Com-
merce School.

7 p.m. Class of ’62 lecture. “Pocketbook or R0-
sary? Economy, Religiosity, and Voting Behavior in
Poland,” ‘Krzysztof - Jasiewicz, professor of
pscycholgy, W&L, Class of ’62Fellow. Reception to
follow. N othen Auditorium.

Friday, Oct 26
Parents Weekend

8:30 a.m.— Annual Leyburn Library Booksale. Ends

Tuesday, Oct. 30.

  ,ﬁHEIftI:.‘gmﬁ it its Entnnsirtg

I... if X i 32' {S if:§:'.l‘t

16 west     -1  
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA tense
(703)   

’*‘e'§E*."_}§§-fl;-‘t

3:30 p.m.— Phi Eta Sigma initiation. Lee Chapel.
4 p.m.— Math student presentations: Noelle
Evans ’02 and Tina Harbins ’03. Refreshments at 3:30
p.m. Room 6, Robinson Hall.
8 p.m— Parents Weekend Choral Concert Lee Chapel.
Saturday, Oct 27
10 a.m.— Parents’ Weekend Applied Music Re-
cital. duPoint Auditorium.
1 1 :30 a.m.—Report to Parents. Larry Boetsch, act-
ing president. Lee Chapel.
Noon—l :20 p.m.—Tailgate Luncheon. Sorority
Front Lawn.
6 p.m.—Concert: Jubilee, Southern Comfort, and
General Admission. Lee Chapel.
8 p.m.—Parents’ Weekend Concert. University
Wind and Jazz Ensembles. Lenfest.
Sunday, Oct 28
Daylight Savings Time ends. Set clocks back
one hour. 3

l\/lonmr. OCTOBER 22, 2001

‘ E-mail news briefs to
A’ du

 

Presidential search website launched

The university has produced a web site to aid in the
search for the university’s 23rd president. The site includes a
timetable and outline of the search process. Members of the
campus community can make suggestions on the profile ques—,
tionnaire until Nov. 1. or make nominations. The site can be‘
accessed through the news link on the W&L homepage or
directly at www.wlu.edu/presidentialsearch.

Cy Twombly on view

Work by Cy Twombly, a benefactor to the university, is;
on display at the Lexington Art Gallery on Nelson Street. The
show features dry pigmented reproductions of signed prints.
Photographs of the local campuses, the city and surround-
ing are also on display in a show entitled, “Returning Home.”

Sundays Child moves to 14 W Washington St.

Sunday’s Child closed its doors on North Main Street
Sunday, Oct. 14, and reopened the next day with a new ad-
dress. After nine years at the old location, owner Lucia Owens
said she is really excited to be on Washington Street.

“The walk—in traffic is unbelievable in comparison to Main
Street,” she said.

Owens said structural and plumbing problems at the old
building prompted the move. She made the final decision
when a water main burst last July and damaged $3000 worth
of merchandise.

The new location is beside Virginia Born & Bred and
across the street from Lexington Coffee Roasting. It is open
from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Monday to Saturday and from noon to
4 p.m. on Sunday.

Deer/y departed: Live Driver hits doe

Junior Raphael Penteado’s car struck a deer while making
Live Drive rounds the Saturday following Fall Reading Days.

Penteado, a dorm counselor, was driving his Volvo S40
out of Goshen, when a deer lept out of the surrounding woods
and hit the front of his car.

Following the hit, Penteado, who was not carrying pas~
sengers, left the deer on the road.

Following an appraisal by his insurance company,
Penteado will consult Dean of Students David Howison to
determine the University’s ﬁnancial responsibilities, if any.

Live Drive runs out of the Dean of Students ofﬁce.

— The Crime Report will return Oct. 29, 2001 —

 

are SALE ON SUITS
AND spntcoms

 

MEN LADIES
CORBIN BOWDON
GITMAN FOXCROFT
W&L TIES & BELTS (EXCLUSIVE) RICHARD SPORT
WOOLRICH CORBIN
K. GORDON WOOLRICH
ENRO LEAON LEVIN
TRAFALGAR BELTS LANZ GOWNS

SINCE 1926

Visit us again for pleasant shopping
and first quality merchandise.

he College Town Sho

111 West Nelson

Suits and Sponcoats 25% Off

Amex Visa Mastercard

 

’ 4»

‘ l

I

MONDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2001

 STTRWEDITOMAL

The Phi: honest, not popular

At the risk of sounding Phi-centric, recent
events have forced us to venture into the reef-
ﬁlled water of journalism ethics and responsi-
bilities.

Most faithful readers could not imagine the
quantity of ﬂak our reporters navigate in their
attempts to bring solid news to our university.

' An issue does not go by where a story subject
or source fails to question our right to print in-
formation about them. '

Two weeks ago, a student organization at-
tempted to interdict a story we had written about
them. Representatives asked for a pre-publi-
cation copy, with attendant right of censor.

This week, someone again wanted us to
omit an important article.

Are we insensitive,‘ sensational and self-
serving? Please. Our editors go out of their way
to be fair, objective and rational. We are very
familiar with the principles of journalism, and
will not waver in our support of them.

In the name of responsible journalism, the
Phi rebuffs those who try to censor our free
and fair coverage of Washington and Lee. We
won’t retract the truth. If an article gets some-
one hot and bothered, he can reply in a letter to
the editor. People have been taking advantage
of this since editorials were invented.

Let’s be serious. The Phi doesn’t rejoice
in bad news, or burrow for the sake of
mudracking. W&L’s ofﬁcial student newspa-
per isn’t here to break down the hallowed col-
umns of our fair university.

The Phi glories in the university’s strengths:
the honor system, the speaking tradition, our strong
academics. However, everyone will talk about
those. The school spends millions to report them.

It’s much rarer to find someone who volun-
teers the negative: the occasional backtracking,
the unfortunate accident, the devastating SNAFU.

These are routinely whitewashed by the
administration and the student governmental
bodies.

It will be a rare day when Dean of Stu-
dents David Howison and Executive Commit-
tee President Rob N aftel link arms to recite
“The Top 10 Things That Stink at W&L.”

When the paper does do the necessary dig-
ging to cover a story, it is acting in the name of
responsible journalism. Always, our decision to
do so does not reﬂect our feelings or viewpoints
on the relevant issue. Hopefully, our readers
will never figure out what those opinions are. A

UOTE OF THE WEEK:

DO YOU KNOW CHRISTINE
METZGERP SHE’s MY
HELEN OF TROY.

— LIVE DRIVE CONFESSION OF CAr’s CORNER FAN

Editor-in-chief MatthewB.McDer'mott
Associate Editor Mike Agnello
News Editor Alison 'I\'inidad
Asst. News Editor Latrina Stokes
Opinions Editor Brett T. Kirwan
Asst. Opinions Editor AndrewLatimer
Sports Editor Jeremy Franklin
Asst. Sports Editor Dave Crowell
Layout Editor Katie Howell

Tl-lE li.iNG~l’UlR:i PET

PINIONS

ani stan from herself

Save Afgh

The liberation of Afghanistan
has begun. Using cruise missiles and
plane—delivered payloads against care-
fully chosen targets, we have
achieved air superiority, destroyed al
Qaeda training camps, decimated the
Taliban’s military and driven the pur-
veyors of terror into the mountains
with a minimum of American and ci-
vilian casualties.

But the War on Terrorism has barely
started. Covert operations and perhaps
a ground invasion of Afghanistan are
yet to come. There is also talk of expand-
ing the offensive to other enemies of ours
in the region, such as Iraq and Syria.

The natural next question con-
cerns the future of Afghanistan. What
will become of this backward hell—hole
and any other country we invade?

We can look to the past for an-
swers. Most recently, following World
War II, we occupied both Germany
and Japan with great success. Their
democratic governments still ﬂourish
and ‘each has become a major trading
partner. Additionally, the Marshall
Plan harnessed the resources of our
ﬂourishing post—war economy to se-
cure the future of Western Europe. A
similar strategy must be employed in
Afghanistan. Not only should we, but
indeed we must engage in the messy
business of imperialism.

A more instructive adventure in
imperialism is the British Empire. Fu-
eled by a youthful population and a
fierce belief in the freedom and jus-
tice she was bringing to the world,
Great Britain served as the most civi-
lizing inﬂuence in modern history. For
example, compare India, which the
British colonized for nearly three hun-
dred years, to Africa, which was part
of European empires for only one
hundred. Today, India has modern
hospitals and schools, a ﬂourishing
economy, a democratic government,
and the civil society necessary to
make democracy work. Much of Af-
rica, on the other hand, has none of
these, except those that are provided
and administered by Westerners.

Previous generations have de-
feated fascism, put
men on the moon, and
dismantled worldwide
communism. It is time
for America to under-
take her next enterprise of grand pro-
portions. This war has not provided
us with an opportunity, but has, in-
stead, thrown it in our laps.

Demographically, the window is
closing. America is quickly graying.
Before September 1 1th, the end of So-
cial Security’s solvency due to the
changing ratio of retirees to workers
was a political priority for both parties.
We must act quickly if we wish to har-
ness the youth necessary to support
an empire, which we now have.

After our army has disposed of the
armies of terror, regiments of teachers,

Letters to the Editor

No Ma’am comment was deserved

Dear Editor,

In Imran Naeemullah’s opinions article on the state of
“Liberal fascism” on the W&L campus, he casually glanced
over one very important concept: context. When one walks
into public (yes, even the Co—op on a Sunday afternoon is
public), they put themselves into the public eye. Sadly,
but true, in today’s society what you wear is very much a

BRETT T. KIRWAN
OPINIONS EDITOR

EMAIL nR\>vANE@\x/IIJEI)U

COLIUFSY BOrrxnrxim~tr.coxI

RHODES TRIP: America should learn from Rhodes and bring civilization to Afghanistan.

battalions of doctors and nurses and
platoons of civil servants must replace
those of artillery and infantry. We must
construct schools, hospitals and
churches, roads, airports and phone
lines, and provide water, electricity and
sanitation. We must establish a judicial
system and a democratic government
and educate the Afghans to whom we
will turn Over the operation of these in-
stitutions. We must, in fact, work to
change the very culture and bring to
them the uniquely Western values of
respect for private property, justice

through due process

RIGHT OF THE Aiéiii“ and ’““gl°“S P1‘“"‘“S‘“‘

Some have said

BRETT T, KTRWAR; ‘()4 that Afghanistan will

never be more than
warring tribes presiding over a starv-
ing populace. This view is not only
terribly pessimistic, but ignores the
facts. Zahir Shah, former ruler of Af-
ghanistan, is living in Italy, is widely
respected by the Afghan people and
has volunteered to facilitate the cre-
ation of a democratic government.
In fact, the biggest obstacles will
not be from inside Afghanistan but
from the universities and coffee shops
of the West. The same nuts who have
mutated from anti—globilization pro-
testers to anti—war/anti—America pro-
testers will easily become anti-colo-

nization protesters. These people are
working as former Mexican President
Ernesto Zedillo said, “to save the
people of developing countries from
development.” Without starvation in
the Third World, they could no longer
go on self-righteous tours and decry
the exploitation of the West.

Like their arguments against the
World Bank, free trade and biotechnol-
ogy, their arguments about ethnocen-
tiism and the need to respect regimes
that butcher citizens but are “pure,” will
be intellectually dishonest, racist, pes-
simistic and poorly disguised hatred of
America. If ignored and our goal to save
Afghanistan is pursued unceasingly,
they will dissipate as do all the unsub-
stantial ramblings of kooks.

The most damaging and
unstabilizing method we could possi-
bly employ would be to destroy terror-
ism and leave. Following the defeat of
Iraq in the Gulf War, our army stopped
at the gates of Baghdad and left a mer-
ciless, totalitarian dictator in power to
continue his missile and bio—chemical
weapons research. Although there may
be no dictator left in power and the
Taliban will have been deposed, we
must not leave Afghanistan without
having installed a stable, democratic,
America—friendly government and
working to build civil society.

ask, what if Naemullah was in the Co—op that Sunday and
someone had on a T-shirt mocking Muslims, Aﬁican-Ameri-

cans, or Jews? What would his reaction be if it was from a

statement of who you are and what you stand for.

television show that he was not familiar with and it was just
meant a “joke?” Was it not Naemullah only several weeks ago
pointing out that discrimination against Muslims should not
be tolerated? What you do in privacy is your business, but
once you bring it out in public, expect to be harassed by liberal,
moderate, and conservative “fascists” alike.

Capital campaign
overlooks Leyburn

A great deal of fanfare has been made about the
latest decision by the upper-ups to mount an unprec-
edented $225 million capital campaign, one that will en-
sure the status of Washington and Lee as a cutting-
edge institution for generations of graduating classes
to come. It is a noble goal if ever there were one.

Just as remarkable as the staggering price tag is that
even as our great nation teeters on the brink of recession,
the Board of Trustees has not ﬂinched once, and their un-
daunted attitude reveals that they are deeply convinced
that they know what is best for the university of tomorrow.

Indeed, the swarm of glossy, full-color pamphlets that
has descended on campus conﬁdently portrays an unmis-
takable manifest destiny, and a rather grand one at that.

Yet even with all this pomp and circumstance sur-
rounding the campaign, the vision “For the Rising Gen-
eration” regrettably neglects any significant focus
upon for funding for the supposed academic heart of
the Washington and Lee: Leybum Library.

I can easily understand why the Board chose to
pass on any improvements for Leyburn. On paper, it
serves its purpose
well: its shelves

COGENT COMMENTARY
store books, its com- , t
puter labs offer a —:——MNDREw LATIMER 

connection to the world, and its auditorium presents a
venue for guest speakers. Ever since the facility’s con-
struction in 1979, its doors have been open 24 hours a
day when the undergraduates are on campus, address-
ing a major complaint about the former McCormick and
Newcomb Hall libraries.

However, considering that the vast majority of the Board
attended W&L before the mid-seventies, it simply does not
know ﬁrsthand what living with Leyburn is truly like. Even as
a freshman, I know it leaves far too much to be desired.

Granted, some of the complaints are well known to
everyone by now, such as how the library’s architec-
ture is sadly incongruous with the rest of the campus
and how the decor inspires pangs of nausea far more
often than awe. While these generally—held opinions
do decrease the building’s prestige, fixing them ad-
dresses the surface of the issue and nothing more.

On a more substantial note, poor lighting has always
been a thorny problem for studying students, and the
lack of proper lighting that has made Leyburn an environ-
ment better suited for napping as opposed to studying.

For a large number of students, the library carrels
act as a studying locations of last resort, places to‘ go
only when conditions are too distracting in the dorm
rooms. I know that I am already a member of that group.

Yet any patron of the library knows that its worth does
not stem solely from the ﬁt and ﬁnish of its architecture, but
also the consistent and dedicated acquisition of new books
for educators and students alike. To let the shelves lie stag-
nant constitutes a slap in the face for professors attempting
to prepare informative and innovative lectures for their
courses, as well as for students working on research papers
must have access to the best literary resources available.

This is not to say that the library staff does not
presently accomplish this task; indeed, its diligence is
commendable. However, the Board’s willingness to rest
on its laurels and not commit to a considerable renewal
of a 22-year-old structure is troubling.

Indeed, the Board’s actions seem to conﬂict with its very
intent. To quote directly from one of the many campaign
brochures, "Tire quality of the programs are, inlarge measure,
inﬂuenced by the quality of the facilities in which those activi-
tiesoccur. . .tl1isis whyitiscommittedtocreating facilities
that will have a positive impact on student life.”

In no better way can this be achieved than by ﬁrmly
establishing a focal point for learning. Washington and
Lee University deserves an academic center of which it
can be truly proud. In spite of all it now does well,
Leyburn in its current state will never fulfill that role.

To improve upon the Leybum’s facilities effectively
reafﬁrms the irnportanoe of academics at Washington and
Lee at a time when we ﬁnd ourselves competing harder and
harder for exemplary applicants from across the nation.

I cannot help but think back to when I toured Wash-
ington and Lee during my college search. My tour guide did
not even bother to waste more than a few sentences on
Leybum, feeling no reason to draw attention to it. All I
learned was it was ugly and did not ﬁt in on campus.

All of this after the great years—long struggle to
build a dedicated place of learning for the university, a
ﬁght that has raged since the days of librarian Blanche

Sincerely,
Phil Walotsky ‘05

When you wear something that pokes fun at femi-
nism, and its context is not categorically understood, you
will be seen by those who do not understand the joke as
someone who is a chauvinist pig. Chances are, that the
woman who called Naeemullah, “disgusting,”
had probably never seen that “Married With
Children” episode and she probably thought of him as a
chauvinist. I completely disagree with him when he makes
the claim, “one must also realize the T-shirt is a joke.” If you
just hear the punch line, a joke is not funny.

But I would like to bring up amore imp ortantant point, the
practice of blatant discrimination or racism in public. May I

Photo Editor MaryGuy

Photographers Meg Ferrara

J eb Brooks
Paul Seifert
William Litton
Charlie Tonelli

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editor-in-chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring—tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion of the Ring—tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring—tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

P. McCrum and Professor Edgar Sharmon, two figures
who launched the library into the modern era back in
the ’20s and ’30s. In Dr. ShaImon’s own words, there
must be a move towards “less textbook instruction in
the classroom and more individual investigation by stu-
dents. (The library was becoming) a treasure house for
exploration... the education center of the institution.”
To have the Board ignore this voice from the past will
only be viewed by future generations as a lamentable folly
and lack of proper wisdom and foresight. The library, now
more than ever, must receive the attention it deserves.

Editor’s Note- Naeemullah responds." Walotsky ac-
curately points out that what you wear symbolizes what
you believe in. However, he fails to differentiate between
mocking a political belief and defaming a religion or racial
group. The lack of this key information is underscored by
the fact that Walotsky ignores the point of my article,
which was that believing so militantly in one’s cause that
one becomes a bigot in his own right is wrong, and that
an aggressive and indecent reaction is contradictory to
the concepts of freedom and civil society.

Business Manager
Asst. Business Manager
Circulation Director

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059 ». -..
Email: phi@wlu.edu “svvipingithorne.”
http.//phz.wlu.edu _Linc0ln Rose ‘O3

“Hanging outwith ﬁat guys.”
-Aisya Pumsley ‘O5

“ThatIrrIiss them.”
-Vicky Stanharn ‘05

“Drinking.”
-Joe Waldron ‘05

“Smoking.”
-Adrienne Darniani ‘O5

  

 

PAGE 4



 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2001

Letter to the editor regarding talentless, useless letters to the editor

Dear Editor,

I was just sitting inmy room on
Sunday morning and realized that I
wanted the school to hear my com-
plaints. Iknew the best way to do this
was the write a poorly written letter to
the editor.

Moreover, I am not the most cre-
ative crayon in the pack, so I had to
write in response to another article.
The best part about writing a letter to
the editor is that it requires no liter-
ary, journalistic or insightful merit.

First and foremost, there’s the
issue of hooking up. It’s morally des-
picable to engage in promiscous acts
of fornication. Even though we are
relatively young, I only feel it is my

“hooking up.” We were never fresh-
man, so we never did any of that.

Therefore, I am completely in the
right in citing the seemingly innocu-
ous hooking up scene as disgraceful.
Granted they are having fun, but the
real goal of college is to educate, and
to get myself into law school by uti-
lizing the Phi as a forum to glorify
myself. Let’s be honest here, why
would anyone want to capitalize on
their youthful good looks? It’s more
important to maintain a self-righteous
image that probably isn’t concordant
with your actual deeds.

I knew the predetermined culture
of W&L before I enrolled here, but
that only makes writing letters to the
editor easier on my part. For instance,

alcohol will never cease to provide me
with endless complaint material. When
I was applying to W&L, I ignored the
statistical Princeton Review drinking
claims because I don’t drink.

It’s easy to be straight edge at
BYU, but why do
that when I can
come here and
make myself the
martyr? When I
was in Florida over the summer, all of
my friends got really drunk, and I
ended up having to take care of them.
They’re not friends with me anymore
because they realized I was boring.

Whenever someone shares a
different opinion than me, I find it a

 
 

N¢iEiiaErTii‘§*E%éL%lE


ter to the editor and burden the
school with my mindless complaints
that are probably wasting everyone’s
time. In fact, I’m sure everyone is a
lot stupider for having read my letter
to the editor. Actually, half the time, I
don’t even care that
passionately about
that which I write,
but I do like to hear
myself speak, and,
by the same token, like to see my
name in print. .
However, probably the greate

folly of the whole “letter—to-the-edi-
tor” fiasco is that I vaguely believe
that there are students out there slap-
ping their knees in empathy, saying,
“You’re right! I know exactly how

you feel!” If but only one person
does that, I have succeeded, and
hopefully, perhaps I have made a
friend to replace the ones I lost in
Florida.

Sometimes I do wish I could em-
ploy my God—given creativity, but I
think it’s on the fritz because the only
time I can think of something to write
about is when someone else writes a
“Problem #329 with W&L article” that
I can rebuff, whether or not I actually
disagree with it. I think my next letter
to the editor, (because seriously, does
anyone really stop at just one letter?),
will argue the sports page. That per-
haps is the only section of the paper
that has been spared from vintage
W&L bitterness.

I like to swim against the current.
Or if come next Sunday, I don’t think
my tragically iconoclastic, self-righ-
teous voice has been aptly repre-
sented in the previous week, I can al-
ways just tack my Phi up on a dart
board and refute whatever article the
dart hits, even if’s about something
upright like the honor code. Or even
if it’s another letter to the editor.

Sincerely,
Kris Pollina ‘O3

Postscript: Perhaps I’m being too
hard. I apologize. Without meaning-
less complaints, I myself, would have
nothing to write about. Thanks for
fostering my story ideas.

duty to denounce the aforementioned

Politically correct ‘society of tolerance’ leaves cannot accomodate religious views

In the last issue of the Ring-tum Phi, Ramsey’s article
provides a very passionate argument against voting for
the Virginia GOP ticket, namely based on an accusation
that Mark Earley and Jay Katzen are bigots who are op-
posed to homosexual rights, namely gay marriage.

Now, there are several ﬂaws in the article, at least a
sampling of which must be illustrated before the larger
and more crucial issue raised by this article is addressed.

First of all, Ramsey suggests that
Katzen “sees homosexuality not as a natu-
ral difference in sexual preference, but
rather a sexual perversion,” something
Katzen never said. Ramsey claims that if
someone believes that homosexuals choose their lifestyle,
they are unfit for public office, which is a judgment as
intolerant as he accuses the GOP ticket of being.

There is no scientific proof that homosexuals have
any say in their sexual preference. Without this scientific
basis, Ramsey is merely accusing Katzen of being unfit
for office on account of a political opinion, an action which
is in fact more intolerant than the opinion itself.

And that is the issue of grave importance raised by
this issue. Today’s “society of tolerance,” is in fact, intol-
erant of monotheistic religion. That, like Ramsey’s charge
of bigotry, is a bold claim, but a claim which I will defend,
and demonstrate using as an example the issue of homo-
sexuality and gay rights.

Each of the world’s three major monotheistic religions
- Islam, Judaism, and Christianity — condemn homosexu-
ality as a sin. None of the faithful in these religions claim
to be without sin. However, we generally acknowledge
our sins as wrong and strive to avoid committing them.

Up to this point, our “society of tolerance” has no
problem with my views and opinions. I expect that the left

   
 

lot easier to just compose a weak let-

wing would embrace my freedom to hold these beliefs.
However, it iswhen I attempt to incorporate my religious
beliefs fully into my life that society in fact does not toler-
ate those beliefs.

For instance, my religion asks me to believe that it is
the absolute truth, that my god’s truth is the one absolute
in life. This is no different from Judaism or Islam’s beliefs
in the God of their religion. This is not to say that we

dismiss that valuable lessons can be

 FIGHTING THE CURRENT learned from other religions, and that we
____  oHN_§_osHorgr;1 ‘05

dismiss them as totally useless, but we do
not believe that they are the truth. That is
the fundamental belief behind monotheis-
tic faith — that there is one way that is true and right, and
all the others may be noble in particular ways, but that
they are not the most noble, the most true, and the most
right way.

It is because of this belief that monotheistic religions
are able to set down religious law as to what is right and
what is wrong, what is sin and what is righteous: so the
fact that we believe in one absolute truth is why we con-
demn homosexuality as a sin. That is why the “society of
tolerance” is intolerant, because by calling for everyone
to tolerate all beliefs and accept them as right (making
truth relative), they are automatically intolerant of mono-
theistic faiths, which I will be the first one to admit, are not
tolerant religions in that they believe in one absolute truth.

Furthermore, monotheists are not tolerated by greater
society when they attempt to fully incorporate their faith
into their lives simply for the reason that they are trying to
fully incorporate their faith into their lives. My religion
calls for me to place my God above all things, and to let
Christian truth permeate every aspect of my lifestyle. One’s
god is whatever is valued and worshiped above all else,

Alvin-

 Drws Toy Coats

HIIIEII.

Eemtia

102 W. Washington Street
463-5383

WELCOME PARENTS

-wodﬁch. - Mend - Lgcustue - M -Wing Boots
. ]nu% wuntcJ  Tuxedo:
. Fancy  lull Tie Sell
-«  Belts, Tia, Dog Collars

mnnrrrs WEEKEND sr-rrcrrrr.
surrs mt SPOILTCOATS 20% off

\-'1SA.,. MASTERCARII. 5TUIENT CI'lalII.'u'E!LCCEPTED
is sun&  .

the end to which one’s life is directed. However, the “so-
ciety of tolerance” demands that harmony and concord
be valued above all else, which inherently excludes the
aim towards an absolute truth and a single supreme God.

So how does this all relate to homosexuality and gay
rights? As I mentioned above, each of the monotheistic
religions conderrms homosexuality as a sin, and at least as
a Christian, I cannot believe that homosexuality is any-
thing but a choice to live a sinful life. This would seem to
be doubly sinful to most, including me. However, I am
sure I am guilty of many of these choices as well, and I am
not to hate the sinner. I am, in fact, to hate the sin, and my
lifestyle should reﬂect my hate of all sin and decisions I
make and actions I take should be illustrations of that
lifestyle.

This means that I cannot support measures which
endorse homosexuality, such as legalization of gay mar-
riage and other rights bestowed which provide for the
endorsement of the lifestyle. This means I must keep in
mind when I trek to the polls on Election Day which
candidates support measures to endorse sin and vice
versa, because as a faithful Christian I must hate sin, and
demonstrate this through my lifestyle. This, too, is unac-
ceptable by our “society of tolerance;” according to stan-
dards of tolerance, religious beliefs should not inﬂuence
political beliefs and decisions. Generally in order to ar-
gue this point, the crusaders of tolerance begin citing
the Bill of Rights in which church and state are to be
separated. However, the Constitution was not intended
to eradicate the full practice of monotheistic religion from
our nation, which seems to be the intention of the “soci-
ety of tolerance.”

Ramsey provided an argument worth reading in the
last Phi. However, he failed to delve deep enough into the

 
 
  

Q)L’l(IF,sY Vrt Drpr. or l)H1S().\NFl_.»t\D "llumxc
TRULY TOLERANT: Mark Earley stands for conventional morality.

issue and reveal the real problem. Monotheistic religion
is at odds with our society’s prevalent aim at forming a
tolerant community, and in fact that community is intoler-
ant of a life truly committed to following a monotheistic
faith due to its inherent characteristics of one God as the
absolute truth and utmost guiding force in a believer’s
life, a problem for which there is neither a simple or tan-
gible solution for, but certainly without a solution if we
remain ignorant of the problem.

 

Coforziafarrd Cozmt
,r:or.LE.¢::'rror~r
New Arrittalsl
i.I.-ex_i.rsg‘t;o‘n I.rI.'iét‘i;.€:1r'i.r:. B11.i_Idi.I1f;.§-:51 l;3‘E="=’°f£§§ F?’

 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

  
   

 
  

1

L

‘ 5

= a

PAGE 5

BY MEG HASTON
STAFF WRITERS

I entered the Co-op yesterday and proceeded to grab a
drink from the back room that always seems to be crowded
with students late for class. As my turn came to pay for
my Nantucket Nectars beverage, I quickly searched my
wallet and produced my university card, not wanting to
hold up the line.

It was just another day. Pat Deacon was sitting at the
register with that trademark smile on her face, watching me
fumble half of my belongings while searching for my card.
At this point, “Food or general” is usually the first question
from Pat. But what follows on most days, as well as today,

V Tina: li.lN(j%-"ll7[?xrl lit»-ljij
W &LlFE

' Day after day, Deacon delights in doing daily duties

  

imrlli l1U\’lLl.LAr\l)lVlATlHL\\~ r\l(_lJL.t\;\lUll
SLT>rRws1NGPAGEEDnoRs
E\lAll.'1’Hl@\VlU.FDL'

is a cheerful, “How are ya’, darlin’?” or a “Nice to see you
again, sweetie” in a southern Virginia accent that is com-
mon here at W&L.

One of Pat’s co—workers, Katrina Knick, said Pat’s good
nature and cheerful disposition help her do her job.

“Pat’s just great with the kids,” Knick said.

Pat Deacon grew up in Rockbridge County and
graduated from Lexington High School in 1974. Besides
a brief move to Baltimore, Maryland, Pat and her family
have lived here for their entire lives. After high school,
Pat married and started a family. Now a happy divorcée
who raises bucket calves as her primary job, Pat loves
coming to work at the Co—op everyday and has done so
for five years.

800-787-3787 for a FREE brochure or email:
bookit@studentexpress.com
www.studentexpress.com

We need feature writers. . .and
   email p/7z@u//Mir;

Student Express is now hiring sales reps. Cancun features FREE meals and parties @ Fat Tuesdays-
MTV Beach Headquarters. Acapulco, Matazatlan, Jamaica, Bahamas, South Padre, Florida. Prices
from $469, with major airlines. 24,000 travelers in 2001. Call

However, the two people she is most proud of raising
are her two children. Her son, Brent, 24, is a graduate of
Virginia Technical Institute in Blacksburg and works in
Asheville, North Carolina. Her daughter, Hillary, is a senior
at the University of North Carolina in Asheville not too far
from her brother. In her spare time, Pat enjoys crafts and
making her home as charming and warm as her personality.

Before working at the Co—op and before her days as a
cattle raiser, Pat was a nurse at Stonewall Jackson Hospital
for 15 years. Serving Lexington and Rockbridge County as
a nurse was a rewarding experience for Pat, but she missed
her kids and wanted to work in an environment where kids
were around her all the time. “I don’t work here for the
money or anything else. I work here ‘cause I love the kids.”

MONDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2001

Since her arrival ﬁve years ago, Pat feels students here at
W&L have changed for the better. On the new alcohol situa-
tion, Pat offered some encouraging comments. “The kids are
much more aware of it [the new policy]. Kids are much more
responsible now than when I first started working here.”

Pat mostly hopes that we students realize how impor-
tant these years are to our future. Pat said these are the
best years of our lives.

“Take advantage of them, and, most importantly, get a
good education.”

So when you are in the Co—op, buying a Colonnade
Club, say “hello” to Pat, ask after her kids and share some
part of your day with a devoted member of the staff who
delights in coming to work everyday with a smile.

Fraternities * Sororities *
Clubs * Student Groups

Earn $1 ,OOO-$2,000 this semester with the easy
Campusfundraiser.com three hour fundraising event.
Does not involve credit card applications. Fundraising
dates are filling quickly, so call today! Contact
Campusfundraiser.com at (888) 923-3238, or visit
www.campusfundraiser.com

Bluegrass llallll
available In nanies

205 llonll Main street lexinuton, llll 24450
PIIonel54lll4li3-545 rlImusit:@clvl.com

Guitars, Amps, I'.ll.s, Band Instrument Ilentals
ﬂood Products. Good Prices, Good service

“lliana and Illﬂ Tabasco BOYS"

Rﬂﬁﬂﬁﬂllﬁlihf
sings

, ......__...s«»».»..,.x.m.,m»,.....Y.-,.-.

  
 

 HOT LENSES!

WE  DO IT!

Repairs - Cnnzaets
COOL 

SHABESZ ,

25* years s.sm’r.‘{g Rncknridge
at 3&3 N... 2%-.éa.in Street. isxinggters
4E3«?44C3

     
 

  
   

  
Sun '5 Child '
Lex!n.9‘tonirFeert?0od,5‘ro2-er

Glow Stars, Posters, Incense,
Candles, Scents & Inspiration

Bangles, Beads twliaubles
Cards, Stationary E2 Stickers
Angels. ran-res e Ewes
Tore. Tors «V Tors
Cassettes, CD3, Books 6‘: Calendars

Learn to Play! Again
at sundars Child!
 MOVED!

14 West Wmiington 5:. Lgmgtm $63-183% mas}
e Open10-6 Mon.-Sat.ana12—.=. on Sun. e

Bring IE5 Minﬁrnﬂmdisactunaffof 29' nn.-them pimhms.

by Rebecca. llfﬁlman
directed by Tern Z-iaegler

     

 

by=G»ee1rge: (.11. 'Wol.fe
i<i;i;re:(::te.«tfi:. ey

  

Itar:-e* ileaet I‘ufumnati.o«n,.

  

Miarshal B. Mcﬁeflem.

     

iiﬁftav. ,2,  8%; 3 at 8 ;:r.xr:..€
War’. 4 at 2 p...n‘1.§}

    
 

   

cart ens-sane 

  
 

 
 
  

‘Nov. 1., 5 3:‘: 7  3  3 
Nev. 3 as .2  if

  
   

ww+wA,_4_w_w/+ﬂvwﬂwiy\

 a grmat    

Come by and 3&3 SF-9'15!)-,. Maﬁa, Connie _arrd l..-1.-'F.l‘s-::-n-.

SKIP THOi'll'lPSOl"~l’S 

BARBER SHOP

22 5. Main Street - Lexington, VA

Open J's.-:|'r::tn-_, Tue-3.. _I'1".|-U!"-5.... at Farr‘. -El a.-1-1-. — 5p.m.;
3-Elf. 8 a.m. — noon; Cﬁosed L'1.«‘Ecf. 3. Sun.

540-463~5Q5-Ii

 

 

E
.—--I-'
C‘ ""=.!
_..J"' --—...

Il/'94/1'b»‘.7.ﬁ II/9/i.ﬁ/iﬂ/*/F/3/3/3/i.ﬂ I!/'1'l./if?

  

.. .1.s.e.. I-_~w.:..L$oN_ 31: 1-F.3?.~.U1‘.~'G'.1'.¢?’1*i.. teen. 1-. =i_e4.-—.+.=.=.ss..
_PRtDBLEMS wrrrf THE Le::rc:.4L$- ?
.WE”R?E FR?“ *4.7.1°4l'?T'4 !

LADIES 1.-us ARE’

GIVING AWAY M'c.'?Af£}*’
*FRE'E,_,TLn‘.KE sex ALL Mrem"

* SPECIALS r C-AN’T PRINT HERE
*RAF?-‘LE FOR £50 MINI SHOPPING
sense .41’ wet LLY WCVRLD. .4. LUCKY
1..-aw smtnsmr H».-4.5 ALREADY we:-M

THJ[ICE r WEDNESDAY .1

ff!

I-‘I

"iNHHiNV\KN\t\.hH\N\Ni-H\>

 

F M M M VI/'1/i/'1ﬂ Vﬂ/f Mﬂﬂ/l 4' M/Wﬂ

. eve V NI 1* T _
15 oz. T~ some sr's.4r< wrm .4 MIX

GREEN SA LAD Am-D BAKED‘ POTATG
$' 6.50 '
-we ARE THE PLACE Fore FGOTBHLL
* NFL summer TICKET
* are no 6 GAMES AT cm: TIME
*.25 CENT wrruc-rs AND MANY omen
_ saeecmts
*Mt‘.'Ji'U‘DAY NIGHT recreate w/.25
CENT wrrues «AND 2 FOR 1 status
MILCH Mame.

s -. ~\.N\N~¢\¢\N\N\N\¢\Ne'%§s‘e\~\i i

 

ilﬁllihtilih§¥-Illiiltlliilthilli‘

 

  

PAGE 6

  
&L ‘E

MONDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2001

W&L student coaches lead youth soccer teams to righteous Victories

BY DAN TORTORA
STAFF WRITER

Senior Jack Robb has a dilemma. As “coach of a
Rockbridge Area Recreation Organization (RARO) soccer
team, he had tried diligently to keep his team from running
up the score on their opponents.

Robb stresses sportsmanship and having fun above ev-
erything else.

“We try not to let scoring matter,” Robb said.

His team “The Bobcats,” a coed group of Lexington eight
and nine—year olds, outscored its opponents 31-0 through its
ﬁrst four games, while allowing only a single shot.

Robb is in his second year as a volunteer soccer coach
with RARO, and is enjoying himself immensely. “This has
been fantastic for me,” says Robb, and the kids are having
a great season.

Robb is one of several Washington and Lee students
who are active this fall in coaching youth soccer in the
community. Other Washington and Lee Students like Se-
nior Amanda Adams, coach in RARO’s senior division, an
age bracket of ten to thirteen year olds.

Adams coaches a team of girls from Fairfield. Al-
though coaching her first year in the division, she has

been coaching soccer for the past four years. As a
freshman and sophomore, Adams was an assistant
coach with Professor Mark Rush. Last year, she and
Robb coached a team in the eight and nine year-old
division.

This year, Adams has enjoyed coaching an all-girls
team and teaching the game at a higher level. She has
found the challenges to be different as well. Adams re-
members last year’s main difficulty being discipline. This
year, it is in keeping their attention.

“The girls talk nonstop,” Adams laughed.

Alhough all her players had previous soccer experi-
ence, the wide range of ages in the league was difficult for
some of the younger kids.

“Because the age span is so big, the ten—year-olds had
a lot farther to go,” Adams explains.

Sophomore Carson Penkava has a similar observation.
The majority of the boys who play on his senior—division
team players on his team are only ten or eleven years old.
Some have never played before.

“I’ve been going back to fundamentals, simple things,”
Penkava said. “A lot of the kids are really eager to get
better,” Penkava observes.

“I’ve already seen so much improvement.”

Penkava attributes much of his success to his time
playing soccer in high school and to ‘his assistant
coaches. Penkava’s friend Adam Geist assists with the
coaching duties_. “Its tough sometimes when you need
to be authoritative,” Penkava says. This is where
Penkava’s other assistant coach, Professor Carl Kaiser,
is particularly helpful. Kaiser’s son Matt plays striker on
the team.

Understanding offsides is especially difﬁcult. Senior Rob
Ludwig and his assistant coach Clark Savolaine, who coach
a separate boys team in the senior division, have taught
their team an advanced tactic to draw an unsuspecting player
on the other team offsides.

“I’m really impressed with the skill level,” Ludwig’s
goalkeeper coach Clark Savolaine says.

Ludwig has coached soccer for several years, but
this is his first experience with RARO. He leads his
team in laps around the field before games and prac-
tices twice a week. Robb’s team also practices twice a
week. One of these sessions is devoted to individual
position play. Penkava and Adams limit their teams to
one practice each week.

In addition to the practices, Robb’s team plays a seven-
game schedule over eight weeks.

“Its not a huge time comn1itment,” says Robb. Ludwig,
Penkava and Adams will have slightly longer seasons,
because their senior division teams play eight games and
will conclude the season with a tournament.

All coaches agree that this season has been a great
experience for them.

“I would have (coached) since I was a freshman,” Robb
said. “I just didn’t know of the opportunity.”

Robb adds that it has been a good chance to meet kids

and parents in the community: “The parents have been V

fantastic,” he said. Savolaine agrees: “The parents have
been really supportive.”

Parents of kids on teams coached by Washington and
Lee students are pleased with the instruction their chil-
dren are receiving and the fun they are having. “Amanda
knows what she’s doing. They’re in good hands,” says
Jimmy Thompson, whose daughter Catrina plays on
Adams’ team.

Perhaps most important of all, the kids on these teams
coached by Washington and Lee students are having a
tremendous time. Both players and coaches have en-
joyed their experience.

“I wouldn’t care if we lost every game,” Ludwig said, .

“I’d still be here.”

.04‘-‘P using-90*

LEXINGTON
SHOP FOR PAPPAGALLO

Ladies" Shoes, Clothing and
Accessories

23 N. Main.St.
Lexington, VA 24450
(540) 463-5988

 

Help United Way help
the community. . .

Webmaster wanted, minimal experience required

email mcdermottm@wlu.edu. . .

  
 

L KINCTON

Naﬂl eliilahle: W&L terry tube:
and t-nnwcla. Pla.::e_}-nu; cu;-dc: fa;
Chn-Itmu
4*

I-ﬂ‘Fn'=1I:;“l Ddnnntijig Aooesmries,

O ﬁanrﬂlﬂecaudu-nu. _ -
U _Cd1Iia:mu:)eena-.1.-rianu

Frau Glﬁwlﬂpbiﬂi
‘*5 A dupeeiai Place 6 2. §:§i'sZS'.?§:ﬂ.'

   
   

country assignments are due this week

the meeting this Thursday @ 9:00

Model United Nations
reminds
all members

that

email reynoldsj @ wlu.edu

and don’t forget

C—School Rm. 221

 

Welcome W&L Parents !

While you’re enjoying downtown Lexington
take a little break & treat yourself
at Lexington ’s Coziest Meeting Place

 

Caroline ’s Sweets

&
Robert ’s Coffee Bar

Delicious Homebaked Pastries
&
Fresh Brewed Coffees
Espresso, Latte, Cappuccino, Tea, Chai, Italian
Sodas

8 North Main Street
Downtown Lexington

Come relax a while. We’re open all weekend
Monday—Thursday: 8:00 AM—5 :3 0 PM

Friday & Saturday: 8: 00 AM—10:00 PM
Sunday: 1 0:00 AM—-1 :00 PM

 

 _I__‘

JAVA

AT THE GHCL

PERRY SMITH.

MONDAY, OCTOBER 22
8:30 P.Ivt.-MIDNIGHT

 

 

 

    

j‘m'I'*‘RANRIiN

' SPORTS EDITOR

_Eiv_IAI;PRANI<IR\g@wID.E)U

ii

   

MONDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2001

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
. SPORTS EDITOR

Going into the ﬁnal week of the regu-
lar season, the Washington and Lee
men’s soccer team has dropped two of

' its last three contests.

But don’t think that Ro1fPirai1ian and
his team are hanging their heads about

_ their perfonnance in the past two weeks.

“We don’t have a negative percep-
tion that we’ve lost two of our last three,”

Piranian said. “We’re playing hard every

game, so we have a little more positive

A perception of the last three.

“We’re playing hard, and we’re get-
ting pretty good chances. We’re play-
ing pretty good soccer overall.”

The Generals traveled to south

‘ ‘Georgia for a non-conference match

against the Savannah College of Art

“ and Design on Oct. 12, which they won
1 5-3 to extend their winning streak to

seven games.

Senior David Kodack, junior Kevin
Bibona, sophomore Jacob Stoehr and
freshman Adam Chesbrough scored
ﬁrst—half goals for W&L, and junior

9 Brad Murphy pushed the lead to 5-0

-3’

.. .4

.._1;...._.. ._‘_l. i. 4  ...- __ (f . .

early in the second half. Senior An-
drew Grimes had two assists, and
Murphy and freshman Brian Pirkle tal-
lied one apiece.

W&L takes third place in conference

BY DAVE CROWELL
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

In the Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference preseason poll, the Washing-
ton and Lee women’s soccer team was
picked to ﬁnish in third place, behind
Lynchburg and Roanoke. The predic-
tions ended up being completely cor-
rect after a difﬁcult 3-0 loss to Roanoke
on Saturday afternoon.

The Generals (10-4, 9-2 ODAC)
ended their season with only two con-
ference losses, a 4-1 setback to
Lynchburg in the first game of the sea-
son and the loss on Saturday.

In the matchup against Roanoke,
the Maroons opened the scoring at
the 38:39 mark of the first half when
Shelly Olds put a shot past Abigail
Pfeffer, who made ﬁve saves in goal
in her fourth start for the Generals.

The Generals hung tough with
Roanoke, who held a one—goal lead
until Jill Hoffmeister scored two goals
in the last 10 minutes of the game.

“We shouldn’t have lost that
game. The score didn’t reﬂect how
close the game was,” sophomore
Meghan Hayde said. “Still, we didn’t
come out and play like we’ve been
practicing recently.”

The loss in the season ﬁnale ended
a nine-game" conference winning
streak that included victories over
Guilford and Hollins during the weeks
before and after the Reading Days
break. The Generals, however, did
drop a non-conference match to
Carnegie Mellon 1-0 on Oct. 13.

  

Trlra lil:‘\7t”:}--Tl,‘fi§l»

PORTS

Men’s socer remains atop ODAC

I PEI

 

SLIDING FEET-FIRST: Senior co-captain David Koclack attempts to tackle the ball
away from an Eastern Mennonite player in the Generals’ 2-0 win W/ednesday

afternoon at the Liberty Hall Fields.

Junior Tim Foley shut out Sa-
vannah for nearly 60 minutes be-
fore being relieved by classmate
Brad Hearn. Savannah fought back
to cut the lead to two, including two
goals by John Attridge in 28 sec-
onds.

In the Oct. 10 match against
Hollins, the W&L offense exploded
for ﬁve goals and was led by junior
Jenny Thomas and senior Kate
Bidwell. Thomas tallied two goals on
the day, her first of the season.

Fellow co-captain Bidwell added a
goal and two assists, with freshman
Maggie Hope and senior Drew Pow-
ers rounding out the scoring.

Sophomore Susaimah Hewlett added
an assist while classmate Fontaine
Marcoux accumulated her W&L record-
tying llth assist of the season.

The next weekend, W&L suffered
a double-overtime 1-0 loss to non-con-
ference opponent Carnegie Mellon.
The Generals and Tartans experienced
numerous scoring opportunities, but
were unable to put anything past the
goalkeepers in regulation.

Pfelfermade 14 saves on the day, stop-
ping everything until Camegie—Mellon
scored with 1:49 left in double overtime.

The Generals turned the tables,
however, in an exciting 1-0 victory over
conference foe Guilford on Tuesday.

Bidwell scored her team—leading
ninth goal of the season at the 44:03
mark off a crossing pass from Hewlett,
placing her one goal from a tie for
third place in all—time goals at W&L.
Bidwell has scored 32 goals in her
W&L career.

The victory also marked the eighth
straight season that the Generals have
recorded 10 wins.

With the victory against Guilford
and subsequent loss at Roanoke, the
Generals earned the No. 3 seed in the

W&L remained in Savannah for a
neutral-site Old Dominion Athletic
Conference match against Guilford.
The Quakers handed the Generals
their first conference loss of the year,
as Tim lmafran scored the only goal
of the game in the ﬁrst half.

MEG FFRRiRi/ T/J? Rzig-tum Phi

The Generals returned home
on Wednesday with a 2-0 win
over Eastern Mennonite. Stoehr
scored in the first half off an as-
sist from classmate Bret Grote for
a 1-0 lead.

Grote added a goal of his own
early in the second half, assisted by
Stoehr and Grimes. Foley made four
saves to record the shutout.

On Saturday, W&L lost a non-
conference match on the road to St.
Mary’s by a 1-0 score. Ryan Olsen
scored at the 62: 19 mark to give the
Seahawks a 1-0 lead, and Micah
Spiegel shut out the Generals with
seven saves in net.

“Our kids played their hearts out
on Saturday, and we were unlucky,”
Piranian said.

W&L (9-3-1, 7-1 ODAC) will
clinch the top seed and homeﬁeld
advantage in the conference tour-
nament if they win Thursday at
Bridgewater, which is 0-8 in ODAC
play.

“Our next game is Bridgewater,”
Piranian said. “We’re working
hard to prepare for them.
(Homefield advantage) has been
one of our goals that we set for
ourselves. To be at home in the
tournament is an edge.”

MARY GUY/ T/Jr Ring-/um P/11'

RIGHT FOOT PLANTED:_lunlOt"LlnClS€y Duran winds up in \X/&L’s 1-0 loss to non-
conference opponent Carnegie—Mellon on Oct. 13.

ODAC Tournament. They will host
Randolph-Macon in the quarterﬁnals
on Tuesday at 2:30 p.m.

The Generals handed Randolph-
Macon a 4-1 defeat early in the sea-
son, but the playoffs offer a different
atmosphere.

“We’ve improved since the begin-
ning of the year, but we’ve been in a
slump,” Hayde said. “We need to get
back to where we were and have a

Cross country runs at Gettysburg

BY IAN R. MCILROY

SPORTS WRITER

GETTYSBURG, Pa.—On Saturday morning, the

 

Washington and Lee men’s and women’s cross coun-
try teams competed at the Gettysburg Invitational. De-
spite injuries on both squads, each one turned in a
strong performance.

The Washington and Lee men ﬁnished 13th out of 25
teams with 377 points. ‘

“Our guys turned in a strong performance in a field of
about 270 runners,” men’s coach John Tucker said.

Leading the way for the men was junior Will
Teichman, who crossed the tape in 27:58.56 for a 46th-
place finish. Also turning in strong performances were
sophomore Andrew Fotinos, who placed 88th with a
time of 28:51.68, and freshman Steven Chambers, who
ﬁnished 91st in 28:54.20.

“Talking with the host coach, I found that the times
should actually have an asterisk by them in that the
sourse was nearly 200 meters longer than the stan-
dard five miles,” Tucker said. “Without the services
of our No. 1, (sophomore) Andy Schorr, guys like An-
drew Fotinos have really become competitive runners
in a dramatic way this season and achieved their best
times.”

Garnering 486 points in the invitational, the women
placed 17th out of 26 teams. More importantly for the
women, all 10 runners competing this weekend either
achieved an all-time personal record or a season—best
:ime.

“I don’t think our overall place in the ﬁeld gives a very
good indication of how well we are really doing,” women’s
zoach Amy Schuckert said. “You can’t ask for anything
setter than a PR (personal record) or season best-perfor-
nance, and we had 10 of them this weekend.”

 

STEPPING UP: Sophomore Andrew Fotinos and the Generals
placed 13th of 25 teams at Saturday’s Gettysburg Invitational.

Junior Burke Duncan led the way for the women, placing
eighth overall with a time of 18:35.80. Senior Lucy Rankin
crossed the tape with a time of 21:15.03 to ﬁnish in lllth
place. Sophomore Vanessa Adams ﬁnished in 120th place
with a time of 21:21.84, while freshman Alexis Fernandez
turned in a 122nd-place finish with a time of 21 :26.35.

“The most important thing we can do is get our legs
underneath us and get mentally prepared for the week-
end,” Schuckert said.

With hopes of a strong conference finish, both the
men’s and women’s cross country teams will return to
action next Saturday at the ODAC Championships, hosted
by Virginia Wesleyan.

good practice on Monday.”

If the Generals win, they face a large
probability that they will play one of
the teams that handed them a confer-
ence loss this season in order to re-
turn to the finals.

“Right now, we’re looking at one
game at a time. We need to come out
ready to play,” Hayde added. “But,
without a doubt, we want to get to
the ﬁnal and win the ODAC.”

PAGE 7

Generals keep momentum
going with pair of road wins

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

SEWANEE, Tenn.—Junior Chris
Sullivan rushed for 147 yards and
three touchdowns, and senior Marc
Watson added 120 yards and a score
on the ground as Washington and
Lee erased a 17-0 ﬁrst-half deﬁcit to
win 28-24 win against Sewanee on
Saturday.

The Generals pulled above .500 for
the first time this year at 4-3. They also
carry a three-
game winning
streak into
Saturday’s game
against fourth-
ranked and unde-
f e a t e d
Bridgewater, the
favorite to win the
Old Dominion Athletic Conference.

“We were on a slide last year at this
point, now we’re playing on the rise, so
to speak,” W&L coach Frank Miriello
said. “The confidence level is as good
as it can be for this kind of game.”

Miriello believes that the Generals’
play in the trenches has helped the
offense to turn its season around.

“The offensive line is to be
complimented for their coming of
age,” he said. “They are performing
now at a level that can produce those
kinds of results. I’m glad the offen-
sive line now is ready for that kind of
a challenge.”

Sewanee sprinted to a 17-0 lead,
including a TD pass from Kirk
Holtgurewe to Dale Williams and a
blocked punt returned for a score.
Sullivan plunged in from 2 yards out
to cut the halftime advantage to 17-7.

“The storyline basically was they
got every break imaginable in the
ﬁrst half,” Miriello said. “We went in
at halftime and told them that that’s
what was going on. Everything was
calm. We made a couple of adjust-
ments at halftime and came back in

WIGINTON

. tt1,¢—.s¢¢9I1d.ha1f-”

Watson’s l—yard run‘ in the third
quarter put the Generals within three.
Sullivan scored again on the first play
of the fourth quarter from 6 yards out
to put W&L in the lead.

 

After Holtgurewe’s l—yard TD run
put Sewanee back in front, Sullivan an-
swered with a 23-yard score of his own
to give the Generals the lead for good.

Miriello knows what his team must
do to knock off Bridgewater when the
two teams square off at Wilson Field.

“No mistakes, error-free football as
far as turnovers, as far as no penal-
ties,” he said. “Defensively, we have
to play our best game ever to hold up
under the kind of firepower that
Bridgewater presents to us.”

W&L 39, Hampdenasi/dney12

HAMPDEN-SYDNEY—W&L
sophomore Peter Dean threw for 236
yards, including three touchdowns to
junior Jay Thomas, as the Generals
rolled over Hampden-Sydney 39-12
on Oct. 13.

Sullivan ran 26 times for 187 yards,
adding 53 yards receiving on five
catches. Thomas finished with six
catches for 135 yards, and junior Brian
Meehan had 10 tackles, a sack and a
forced fumble.

Senior Brad Wiginton set a school
record for ﬁeld goals in a game with
four, also tying the season record
with 10.

“It takes a lot of pressure off the
offense,” Miriello said of Wiginton’s
placekicking. “You know that when
you get inside the 30-yard line,
you’re going to come away with
points almost every time. He’s a tre-
mendous kicker.”

Touchdown passes of 22 and 6
yards from Dean to Thomas gave
W&L a 14-0 lead less than two min-
utes into the second quarter.

The Tigers sliced the W&L lead to
14-12, but Wiginton’s 43-yard ﬁeld
goal in the half’s ﬁnal minute gave
W&L a bit of breathing room.

The Generals’ offense then ex-
ploded in the third quarter, as Dean
hit Thomas on a 74-yard TD toss for a
23-12 lead. After two Wiginton ﬁeld
goals, Watson’/s‘ 10-yard run gave
W&L an insurmountable 36-12 ad-
vantage.

\Viginton’s fourth attempt, this from
31 yards, came in the fourth quarter
and provided the game’s final margin.

Next week on the sports
pages of the Phi:

-Coverage of the women’s soccer team in the
Old Dominion Athletic Conference Tournament

-Previews of the W&L swimming season

-Continued coverage of W&L fall sports

63 FUN CARDS - APRIL CDRNELL CLOTHING - PURSES

CANDLES f GIFTS GALORE * FRAMES

 

1:21 W. Nelson Sireet
LEHTHQIOH. VA 2-4:450

5-‘I'D.-='|-I5-4.51302

uwn-k_3hcipg:iumpldnse:e~ds.com

£3 ECLECTIC JEWELRT -

MJTTENS * STATIONERY * HOME ACCENTS

Q63 Sl‘P'H - Se.-IVCIS * SDILEWSOD WOOTB I .«'~.'5l‘rf'9 H05 SGN|:l ElI'lEJlNfl QT

 

PACE 8  MONDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2001
‘V
0 0
V0116 yb all Cl1I1ChC S 1'6 gular- S6218 O11  lL1tlC '
, " ‘ , ‘ _ BY JEREMY FRANKLIN “We got a little bit of a contribution from every- 4;,
’ I ' . I 1 SPORTS EDITOR one, but I don’t think across the board anyone played
~— their best,” he added. “But that’s the sign of a good
 The Washington and Lee volleyball team secured first team, when you do that and still beat a good oppo- y

  

place in the Old Dominion Athletic Conference Touma-

_ ment with a 30-22, 30-18, 29-3 1, 30-22 win over Lynchburg
Sunday at the Warner Center.

Lindsay Ruckert, one of five seniors recognized prior

to the match, ﬁnished with 19 kills, three aces and nine

nent.”
The win was W&L’s ninth in a row, as the Generals

haven’t lost since falling to Catholic in the Emory Touma- 5

ment on Sept. 29. That streak encompasses six ODAC
wins, and Lynchburg was just the second team to take a

digs for W&L (22-3, 9-0 ODAC). Freshman Michelle game from W&L in conference play. A
Chastain tallied 12 kills and 17 digs, and senior Leslie The Generals won a pair of ODAC matches on the road
Fischbeck had 12 kills and four blocks. prior to Reading Days, dropping Sweet Briar 30-14, 30-14, 30- *

“It was great,” Ruckert said of the win. “We struggled
a little bit and then we came back. We picked it up a little
bit, and we pulled through.”

In addition to Ruckert and Fischbeck, Lee Charbonnet,
Lizzy Swann and Sara Heusel played their last regular-
season home match against Lynchburg.

After playing from behind in the first two games, the
Hornets (19—7, 5-3) jumped out to a 12-7 lead in the third
frame. W&L eventually took a 29-27 lead, but Lynchburg
reeled off four straight points to force a fourth game.

The Generals returned to previous form to win the
match. Although the Hornets erased most of a 16-9 W&L
advantage, the Generals would eventually pull away.

26 on Oct 8 and Roanoke 30-26, 23-30, 30-25, 30-25 on Oct. 1 l. '
W&L proceeded to win the Goucher Tournament on Oct. R.
13 with victories over Seton Hill, Marymount and Lynchburg.

The Generals returned to ODAC play Thursday with a 9

30-25, 30-23, 30-28 road win over Bridgewater. Chastain

had nine kills and seven digs, and classmate Emily Wo1f- 9

ing tallied eight kills and 15 digs.

Snyder isn’t worried about whether his team keeps its )1.

winning streak going when they participate in the Maryville
Tournament Friday and Saturday.

“Whether we win or lose, those aren’t conference 7

matches,” he said. “I want to go down there and play well.

If we keep the win streak alive, that’s ﬁne; if not, we’ll be I‘
comfortable starting another one.”

Regardless of what happens in Maryville or Tuesday
at Hollins, the Generals will host the ODAC Tournament '3
on Nov. 2-3.

“Lynchburg’s a good team,” W&L coach Bryan Snyder said
“’Ihey’ve got some good players and a good coach, so to beat
them is a nice win. I wouldn’t say that any of our players played
their best, but we made plays when we needed to make plays.

Generals conclude inaugural varsity year

FILEPROIO
W&L has clinched the top seed in the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference and will host the tournament on Nov. 2-3.

SETTING UP: (From left) Senior Leslie Fischbeck and freshmen
Jennifer Lux and Michelle Chastain prepare to return a serve.

4

Women’s tennis slices .

MARY GLY/ T/Jr Ring-tzwz P/xi
LAST WIN or THE SEASON: Senior Carolyn Pressly looks to move the ball upﬁeld in

W&L’s 1-0 win over St. Mary’s on Oct. 13. The victory was W&L’s third and ﬁnal of
2001, their first year at varsity level.

BY MICHAEL LEE
SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee ﬁeld
hockey team wrapped up their sea-
son with a win over Reading Days
and two hard losses.

Coach Wendy Orrison felt that
the season-ending 2-1 loss to Chris-
topher Newport on Sunday was a
good game that finished a good sea-
son.

“It has been frustrating, losing
so many close games, but I’ve had
a great group of girls and they’ve
never quit,” she said. “We have to
be patient as a ﬁrst—year team.”

The Generals hosted St. Mary’s
of Maryland Oct. 13 at the W&L Turf
Field. In a hard-fought defensive
game, the Generals finished with a
win, 1-0.

Wednesday night saw the Gen-
erals hosting Eastern Mennonite in
a close ﬁrst-half game. But three
Royal goals in the second half went
unanswered by W&L.

Sunday brought an incredibly ex-
citing game to the turf. The game be-
gan with a ceremony to honor the se-

niors.

Goalie Deidra MacLeod, links
Allison MacQueen, Courtenay
Fisher and Carolyn Pressly and
defensemen Amie Lucier and Lauren
Kearney were recognized as playing
their ﬁnal game in Generals’ uni-
forms.

The Lady Captains of Christopher
Newport jumped ahead with a pair
of first half goals, scoring with 18:10
and 5 :32 remaining in the half.

The Generals came out for the
second half undaunted, and after 20
minutes of tight play, sophomore
Jessica Lake scored with 14:27 re-
maining in the game.

The match was electrifying for the
remainder of the half. Playing with ﬁre
in their hearts, the Generals pushed
Christopher Newport back on defense
for the rest of the game, but N ewpo1t’s
defense proved unyielding.

In spite of no less than ﬁve scor-
ing opportunities in the last seven
minutes, the Lady Captains’ defense
stood ﬁrm.

W&L finished at 3-10, including
a 2-7 mark in the Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference.

SCOREBOARD

OCTOBER 13 FOOTBALL YARDLINE

W&L 39, Hampden-Sydney 12

W&L 7 10 19 3 — 39
Hampden-Sydney 0 12 0 0 — 12
First Quarter

W&L — Thomas 22 pass from Dean (Wiginton kick), 8212
Second Quarter
W&L — Thomas 6 pass from Dean (Wiginton kick), 13:21
HSC — Meeks 86 punt return (conversion failed), 9:30
HSC -— Singh 33 pass from Russell (conversion failed), 3:00
W&L — Wiginton FG 43, 0:35
Third Quarter
W&L — Thomas 74 pass from Dean (conversion failed), 13:24
W&L — Wiginton FG 27, 7:56
W&L — Wiginton FG 41, 4:12
W&L — Watson 10 run (Wiginton kick), 0:21
Fourth Quarter
W&L — Wiginton FG 31, 5:41

A — 3,013

W&L HSC
First downs 18 18
Rushes—yards 38-225 31-76
Passing yards 236 193
Return yards 81 285
Comp-att-int 16-'31-1 23-48-4
Sacked-yards lost 1-14 4-34
Punts-avg 7-37.0 4-34.8
Fumbles-lost 0-0 3-2
Penalties-yards 3-35 6-104
Time of possession 29:48 30:12

INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS

RUSHlNG—W&L: Sullivan 26-187, Watson 8-44, Archie 1-2,
Caramore 1-0, Dean 2-(-8). HSC: Clemmons 12-54, Russell 8-14,
Gould 4-13, Singh 1-10, Wilkinson 1-(-2), Ruiz 1-(-2), Ford 4-(-11).

PASSING-—W&L: Dean 16-31-1 236. HSC: Russell 20-38-3 165,
Ford 3-9-0 28, Wilkinson 0-1-1 0.

RECE|V|NG—W&L: Thomas 6-135, Sullivan 5-53, Watson 4-37,
Overstreet 1-11. HSC: Singh 9-93, Herndon 6-54, Murchison 4-36,
Hamlett 4-10.

MISSED FIELD GOALS—none.

I W&L at Bridgewater, 4 p.m.

W&L SCHEDULES OCTOBER 23-29

Tuesday, Oct. 23

Women’s Soccer

ODAC First Round
Randolph-Macon at W&L, 2:30 p.m.
Volleyball

W&L vs. Huntington, 8 pm.
Saturday, Oct. 27

Cross Country

ODAC Championships

W&L at Hollins, 6:30 p.m. 5‘”"“"“"9
Transylvania at W&L, 11 a.m.
Thursday, Oct. 25 Football

Men’s Soccer Bridgewater at W&L, 1 p.m.
Men’s Soccer

ODAC First Round
Women’s Soccer

ODAC Finals

Volleyball

W&L at Maryville Tournament

Friday, Oct. 26

Women’s Soccer

ODAC Semtinals

Volleyball (Maryville Tourn.)
W&L vs. W. Va. Tech, 4 p.m.

ODAC FOOTBALL GLANCE

Conference Overall
Team W L PF PA W L PF PA
Bridgewater 3 0 125 70 6 0 252 117
Washington and Lee 3 1 108 58 4 3 149 158
Emory and Henry 2 1 72 56 4 3 149 121
Randolph-Macon 2 1 60 68 4 3 153 170
Hampden-Sydney 2 3 160 153 3 4 194 189
Catholic 0 3 57 69 2 5 134 145
Guiltord 0 3 27 135 1 6 84 222

October 13 Results

W&L 39, Hampden-Sydney 12

Bridgewater 49, Guiltord 14

Emory and Henry 24,
Randolph-Macon 8

Catholic 31, Frostburg State 26

Week of October 27
Bridgewater at W&L

Emory and Henry at Catholic
Randolph-Macon at Guiliord
Hampden-Sydney at Davidson

Week of November 3

W&L at Emory and Henry
Randolph-Macon at Bridgewater
Guiltord at Catholic

Maryville at Hampden-Sydney

October 20 Results

W&L 28, Sewanee 24

Bridgewater 28, Emory and Henry 14
Hampden-Sydney 27, Catholic 25
Davidson 27, Randolph-Macon 24

OLD DOMINION ATHLETIC CONFERENCE STANDINGS

VOLLEYBALL WoMEN’s SOCCER MEN’s SOCCER
Conference Overall Conference Overall Conference Overall
Team w L w L Team W L T W L T Team w L T w L T
Washington and Lee9 0 22 3 I-Y”ChbU"9 11 0 0 14 1 2 Washington and Leej 1 0 9 3 1
Em0|'y and Henry 7 l  7 Roanqke 9 2 0  3 O Roanoke 6 -1 0  2 0
Bridgewater 5 3 13 10 Washington and Lee9 2 0 10 4 0 _ 1 1
. Eastern Mennonite 8 3 O 14 3 O V”9'"l3 W9S'9Y8n 5 2 1 10 5 1

Eastern Mennonite 5 3 11 12 _ _ _
Lynchburg 5 3 19 7 Virginia Wesleyan 8 3 0 13 6 0 Lynchburg 5 3 0 8 7 0
Roanoke 5 3 11 8 Randolph-Macon 6 5 0 6 101 Hampden-Sydney 5 3 0 11 5 2

_ Bridgewater 4 6 1 6 6 2 Emory and Henry 3 4 1 7 7 2
Randolph Macon 5 4 12 11 Gumord 4 7 0 8 10 1
Honing 2 6 5 14 Emory and Henry 2 8 1 5 11 1 Eastern Mennonite 3 5 0 8 9 0
Sweet Briar 2 6 10 10 RMWC 2 3 1 6 8 1 Guiltord 3 6 0 7 10 01
Guilford 2 3 4 25 Homns 1 9 1 2 10 1 Randolph-Macon 2 6 0 8 9 O
RMWC 0 10 5 18 SweetBriar O 11 0 2 15 0 Bridgewater 0 8 0 4 10 0
Editor's note: Overall records may not reflect games played this weekend.

1

Interested
in covering
sports for

the Phi’?

Contact Jeremy
Franklin at x4060 or
tranklinj@wlu.edu.

through all competition:

BY DAVE CROWELL
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

Coaches and sports experts can
often be heard saying that a team is
only as good as its weakest link. Judg-
ing from the success of the Washing-
ton and Lee women’s tennis team, one
would be hard—pressed to find any
weak links.

The Generals displayed their
consistency and overwhelming
dominance in three matches held on
Oct. 11 and 13, defeating Haverford,
Swarthmore and Franklin and
Marshall, all in complete 9-0
sweeps.

“It was a good experience,” se-
nior Melissa Hatley said of the two
trips. “I think, especially in the fall,
we get a good in-
dication of how
strong we are.
Even without our
No. 1 player, we
still played very
strongly.”

The Generals
began their final
stretch of fall
matches by traveling to Franklin and
Marshall on Oct 11. W&L swept all
nine matches, being led by freshman
Lindsay Hagerman and the doubles
team of Hatley and junior Erika
Proko.

Hagerman won her No. 1 singles
match (>0, 6- 1, while Proko and Hatley
won at No. 1 doubles 8-2.

In singles competition, other winners
for W&L included Hatley at No. 2,
sophomore Liz Law at the third seed,
senior Sallie Gray Strang at No. 4, fresh-
man Marie Trimble at No. 5 and fresh-
man Elizabeth McCracken at the sixth
seed.

“It’s great to see the freshmen play
very well and gain experience,” Hatley
said of the three freshmen that won
their matches. “They’ll be a real asset
to the team.”

The No. 2 doubles team, consist-

HATLEY

IJEXIN GTOE‘-‘

.’-.3't’t'.I-a'J'.'I'."a'l»f_.;;.'- £§I'i'.v.I-3 14".’); pt-

FRESH EACH MORNING

 

ing of Hagerman and Strang, also
racked up a victory, 8-0, while Law and
sophomore Ellie Simpson rounded
out the sweep with an 8-3 victory at
No. 3 doubles. 1

The Generals followed up this vic-
tory by going to Swarthmore for a
dual meet on Oct. 13, matching up‘?
against Swarthmore and Haverford
in the final meet of the fall seasonj
The results were practically the same
for W&L. 1

All singles players secured victo-
ries, most in two easy sets, whileq
Hagerman needed three sets to
outlast her Swarthmore opponent,-jg
Anjani Reddy, 6-7 (4), 6-2, 6-4.

The only difference was that
Law teamed up with Trimble instead’
of Simpson for those two matches,
and the duo won by scores of 8-0
and 8-2. /

Even though the team ended of-
ficial competition with these
meets, Proko and Hatley competed
in the 2001 Rolex Nationals at
Plano, Texas from Thursday‘
through Saturday.

The two combined in doubles
competition to garner a third-place‘
ﬁnish. After an 8-1 victory over Kat
Capozio and Rathi Mani of Washing)
ton University on Thursday, the duo
lost to Beloit’s doubles team of Julie
Lebedeva and Tanya Kopylova, 8-3;‘,
in the semiﬁnals.

In the third-place match, Proko,-1
and Hatley earned a hard-fought
victory over Emily Warburg and
Margaret Moscato of Emory, 9-87
(7-1).

In individual singles competition»;
Proko lost her ﬁrst two matches, but
came back and defeated Betsy Morkj
of Pomona-Pitzer 6-1, 2-6, 6-1 for a
seventh-place finish.

“I’m looking for some time off, but -1
the tournament was a great experi-
ence,” Hatley said. “It’s a good feel-
ing, heading into the winter, to know
that we can hang with the top teams

in the doubles circuit.” 5 _

ESPRESSO * CAPFUOCINO ' FRESH ROASTED OOFFEES 0 FINE TEAS
9 WEST WASHlNG’l'ON S'l'RE.I!'.T ' LEXINGTON ' 464-G586

 

 

,03’I8.7S:">‘ 

-. i :o. H.» ;,it,yr’«§,’~,i‘4\,'

 

  

   

 

the Solidarity Labor Union, an underground
labor party.

we are going to have the opportunity to
hear first-hand from this historical
leader.”

Thanks to Walesa’s efforts and the
strength of a 10-million member party, the
Communist government folded in 1990,
culminating with his election as president

Anti-communist labor leader to discuss his role in freeing Po/and from Soviet control

Contact worked for eight months to
coordinate the appearance. Several pro-

” “We hope to extend learning out ofthe fessors think that the effort was well
classroom,” said Contact President Sam worth it.

. it Langholz, a senior. . “Lech Walesa was one of the most im-

V “Instead of reading about Solidarity portant symbols of anti—communism in the

‘P and the fall of communism in a textbook, world in the eighties, along with his country-

man (Pope) John Paul II,” said History Pro-
fessor Richard Bidlack.

Some students will have close contact with
the speaker. Sociology Professor Kryzsztof
Jasiewicz will be conducting a seminar with
him in the afternoon.

J asiewicz gave participating students prefa-

 ‘kL’..%‘,’;vu  ixniﬁ ;J'{\m.‘,§«3! ‘my.
~ , turf... ..'~»’,.,jv , 
ti W»/L Du stiztlm
THE RI.‘-\_...:_[ 31 l"Hl ~- . , ‘ I , :3 \ _ __H V I - ‘ V .f_ ‘ i “ V f L I ‘ ‘I _ I. "V .,l . ".‘ J .2 y ‘.. V -4-,]  _.E.[._\, )1]
,- INg1DE Tut. sit D}:.\r \()lt..i: at \\ .\.:i»ii.x<.io;\ mi l...i«..i:..Lydxi-:io1ii_ .\l.\-(.1... 189; (i?O,\i..iZ\i_. Ar L‘  ’
ON OR OFF @ P.AG}.7.    -r ‘r ~.r L ..1. --i U T S T ml I 7  2
1" xi w'~;:  ‘ ‘ l   " ‘ i . I Y

l i)l‘l ix"_V“ K’ ' "A       (;)ppj\} EUNS 

 \‘(?’&i.ii=‘i«; 5

Aiiviosir AN Uvsi-.7‘r(I7 PAGE 6 ' '~ J, ,_ .. .. . ::

V 1%: Vi‘l1-A1,}, l":\i,i.$ To \‘U.4 T S“  in 0

‘ Bttio :4. .  L\' ('2-‘v"{'.l".'II'li\ll-1 24//, I i
nL:m.\t; l3.«\¥<‘:~l\TS7 \Ve:.L:i<i«Ni'> Sg-:0R1,,;JB( _,ARD 8

if ‘v’r,=n;3.ir. <‘_“.l”\". Ne, Xll ‘ - l.l7.I;ENG'l‘0.E\', \:'iRci:~:i.\. 24450 ii‘  ‘Cl<’;Ti.=?tiiii 29. 39973
A
S A
 Or 33 Cr t0 S 63 W “G

   

those Washington and Lee students and
faculty registered to vote in Virginia
prepare to select their next governor.

Undergraduate groups Col-
lege Republicans, Young Demo-
crats and Students for Democracy
have spent the past weeks encour-'
aging student participation in the
election. Faculty members en-
deavor to stay informed on current
campaign issues.

Students for Democracy, a non-
partisan campus organization headed
by sophomore Christopher

been active in soliciting student in-
volvement, conducting a voter regis-
tration drive last month. Approxi-
mately 50 students registered to vote
in the upcoming elections.

College Republicans is
p’le‘ase‘d with the results "of last
week’s poll.

“Clearly, Mark Earley’s mes-
sage resonates with students in the
Commonwealth,” CR First Vice
Chairman J. Hammond Heath, a
sophomore, said. “The desire for
strong conservative leadership in

election, however.

History Professor Ted DeLaney
said, “I suppose we (as) faculty mem-
bers attempt to keep ourselves informed
as responsible citizens should. And un-
like the student body, I suspect the ma-

jority ofthe faculty is Bemocratic.‘The ’ “

choice should be relatively clear.”
The two front-runners are
locked in a close race that the Wash-
ington Post dubs “a dead heat  sud-
denly up for grabs.” Despite Mark
Warner’s substantial lead earlier in
the campaign, the gap between

  

THERE COULD BE ONLY ONE. Democrat Mark Warner (left)
ﬂashes a trademark grin as he greets his supporters on the
campaign trail. Meanwhile, Republican Mark Earley (right)

Q in December. tory literature, including his article in the book
Contact was able to secure Walesa eco- “Post—Communist President.”
i’ come“ A1) nomically because he was already on an “It think it is important for students to
BY LATRINA STOKES AND IMRAN NAEMULLAH eight-week tour of colleges in the United see in person one of the most important po-
* , States. litical leaders in the 20th century,” said
. ii ASST’ NEWS EDITOR MD STAFF WRITER “For a world leader, he costs almost Jasiewcz.
Former Polish President Lech nothing,” said Jenny Parks, Contact vice MarysiaGolubiewska,asophomore, isone oimsivit
it Walesa will address Washington and president of operations. Parks mentioned, for of the few who will have a chance to eat dinner DECEPTIVE APPEARANCES. Death nearly claimed W&L sophomore Mehul Srivastava and Virginia
Lee tomorrow in Lee Chapel. His instance, that W&L did not have to pay for with Walesa. Tech student Niteesha Bahrara at 1:30 a.m., Oct. 28, 2001. Bahrara, driving his white 1999
k Sp€€Cl'l, “Democracy: Th6 NCVCF EI1d- intercontinental [lCkC[S.  I1'lCC[ll'lg has extra  Toyota Camry,’ swerved to avoid a deer crossing the road five miles from Lexington city limits_
lllg Battle,”  fOCl.lS on thé COIlllI1l.I- BCC3.llSC Of [116 duration Of (116 [OllI', cance fOI' Golubiewska, Wl'lO lS  Overcorrecting’ Bahrara hit a guard rail then fell 10 or 15 feet into an embankment, said 3
ing difficulties of establishing democ- Walesa travels with eight weeks of clothes. “He’s a symbol of our freedom. He passing trucker, The ciuckei piesuined siivasniva and Bahiais dead They escaped from the
Ar. racy in Eastern Europe. One of the cars that will meet him at started the collapse of the Communist party overturned car, which was leaking gas fumes, by crawling through 3 broken side window, This
Walesa won a Nobel Peace Prize in Roanoke Airport will carry nothing but his in Poland,” she said. is the second week that deer have caused accidents for W&L students,
1983 for leading political change through suitcases. “He’s almost like alegend.”
h 0 0 0 0 0 9
« University prepares for Virginia governor s race
__ V By MEG I-{ASTON “I can’t put too much stock in a The Republican sentiments  ’  .   A . t T ‘ - V  V
f M STAFF WRITER poll ‘conducted in that manner,” that seem to dominate the student ' ,3: _ ‘  Q
. 9 I Ruscio said. body may be less prevalent among  y  “ﬁg hit
As the Nov. 6 election looms, College Republicans has also faculty members preparing for the "vi 

    

COL iirrsr 

surrounds himself with a supportive family and the
American flag. What’s the difference in these two candidates?
See page 5 for a complete comparison.

     

 

 

5 McAleavey, recently polled W&L Virginia transcends age.” Warner and Earley continues to nar-
students. SFD conducted the poll in This reaction does not surprise row. An independent survey of 625 in Schools, has focused his campaign Earley, who has served for the past Ruscio said regardless who wins
l ‘ front of the Co—op. The students many Young Democrats. President registered voters conducted last on education. ,_ 10 years as attorney general, has con— the election, Virginia will be the ulti-
showed an overwhelming preference Ben Segal acknowledges W&L’s week shows Earley trailing Warner “Education will be my top pri— eentrated his campaign around his pro— mate loser.
for Republican candidate Mark conservative leanings, but believes by three percentage points. Warner’s ority as governor,” Warner said in gram INVEST, Investing Now in “This campaign has been ex-
Q‘ Earley. Earley captured 77 percent Of that the “majority Of Republicans advantage falls within the four per- an address earlier this year, Warner Virginia’s Economy, Schools, and tremely disappointing as far as bring-
iilﬁ V0i€» With Democrat Mark (at W&L) might P1181’! SOIIIC m0€i- Cent margin Of Crr0r- has also centered his campaign on Transportation, through which he will ing to the forefront issues that will
*1 Warner winning 23 percent. erates (towards the Democrats) in Warner, who currently chairs the a transportation referendum that address whathecalls“some of ourmost affect Virginia’s future,” he said.
P0iiiiCSPI‘0f€SS0rK€nRllSCi0W3Ir16d r63Cti0I1 (0 the right-wing rhetoric Virginia Math and SCi6nC6 C0aiiii0rl seeks to raise local taxes to better pressing problems.” He has vowed to “Whoever wins will have a difficult
that such polls are often innacurate. that sometimes prevails.” and co-chairs Virginia’s Communities transportation. veto the transportation referendum. time fufillin g any agenda.”
V . ‘
all news briefs to  V
.   an  W&L parents ﬂock to
o
‘ campus in record numbers
. , . . ,
* p,eS,de,,, and CEO of NPR ,0 speak Forty third Parents Weekend brings in over 2000 guests
1. Kevin Klose, president and chief executive officer of BY MICHAEL LEE of Stlldellts Ofllce Wale avallable [0 answer parental
National Public Radio, will speak in Lee Chapel at noon SW Wm, ‘i““‘“‘°“Sv n°W’5°“ 5a‘d- ,
on Friday’ NOV. 2. K1 OS eas address will begin a twO_day ‘ I Departments offered the usual lunches, receptions Today ‘
1' international Conference at Washington and Lee,..G10ba1 More than .2200 relatives showed this weekend, and meet—and—greets. ' 8:30 a.m.—Annual Leyburn Library Booksale.
Media, The Quest for Universal Ethical Standards.» making it Washington and Lee s largest-attended’ Par- . Acting President Laurent Boetsch, wife Half-price sale begins today and runs through Tues-
' A The title of Klosess address is “Ethics in Public ents’ Weekend, despite the fact that law students par— Elizabeth Boetsch and lVI1mi’Elrod oversaw tours day, 10 am. “ .
Broadcasting. Public Broadcastingss G10ba1R01e.o His ents weren llnV1ICd.' ' . . . of Lee House, the president s residence. Student . 4 p.m.—Lecture. Outcrop/Behind Outcrop Charac-
‘V Speech and the Conference are c0_sp0nS0red by the Jour_ Several innovations distinguished the forty—tliird guides lead visitors through the 134-year-old terization of Deepwater Petroleum Reservoir Analogs:
nalism Department and the Knight Program in J0uma1_ Weekend frornthe forty-second. building. _ Why and How, Dr. Roger M. Slatt, University of Okla-
“ ) ism Ethics, by Brigham Young University and by p The traditional Front Lawn luncheon was com— ' Students also worked as ushers and at the registra— homa. Refreshments at3:30 PM. Room AG—l4, Science
Lawrence Erlbaum Associates’ publishers of the _,0ur_ bined with the football tailgate. The lunch, which was tion desk at Fairfax Lounge. . Center.
ml] 0fMaSs Media Ethl-cs_ to cost $8.50, became a complimentary meal before “We couldn t get by without the students,” 'Iliesday, Oct. 30
the Sorority Promenade. Rice said. “They make the .parents feel wel— 10 a.m.—Annual Leyburn Library Booksale ends.
V . “This was a significant move,” Dean of Students come and add something we can’t get anywhere 7 p.m.——Contact lecture. “Democracy: The Never
'    David Howison said. else.” Ending Battle,” Lech Walesa, first democratic president
- - ' ’ ‘ ' as been — s of freshmen were articularl in atten— f Pol . .
¢ /0’ iema/9 SGXU3/3553“/i V/Ci/"73 emsrlhlléiiﬁiéZZi3?.f.?;.§l§iii§.li‘3S;l‘ P" .i....l:‘l°“‘ ‘’ ’ ivedniiialgféfilliiel
A confidential support group sponsored by University “The lunch was moved to let more parents Freshman Matt Treco’s parents bought him a tele— Halloween.
¢ Counseling Service will meet weekly forW&L women who see the new (alcohol—free) tailgating,” Rice vision and frequently took him out to eat. Thursday, Nov. 1
i have experienced sexual abuse at any time during their lives. said. “It was nice to eat at a restaurant that 7 p.m.—Speaker. Special Agent David Huff of the
y Each member will sign a conﬁdentiality agreement. Call Alcohol was ahot topic during last year’s Parents‘ serves dishes besides variations on chicken,” Virginia ABC will be speaking about Club Drugs. Northen
Carol Calkins at X8590 for further information. Weekend, but this weekend the University attempted he said. Auditorium.
‘ to focus on new subjects. The Trecos drove from Indianapolis. 8 p.m.—Theatre Series. “The Colored Museum.”
‘ Fmai call for String Cheese  11.12:‘;  ‘::;;:::::;:r::;:::;:: f:f.:I;:$:’ :‘s.:::::‘‘ by     
K The remaining tickets for The String Cheese Incident The seminar highlighted pre-orientation programs like ments for the Weekend. Friday, Nov. 2
i "T Concert Win 30 On Sane Wednesdgyr Oct‘ 31 from “‘2 in the Outing Club hike and the Habitat for Humanity Several asked for activities specifically for Noon—Media ethics conference begins, “Global Me-
non‘ Of the C°‘°P- Tickets C05‘ 20 W&L The Show is ro'ect. freshmen arents, such as cam us tours, rece tions dia: The uest for Universal Ethical Standards.” NPR
: rt Sat" NOV 3‘ This is your last Chance to get tickets because P J Senior Stacy McLoughlin, junior Anne Ritchey and and otherpopportunities to scfcialize with fhellow CEO Kev(i2n Klose, keynote speaker. Lee Chapel.
' they win no‘ he Sold at the door‘ Director of the Outing Club Nick Tatar presented at parents. 4:30 p.m.—Business ethics institute. “Passions at
V “Celebrating Student Success.” Freshman Claiborne Irby summed up his Parents’ Work,” Robert C. Solomon, University of Texas at Aus-
_      Discussion of alcohol issues was confined to the Weekend in a paraphrasing of the Jim Carrey movie tin. Room 327, Williams School.
. Alcohol Resource Room, set up in University Center “Dumb and Dumber.” 7:30 p.m.-Film Society. “Pollock” (USA, 2000),
V . TiieDekCemer(aCroSs fr0mthepO.StOﬂiCe)w1ubeSh0w- 109 by Jan Kaufman, director of the office of health, “Parents, while slow and dangerous behind the directed by Ed Harris. Troubador Cinema.
mg Mlcllael Joldallis ﬁlm game back In the NBA on a 54" ’ h 1 can still serve a u ose - a in for dinner at 8 m —Theatre Series “S innin Into Butter” d’-
television Tuesday, Oct. 30 at 7:30 PM. Snacks provided. P‘°’“°“‘?“' W e“ 3 P if ‘ P V g P’ ' . " P g ’ ‘
#. During Parents Weekend, members of the Dean the Wilson-Walker House. rected by Tom Ziegler. Johnson Theatre, Lenfest Center.
A

 

    

PAGE 2

CHOW TIME

WHO’s HUNGRY? Parents pack the sorority house front lawn as
they line up for lunch Saturday. Poppy—seed chicken, which won
the Dining—Hall’s recipe—from—home contest, marinated chicken
sandwiches, tortellini in pesto sauce, Cole slaw, potato salad,
fruit salad, white chocolate macadamia cookies and chocolate

MARY GUY/ Ringtzmz Pbi
chip cookies were served. Students and parents wore their Sunday
best as the TFC Band entertained the crowd with oldies,
motown, disco and funk. The forty—third Parents’ Weekend
broke with tradition and offered a complimentary Parents’
luncheon at the sorority colonnade.

MONDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2001

T}a3Ra«;TuM1%n
congratulates the

Phi Eta Sigma

initiates of

Vanessa Marie Adams
Adam Patrick Allogramento
Emily Elaine Averitt
Jennifer E. Backe
Anna Turner Bagwell
Heather Elaine Bane
Jessica Celeste Bennett
Amy Elizabeth Blakeway
Aniesa C. Bosch
Jonathan David Browder
Kimberly Claire Bulka
Mateo Caballero
Lessie L. Calhoun
Ellen Claire Carothers
Cullen O’Neill Carter
Kara Beth Coen
Heather Lynn Coleman
Joshua Luke Comthwaite
Jonathan Hardwin Davis
Natalie Gwen Deibel
Kathryn Christine Drinkard
Carolyn Marie Duffy
Caleb Peter Dulis
Rahmeen Parviz Farudi
Patrick Michael Fleming
Nancy Anne Francis
Jeremy Scott Franklin
Maria Cristina Garcia
Maren Elizabeth Garval
Austin Elizabeth Gee
\V1lliam Francis Gilsenan HI
Maria Klara Golubiewska
Rory Thomas Gray
Jacqueline Lynn Green
Satomi Hagiwara
Mitchell Wayne Helander

OORRECHON

The last issue incorrectly
spelled Bryan Caskey’s name.

The W&Life article about Pat
Deacon was written by Staff
Writer Matthew A. Coursen, not
Meg Haston. '

It is the policy of the Ring—tum
Phi to accurately report the news. We
encourage our readers to report any
fact errors to phi @wlLt.edu.

 

Katie Jane Howell
Cemal Ince
Noshir J ehangir Irani
Erin Renee Johnson
Daniel Lee Kagey
Austin Injae Kim

Charles Wllliam Kimbrough

Brett Timothy Kirwan
Lisa Ellen Landis
' Lauren Lee LaRue

2001:

Matthew Lloyd Layton
Kema Levi
Min'Lim
Morgan Jess Lipsey
Erin Billen Lutkewitte
Corinne Howland Mathieu
Jennifer Meredith May
Matthew Buchan McDerrnott
Joseph Bennett McGehee
Ian Roberty Mcllroy
Stephen Chad Meredith
Colin Edward Mitchell
Rebecca Marie Mitchell
Jaime Elizabeth Muscar
Matthew Warren Nelson
Cameron Shane Nutter
Christopher Adam Overholtzer
Gregory Richard Papeika
Carson Bennett Penkava
Abigail Lauren Perdue
Michael Sheldon Press, Jr.
Eric Peyton Ritter
Laura Anne Rosario
Benjamin Nathan Rumley
Kenneth Charles Schaefer
Louis John Schaufele IV
Harry William Schroeder IH
Joanna Ashley Shubert
Virginia Creary Snider
Joshua Bennettt Somers
VassilP1amenov Stamenov
Elizabeth Maury Stegal
Jacob Srisc Stoehr
Maria Syska
Susan Ashley Thorton
Mary McIntosh Tompkins
Lydia Jameson Toso
John Forrest Travison
Emily Michelle Tyson
Daniel Douglas Vos
Kenneth Lloyd Walker, Jr.
Eric Wechtler
Michael James Wert
Jonathan Maurice Wortham
James Craig Zunka

BIG SALE

ON SUITS

AND SPRTCOATS

 

MEN
CORBIN

GITMAN

W&L TIES & BELTS (EXCLUSIVE)
WOOLRICH

K. GORDON

ENRO

TRAFALGAR BELTS

SINCE 1926

Visit us again for pleasant shopping

LADIES
BOWDON
FOXCROI"-T
RICHARD SPORT
CORBIN
WOOLRICH
LEAON LEVIN
LANZ GOWNS

and first quality merchandise.

he College Town Shop

111 West Nelson

Suits and Sportcoats 25% Off

Amex Visa Mastercard

.57-r.

5/

1.).

44"

 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2001

THE l{?\‘I;'-’£l’:vll)lll
STAEE EDITORIAL

Visiting the ﬁnal frontier:
The Phi ’s Internet domain

http://phi.w|u.edu

The Ring-tum Phi has conquered the print
media of Washington and Lee. All other jour-
nals, anthologies and publications are now
either our allies or our vassals.

Who remembers the Science Journal,
once distributed through Parmly, Howe and
the addition? Who remembers when the Ariel
published twice a year? Who remembers a
funny Spectator? Who remembers what the
Arete is?

Truly our dominion is complete.

Now it is time for the Phi to expand to the
final frontier: cyberspace. Due to the constant
efforts of Peter Djalaliev, our lntemet editor,
the paper of record has established a toehold
in hypertext.

The Phi archives nearly all stories from this
year, beginning with the Convocation report
and continuing through this week’s lead story
on Lech Walesa’s appearance. Speciﬁc articles
may be searched through the news, opinions,
features and sports sections.

This means your paper will allow you ac-
cess to cutting-edge W&L news from any-
where on earth with an Internet feed.

This power is not limited to undergradu-
ates, law students and faculty. Parents and
alumni can also avail themselves of impec-
cable Phi coverage. Your nearest and dearest
can also check the sports standings, read the
latest campus opinions or peruse the weekly
features.

Further, you will soon be able to electroni-
cally submit General Notes, 24-7 and letters to
the editor. Perhaps this convenience will ﬁnally
pierce the iron—plated apathy of W&L’s stu-
dent body.

This is not, however, to say that the print
version of the Phi is obsolete. The magic
wrought by our Evil Queen of Picas is not eas-
ily transferred to another medium. E-layout dif-
fers considerably from its print counterpart: it
is horizontally chained to screen size and verti-
cally freed from the constraints of the 13-inch
page.

Hopefully, however, the trademark style and
verve of the Phi will transcend a change of
medium. Whether read on the monitor on in
your hands, W&L’s student newspaper will con-
tinue to inform, delight and instruct.

UOTE OF THE WEEK:

WE WANT TO HAVE
10,000 OF YOUR BABIES.

— MYSTERIOUS CALLER IN PHONE MESSAGE .
TO PETER QUACKENBUSH ‘O5

Editor—in-chief Matthew B. McDer'mott
' Associate Editor Mike Agnello
News Editor Alison Trinidad
Asst. News Editor Latrina Stokes
Opinions Editor Brett T. Kirwan
Asst. Opinions Editor AndrewLatimer
Sports Editor Jeremy Franklin
Asst. Sports Editor Dave Crowell
Layout Editor KatieHowell
Photo Editor MaryGuy
Photographers Meg Ferrara
J eb Brooks
Paul Seifert
William Litton
Charlie Tonelli

Business Manager
Asst. Business Manager
Circulation Director

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editor—in-chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily
reflect the opinion of the Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi.wlu.edu

TEE lil;.\"?(}~’l’l..?;‘.»=l PHI

PINIONS  

BRETT T. KIRWAN
OPINIONS EDIIOR

EMAInI<IRwANB@wwEDu

Sweatshop me cents

Last Thursday, the new Wash-
ington and Lee chapter of United Stu-
dents Against Sweatshops (USAS)
met for the first time. At the meeting,
the six or seven students present dis-
cussed the nature of sweatshops, the
principles of the national organization
and the groups’ ultimate goal of hav-
ing Washington and Lee associate
with the Worker’s Rights Consortium
(WRC).

At first glance, the idea of work-
ing to eliminate sweatshops and en-
sure that W&L apparel is “sweat-free”
seems to be a good one. Alas, such
positions betray an embarrassing lack
of economic sense and a naive, or
perhaps more sinister, dislike of glo-
bal development.

Problems first arise with the na-
tional organization, USAS. As an or-
ganization, it is, to be blunt, decid-
edly communist in tone. For example,
USAS’ statement of principles begins
with “We work in solidarity with work-
ing people’s struggles.” I Such
Orwellian doublespeak is followed by
this gem impugning both the
economy and American society, “Not
only are we collectively confronting
these prejudices as inherent defects
of the global economy which creates
sweatshops, but we also recognize
the need for individuals to confront
the prejudices they have internalized
as the result of living and learning in
a ﬂawed and oppressive society.”

Moreover, the organization
professes to be
working to build
“solidarity” be-
tween students and
the workers of the
world. Perhaps the goal is to have
students become involved proletar-
ian revolution. (If at first you don’t
succeed . . .)

Another example of the
organization’s liberal roots is its state-
ment released in response to the Sep-
tember llth attacks. It included such
phrases as “We stand ﬁrmly against
sentiments of military retaliation,” and
exhorted all Americans, especially, our
leaders, to work for peace. Although I
don’t quite understand how not ﬁght-
ing a war on terrorism will forward the

RIGHT or THE AISLE
BRETT  KIRWAN ‘O4 U.S. was not declared

PHOTO COUIUESY OF WWW.RTE.IE

ARE swEAIsHo1>s 0001)? WE THINK SEW: Sweatshops provide economic opportunity for the unskilled.

goal of eliminatingsweatshops, such
blather reveals the character of the
USAS organization.

Regardless of USAS’ ideological
make—up, its goal is misguided. Sweat-
shops aren’t nearly as bad as they’re
made out to be. In fact, sweatshops,
and the opportunity they provide, are
an important step in a nation’s devel-
opment.

Sweatshops were a part of
America’s journey to prosperity.
Child labor and worker’s rights laws
came about largely only after they
were economically
feasible. Victory over
sweatshops in the
—— until 1938, by Life
magazine. For the immigrants who
ﬂooded our shores, sweatshops in
the United States provided opportu-
nity to make a life for themselves and
many came to be quite prosperous.
Today, cheap, unskilled labor is
scarce in the United States, so Ameri-
can corporations bring the opportu-
nity for advancement to the coun-
tries where it is available.

It is simply ridiculous to believe
that sweatshops can be eliminated in
counties whose populations are unedu-
cated, unskilled and looking for work.

Letter to he Edit

Most disturbing, though, is
USAS’ involvement with and sup-
port for the groups that protest the
IMF and World Bank, a larger
movement embodied by the luna-
tics who looted Seattle Starbucks
and Montreal McDonald’s. These
are the radicals that trashed Se-
attle, Montreal and Genoa and were
planning on doing the same to
Washington. To be an enemy of
globalization, as USAS and their
allies are, is to be an enemy of the
only sure way to eliminate sweat-
shops.

In fact, globalization may be the
quickest way to prevent future acts
of terror. No nation whose per capita
income exceeds $6,000 US in 1992
dollars has ever reverted to an au-
thoritarian government. If Afghani-
stan had been developed to the level
of India or Indonesia, the Taliban
wouldn’t be around to support ter-
rorism.

Sweatshops attract a lot of nega-
tive attention these days. Perhaps
those who oppose them should
more closely examine the issue and
question the ultimate motives of
national organizations they work
with before bringing such advocacy
to campus.

-——-up

THE ANSWER is ‘Y Es’:
What protesters don’t
seem to realize is that
28¢ beats zero any day
of the week, especially
in developing nations.
United Students
Against Sweatshops
and its campus allies
should rethink their
plans to pressure W&L
to join the Workers
Rights Consortium.

PHOTO COURTESY
or AL CRESP()/
www.ALcResPoPuoro. COM

Finding a place
to call your own

Washington and Lee does such a stellar job of
weaning its students off dependency.

First, it places you in a freshman dorm ﬁve feet away
from all your classes. (Counteracting this living accom-
modation is that it’s likewise ﬁve feet away from the Co-
op, and thus a dark hole of mindless procrastinating.)

Then there’s the option of fratemity/sorority hous-
ing, Gaines or
Woods Creek. Al-
though sorority
houses are basically
mansions stolen
from a classic movie, the fraternity houses deﬁnitely fos-
ter a sense of independent living, urging its inhabitants
to ﬁnd alternative ways of being productive.

Woods Creek and Gaines, too, generate a sense of
higher living, albeit toilet paper is perpetually supplied
in Gaines and you don’t have to ever change your
room’s light bulbs in either place. However, the great
challenge of living off campus presented me and my
roommates unfathomable obstacles that only leave me
with the obvious choice of writing an article comparing
W&L living selections.

Top Reasons to Live 0}?’ Campus:

- Your house has its own name. Like a dog.

You can have cats.

You can fully submerge yourself in the rich Lex-—

ington culture.

You can sit on the porch and watch cars pass.

You have a real address and not just a post ofﬁce

box the government assigns you that makes you

feel small.

Caller—ID and call waiting.

You’re cool and tough.

You get a lot of exercise walking to class, and if

you’re lucky, you shed a few pounds.

Double bed.

Your bedroom doesn’t look like a prison cell.

Immunity from on-campus rules.

Trick—or—treaters.

You don’t share a bathroom with 239,487,234 other

people.

You don’t have to worry about bringing your Uni

versity Card out. No getting locked out of your

house at four in the morning.

Top Reasons to live in Graham—Lees for Four Years:
You won’t forget your phone number because it’s
only four digits. Unless you’re dumb.

All your furniture is supplied.

The walk of shame is lot shorter, given you’re hook

ing up with someone else in your dorm.

You can wear a different outﬁt to every class since

the walk is so short.

You can just walk downstairs to do your laundry

instead of hiking to Coin Laundry.

It’s a interesting challenge to see how you can

make a 7 foot by 8 foot room unique and homey.

You can just run home if you forget a book.

You’re closer to the bottomless supply of cereal

at D—hall.

Someone cleans your bathroom for you.

Faster Internet service.

No bills or rent.

As much as I loved living so damn close to the Co-
op, I honestly would sacriﬁce that for having a room that.
affords me the opportunity to move and breath. Granted,
we’ve had our fair share of realizing that there’s no one
supplying us with toilet paper anymore.

Sometimes when I try to fall asleep at night, I try to
decide which is worse: the anxiety induced by waiting for
someone to run to Wal—Mart and buy toilet paper before
we can go to the bathroom, or the unduly entertaining
Real World drama inherent to living independently at
twenty years old.

The latter typically wins.

"l§f6IfrIERNEr TTT iii ' 
KRIS POLLINA ‘03

Dear Editor,

On the morning of September 1 1th, while working in the
downtown Manhattan area, I was tested by my conduct as an
American and a Washington and Lee gentleman. I returned
home via many detours to inspect my possessions and what
could be left of my life as I knew it. I was able to ﬁnd a post
helping rescue workers from out of state. I got home very late
that evening and turned on the television. It landed on the 700
Club. Those of you who haven’t heard of this religious mas-
turbation need not tune in. But on this night I thought perhaps
I needed it. Unfortunately, an ordained Nazi by the name of
Rev. J eny Fallwell confronted me, bantering with none other
than our own alumnus, Rev. Pat Robertson. They discussed
and horribly agreed on what had caused this horrendous trag-
edy. The fault lies with abortionists feminists, gays, lesbians,

NOW members, the ACLU, liberals, Jews, et cetera, Fallwell »

“She’s been pretty much up
front about everything.”
--Ray Waity, Jill ‘05

‘Seeing whom she is
chumming with.”
--Lauri Martin, Alicia ‘O5

and Robertson concurred. At the very moment we as a nation
of all peoples needed to come together as one they chose to
drive the stake still further deep.

The following day I returned to the volunteer lines, which
included Jews, Christians, Muslims, Buddhists, Athiests, et
al. I was doling out bottles of water to the warriors in the
uenches when I came across two construction workers wear-
ing Washington and Lee Law T—shirts. Granted, shirts have
been donated by the thousands to workers. But the thought
that these could be fellow alumni lifted my spirits for just a
moment. As I started to say something to them, I caught
myself and moved on. What if they saw the Robertson tirade
from last night? By now it was in all the media. What would
they think of me? How could a community of notable academia
as Washington and Lee produce such a religious whore? I
found myself not questioning my American citizenship, not

my compassion as a volunteer, not even my forgiveness as a
Christian, but what I thought was my honor as W&L gentle-
man. That’s something I never thought would happen.

It wasn’t the terrorists I feared. The terror is right here
at home, in our own backyard, on our television sets.

I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Wash-
ington and Lee community to react. Write to Rev. Robertson
and tell him how amazed and ashamed you are to be asso-
ciated with him. Tell him how he has disgraced and de-
famed our alma mater.

Though I believe I am a good American, though I
believe I am a ﬁne Washington and Lee gentleman, I can-
not say I can continue to be a member of an alumni group
that includes the likes of Rev. Pat Robertson.

Sincerely,
Barry Godin, ‘78

eekendtaught youaboutyourcuai 

“How short the nights are.”
--Greta Schmidt, Kiersten ‘O5

“That he will actually
study on a Friday night.”
—Stan J ackson, Austin ‘05

“Meeting his teachers
adds a human element.”
--Sarah Luster, Bill ‘05

    

PAGE 4



MONDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2001

Sober driving programs a step in right direction, not a solution

GASD and administration must take harder look at alcohol and campus life; current policies show a lack of conﬁdence in students’ level of responsibility

Lately I’ve been seeing people around campus wear-
ing silver stickers that proclaim “GASD” along with a pic-
ture of a car. When I ask about the meaning of the sticker,
the wearer explains that “GASD” stands for Generals Ad-
vocating Sober Driving. GASD is a movement at Wash-
ington and Lee aimed at promoting safety when using
alcohol and driving.

GASD aims to improve the present Live Drive and
Safe Ride programs by combining the two into a more
efﬁcient organization that operates two routes. One would
be within the city limits, and the other the surrounding
countryside. The present systems are effective enough,
but many complain about having to wait a long time for a
ride, and being uncertain about being able to catch a ride
late at night.

The benefit of the GASD’s plan is that the rides would
operate along an established route, much like a bus, with
marked stops along the way, making getting a lift home a
much simpler matter.

This system sounds great, and I wholeheartedly sup-
port the program. But I am not writing this column merely
to praise GASD and its supporters. I am writing it also,
more importantly, to ask those who drink and drive to think
twice before doing so, for the consequences of drinking
and driving are perilous.

‘Fighting terrorism at the cost of

An obvious one is the senseless loss of life. Dying in
a car accident is not a noble death. All too frequently, it is
the result of a series of mistakes, which can be more easily
made under the inﬂuence of alcohol. The
less obvious to some but in many ways
almost as important is the loss of free-
dom that our drunk driving accidents
are slowly but steadily bringing about.

It is no secret that the administration has implemented
the new alcohol policies because of our misuse of alco-
hol. The tragic accidents at Washington and Lee in the
past have no doubt weighed heavily in the minds of our
administrators as they made their decisions. Yet, we also
know that the alcohol policies are annoying and reﬂect a
lack of conﬁdence in the administration in our ability to
handle ourselves in an honorable and responsible fash-
ion. Yes, honorable, because honor is not simply a matter
of not lying, cheating, or stealing; it is a matter of trust.
And you can only trust someone if you know that they
will not deliberately try to endanger your life. Drunk driv-
ing is one very obvious way of endangering life.

I know that I do not speak alone when I say that
trying to legislate alcohol off our campus is not going to
work. It will only force its use into hiding, oftentimes into
country houses that one must drive to, sometimes sober,

RIGHT-WING RESPONSE
IMRAN NAEEiiErmii_‘0_5

and sometimes not. No sober driving program is infallible.
The viable and reasonable solution, that promotes our
time-honored system of self-governance and personal re-
sponsibility, is to encourage the recon-
sideration of the alcohol culture at Wash-
ington and Lee. By no means does this
mean diminishing the amount of fun we
can have; heck, it doesn’t even mean
decreasing the amounts we drink. What it means is that
we most not endanger others in our enjoyment. This means
not drinking and driving. Period.

To my friends at GASD, keep up the good work. You
are taking concrete steps to proving student responsibil-
ity that permits us to drink alcohol without the encum-
brance of unnecessary rules contradictory to our system
of self-governance. Who knows, with any luck, the ad-
ministration will let us bring back our vaunted tradition of
tailgating by the Liberty Hall Ruins, alcohol and all. Just
because we have alcohol in our culture so strongly doesn’t
mean we are irresponsible. Nor does it mean that we are

intentional killers. No, my friends, it means that we must ,

prove our honor and take matters into our own hands.
We’re going to start by not drinking and driving, ever. We
have the solutions, so let us enact them, and use them.
Here’s to a better future at Washington and Lee.

 . FT AUX
DAYS OF YORE: It will be a long time before \X/&L students
can once again expect this pre-game partying as in 1981.

iberty’: Attacks provoke infringment on American rights

The free world, in declaring its
war on terrorism, is running the seri-
ous risk of losing many of the very
liberties and freedoms that have come
under attack since Sept. 11.

If you don’t believe me, ask
Osama Awadallah, a Jordanian stu-
dent of Grossmont College in San Di-
ego, Cal., who has been deterrninedly
working towards English ﬂuency. But,
after the FBI found his phone number
in a rental car once used by Khalid al-
Midhar, one of the terrorists aboard
the plane that crashed into the Penta-
gon, his troubles had only just be-
gun.

After being held as a “material
witness” since Sept. 21, Awadallah is
only just being charged with any sort
of crime. After nearly 30 hours of in-
vestigation, prosecutors are saying he
lied about knowing Khalid al—Midhar.

Awadallah’s attorneys, family,
and friends say he merely was over-
conﬁdent about his English skills and
misunderstood the questions.

Osama’s brother, Jamal
Awadallah, told the San Diego Union-
Tribune, “Maybe his English is not
good enough. My brother doesn’t
understand what is going on. That is
the problem.”

Before questioning by the Grand

Jury, the Jordanian student denied
knowing al-Midhar, until he was con-
fronted with a school journal that
mentioned he knew a
man named Khalid.
After his testimony,
friends, family, attor-
neys, and his teach-
ers at Grossmont believe he uninten-
tionally misspoke his answers.

What is even more curious is that
the FBI itself does not believe that
Awadallah had any knowledge of the
attacks before they occurred. But,
someone with no knowledge of the
events is being charged with the sec-
ond largest case of perjury since
these investigations started.

Had the FBI not held him on with-

LEFT or CENTER
NICK RAMSEY ‘03

out charges for this past month, these
useless charges would have never
come to light. As it is, the only crime
he is being held for is because he
merely misunderstood the
prosecution’s line of questioning. Of-
ﬁcials indicate that Awadallah has not
caused any trouble while in custody
since he was arrested at his La Mesa
apartment four weeks ago. Perhaps in
this onslaught of in-
trusive investiga-
tions, American in-
vestigators have
lost sight of who the
real criminals in this tragedy are.

Another problem that environ-
mental groups and some American leg-
islators are having to concern them-
selves with is how to voice their con-
cerns over environmental issues in the
face of a President with a 90—percent
approval rating.

Now understand me: I am not
badmouthing the President’s job in the
war with Afghanistan, but in the face

Thanksgiving’s coming up!

Game by and  Strip. Marta, Connie and lilrilerin.

SKIP THOl'l"lPSON'S

of the attacks, some very important
domestic issues have fallen by the
wayside.

Sen. Barbara Boxer (D-Calif.), a
champion of environmental causes,
said last Tuesday that she was con-
cerned that some conservatives were
using the war on terrorism as an ex-
cuse to silence critics and push
through environmentally damaging
proposals.

“I want to make sure we don’t
lose our freedom and democracy here,
and part of that is being able to ques-
tion and challenge the administration
if we think they’re off base on a num-
ber of issues,” Boxer said.

Perhaps now, while our legisla-
tors are coming under attack by An-
thrax in their very offices, is the best
time to reﬂect on how to keep our fears
and paranoia from overpowering lib-
erty in the institutions that most rep-
resent our expressive freedoms.

Across the pond, the British are
also wrestling with similar problems,

as they try to balance policy and free-
dom. The issue there is more specifi-
cally concerned with issues of speech.

In London on Oct. 16, the Bri_tish
press began to report that their Home
Secretary in the House of Commons
introduced proposals calling for leg-
islation to outlaw what has been de-
scribed as “incitement to religious
hatred.”

These reports prompted a letter
to the editor in The London Times
from comedian Rowan Atkinson
(known to Americans for roles as Mr.
Bean and in movies like Four Wed-
dings and a Funeral).

The legislation would, as
Atkinson stated, “[make it] illegal to
imply ridicule of a religion or to lam-
poon religious figures.” The come-
dian went on to say, “laws governing
highly subjective or moral issues tend
to drag a very fine net, and some of
the most basic freedoms of speech
and expression can get caught up in
it.”

Atkinson stated that comedians
seeking the approval of their audi-
ences are sensitive to the mores and
trends of the time. However, under
such legislation how would such
movies like Monty Python’s Life of
Brian be viewed?

In his letter. the comedian pointed
to another example, a wonderful joke
from an old edition of the British tele-
vision show Not the Nine O’Clock
News. It involved video of worship-
pers in a mosque simultaneously
bowing to the ground with the
voiceover: “And the search goes on
for the Ayatollah Khomeini’s contact
lens.”

So I ask, what is the free world
without its freedoms from unlawful
searches and seizures, its freedom
to question our leaders on policy,
and our most basic freedom of
speech? A world without these free-
doms, is a world where the terror-
ists that have attacked us, have al-
ready won.

 

Cot.LE:r:'rio

BARBER SHOP

 

22 S. Main Street * Lexington, ‘UA

open Mnn., Tues. ‘mum. :1 Fit. El a.m. - 5 ,r:I.m.;
Sat. 6‘ am. - noon; Closed lr'l-‘lad. 8. Sun.

540-453-5954

Happy Qiirtfirfay, Mike!

ﬂlffofyoar want to wish
you tﬂe East as you enter your
twenty-second year of fife.

Happy Birthday,
Micﬁaef ﬂlyneffol

    A;1‘1*ijVa..1Si.
I...c~:xi.i1,<;t,‘t;rf3'11 I‘I_i$'ii;riiri_c I%uf'lr.i.ii1;§,s. h5~?‘fi§"§?”f  " “ "'

W&!‘_.. (friiainrisirlii: $3;..s§.t..t£‘Jv; Iﬁﬁlt‘: flfhagitrlt $i3.;ﬁ.€.'1£J: ‘l>"MIl. i3ar'r:.ael=a:s;: 31;.-z1.tj.%?ELt

_A.va.i¥a.lJie .Esclt1.s’i.w::ly at (Z‘r.'nlvtmi.:»1§  C3ot1r1t.r3_r

t= Ely elsstzsiitstl i:'i'ir"§i§=:»tla-xi rzxsiv
 RR ', .,§jl§...s,,. .

actions

1’-it  i<»$'a:l::~ori $222., l..a:..a:;

"=’£r."It.‘r. ‘~‘°.*". 2»§.<.i=$i‘3 * §»3€l-~§fii4
Ltjseiiz i?a<.’ts;.ir‘i., ‘I  ‘H-«:—:!«’._."l’lr.=¢.iz':%;.. Se 85 .. . . ..

.3-753.‘? - ‘Tali l‘=’r-cc‘: ﬁ‘??«<§I§4-$555
..‘:i'J: Eirzi. §*i,?>€§; b§u5;. l‘2«s‘£

c-:.iE-:2-rai.:r.lcmrratr':m:om

w»

)4 r

 

 

PAGE 5

W8EL1FE

1  RlN<i}-’l‘l.£M Pa:

  

KATIE HO\5Cl3lLANDMATIHE\V’MCDElLNlOIT
SLPERVISING PAGEEDHORS
EMAH; 1>H1@\xi1J£1)U

MONDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2001

W&L dining supervisor Hartless is full of heart

MATTHEW A. COURSEN
STAFF WRITER

Several times each year, nearly 3000 people participate
in Renaissance festivals throughout the country. One par-
ticular festival focuses on mountain men guides of the
19"‘ century. For up to 10 days, re-enactors live as primi-
tively as their ancestors who inhabited the Shenendoah
Valley over 200 years ago.

Though she can only find time to for four-day trips, a
few times each year, Brenda Hartless and her husband
enjoy attending these festivals. For those of you who do
not know Brenda, she is the Supervisor at the GHQ and

the Brief Stop Supervisor across campus at the Law School.
Since her arrival five years ago, Brenda has taken on yet
another role in addition to her day jobs. In most recent
years, Brenda works security at off—campus and on—cam-
pus fraternity parties. Though she is known for her “tough
love tactics” in the GHQ, Brenda is a softie at heart. Says
Brenda, “I just love these kids!”

Born and raised in Rockbridge County, Brenda has two
grown children, a daughter and a stepson. In addition,
she has six cats and two beagles, Bonnie and Clyde. She
and her husband reside in Rockbridge County and rent a
house in town to law students. Before coming to W&L,
Brenda worked in management at the Holiday Inn. But

when the company sold out, Brenda was forced to choose
between moving to D.C. to remain with the company or
stay at home and find a job locally. Fortunately for W&L,
Brenda chose Lexington.

In her spare time, Brenda and her husband enjoy
participating in black powder shooting competitions.
In one recent event known as Stonewall, Brenda won
the Ladies’ Championship and her husband won the
Men’s.

Brenda uses her shooting talents when she treks into
the wilderness to hunt black bear each December. To date,
her biggest prize is a 156—p0und male black bear, which
now menacingly adorns her living room. Though hunting

and shooting are her real passions, Brenda would not
trade her job for anything.

“I would choose the kids over the bears, any day.”

Such dedication and love for her job endears Brenda to
those who frequent the GHQ. Between her Renaissance
festivals and shooting competitions, Brenda has had time
to notice all of the changes around campus, and she was
not shy about offering her opinion.

“I think it’s great that we’re moving ahead to give the
kids more variety and more opportunities.”

Affectionately known as “Mom” to some freshmen,
Hartless is certainly a dynamic person, and one we should
not let go unappreciated.

VOTE FOR MARK

0 improve transport

Infographic by Katie Howell/The Ring-lu/)1 P/11'
Information collected by Alison Trinidad/T/Je R/rzgtm P/22'

Room 221.

 

PAGE 6

T HE RlN(3~Tli;\-I PET

PORTS

JEREMYFRANKIJN
SPOKISEDHOR
EMAll:FRANl<llN]@WlU.EDl_J

MONDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2001

Generals tak4thranked Bridgewater to overtime

BY ]EREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

Washington and Lee played neck and neck with fourth-
ranked Bridgewater for 60 minutes Saturday.

But regulation wasn’t enough to decide the game, and
Jason Lutz’s 25-yard touchdown pass to Van Williams
gave the Eagles (7-0, 4-0 Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence) a 34-28 overtime win.

“We stuck with the No. 4 team in the country,” said
junior Chris Sullivan, who rushed 27 times for 109 yards
and returned a kickoff 89 yards for a score. “Everybody
played their hearts out.

“You’ve got to be pleased with everybody’s effort,
everybody’s performance. It’s too bad it didn’t fall our
way.”

The Generals (4-4, 3-2) got a mixed performance
from Marc Watson. The senior scored on a rush and a
pass, but also fumbled twice to lead to two
Bridgewater touchdowns.

“He gave us a great effort today,” W&L coach Frank
Miriello said of Watson. “A couple of unfortunate turn-
overs hurt him of course, but he bounced back and
made some plays after those turnovers, which is a posi-
tive sign.”

W&L controlled the entire first half, forcing
Bridgewater to go three-and-out five times while driv-
ing to the Eagles’ 30-yard line on three separate occa-
sions.

Sophomore Peter Dean’s 9-yard TD pass to freshman
Allen DeBard with 1 1:59 remaining in the second quarter
gave the Generals a 7-0 halftime lead. .

“We came out the most intense we’ve ever been,” Dean
said. “We were very well prepared on offense and de-
fense. I knew we could play with these guys by watching
film. I knew it could be close.”

Both offenses exploded in the third quarter, accounting
for a total of 35 points. Davon Cruz’s l—yard run on

W&L advances with win over Guilford
Generals hand Quakers a 2-1 loss at Liberty Hall Fields,

BY DAVE CROWELL

 

ON THE BOOTLEG: Sophomore quarterback Peter Dean carries
the ball against Bridgewater on Saturday at \‘(/ilson Field.

Bridgewater’s first possession of the half knotted the game
up at 7-7, and the teams would play back and forth from there.

Sullivan’s TD retum came on the ensuing kickoff, and
W&L would force another three-and-out on defense. The
Generals then drove down to the Eagles’ 15-yard line, but
a Watson fumble was returned 82 yards for a score by
Jeremy Fox.

E W

will host remainder of ODAC Tournament this weekend

M,v\R\’ GL"\'/ T/Je Ring—l1m1 Plii
Dean threw for 128 yards and a pair oftouchdown passes in
\W&I.’s 34-28 overtime loss to the Eagles.

Neither Watson nor the Generals hung their heads, as
the fifth—year senior capped off a 6-play, 76-yard drive
with a 28-yard run for a score with less than a minute
remaining in the third.

But the high-powered Bridgewater offense stepped up
again, as Lutz hit Marcus Richardson on a 58-yard TD strike
on their first play from scrimmage — still in the third quarter.

Watson fumbled the following kickoff, and the Eagles
recovered on W&L’s 14-yard line. Three plays later, Cruz
ran in from 7 yards out to give Bridgewater their first lead
of the game at 28-21.

“The breaks just didn’t go our way,” Dean said. “We
had the fumble deep in our own territory, and we had the
fumble that was returned for a touchdown.”

After two punts apiece, the Generals put together
one final scoring drive. A 32-yard pass from Dean to
Watson with 4:58 remaining tied the game up once
again.

The Eagles threatened again late in the fourth, as
Lutz’s 38-yard pass to Richardson put Bridgewater in
W&L’s red zone. But on a fourth—and—one from the
Generals’ 6-yard line, senior Jeff Bahl blocked what
would have been a game-winning field goal by Joel
Lemasters.

W&L couldn’t carry the momentum into overtime, as
the Eagles forced them all the way back to the 36-yard line.
After senior Brad Wiginton’s 53-yard ﬁeld goal attempt
was blocked, Lutz hit Williams on the Eagles’ first play
from scrimmage.

“They turned it up (on defense),” Miriello said. “If they
can’t do that, they don’t belong in the playoffs. But we’re
playing good football. We’re just a little bit young and a
little bit inexperienced with playing in that kind of a game.
We’re just not mature enough to finish.”

Sullivan believes that the Generals will put this game
behind them before meeting Emory and Henry (4-4, 2-2)
on the road next week. W&L hasn’t beaten the Wasps
since 1982, a streak of 18 losses.

“The fact that we scared the hell out of the No. 4
team in the nation and showed everybody that we can
play is motivation enough,” Sullivan said. “Granted, it
would have been nice to have won, but this thing is
still rolling. .

“Going into Henry, we should have the same motiva-
tion that we’ve had the past four weeks.”

Volleyball finishes regular
season with Maryville invite

ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee men’s
soccer team entered the Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference tourna-
ment with a much-needed, solid 3-
1 victory over Bridgewater on
Thursday afternoon. The victory
clinched the No. 1 seed and guar-
anteed homefield advantage in the
tournament.

The Generals needed all the con-
fidence and benefits they could mus-
ter on Saturday in disposing of a
feisty Guilford squad in the
quarterfinals, a team that handed
W&L its only conference loss of the
season two weeks ago.

In Thursday’s victory over
Bridgewater, the Generals quickly
jumped on the board, as sophomore
forward Bret Grote scored off an as-
sist from junior Paul Negron 21 min-
utes into the first half.

The Generals ensured the victory
with two additional goals in the sec-
ond half, as senior forward Andrew
Grimes and sophomore midfielder
Jacob Stoehr both scored to make the

V score 3-0. Sophomore Philip Miller

and freshman Brian Pirkle added as-
sists.

Despite giving up a late goal, jun-
ior goalkeeper Tim Foley made four
saves and earned the victory.

“We definitely needed a win, re-
gardless of the score,” coach Rolf
Piranian said. “We had a tough loss
the week before and the guys were a
little down. We needed a victory en-
tering the tournament.”

 

   

 

    

I

QUARTERFINAL WIN: Senior Rick Schnatz plays the ball against Liberty Hall Fields. W&L won 2-1 to advance to the semiﬁnals,

Guilford in an ODAC Tournament match Saturday at the

Before a large Parents’ Weekend
crowd on Saturday afternoon, the
Generals opened tournament play
with a 2-1 victory over Guilford and
advanced to the semifinals.

Stoehr opened up the scoring
with his team—leading ninth goal of
the season, a crossing shot that got
past Guilford keeper Ryan
Fitzgibbons, off an assist from senior
Paul Wallace.

The Generals dominated the ball,
ﬁghting the defensive clearing strat-
egy of Guilford with constant pres-
sure on goal.

COME PLAY:

LEKIIK‘ l'3='.|.‘DI\'
  COETEE

.*7a"r.r.-'.'.t  rug!

   

“We basically stuck to our strat-
egy throughout the game,” Piranian
said. “The way we play and pass
worked well against them.”

The Generals added another
goal at the 66:35 mark to take a 2-0
lead, as Grimes scored what
proved to be the game-winner off
an assist from Miller.

Despite a two goal lead, W&L
needed to fight off a furious push by
Guilford in the last six minutes, when
the Quakers’ T.J. Muse scored a goal
with 5:59 to play. Guilford had more
opportunities near the goal, but Foley

  

BNJOV CHESS 0 C}-'lElCE-IJERS - BACKGAMMUN - 8: MORE!
}3SP}l.)3S$0+Ch'PPUEJClI\‘D - FRESH ROASTED COFFE - FIl'~E'I'.E.=‘sS
9 WEST WASIITMGTON 5:'l"REET - LEXINGTON - 464-6836

 
      

where they meet Hampden—Sydney at home on Friday.

stopped any attempts he faced until
the clock ran out.

“The game got tough near the end.
They gave us a push and we freaked
out a bit,” Piranian said. “We lost our
composure late in the game. We need
our more experienced players to lead
and show some composure when the
game gets tough.”

The Generals return to action on
Friday, when they host Hampden-
Sydney in the semifinals with a
chance to advance to the finals and
win another ODAC championship on
the line.

 
  

 directed lay“

by Rebecca Gilman
«directed. by iibrrr Ziegler

Marshal B. 

FROM STAPP REPORTS

MARYVILLE, Tenn.—The Wash-
ington and Lee volleyball team con-
cluded the 2001 regular season by
winning three of four matches at the
Maryville Invitational on Friday and
Saturday.

The Generals (26-4) defeated
Sewanee and Stillman on Friday, pro-
ceeding to fall in five games to
Cumberland on Saturday before re-
bounding with a three-game win over
the toumament’s host.

Although its 12-match winning
streak was snapped, W&L will now
play host to a
tournament of
its own: the Old
Dominion Ath-
letic Conference
To u r n a m e n t .
The Generals
d e f e a t e d
Hollins on Tues-
day to cap off a
perfect 10-0 regular season in con-
ference play.

“The three I want are the three on
Nov. 2 and 3,” W&L coach Bryan
Snyder said after clinching the ODAC
title against Lynchburg on Oct. 21. “If
we get those three wins, that’s what it
all boils down to.”

Washington and Lee traveled
to Hollins on Tuesday for a 30-
16, 30-12, 30-18 win. Senior Leslie
Fischbeck had nine kills and
three blocks to lead the way.
Freshman Michelle Chastain
posted eight digs and five

FISCHBECK

    
 
  
    
     
    

 

as taker 11

THE COLORED MSEUM    

I :13I}” (Sreorge C... Wolfe-

 

Nov. 2. {.5 81'. 8 at:   A

  ‘Nov. 1, sec? at s,..m.s

blocks, and classmate Jennifer
Lux collected 22 assists and
seven digs.

The Generals opened play in the
Maryville Invitational with a 30-23,
30-18, 30-13 win over Sewanee.
Chastain posted 16 kills and six digs,
while fellow freshman Emily Wolf-
ing recorded five aces, six kills and
seven digs.

In W&L’s 30-17, 30-16, 30-19 vic-
tory against Stillman, Fischbeck
had eight kills, and classmate Sara
Heusel had six kills, six aces and
five digs.

Cumberland handed the Gener-
als their fourth loss of the year to
open Saturday’s competition. In
the 30-21, 22-30, 27-30, 30-25, 16-
18 loss, senior Lindsay Ruckert
had 24 kills, 13 digs and five
blocks, and Chastain recorded 13
kills and 28 digs. Lux finished with
49 assists.

W&L bounced back for a 30-21,
30-23, 30-15 win over Maryville.
Ruckert had 16 kills and eight digs,
and sophomore Kari Lassen totaled
10 digs._

The Generals’ quarterfinal oppo-
nent in the ODAC Tournament has
yet to be determined. Snyder
knows that any team that qualifies
for the conference tournament has
a shot at pulling off the necessary
three wins.

“That’s the thing about our
conference: the top seven are all
real strong, and then there’s a
dropoff for eight, nine, 10 and 1 1,”
Snyder said.

   
 

.NOV.  at .2. page _

  
   

 3 at 2  

 

 

  
     

MONDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2001 PAGE 7


1 Roanoke eliminates women’s soccer

' Generals forge 1-1 tie through 2 oveitlmes, but ta

BY DAVE CROWELI.
ASSISTANT Svoitrs EDITOR

II to Maroons on penalty kicks in ODAC Tournament semiﬁnals

Last year, the Washington and Lee
women’s soccer team felt heartbreak
in the Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence tournament final, losing in triple
overtime 2-1 to Lynchburg.

This year, the third-seeded Gener-
als never got the chance to pay back
an old foe.

1* The Maroons of Roanoke ended
the Generals’ postseason run with a 1-
} 1 Victory decided by penalty kicks (4-
‘ 2), moving on to face Lynchburg in the
finals, with the ODAC title on the line.
“I’m disappointed, but was very
proud,” senior Kristen Pranke said.
1» “We played very well and held our own
against a very physical team. We
didn’t let them take us out of our game.”
The Generals assured a spot in the
semifinals with a 2-1 victory over
_ A Randolph—Macon in quarterfinal ac-
tion on Tuesday afternoon.
W&L got on the board quickly

MARY GLY/ T/J? Riiig-tum Phi

STINGING RANDOLPH-MACON: Senior Drew Powers pushes classmate Kristen Pranke (7) looks on. The Generals advanced

T when junior midﬁelder Kate Bidwell the ball upﬁelcl in W&L’s 2-1 win over Randolph—Macon on to the semifinals in Lynchburg, where Roanoke defeated them
Scored at tha 20:23 mark Off an assist Tuesday in the quarterﬁnals of the ODAC Tournament as l—l (4-2) on penalty kicks.
. '1 from freshman Maggie Hope. The tally Fortunately for the Generals, the The season did come to an end in After two scoreless OT periods,
gave Bidwell a team-high total of 10 momentum quickly shifted back to the Friday’s defeat at the hands of the game went to penalty kicks, where
g goals on the season. home team, as freshman midﬁe1derLiz Roanoke, a team that had defeated the Maroons won 4-2.
A somewhat sluggish ending to Clarke scored off an assist from W&L 3-0 only six days before. The The Generals finished the season
on the flfst half, With S0m6 passing diffi- sophomore Fontaine Marcoux a mere matchup proved to be much closer this with a record of l l-4- 1. Despite fail-
culties, gave the Yellow Jackets an 2:30 into the second half. time around, with the Generals tally- ing to reach the final, they exceeded
opportunity to score. Lisa Weitzel The assist was Marcoux’s 12th ing the first goal of the game. the expectations of many observers.
, 5‘ took an errant ball near the goal and of the year and broke the W&L Sophomore midfielder Heather “With a new coach, only three se-
put it past freshman goalkeeper record for assists in a single sea— Coleman scoredanunassisted goal at the niors and so many freshmen, a lot of
v , Abigail Pfeffer at the 33:46 mark. son. l8:04mark, theonly goal ofthe firsthalf. teams would’ve unraveled,” Pranke
* “We have a tendency to let down “We needed to play our passing The Maroons, however, answered said. “ButI’ve never seen ateam play
near the end of the half,” coach Neil game and not them control the tempo with a goal of their own less than six as consistently as this year’s team in
, ‘ Cunningham said of the late goal. and play their style of soccer,” minutes into the second half, tying the the four years l’ve been here.
“They scored that goal in the last 10 Marcoux said. “We realized that it score at l—l. Neither team Could mus— “With experience, they’ll get a lot
' ‘ minutes and quickly they gained the could’ve been our last 45 minutes of ter enough offense to take the lead or better and take out teams like
momentum heading into halftime.” the season.” win the game for the next 70 minutes. Roanoke.”

1 1' SCOREBOARD

' 9

. _‘ ,

_ * SATURDAY s FOOTBALL YARDLINE W&L SCHEDULE: OCT. 30-Nov. 12 ODAC MEN’s SOCCER

Bridgewater 34, W&L 28 Friday, Nov. 2 Football TOURNAMENT
.¢ Bridgewater 0 0 21 7 6 — 34 V H b H
W&L o 7 14 7 o — 28 OEAeC11T:umamem at W&L W&L a1E"1°11 am 1181111‘ 1 pm‘ Saturday, Oct. 27
Second Quarter , Quarterfinals
‘ W&L — DeBard 9 pass from Dean (Wiginton kick), 11:59 Men S socfer Wednesday: N0V- 7 N0 1 W&L 2- N°~ 8 G“1"°’d 1
Third Quane, ’ ' ODAC Semifinals - women.s swimmlrng Ne.|:lt*HE:li)iP‘l9%'5"Ydn°Y 3: N°- 5  “
BC — Cruz 1 run (Lemasters kick), 9:12 Hampden-Sydney at W&L . V111’ “'9 _
. W&L — Sullivan 89 kickoff return (Wiginton kick), 8:54 Virginia Wesleyan vs. Roanoke Sweet arm at W&L’ 7 pm No‘ 2 R1.1a1.1°.ke 4’ No’ 7 Eager” Mennonne 0
1 . , No. 3 Virginia Wesleyan 2, No. 6
-* BC — Fox 82 tumble return (Lemasters kick), 3.07 (at W&L) Em and Hen 1
' W&L — Watson 28 run (Wiginton kick), 0:31 Saturday. .Nov- 10 11 11
i BC —— Richardson 58 pass from Lutz (Lemasters kick), 0:11 Wrestling F -
3‘ d ’N _3 riday,Nov.2
F°“_"" °"a"°' Vznuer :1” W W&L at VMl Keydet invitational, Semifinals (at Washington and Lee)
BC — Cruz 6 run (Lemasters kick), 14:02 V 10 a m No 1 wg,1_ Vs_ No 4 Hampdensydney
W&L — Watson 31 pass from Dean (Wiginton kick), 4:58 ODAC T0Uin3in9nl 31 W&L ' ' _ _ No. 2 Roanoke vs. No. 3 Virginia Wesleyan
Overtime Men’s Soccer W°men'5 sW”n""n9
BC — Williams 25 pass from Lutz ODAC Finais at W&L W&L at Randolph-Macon, 11 am. 3_alU|'daV. N0V- 
M V’ A — 6,855 Cﬂvﬂstagd wome:l1Ys swimming gootbabn ‘W&L 1 :|el1r:ilfiSnE(1‘3l\/VlIil|l:1:l|:ls|n9l0n and Lee)
BC W&L a ewanee, am. reens oro a , p.m.
. First downs 15 21
p gushes-yards 45-225 51-209  FOOTBALL GLANCE  CROSS COUNTRY
niffilgylflis 132 123 CHAMP'°N3H'P3
_ Conference Overall
3  '05, 21:2“) ;_3é27’° Team w L PF PA w L PF PA :iienL’:ni::::1:Js
Punmvg 832.9 7_39_7 Bridgewater 4 o 159 98 7 o 286 145 2. Roanoke
V Fumbiesnost 1 1.0 3.2 Washington and Lee 3 2 136 92 4 4 177 192 3_ Washington and Lee
Penalties-yards 7-70 5-35 Emory and Henry 2 2 93 90 4 4 170 155 4_ Bridgewater
g Time of possession 41:17 33:35 Randolph-Macon 2 2 e7 96 4 4 160 198 5_ Eastern Mennonire
eke H d -S d 2 3 160 153 3 5 213 226 6. Virginia Wesleyan
’ RUSHlNG~BC: Cruz 30-187, Kelley 2-14, Johnson 2-12, Lutz 9-6, .
Pearson 1-5, Richardson 1-1. W&L: Sullivan 27-109, Watson 18-85, G“"1°"1 1 3 55 142 2 6 112 229 womenvs nesnns
Dean 516' October 27 Results Week of November 3 1~ Easleln Mennonite
, PASS|NG—BC: Lutz 9-21-0 153. W&L: Dean 13-27-0 128. . 2, Lynchburg
I1‘ RECElV|NG—BC: Richardson 4-107, Lehto 3-18, Williams 1-25, B1'dge1’a1e134' W&L 28’ 01 W&L an Emmy and 1191111 3, Roanoke
Cruz 1-3. W&L: Watson 4-46, Thomas 4-33, Sullivan 2-20, Callaham Ca1“°"° 34' E'“°'V and “en” 21 F1*‘11‘1°"111'Ma°°” ya‘ B"‘19e‘”a1e' 4. Washington and Lee
1.13‘ DeBard 1.9_ Rankin 1.7_ Guilford 28, Randolph—Macon 7 Guilford at Catholic 5‘ Bndgewate, _ _
MISSED FIELD GOALS—BC: Lemasters 22. W&L: Wiginton 41, 53. Davidson 37, Hampden-Sydney 19 Maryville at Hampden-Sydney 6. Virginia Wesleyan       P
Contact Jeremy Franklin at x4060 or frank|inJ@wlu.edu.
* FRATERNITIES *
* SORORITIES *
* CLUBS *
* STUDENT GROUPS *
1*
#1 . .
- Earn $l0O0—$2000 this se-
1‘ mester with the easy
4 Campusfundra1ser.com
A’ three hour fundraising
event. Does not involve
1 « credit card applications.
-v- Fundraising dates are filling
, quickly, so call today! Con-
tact Campusfundraiser.com
' V at (888) 923-3238, or visit
4* www. campusfundraiser.com
1*

 

    

PAGE 8

MONDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2001



Swimmers prepare to build on srong 2000-01 seasons

Pulsifer, men’s team will attempt
to continue success in ODAC after 8-2 record last year

BY IAN R. MCILROY
SPORTS WRITER

“With a diverse and talented group
of athletes, Washington and Lee’s
men’s swimming team stands poised
for a successful season. In his ﬁfth
year as head coach of the squad, An-
drew Pulsifer has smart, simple goals
for the season. .

“My expectations for this season
are that the guys are always having
fun and always looking for personal
improvement,” Pulsifer said. “Every-
one (on the team) should seek to ex-
cel and place their name on the all time
top 10 list for their event.”

Last year, the Generals finished 8-
2 and sent two swimmers to the
NCAA Division III Swimming Charn—
pionships.

“Everyone should have a good
year in terms of the regular meets,
and we should have a few more in-
dividuals make nationals,” Pulsifer
said.

Junior Patrick Frankfort is
among those to look for this sea-
son. Frankfort qualified for nation-
als in his freshman year. Sopho-
more Eric Ritter, who qualified for
the NCAA Championships last
year after winning the 100 back-
stroke at the Grove City Invita-

tional in a school-record time of
52.14, is also expected to be a ma-
jor contributor.

Juniors Zach Fake and Brett
Burns will play a key role in their
respective relays.

On a young team with only one
senior, the upperclassmen’s lead-
ership holds the team spirit to-
gether.

“Our captains, (senior) Rick Black
and Zach Fake, do an exemplary job
of leading the team each day, doing
everything that leaders need to do,”
Pulsifer said.

With such leadership, the new
members to the squad are learning
quickly what it takes to perform at the
college level.

“Although a bit novice, the fresh-
men on the squad show promise,”
Pulsifer added. “Phil Walotsky should
perform quite well in dual meets, and I
would not be surprised if Chris Colby,
with his talent, qualiﬁes for nationals
in his first year.”

On Saturday afternoon at the
Twombly Pool, the men were victorious
by a 130-60 count over Transylvania.

Frankfort had an impressive show-
ing, posting a meet-record time of
5:04.26 in the 500 freestyle. This
achievement had special significance
for Frankfort, since the record he broke

 
    

PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARY G g-

UP FOR AIR: Top, Senior Rick Black helped the Generals win Saturday. Bottom,
Senior Katie Kennedy and the women’s team hope to improve from last season.

was one he had set his freshman year.

Additionally, he won the 200
freestyle in a time of 1:53.59. In his
Washington and Lee debut, Colby
also posted two victories for the men’s
squad, as he captured the 200 IM in
2:13.32 and the 200 butterﬂy with a
time of 2:07.82.

“Today’s meet was a good start-
ing spot for us,” Pulsifer said. “We
had solid swims from the entire team
and a few individuals broke meet and
personal records.”

The Generals return to action
next Saturday on the road at
Sewanee.

Women mix returning swimmers with incoming talent

BY MICHAEL LEE
SPORTS WRITER

This season promises to be an ex-
citing one for the women’s swimming
team. The girls are coming off of an
Old Dominion Athletic Conference
championship last year, and only
graduated one senior.

With that strong of a returning
team, it would seem that the only chal-
lenge would be to keep the ball roll-
ing with a good group of freshmen —
and luckily, coach Kiki Jacobs Moore
is proud to note that she has a solid
freshman class.

“I’m looking forward to a good
season,” she said. “Our big goal will
also be winning the ODAC champi-
onship again.”

Moore was happy to point out a
few of the standouts to keep an eye
on this year. Senior Katie Kennedy,
the current school record holder in the
breaststroke and a strong distance
swimmer is back, as is junior Blair
Huffman, the ODAC Swimmer of the
Year last season.

Junior Kelly Austin won two
ODAC championship races last year,
and is anticipating more. Junior
Michelle Moore, a strong backstroke
and freestyle swimmer, and junior
Katie Kolle, an excellent utility and
relay swimmer, are both looking to
make an impact this season.

Cross country competes in ODAC championships

BY IAN R. MCILROY
SPORTS WRITER

NORFOLK—Saturday afternoon,
the Washington and Lee men’s and
women’s cross country teams com-
peted in the ODAC Championships,
held at Virginia Wesleyan. The men
placed third of seven teams, while
the women placed fourth of six
teams.

For the men, junior Will Teichman
led the way with a 12th-place finish
out of 63 runners. Teichman ran the

course in a season—best time of
27:12.

In his ﬁnal run at the ODAC Cham-
pionships, senior Ken J ackman placed
20th overall in a
season—best time
of 27:49.

“I could not
be more proud of
these guys,”
coach John
Tucker said.
“With all the in-
juries we’ve had
this year to our
No. 1 runner Andy Schorr and (fresh-
man) Wes Bell, the other guys on the
squad refused to quit.”

ADAMS

 

Every member of the team save
one ran a lifetime best at the cham-
pionships. The runner who did not,
however, achieved his season—best
time.

“Our goal for regionals now be-
comes to run as well or better,”
Tucker said. “The guys this year
have shown tremendous promise for
the future, and next year with the
same drive and return from injuries,
we should expect to finish in-the top
two in the conference.”

Despite injuries to numerous team-
mates, including No. 2 runner
Gretchen Tencza, the women’s cross-

country team also turned in a strong
performance.

Junior Burke Duncan paced the
women’s squad by finishing second
out of 57 runners with a time of
19:12. Duncan’s impressive run put
her just nine seconds behind the
champion, Andrea Good of Eastern
Mennonite.

Also putting in a strong perfor-
mance for the women was sophomore
Vanessa Adams, who placed 24th
overall, crossing the tape in 21 :28.

“I was personally satisfied with my
run, but I had hoped to earn more
points for the team,” Adams said.

The performance of Lynchbmg over-
shadowed the other women’s teams,
with the Hornets, a team W&L hasn’t
seen since the beginning of the year,
running much stronger than expected.

Washington and Lee returns to ac-
tion in the NCAA South/Southeast Re-
gional at Mississippi College on Nov.
10. Action is set to begin at 11 a.m.

“We’ll be together for four days, so
I hope we come together as a team, run
some good individual times and use it
as a bonding experience,” Adams said.

Assistant Sports Editor Dave
Crowell contributed to this report.

T/no Rz'r1g—z‘zmz P/92' congratulates
those members who,
besides shouldering the publication
of Washington and Lee’s paper
of record, maintain impeccable
academic standing. Recently
initiated members of CDHZ include

Jeremy Scott Franklin

Sports Editor

Katie Jane Howell

Layout Editor

Brett Timothy Kirwan
Opinions Editor

Matthew Buchan McDermott

Editor in Chief

Ian Robert Mcllroy

Sports Writer

Jonathan Maurice Wortham

Staff Writer

COCOOCOCOCOCOOCOCO000000000000OOOOCOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO00000
.

Moore noted that she has a large
freshman class — seven swimmers ——
but she has three who are already
outstanding. Laura Westerman, a
freestyle swimmer; Eleanor Williams,
a backstroke, butterﬂy and freestyle
swimmer; and Tasia Fisher, a
breaststroker, all combine to form a
strong backbone to an exceptional
freshman class.

Moore predicts a strong season,
as the women hope to improve on a
.500 campaign in 2000-01.

“We’d like a better record than last
year, when we went 7-7,” Moore said.
“I know some of the girls are looking
at setting school records.

“We had a few close losses last
season that we’d like to follow up with
some wins.” -

In spite of several close setbacks
and a handful of larger ones to Divi-
sion I schools, the Generals are ready
to take on the world. They proved it
Saturday morning when they de-
feated Transylvania 114-89 at
Twombly Pool.

Led by senior Katie Kennedy, who
won the 1,000 free, 500 free, and 200
breast; and junior Kelli Austin, who
won the 100 and 200 free, the ladies
swam to an easy victory over the Pio-
neers.

The Generals return to action next
Saturday when they travel to
Sewanee.

I — — — I — — — - — I
Lexing’ron— I
Rockbridge :
County United I
Way seeks :
webmaster for I
new webpage. :
Minimal |
experience :
required. .

I Contact I
I mcdermottm@wlu.edu I
I for details I

OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO

 

 
   

...

”l§.7‘7>.>

 
 

 

R 552.
v. t 0 4
ml. 13
'1‘:-r:-',Rt_\<--"-.t:~.¢l-"i»,1 j-,,,_ g,\ I, p ,
INSIDE IN. 3 ‘x

READERS A'i'1:AcK (I3 PAGE 5  l ;;\,\;-3 2

I I>Ejt~x:‘rioNs To lx’tttx\;»'.-\x‘s ' . ..  7
S\'t’EA"i‘.‘~‘l-l('}PSi’ll-211'.l‘tl:Q’Ull{LS O P‘iM’U“ w "3

THIRD <>t>t:w,\Ns t>r\<;i~. &{,i,,.il~’l 2 (5

I AM WOMAN <1) PAGE 6 (Sp, ,:R..1.,§ -.

. \"<‘)1.t.r;\/Er\1.t. r..~\.:  i i  i .3
V ‘ r~'«.">';’a'm ODAC '1. it: :,\7 24'./'  -4
 Yt'~e‘-R~%- Set an -1 at ‘».\.:m 

‘t’r;i,i;r»iE Cl\r’, N6-, Xlll
I, 0 o e
   CRASH
1- .
#-

X

tr
tr
+

1

I‘ #90:»

 

spreads nationwide

0 BY MICHAEL LEE
STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee’s search
for a new president is running at
full steam now that the Presidential
Search and Screening Committee is
underway.

The Committee, formed by the
Board of Trustees, consists of over
20 members coming from all areas of
the University, including faculty, law
and undergraduate students and the
Physical Plant. The Committee is
chaired by Harlan Beckley.

Getting publicity for the search
has been a top priority for Beckley
and the rest of the committee.

“We are sending out letters 
to presidents of major academic in-
stitutions,” Beckley said. The Com-
mittee is actively searching for and
contacting potential candidates.
Bringing national attention to the
Search will help ensure a higher
quality candidate-pool.

Beckley said, “Search is the right
word. Active is the right adjective.”

The Presidential Search Commit-
tee is conducting the search with new
and innovative ideas, Beckley said.
The size of the committee was in-
creased and students were allowed to
participate to increase the diversity
of the committee. The Committee as-
sembled a “Presidential Attributes
and Prospectus” pamphlet with a gen-

 

    

eral description of the ideal candidate.
The concept of the prospectus was
derived from what Lad Sessions, act-
ing dean of the college, called a “very
complicated dance.”

The prospectus is divided into
three sections. The first discusses
presidential attributes that are gen-
eral and broad: “The president 
will be  a distinguished, well-
rounded intellectual, dedicated to
the life of the mind.” The second
section briefly talks about the
structure of the University and the
third section addresses the chal-
lenges and opportunities the next
president will face.

Essentially, the prospectus asks,
“ ‘Where can the new president make
a difference?’ ” Sessions said. “(The

ILF. PEoTo/Kin-rm
committee is) looking for as close a
candidate as what is contained in that
prose.”

The names of prospective candi-
dates for the position are held in strict
conﬁdence. Beckley would not reveal
too many details as to possible can-
didates. He said that possible candi-
dates include current and retired
deans of other colleges and people
who are employed in a field outside
of education.

When asked if a member of the
Washington and Lee community could
be selected by the committee, Beckley
responded, “It is a nationwide search
and W&L is part of nationwide.”

For more information, go to the
Presidential Search website at http://
www.wlu.edu/presidentialsearch.

 

SIDE-SWIPED. A Sweetbriar student driving this Ford Taurus failed to stop at a red light at the intersection of Nelson and
Jefferson Streetsjuniorjeremy Kirkland swerved his Dodge Durango to avoid hitting her, and drove off the road into
a traffic signal. Seniors Mandy Cannon and Veronica Griffith were also in Kirkland’s vehicle. Rescue workers shut down
traffic for over an hour while breaking open Kirkland’s passenger door. Griffith and Cannon were treated for minor
injuries at Stonewalljackson Hospital and released. The Sweetbriar student has no insurance.

£335
1 In, FFRR.\R\, lHl;Rr,\r,-it \rPHr

 

University, local postal SC1‘Vice discount anthrax threat

Despite national concerns over anthrax-contaminated ma

       

, an _ infectious" -disease
w apon-‘dispersed

if 'Treatrnentts iusuakiy  effect, e aftej"symptonns_are pre.sent,l,thoug'hvpost-
 symptomatic antibiotic, eatm nt can iowerthe death rate from 99% to about

“ 80%.-3  ».

BY IMRAN NAEMULLAH
STAFF WRITER

Despite extensive media coverage of anthrax attacks
and threats of terrorism, Lexington appears to be a haven
of relative peace and calm.

While the statistical evidence shows anthrax poses
little threat to anybody—the chance of winning the Lotto

    

FOGRAPHICBX Tm\n=.McDFR~torr/THERL\'c-7tTtrPrn
is higher than dying from anthrax—each unexplainable
case causes more fear nationwide. The House of Rep-
resentatives shut down for a day and the Supreme Court
moved to a new location to cut the risk of anthrax infec-
tion.

Yet the most vulnerable place in Lexington to anthrax
exposure, the old post office on Lee Ave., is showing cour-
age and calm composure.

il, W&L and Lexington mail sen/ices continue business as usual

“Even though we are offering face masks and
rubber gloves to employees, no one is using the
masks, and few are using the gloves,” said Post-
master Larry Creamer.

Similar protection measures are being taken by
Campus Mail
Services. Cam-

M’ .1 ___L_m.“L.E“.
Evlhsrker Paitil RlNG'TUM PHI
Thomas said,

like the town’s NEWS ANALYSIS

postal workers,
the campus em-
ployees have
not chosen to use masks or gloves.

“Nobody is really concerned or frightened,” he
said.

Thomas also points out that the risk of get-
ting anthrax is low. In order to be infected by the
fatal airborne version, one must inhale approxi-
mately 8,000 spores. Bacteria must enter through
open wounds to cause the less dangerous skin
disease.

Indeed, one might wonder why the nation is in
such a panic. According to the U.S. Postal Service
website, about 30 billion pieces of mail have been
delivered since Sept. 1 1, yet only three pieces have
been confirmed as contaminated with anthrax. This
contrasts with media coverage, which has been fre-
quent and sensational.

Americans do not seem concerned, either. According
to a recent Gallup poll, nine out of 10 Americans are going
about their business as usual.

Washington and Lee students certainly are. Fresh-
men Laura Farrell said she is not worried.

“What are they (the terrorists) going to do—put an-
thrax in the Wal-Mart ads? I’m not scared.”

W&L Security Director Mike Young has sent
numerous messages to the university community
with instructions on how to handle suspicious
mail.

In a message sent Oct. 31, Young said W&L has drafted
a safety plan in case of a biochemical emergency. Young
cautioned students, faculty and staff to be on alert for
suspicious packages, and report them to University Secu-
rity immediately.

“While it is felt that the risk of a biochemical threat to
our community is minimal, all faculty, staff and students
should remain alert to that possibility,” Young wrote in his
email.

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
said postal patrons should handle suspicious mail in
a prudent manner.

“Suspicious” mail includes packages with
no return address, handwritten or poorly typed
addresses, no named addressee, excessive post-
age, and mail marked with any threatening lan-
guage.

The Center advises immediately covering the mail
and contacting the authorities.

 

W&L journalism ‘quests’ for global media ethics

National Public Radio CEO Kevin Klose kicks off conference with public address in Lee Chapel on Friday; Conference an attempt to establish universal ethical standards

BY LATRINA STOKES
AssT. NEWS EDITOR

Washington and Lee’s Depart-
ment of Journalism cosponsored a
conference in an attempt to begin de-
veloping a set of common ethical
standards for all journalists this
weekend.

The conference, entitled “Global
Media: The Quest for Universal Ethical
Standards,” is the second in a decade-
long series conducted by U.S. colleges
and universities. ,

As citizens of an increasingly
broader world community, we can no
longer afford to make decisions
without considering their global im-
pact on politics, economics and cul-
ture. The mass media’s role in inﬂu-
encing those decisions is increas-
ing as well.

“The world is economically glo-

bal, politically national and journal-
istically provincial,” said Louis
Hodges, Knight professor of jour-
nalism.

“We’ve got to do something
about that.”

International scholars gath-
ered here to do just that for two
days.

Kevin Klose, president and chief
executive officer of National Public
Radio, kicked off the conference last
Friday with a keynote address in Lee
Chapel.

Broadcasting is integrally tied
to President Thomas Jefferson’s
idea that one cannot be ignorant
and free, Klose said. Citizen’s self
government and self empowerment
go hand in hand with open broad-
cast forums.

When mass genocides were con-
ducted in Europe and Africa, the me-

dia were controlled to create a single
voice of xenophobia, fear and separa-
tion, he said.

This was only one example of

broadcasting’s power to influence.
This is why the U.S. government is
presently broadcasting in the Middle
East, Klose said.

The U.S. is in a unique situation
in which the state does not signifi-
cantly support public radio, he added.
Nor is public radio beholden to com-
mercial interests; the listening public
pays.

Despite the American media’s in-
dependence, all joumalists have com-
mon problems in reporting, editing
and investigating.

Klose calls attention to the fact
that the recent terrorist attacks prob-
ably had roots in decisons that the
American government made decades
ago.

“We look back at what hap-
pened tocarry ourlselves foward,”
he said.

Klose said the media have a
respoiisiblity to report the news as
well as make historical
connnections, mportant to not only
Americans, but the restof the world
as well.

“We’ve all come from some-
where else, by force or freedom, even
Native Americans. We are all immi-
grants to this country. We have iden-
tities beyond our border,” Klose said
in closing.

“We are nothing or more or less,
as great as a nation of immigrants with
the capacity, to learn, expand and
grow.”

Scholars presented papers
and discussed these problems in
small sessions throughout the
weekend.

Despite minor setbacks, the con-
ference made progress overall, said
journalism professor Brian
Richardson.

The conference was not nearly as
international in scope as the depart-
ment had hoped it would be: Fear of
travel into the U.S and ﬁnancial prob-
lems prevented several international
guests from attending, Richardson
said.

Also, the colloquia scheduled
before the conference were can-
celed.

The global ethics conference
reflects the Washington and Lee
University’s broadening perspec-
tive, which has recently expanded
with the global stewardship pro-
gram.

“You can’t look at the world
with tunnel vision,” said
Richardson.

K101: Cotmtm-ni=,\rR.rt>.\t

  

Jain!-?&T»‘ (7. T.  H by ,
W‘;-R“ am‘ :3  ;-‘i“~?t'v':&?i5—,Ll I V -
2 :'_-‘,=;N¢_}’.';"C.‘i'«s, V). 

PAGE 2€v‘f.lV 3 i 

 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2001

Dispatches from security:

Mike Young reports on terrorism

fr)ll?T1~)TCtl).\‘
OUR MAN ox THF. r;RoUxD. Mike Young oversees many aspects

of Washington and Lee’s security plan.

If you encounter mail that may have a light
coating of a powdery substance or is otherwise
suspicious:

1) Do not open it

2) Call University Security (X8999)

3) Wash hands with soap and water

4) List all persons who have touched the letter/
package with contact information.

Corrrcnos

The last issue incorrectly
switched Ray Waity and Stan

Jackson’s picture identifications news.

LEXINGTON
COE_]j'EE-

-‘L'ri"¢.r.'r~+'!eIr;9r- £55-hm-r .I'«'u‘r._',-'

on the Opinions page.
It is the policy of the Ring-
tum Phi to accurately report the

Security director announces safety
plan for biochemical emergency

This message is to let you know that the University
has formulated a safety plan for implementation in the
case of biochemical emergency. W&L Safety and Security
personnel met recently with members of the Virginia Health
Department, Stonewall Jackson Hospital, Rockbridge
County Emergency Services, and local law enforcement
agencies to plan for any event involving hazardous mate-
rial threats to public safety.

While it is felt that the risk of a biochemical threat to
our community is minimal, all faculty, staff and students
should remain alert to that possibility. Continue to check
your mail and packages for any unusual or suspicious
items. Should you discover an item that appears to be
suspicious, please notify University Security at X8999 im-
mediately. The Security Department will respond and take
the appropriate action. Do not handle or open the suspi-
cious item. Thank you for your cooperation in these in-
creasingly difficult times.

What makes mail ‘suspicious’?

Common sense and a heightened awareness will guide
you in deciding that a package is suspicious. Items that
can make a letter or package suspicious include:

1) Restrictive markings (“Personal”)

2) Postmark city different from return address
3) Fictitious, unfamiliar or no return address
4) Excessive postage

5) Address to title only (i.e., Vice President)
6) Wrong title with name

7) Badly typed or written addresses

8) Misspelled words

9) Rigid or bulky

10) Protruding wires

1 1) Strange odor

12) Oily stains on wrapping or lopsided package

Thank you.
Mike Young, director of security
Flash Floyd, Manager of Universitys Services

We encourage our readers to
report any fact errors to phi
@wlu.edu

 ' ESPRESSO ' CAPPUCCIND * BAGEL3 * MUFFINS + CR.OISSA.N'T5
9 WEST WASHINGTON STREET‘ LEEEINGTON - &64-6586

RIGEFIELD

 

W&L awarded national safety grant to
reduce abusive drinking

Washington and Lee University is one of ﬁve col-
leges nationally awarded a grant from the National High-
way Traffic Safety Administration and the North-Ameri-
can Interfratemity Conference to help schools across the
country find ways to reduce high risk drinking among
students in Greek organizations.

W&L was selected to participate in the program over
20 colleges, based on the strength of its application, the
institution’s support for sororities and fraternities and the
University’s ongoing efforts to shift the focus of Greek
organizations from social events to broader fraternal pur-
poses.

PBS stations airing new Robert E. Lee

, documentary by W&L alumnus

Public Broadcasting System stations across the coun-
try began airing Nov. l the new documentary Lee: Beyond
the Battles produced by Washington and Lee University
alumnus W. Drew Perkins and his Rubicon Productions.

The program takes a personal, in-depth look at Rob-
ert E. Lee in his roles as son, husband, father, soldier,
post—Civil War peacemaker and president at the Lexing-
ton, Va. college that now bears his name.

Several Washington and Lee faculty members pro-
vided key assistance to Rubicon Productions, including
Ted DeLaney., associate professor of history, Holt Mer-
chant, professor of history, and Robert J. de Maria, pro-
fessor of journalism.

Individual PBS stations will determine the broad- _

cast dates and times of Lee: Beyond the Battles. Perkins
recommends viewers check their local station’s sched-
ules.

—courtesy wlu.edu

Women’s Forum hooks up

Elizabeth Marquardt, affiliate scholar at the Institute

for American Values and co-author of a ground-breaking
study on college women’s attitudes about sex and dating
on campus, will lead a talk titled “Hooking Up, Hanging
Out, and Hoping for Mr. Right: College Women on Dating
and Mating Today.”

Marquardt will discuss the results of her study, which
asks how college women feel about hooking up and how
it relates to their goals for the future when it comes to long
term commitment or marriage.

The talk will be held on Wednesday, Nov. 7 at 7:30
PM. in Lee Chapel.

Harb’s Bistro closed

Harb’s Bistro on Washington Street closed Nov. 1
and will reopen under new management at an undisclosed
date.

--counesy Lexington News-Gazette

'Ibday~

Nov. 5 — 30—Study Abroad Photo
Exhibit. Leybum Library Main Lobby.
Winners to be announced Nov. 15.

7:30 p.m.—Lecture. “Poverty in
Contemporary Poland: A Legacy of Communism or a By-
Product of Transition?” Dr. Elzbieta Tarkowska, visiting
scholar from Yale University. Northen Auditorium.

8 p.m.—Theatre Series. “The Colored Museum” by
George C. Wolfe. Directed by Marshall McAdden.
Johnson Theatre, Lenfest Center.

8:30 p.m.——Java at the GHQ. Guy Smiley Blues Exchange.

'I\1esday, Nov. 6 ’

Election Day.

8 p.rrt———Theatre Series. “Spinning Into Butter” by Rebeoca
Gilman DirectedbyTomZiegler.JolmsonTheatre,Ler1festCenter.

Wednesday, Nov. 7

7:30 p.m.—Women’s Forum Lecture. “Hooking up, Hang-
ing Out, and Hoping for Mr. Right: College Women on Dat-
ing and Mating Today,” Elizabeth Marquardt. Lee Chapel.

7:30 p.m.—Student Panel Discussion to address Latin
American culture. Panelists have been asked to answer ques-
tions in Spanish. Northen Auditorium, Leybum Library.

8 p.m.—Theatre Series. “The Colored Museum” by
George C. Wolfe. Directed by Marshall McAdden.
Johnson Theatre, Lenfest Center.

8 p.m.—AA meeting. Fairfax Lounge.

Thursday, Nov. 8

8p.m—UniversityJanFJisemble Kella”Iheatre,LenfestCenter.

8 p.m——Theatre Series. “Spinning Into Butter” by Rebecca
Gilman Directedby Tom Ziegler. Johnson 'Iheatre, LenfestCenter.

 

CRIME REPORT

Oct. 22 - Nov. 2 Friday, Oct. 26
Citations: Stolen laptop. Laptop re-
2 Speeding ported missing from Leybum
2Drunk in Public Library. study carrel. Sus-

3 Minor in Possessiqiected to have been taken be-

tween 11 A.M. and 4 P.M.

Sunday, Oct. 28
Stolen laptop. Laptop re-
ported missing from Leybum Li-

brary study room. Last seen Fri-
Information compiled from

University Security and
the Lexington Police Dept.

 

9

 

4)

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2001



Want your country to work
out? Exercise your franchise

We at Washington and Lee like to brag
about our superhuman feats of procastination.

“I didn’t start studying for that test until
the night before it was due.”

“I didn’t start compiling the data base un-
til the last week of the term.”

“I didn’t start writing the staff editorial until
two o’clock in Monday morning.”

The chorus of examples makes it easy to
believe that there’s a good excuse for apathy.
We can pretend that it’s for efficency’s sake:
we want to ﬁt the work in the minimum amount
of time necessary for its completion. Right.

The real reason, however, is that imme-
diate gratification distracts us: we sacrifice
long-term goals for short—term pleasures. The
economics examination takes a back seat to
Mario Kart and Killian’s Irish Red.

An often excused—away responsibility is
voting. After all, your parents get your grades,
not your voting participation records.

Agreed, voting can sometimes be tiresome
and even a little ugly: just look at the past fresh-
man E.C. election. A blizzard of trite or incom-
prehensible signs descended around the fresh-
men dormitories like a blizzard of filthy snow.
Who can forget: “Vote so—and-so because he
likes salmon,” “Remember the mullet,” and
“So-and-so is like really the best, really !”

The antics of our youngest class shouldn’t
obscure the significance of the vote, however.
It’s easy to wax melodramatic. Elections are
the foundation of democracy and the sacra-
ment of our civic religion. It is what sets the
United States above and apart from the count-
less dictatorships, juntas, single-party rule, mon-
archies and tyrannies that pockmark the globe.

What voting often means, however, is that
you can try to get the person you prefer elected.
Or, alternately, prevent the election of the per-
son you most dislike.

Last century, on average 62,000 Ameri-
can soldiers died each year in declared wars.
They sacriﬁced theirs to preserve our way of
life, to protect your right to vote.

Tomorrow, vote for governor if you’re eli-
gible. If you have been thus far negligent, reg-
ister as soon as you can. The W&L registrar
has some helpful information, and a great deal
of other helpful material has been published.

UOTE OF THE WEEK:

YOU JUST LIKE THE THOUGHT
OF MY BOOZY BREATH ALL
OVER YOUR BODY.

— ANONYMOUS PHI AssOcIATE EDITOR TO MAN

T HE PHI

Ed i t0r-irl-chief Matthew B. McDermott
Associate Editor Mike Agnello
News Editor Alison Trinidad
Asst. News Editor Latrina Stokes
Opinions Editor Brett T, Kirwan
Asst. Opinions Editor AndrewLat;imer
Sports Editor Jeremy Franklin
Asst. Sports Editor Dave C1-owel] -
Layout Editor KatieH0we]l
Photo Editor MaryGuy
Photographers MegFe1-1-ara
J eb Brooks
Business Manager Paul Seifert
Asst. Business Manager Emily Barker
Advertising Manager Rober-tF]oyd
William Litton
Brian Castleberry
Circulation Director Charlie Tonelli

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editor-in-chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e—mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion of the Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring—tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi.wlu.erlu

TEE Rl.§£(}~’l"I.??tI PEI

PINIONS

Conservatism wins war of ideas  

Perhaps the most interesting
statement that President Walesa made
last Tuesday was in response to the
question concerning the immense elec-
toral gains ex—communists have made
in many former Warsaw Pact countries.
In fact, the last election in Poland was
so decisive that Solidarity disbanded
its politcal party and will now function
only as a labor union.

Surprisingly, Walesa expressed
no dismay or anger at the election re-
sults. Conversely, he seemed per-
fectly happy. Why? How could he
possibly be at ease with the return to
power of those whom he deposed?

Aside from the joke he made
about Polish Communists being like
radishes—— only red on the outside——
Walesa stated that the ex—communists
had in fact adopted the platform of
Solidarity and won by promising to
do it only better, not differently.

In his speech, Walesa communi-
cated a sense of predestination. He
seemed to believe that world events,
speciﬁcally the fall of Communism, are
bound to happen and will come about
as a matter of course. He seemed to
almost have been saying, “Of course
the communists have adopted our
ideals. Solidarity was bound to be to-
tally victorious.”

Walesa knows that the free—mar—
ket, private property, respect for hu-
man rights and freedom are better
ideas than collectivization,
authoritarianism, the violation of hu-
man rights and blatant disregard for
human life. He was
convinced that his 3
ideas would win and 3
believed that they "
overcame, not neces-
sarily because of his involvement, but
simply because they are better ideas
and were meant to win. Perhaps his
faith led him to believe that God
wouldn’t allow such evil to prevail.

Whatever the reason, be it Provi-
dence or merely societal evolution, this
adoption by communists of free-mar-
ket and democratic ideals is an example
of the ultimate victory of conservative
and classicly liberal ideals.

Current politics abound with
other examples of the victory of con-

 
 

 

Letters to the Editor

Halloween costume was insensitive

Dear Editor,

j RIGHT OF THE AISLE


BREITT. KIRWAN
OPINIONS EDIIOR

EMAIL I<IRwANE@\xtrIEDU

VICTORY! President Walesa confirmed in his speech to the W&L community that
conservative ideals were victorious in Poland.

servatism. For example, the abortion
debate has moved far to the right since
the Roe v. Wade decision. In the l970’s,
partial-birth abortion. the barbaric prac-
tice of vacuuming out the brains of a
partially delivered baby, was common-
place and not debated. Now, Congress
frequently brings up bills calling for
its abolition, many
states have already
done so and most of
the country supports
ending this practice.
Additionally, one Supreme Court
appointment could bring about the
reversal of Roe v. Wade, which was
totally unthinkable just ﬁve years ago.
Welfare policy too has shifted to
the right. Since the Great Society days
of Lyndon Johnson to the Welfare
Reform Act of 1996, the number of citi-
zens living on the dole has peaked
and drastically fallen in response to
the reforms enacted pursuant to the
Act. The deabte used to be over how
large the payments to unwed moth-

ers should be and how many housing
projects the government should build.
Now, legislators and bureaucrats work
to reduce the welfare rolls and dis-
cuss time limits for eligibility.

Most recently, tax policy has also
shifted to the right. Democrats wish
that they could still fight tooth and
nail any decrease in the govemment’s
conﬁscatory tax rate, but the argument
now concerns only the size of the tax
cut or rebate, not its existence. Presi-
dent Bush has turned the nation away
from the highest—ever peacetime tax
rates of the Clinton years and now
Americans know that they deserve a
tax cut and demand one from their
Congressmen.

Marx wrote about the end of his-
tory. He envisioned a Communist para-
dise in which the proletariat would live
in peace under a perfect political sys-
tem. He was right about the end of his-
tory, but wrong about its manifesta-
tion. Conservatism, not communsim,
will be the ultimate victor.

Ir ONLY THEY KNEW: These anti—globilization
protestors’ marches and chants are in vain because
global development and other conservative ideals
will be the ultimate victors in the battle between
ideologies.

COLRIFSY OF .4B(I\I:li3IllG().(D.ll

calm down, my friend asked me, “So is he supposed to

look like me ?” My response was comical, simply because
I could not fathom why this was the costume of choice.

I>HOrIo lll,l'SI‘M1IOl\' MARY GLW/ The Ring—t1m1Phi

Despite all the efforts our country has made in the
last century to create a more tolerant society, despite all
the challenges that this nation has overcome, despite the
recent unifying surge of patriotism spawned by the terror-
ists attacks, some individuals on our campus continue to
be egregiously insensitive by offending and alienating
those unlike themselves.

The most recent incident to which I refer occurred on
Halloween night. A group of costumed students walked
into the Co-op. One of them was wearing blackface.

I thought that I was seeing wrong. I must have been
grossly mistaken. But, indeed, there he was with black-
ened skin and ﬂaming-red lips.

There were no words to describe what I felt at that
moment, nor could the incredulous look on my face really
convey my feelings.

I had to turn to a friend and ask what year we were
living in 1901 , surely not 2001. From where had this Sambo
ﬁgure come?

After several others began to stare, he offered an
excuse: “I’m the Famous Jet Jackson,” an African Ameri-
can character from a Disney television series.

The disbelief quickly escalated to rage. As we tried to

Had he really thought so little of my race that he would
blatantly, brazenly display his contempt and disrespect?

I considered that in the spirit of Halloween, this paint
was part an innocent costume. Then I thought that he
must not realize what kind of stigma is attached to that
makeup. Angrily, I dismissed both these possibilities. His
response showed that he was very much aware of the
social implications of what he had done.

So I asked myself why anyone would leave his house
or dorm room with the knowledge that he could deeply
offend an entire group of people on campus, not limited to
those with black skin. No matter his intention, to go out in
public wearing blackface was a slap in the face for anyone
who would wish every member of this community to be
comfortable, if not accepted, on this campus.

Though yearly editorials bespeak the evils of diver-
sity and tolerance, I cannot help but think that this cam-
pus needs these things all the more after this occurrence.

Sincerely,
Latrina Stokes ‘02

See LETTERS, Page 5

PAGE 3

‘Net restrictions:
It could be worse

Students come to college with certain expectations.
Here we anticipate access to a world—class curriculum,
top—notch professors, an exquisitely beautiful campus,
and reasonable food in the dining hall.

Within the last few years, something else has
been added to that list: lightning-quick Internet ac-
cess. We want our web pages, songs, movies, and
programs, and we want them now.

The reason for the surge in ‘Net use is hardly
surprising. By now, even novice users know that when
they want a file, they have KaZaA, Morpheus,
BearShare, LimeWire, and Audiogalaxy all at their dis-
posal. Merely type in the title of a popular movie or
song and, within a
matter of seconds,
you have a list of
files and begin
downloading.
Since just about anyone with minimal computer knowl-
edge can use these services, just about everyone does.

Yet while the Internet may seem free to users in
the dormitories, the people behind the scenes know
a much harsher reality: our networks choked with
traffic and there’s no relief in sight. Director of Uni-
versity Computing John Stuckey raised a consider-
able amount of student ire on Thursday with the
decision to monitor and limit file sharing. However,
in comparison to what restrictions could have been
implemented, Washington and Lee’s network poli-
cies are far more student—friendly than they seem.

The scenario is not unique to Lexington. Other col-
leges have noted that, unlike in previous years, freshmen
arrived in their dormitories ready to hitch a ride on the peer-
to-peer ﬁle sharing revolution. Systems that ran at 70—to-80
percent capacity last year pegged at 100 percent within the
first day of school and haven’t come down since.

In one example, the University of Tennessee at
Knoxville reported that KaZaA transfers accounted for
half of all its residential download trafﬁc and three-
quarters of all uploads. The University of Denver, even
after it doubled its total bandwidth over the summer,
still could not satisfy the incredible student desire for
songs and movies. Even the venerable Stanford Uni-
versity found itself at a loss when demand for band-
width far outstripped supply.

The results: slower delivery of e-mail, web pages
that just refuse to load, students who can’t do research,
and professors who can’t access lecture material. And
with a slew of more high—bandwidth users on the verge
of being added upon the completion of the wireless
project out at Davidson Park, the situations bound to
grow worse by the end of the year.

In light of these trends, the university had good
reason to announce on Thursday its decision to curtail
peer-to-peer ﬁle sharing. They decided upon a “packet
shaping” solution, which involves a piece of software
or hardware that can prioritize academic data over en-
tertainment. In other words, web pages and e-mail func-
tions will perform far quicker while MP3s, movies, and
other non-school—related ﬁles will download slower.

While the days of laissez-faire Internet access may
be behind us. we at Washington and Lee are far better
off than many other schools around the nation.

For instance, Loyola College of Baltimore went so far
as to ban all peer-to-peer applications with an electronic
firewall. The University of Delaware allots each student
one gigabyte of activity per day; once the cutoff point is
reached, no more access, academic or otherwise.

Other schools made the move to outlaw peer-to-
peer sharing and then prosecute individual cases be-
fore their student judicial councilsl Just think if down-
loading and distributing copyrighted material were a
violation of the Honor System and violators were
brought before the EC; we would possibly have to part
with over half of our population.

Some institutions went even farther. The Univer-
sity of Pennsylvania’s final solution was to take the
“free” out of “free Internet access” by charging $180
per year to defray the enormous costs of bandwidth.
It’s safe to say that the entire college would react vio-
lently if we had to go that route some day.

While I haven’t heard of any college going this
far, I would not be surprised if we hear about ac-
cess being charged by the hour (like long distance
telephone calls) or amount of data transferred.

With costs of maintaining a second T3 line al-
ready topping $5,000 per month, that “telecommu-
nications surcharge” option must have looked
tempting to the administration. Thankfully, they
chose a much more palatable method of reigning in
recreational Internet use.

So rest easy; there will be no Spanish Inquisition,
no ﬁrewalls and no sweeping bans. Our entertainment
files may get to us a bit slower, but considering the
alternatives University computing could have taken,
that hardly seems like an inconvenience at all.

COGENT COMMENTARY
AND_I_tE\>r LATIMER ‘O5

 

     

“It’s a big difference
from the no .”
--Steve Thome, JMU ‘02

  

“Itwasoneoftliethirigstliat
persuadedmetooomehere.”

--Kathy Wang, ‘05

l

 

“They say it’s there, butl
really don’t think so.”
-—Akwugo Onuekwusi, ‘05

“Most of the time, they

try to avoid us.”
-—Bob Downey, VMI ‘O4

 

“Itcreatesamoreﬁiendly
environmentforstlidents.”
—-Joseph Harouni, ‘O5

 

    

PAGE 4

MONDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2001



Extended, updated course catalogue for Winter Term unveiled

Traditional Washington and Lee education becomes even more wel/-rounded with such diverse offerings as Sarcasm 101, Self Reliance 100

With all we complain about here, there’s no denying
the fact that indeed, Washington and Lee does provide a
stellar education. The structure of the majors and their
respective requirements are key to building a strong foun—
dation on which to pursue a career.

However, there are some classes that, given the in-
terests and attitudes of the student body, should be of-
fered here. Of course, knowing how to fill out a balance
sheet will be unduly useful in the later rounds. But what
about the other things that obstruct the typical student’s
way to total enlightenment?

I’ve thus constructed a list of the Top 10 Classes
W&L should offer, in order to fully and completely
educate its students.

Pick-Up Lines 230: An Intermediate Level Course
on The Art of the Pick—Up. I swear to God, someone
once asked my friend if she had “ever seen a black
light before.” I think most people have the general
idea, that the ultimate goal is to get ass, so this

course should be just a module in fine—tuning these
skills. Other pick-up lines that will done away with
in this course include, “Have the seen the molding
in my room?” “Here,just leave your coat in my room
so it won’t get lost; you can get it later,” and “I’ll
walk you back home, Lexington is
pretty shady this time of year.”  

SelfReliance 100: An Introduction 
to Doing Things By and For Yourself. 
This one’s pretty self-explanatory. I
won’t go into the holier—than-thou details of this one,
but, at the risk of waxing cliché, solitude, in modera-
tion, indeed can be a virtue.

College Appreciation 380: A Seminar on Relishing
Your Charmed Existence. This is an advanced course for
those who realize that W&L isn’t really as bad as our
campus newspapers make it sound.

Self-Deprecation 210: A Course on Laughing at Your-
self. Some people just take themselves way too seriously.

 

7 “ KRIS POLLINA ‘()3

This is course is designed for those who either a.) have
not yet come to the conclusion that they are not as bad-
ass as they once thought, or b.) people who have not

learned the fine art of taking things in stride.
Wal-Mart in Moderation: Keeping trips and expenses
in check. This course focuses intently on

A; NOR ’S EXPOSURE how to keep trips to a minimum, in addi-

tion to studying the addiction patterns of
students unable to keep their checks be-
low $50 each time. In addition to this, the
course will include a small section on minimizing trips to
Subway and Wendy’s.

GroupWise & Snood: How Much is Too Much. This
course outlines the rise and fall students addicted to per-
petual e—mail checks, or even worse, the psychoactive
drug of Snood.com. This class culminates in a senior the-
sis of erasing Snood from the computer’s memory.

Milking the C-School: How To Succeed in Business
Without Really Trying. Requirement for the Major. This

course deals with the art of not pulling out hairs about
internships and the like, but rathers, encourages students
to perfect the art of BS.

AA. Gen Ed.

Mnemonic Skills 10]: Forced Recollection of Feigned
Forgetfulness. This class teaches its students to abandon
the myth of blacking out, and urges them to admit to their
actions, however large a monument to idiocy they may be.

Sarcasm 101: An Introduction to Understanding Dry
Humor. A lot of people here fail to demonstrate an ability
to differentiate between seriousness and satire. This class
could introduce the aforementioned folks to the highly
revered skill of sarcasm.

Combining both legitimate courses with said sugges-
tions could allow W&L’s already brilliant populace to reap
the benefits of a comprehensive education. Although it
would require some changes to the Course Catalogue,
each class could very well merit its own department. The
only problem would be ﬁnding professors.

 

GP ‘ro-Family’ right shd

Couursv or AP

UNITER, NOT A DIVIDER: Bush has made great strides with his AIDS policy and political appointments.

Many social conservatives
within the Republican Party cannot
believe what they see. It has slowly
become more and more apparent
that the many members of the GOP,
including President Bush, are openly
accepting the gay and lesbian popu-
lation as a viable political ally. With
this trend the tired “pro-family” fac-
tion of the Republican Party feels
betrayed by their own leaders. For-
give me ifl take a little pleasure in
this.

In lieu of the discourse I began
with the issue of homosexuality within
the Virginia gubernatorial race a few
weeks ago, I was very happy to see an
article by David Crary in the Washing-
ton Post this week entitled, “Bush Ad-
ministration Broadens Gay Overtures.”

A delightful shock from our Re-
publican President, who received so
much support from the conservative
right during his campaign, has been
certain appointments his administra-
tion has made.

acknowledge

Since taking office, Bush has
appointed openly gay men to the
both the head of the Office of Na-
tional AIDS Policy and as Ambas-
sador to Romania, the highest ap-
pointments for open gays in a Re-
publican Administration ever.

What’s more, some conserva-
tives were particularly angry that
the partner of the Romanian Ambas-
sador Michael Guest was acknowl-
edged by Secretary of State Colin
Powell during his swearing-in cer-
emony last month.

New Director of AIDS Policy
Scott Evertz is aware of the con-
servative ire following his appoint-
ment as well, but is very pleased
with Bush at this point.

“The average American isn’t
at a point where they can endorse
gay marriage or domestic partner-
ships — the President isn’t endors-
ing those concepts at this point.
But does he believe gays and les-
bians ought to be treated with dig-
nity and respect? Yes,” Evertz said
in a statement to the Post.

Moreover, GOP action in the
gay movement has not been cen-
tralized to the District alone. Sen.
Gordon Smith of Oregon spoke Oct.

how Bush has backed social conscience

6 at the annual dinner of the Hu-
man Rights Campaign, a major gay-
rights advocacy group.

Gays also cheered the announce-
ment by Republican New York Gover-
nor George Pataki when he stated that
partners of gays killed
in the World Trade
Center attack in Sep-
tember would qualify
for state aid.

Many social groups are encour-
aged by these movements, and wish
the President would continue to
reach out to the gay and lesbian
community.

“Step by step, the administration
can signal to voters that they are fair-
minded. They are on the right path to
getting there,” said Winnie
Stachelberg, the Human Rights
Campaign’s political director.

While the Bush administration
does still have a way to go on social
policy for gays and lesbians, it is very
encouraging to see them taking a de-
parture from the out—dated, close-
minded views of the pro-family con-
servative right. These organizations,
despite the obvious evidence within
social trends around them, refuse to
acknowledge that American has

LEFT OF CENTER
NICK RAMSEY ‘()3

moved ‘past the heterogeneous,
nuclear family ﬁlled population of the
1950’s.

People like Kenneth Connor,
president of the Family Research
Council, a right—wing social organiza-
tion, have complained
of Bush’s “implicit
endorsement of the
homosexual political
agenda.”

Also, the Christian organiza-
tion Focus on the Family said the
aforementioned recent political ap-
pointments in Washington have
created “confusion and frustration
for millions of pro-family, social
conservatives.”

However, in a party divided
against itself, there are those working
to boost gay participation in Republi-
can politics. Charles Francis, a gay
public relations executive and long-
time friend of Bush, founded the Re-
publican Unity Coalition in January.

Francis said of his friend, “From
Day One, George Bush said he’s a
uniter, not a divider — it’s turned out
to be more than true. For the Family
Research Council and others to attack
him for being a uniter is to completely
miss the point of his Presidency.”

Francis’ coalition says it seeks
only to make sexual orientation a
“non-issue” in the GOP, not any spe-
cial privileges for gays.

Dale Carpenter, a University
of Minnesota Law Professor and
scholar of gay politics best char-
acterized the situation. “The new
reality is that George Bush is do-
ing about as much as he can,
given the political restraints in the
party to equalize things for gay
Americans.”

Carpenter went on to say, “Now
there are gay—positive things coming
from their own leader, and it’s just
harder to oppose. It’s like Nixon go-
ing to China, or a southerner signing
the Civil Rights Act of 1964.”

Thus, social conservatives are in
a bind. Now is the time to buck—up
and learn that the American social
conscience is evolving, like it or not.
I, for one, am happy to see these
changes. Current trends in Washing-
ton and the failure of Mark Earley’s
socially-backwards campaign here in
Virginia are evidence of this social
change. Slowly, America is making
more and more steps towards the uni-
versal equality that should already be
a reality.

I-I-is B3cl<...0v~ly 3+ Council Tiravel

AMAZING SALE

S+udev~+ / You-I-in  Teacher
5 Days Only! Nov. 6-10! 20 European Cities Available.

NYC to LONDON

CHI to DUBLIN

$133

$95

LAX to PARIS

$168

'FARES ARE ONE WAY, ROUND TRIP FARES ALSO AVAILABLE.

Tickets are subject to availability and must be paid in full at time of booking. Tickets are
non-refundable. Taxes and fees are extra. Additional restrictions and blackout dates
apply. ISIC, ITIC and IYTC card required. Valid for departure through March 2002.

1 -800-ZCOUNCIL

www.counciItrave|.com

Call 24 hrs: (EST) 8am Tues. Nov. 6 - 12am Fri. Nov. 9 & 10am - 7pm Sat. Nov 10.

Fraternities * Sororities *
Clubs * Studente Groups

Earn $1000-$2000 this semester with the
easy Campusfundraiser.com three hour
fundraising event. Does not involve credit
card applications. Fundraising dates are
filling quickly, so call today! Contact
Campusfundraiser.com at (888) 923-
3238, or visit www.
campusfundraiser.com

lwmkdbmwaihhﬂms

9:00 p.m.

C-school

Room 221
Be There.

 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2001

Readers protest favorable sweatshop

v"

Free-market fa//acy blinds Kirwan
to reality of sweatshops and development

Dear Editor,

Brett Kirwan is to be pitied, not blamed, for his recent
outburst in the Oct. 29th issue .of The Ring-tum Phi.
Kirwan has absorbed all too well the rhetoric of the free-
market fundamentalists who promote a world economic
order that is flawed at best and catastrophically danger-
ous at worst.-In his critique of the anti-sweatshop move-
ment his naivete is glaring. It is painfully obvious when he
states, “sweatshops aren’t nearly as bad as they’re made
out to be” that he lacks any true knowledge of the lived
reality that sweatshop workers face

My sense is that Kirwan’s assertions and economic
analysis are borne out of an experience that is limited to a
world of position and privilege. (If you are enrolled at W&L,
you are in a position of privilege, as only 1 percent of the
world has a college education.)

Kirwan’s historical analysis of the development of
the U.S. economy is also limited. The “victory over sweat-
shops” (which has not really happened, go to L.A. or
NYC and you can see they are alive and thriving) on U.S.
soil was not the result of growth and “economic feasibil-
ity.” The creation of the eight—hour workday, payment of
health benefits, weekends (I am sure we all value these),
elimination of child labor and other worker protections
were not gifts from the bourgeois. The respect for worker
and human rights in the U.S. was a long, drawn-out and
hard fought battle by local, national and international
organized labor.

“Today, cheap, unskilled labor is scarce in the United
States, so American corporations bring the opportunity
for advancement to the countries where it is available.”
This statement completely exposes Mr. Kirwan’s lack of
understanding of the motives for U.S. multinationals mov-
ing their operations abroad. There is one motive: maximi-
zation of profit. A telephone conversation with a former
sportshoe industry executive made this all to clear to me.
He said, “Do not let anyone at Nike or the other shoe
companies tell you that they were ‘driven’ over to Indone-
sia or anywhere else because of competition or other rea-
sons. There is one reason they are there, greed.” Cer-
tainly Kirwan cannot be foolish enough to believe that
U.S. multinationals are in the business of development
and providing “opportunity for advancement.”

If Kirwan is truly committed to the development model
that he puts forth I would invite him to travel to a developing
country and live and work with women, men and children
who toil in the sweatshops making goods for export. Surely
he would feel that living and working in conditions such as
these would be well worth the suffering since, by his theoriz-
ing, it will eventually lead to economic prosperity.

Yes, the free-market fundamentalist theory looks quite
inviting when you are in the global elite. But the waters



PAGE 5

run a little murkier when you are at the bottom of
capitalism’s food chain. When you are ready to “flip the
script” and live with the poor as the poor live, then one
might find it possible to take arguments for their eco-
nomic development seriously.

Until that time comes, enjoy the bands and beer in

' the Red Square and ultimate frisbee on the Colonnade.

Yes, ignorance is truly bliss.

Sincerely, .
Jim Keady
Co—founder and Director of Educating for Justice

Conservatives should get jobs

Dear Editor,

It is obvious that your Right of the Aisle columnist,
Brett Kirwan, has not yet taken an American history class
or ever had a job.

He needs to look up “Triangle Shirtwaist Factory” on
the intemet, and look at the pictures of nice Jewish girls
falling out of the sky in New York of 1910, burned, suicid-
ing in that familiar way out of the sweatshop they worked
in for pennies a day.

Out here in San Diego, I could get him some real work
for a real man, making burritos or digging ditches for mini-
mum wage, so he could find out just what it means to work
for nothing; he could have that real immigrant experience
he’s so proud of.

Of course he wouldn’t last long- too slow, too fragile,
he would probably cut off one of his fingers in a couple of
days, or hurt his delicate conservative back with real work.
My answer to all you ivory tower intellectual conserva-
tives: get a job.

Sincerely,
Jim Ricker
San Diego State Students Against Sweatshops

USAS devoid of communist overtones

DearEditor,

Before writing his article on sweatshops, Kirwan con-
tacted me, the founder of the W&L chapter of United
Students Against Sweatshops (USAS), for more informa-
tion on the organization. Although he did articulate some
purposes of our organization, I believe that he in fact
grossly misinterpreted or just plain missed other purposes.

First of all, by focusing on the first sentence of the
first principle of USAS and ignoring the other three he
gives a distorted View of the organization’s vision. He
claims that the phrasing “We work in solidarity with work-
ing people’s struggles” implies a communist worldview.
Obviously, he has not understood or seen the fourth prin-
ciple of USAS, which is “We strive to act democratically.”

 

interpretation

WHISTLE WHILE YOU WORK: Despite the obvious usefulness of sweatshops, many claim corproate exploitation and campaign for their abolition.

The fourth principle of USAS goes on to say that the
power of USAS is ultimately an individual power—that
self-evaluation and personal responsibility must come
before any sort of collective struggle. The third principle
of USAS emphasizes the autonomy of each participant
campus and individual. Obviously, the organization is a
grassroots democratic movement. Nowhere in the prin-
ciples is Marxism mentioned, much less promoted. The
fact that I and others believe that we should struggle with
oppressed workers does not imply that we wish to stage
an armed revolution. Martin Luther King, J r., struggled in
solidarity with African-Americans to achieve his goals.
No one would argue that he was a Marxist, rather, he is a
hero of democracy.

Secondly, Kirwan misrepresented USAS’ position on
globalization. In response to the question, “Are we ask-
ing that companies move their production back to the
US?” the FAQ on the USAS website states, “NO! We
believe that workers in developing countries deserve jobs
that will actually contribute to development, not create a
cycle of impoverishment and abuse, as sweatshop jobs
do.” Also, Kirwan’s article ignores the fact that many of
the sweatshops that USAS is working against are located
within the United States.

I also dispute Kirwan’s claim that “sweatshops aren’t
nearly as bad as they’re made out to be.” He simply hasn’t
done his research. To me, before sweatshops are ever an
economic issue, they are a human rights issue. Sweatshops
are a much more complex issue that the cut—and—dry eco-
nomic one that Kirwan imagines. Sweatshops verbally hu-
miliate workers, fence in workers under armed guard, force
workers to work 48-hour shifts during holiday seasons, pol-
lute the drinking waters of workers, pay women less than
men, use unsafe equipment, and fire workers injured by said
equipment. It concerns me that Kirwan is wonied about au-
thoritarian govemments, but not authoritarian employers that
are essentially slaveowners. I work against sweatshops be-
cause I support human rights in all situations.

Finally, I must emphasize that what we are asking for
is not unreasonable for American companies. Currently,
about 3 cents of a $15 college T—shirt goes to the workers
who produced it. Seventy—five percent of the cost of the
T-shirt is proﬁt for the manufacturer and retailer. We are
not asking that companies give up profits, just that they
respect the dedication and humanity of their workers.

Sincerely,
Susan Somers ‘O5

 

improve transportatt

lnfographic by Katie l‘lOWCll/T/it’ Ring-rm Poi
Information collected by Alison Trinidad/Tin» Rirrg-rm P/J1‘

 

 

PAGE 6

“Monsters Inc.’’ full
0 disappointmen 3

BY MIKE GEORGE
STAFF WRITER

The great thing about animated movies these days
is their ability to appeal to both children and adults.
Pixar, which produces computer animated features
for Disney, seems to be the standard bearer for this
trend, releasing clever films like A Bugs Life and the
two Toy Story films.
These films were witty,
charming, and endearing,
with characters that I still
remember. They are the
kind of films you want to
take younger siblings to,
because you know you’ll
enjoy them as much as
they do.

When I stepped into
Monsters, Inc., I expected
to be entertained and not
annoyed. I expected to be
wrapped up in a film with sympathetic and endearing
characters. I expected, at the very least, to laugh. As
much as I expected this film to be a step up from previ-
ous Pixar features, it did not deliver.

The concept of Monsters, Inc. is not the problem.
Basically, the story tries to explain the old story of the
monster in the closet, a common experience of child-
hood. Mike and Sully, two monsters who live in the
city of Monstopolis, work for Monsters, Inc., a giant
corporation which collects the screams of children and
converts them to energy. Sully is the most frightening
monster working for the company, but his supremacy
is being challenged by Reggie, a reptilian creature who
can blend like a chameleon into any surface he touches.
When a human child ﬁnds her way into the world of
the monsters, Mike and Sully must get her home with-
out the company and the human-wary world around
them noticing. Along the way, Sully and Mike learn
how to accept those who are different and that evil is
not always where you expect it.

While Monsters, Inc. is charming to a degree, I can’t
help but find it predictable. The creators try to sympa-
thize with the problems kids face, like being appreci-
ated in a world of adult. In the process, however, they
alienate adults from a concept that if done properly
would have brought parents and kids together.

Another problem I had with this ﬁlm was that it was
too predictable. You pretty much knew how it was go-
ing to turn out from the beginning. Recently, Disney
ﬁlms seem to center around‘ accepting the differences
of others. Monsters, Inc. was another rehash of this
tired ideal. Along with this conceptual problem, allu-
sions to an oppressive’ government and corporate greed
were all too familiar.

I think the voice talent in this ﬁlm, however, was
excellent. Billy Crystal, John Goodman, and Steve
Buscemi work well together, bringing comic timing and
wit to their characters. As much as the ﬁlm was ﬁlled
with talent, I found it flat. The creators spent too much
time on animation (which was, I admit, truly exceptional)
instead of the sophistication of the plot. Truly harrow-
ing sequences and amazing animated effects do not
make up for a story that, in my mind, has something
missing.

It’s worth taking a younger sibling to, but don’t
expect to be entertained. I would suggest a theatre that
allows pillows.

 

Tiilii RENIIE-"§"£_ji.\i PIII

KATIE HO\tEII.A\I)MmIIE\vMcDEItIIOrr
SLl’ER\«I§H\‘G PAGE EDIIORS
EAIAIE PHl@\VIL’.l~I)U

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2001

PUMPKIN PATCHES

  
   

 

PH()'l'OS BY I\l-\It\' GI T A\I) :\IF,G RRAIH/T/)6 Rivet////)1P/Ji

W&L ‘Toughman’ boxes in Lewisburg, W.Va.

BYMAT1" COURSEN
STAFF \V'RI'I‘ER

A new first for a Washington and Lee
student occurred last Friday night. Junior
Matthew Conners participated in the box-
ing competition known as Toughman.

Sponsored by Budweiser
and the FX network, -
Toughman is an amateur box-
ing tournament conducted
in 44 states and abroad.
Fighters undergo pre-
ﬁght physicals and are
supervised closely by
EMTs and physicians
during the contest. In
addition, the fighters
must wear protective .
head gear, mouthpieces, ‘
groin protection, and
16-ounce gloves in an
effort to remain as safe
as possible. As the of-
ficial Toughman
website claims: “There
are no pre—determined
winners: every man and woman is fighting
for fame and glory, in front of people they
know, and a chance to advance to regional
events and, ultimately, to the World Cham-

   
 
    

CONORS.  

pionship on Pay Per View.”

On a whim, Conners applied via mail—in
application and was suipiised to see a rather
quick return from Toughman. He was noti-
ﬁed that his first contest was scheduled for
November 2 at 8:00 p.m.at West Virginia State
Fairgrounds in Lewisburg. W.Va. Conners, a
former amateur kickboxer, was excited for the
event and eager to determine whether his
experience in the ring would afford him an
advantage in the contest. The official rules
state that no professional boxers or amateurs
with more than 5 wins in the last 5 years are
allowed to compete in the two-day elimina-
tion tournament. Because Conners has not
fought since he was a young teenager, he
was cleared to participate.

This was the first time a W&L student
has participated in a sanctioned amateur
boxing tournament, and the University was
certainly represented well. In support of
their brother, Connors’ fraternity sent
nearly 40 students to the event, which was
over 80 miles away on Interstate 64. In ad-
dition to Conner’s raucous fan base, nearly
2000 local spectators came in droves to
see their high school quarterback or local
fireman compete. Freshmen and alumni
alike cheered for Conners as he bobbed
and weaved his way to a unanimously de-
cided victory after the full 3-one minute

   

I REALLY AM 21, I SWEAR: Agnello turns his discriminating palate to Scot1and’s greatest treasure, single-malt scotch.

BY MIKE AGNELLO
ASSOCIATE EDITOR

In the spirit of the Mike’s Pub column that appeared in the
Phi last year, I, a different Mike, will review those lively liba-
tions that fail to grace our Natty—soaked gizzards. This week,
Itake on the granddaddy of all hard liquor: single-malt scotch.

Single—malts, as opposed to blended scotch, utilize a
single malt during the distilling process, and do not include
any grain whisky. Blends can be as much as 80% grain.

Since this is my ﬁrst colurrm, I thought it might behoove
my readers to learn how to taste scotch properly. Scots prefer
to taste their spirits in dram glasses, which are little more than
square shooters. But tuck away those memories of playing
quarters at the fraternity house; proper tasters sip slowly.

Fill the dram or shot glass with your scotch of choice.
Inhale deeply while slowly swirling the liquid around the
glass. Write down your observations. The best “tasters”
are so good that they don’t even have to taste.

After a few good sniffs, take a small sip. Swirl the spirit
around your mouth so it touches every part of your tongue.
This is important, because different regions of the tongue
detect the different ﬂavors.

Alcohol column turns to section

rounds of fighting. Judges, in the event of
a decision or a technical knockout, use the
l0—point must system with points awarded
for aggression, power, number of hits, etc.
Conners, ﬁghting under his ring name
“Short Irish,” came out swinging, constantly
attacking his opponent with a ﬂurry of upper-
cuts and haymakers.
Connors said he appreciated the show
support.
“It made a huge difference. Having every-
one there made it a much better experience.”
W&L alumnus John Sensing said, “I wasn’t
going to go, but then I was told he was Irish.”
Before the ﬁght, Conners was admit-
tedly nervous. Though he has had years
of experience in a similar arena, Conners
was stunned at the number of people who
attended the event, which was held in a
large, aluminum warehouse much like the
Virginia Horse Center. As he found out
before the fight, biting, wrestling,
headbutting, and kicking are strictly pro-
hibited in the Toughman competition, and
thus, Conners would simply have to punch
his way to a victory. Fighters are broken
down into 2 weight classes. Men between
160-184 pounds are grouped as Light
Heavyweights, and those between 185-400
are rightfully considered Heavyweights.
Women have an open weight class.

After drinking half the glass, add a little water to the
glass. This reduces the alcohol content, but also allows
the whisky to open up its full bouquet of ﬂavors. Straight
scotch can often cause the imbiber to swallow quickly
before he can get the full benefit of a complete tasting.

For this week’s tasting, I selected Glen Garioch’s eight-
year—old. Glen Garioch is distilled in the Scottish high-
lands by Morrison Bowmore. Scots have been drinking
Glen Garioch for over 200 years. Their long tradition of
quality does not affect the price; a bottle cost only $18.95
at the ABC store. The bottle features a large moose stand-
ing against the majestic backdrop of a Scottish loch.

The Glen Garioch has a good nose, with hints of peat
and rye. This spirit manages to have an alluring odor with-
out numbing the senses.

Unfortunately, this spirit disappoints a bit after sipping.
There is a notable lack of complexity, despite pleasant but-
terscotch and toffee hints. The Glen Garioch is worth the
price, however. and would serve well as an apertif or a re-
placement for beer. Imbibers new to single-malts might do
well to start with this one; no sense hurrying a virgin palate.

Any questions or suggestions? E-mail me at
agnellom@wlu.edu. Cheers.

Conners weighed in at 18] pounds, put-
ting him against a similarly built 35-year-
old Lewisburg native who seemed to have
some experience in the ring as well. After
maintaining a quick, aggressive strategy of
jabbing and moving, Conners was able to
take the other boxer the full 3 rounds.
Though his opponent landed some glanc-
ing punches, Conners connected on sev-
eral punishing blows to the man’s face and
head, resulting in a unanimous decision by
the judges in Conners’ favor.

After the chair—pounding, ﬁst—pumping
fight, which was the 17th bout in a 25—bout
ticket, Conners and his fanatics posed for a
photo before starting their 90-minute drive
back to campus. Much to his delight,
Conners did not sustain any injuries exclud-
ing some minor dehydration and fatigue.

Connors’ feelings before the bell rang
were normal, yet refreshingly comical.

“I was nervous. Ijust didn’t want to
break anything.”

Now, Matt Conners will return to his
daily routine as a history major and a la-
crosse player, trying to experience as much
as he can before graduation.

“Fighting in the Toughman was some-
thing I did for the experience and, of course,
the fun of it.”

read the Phi.

read the Phi.

_read te Phi.

 

JEIEMYFRANRIIN

SPOKISEDHOR

EMAH; FRANl<llI\]@WlU.EDU
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2001

 Rli\?'r’.}-’t‘i.'.\.i PR:

PORT

PAGE 7

ODAC title

Back on top: W&L

Generals use homecounl advantage to
secure 4th conference crown in 5 years

BY ]EREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

Winning three matches in less than 24 hours is a tall
order for any team.

Washington and Lee volleyball was up to the chal-
lenge Friday and Saturday, knocking off Guilford,
Bridgewater and Roanoke en route to their fourth Old
Dominion Athletic Conference championship in ﬁve years.

“You’ve got to come ready to play,” said senior Leslie
Fischbeck, one of two Generals named to the a1l—touma-
ment team. “It’s a big match on your homecourt. We had
the advantage, so we had to be ready to play.”

W&L started off the tournament with a 30-19, 30-26,
30-26 quarterﬁnal win over eighth-seed Guilford. The Gen-
erals looked sloppy at several points in the match, but
played their way out of a 22-18 deficit in the second game
and an early 9-5 hole in the third.

“We deﬁnitely did not play our best, but we played
well enough to win,” said Bryan Snyder, who garnered his
first ODAC title in his second year as coach.

Senior Lindsay Ruckert, the weekend’s MVP and the
other W&L all-toumament selection, had 10 kills and 10
digs against the Quakers. Fischbeck totaled 11 kills, and
freshman Jennifer Lux recorded 35 assists.

The Generals corrected many of their mistakes in Sat-
urday moming’s semiﬁnal win over Bridgewater. Despite
a valiant effort from the defending champion Eagles. W&L
pulled out a 30-21 , 27-30, 30-22, 30-24 victory.

“We did do a good job getting a lot of touches as well
as blocking back, and we hit the ball well,” Snyder ‘said.
“Our passing was a little bit better, so we were able to run
our offense.

“That’s where we have an advantage over most teams:
we have more hitters. Every position out there, we have
someone who can put the ball away.”

After appearing overmatched in the first game,
Bridgewater jumped out to a 9-1 lead in the second. They
led by as much as 21-10 before a rally pulled the Generals
to within a point at 28-27.

Behind the attacking of Ruckert and the serving of
junior Stacey Kimmel, W&L took control of the third game.
Bridgewater played with the Generals in the fourth game,
but W&L took an early lead and never relinquished it.

volleyball wins

MARY GtY/ The Ring-In /2

CAN YOU DIG IT?: Freshman Emily \Wolﬁng (20) prepares to play a ball in \X/&L’s 30-21, 30-20, 30-15 Old Dominion Athletic
Conference championship win over Roanoke. junior Stacey Kimmel (12) and senior Lindsay Ruckert look on.

Ruckert finished with 21 kills, breaking her own school
record for kills in a season —— 446 after the championship
match. Lux tallied 39 more assists. and classmate Emily
Wolfing added 12 digs.

Snyder believed his team saved the best for the cham-
pionship match, a 30-21, 30-20, 30-15 win over surprising
seventh-seed Roanoke. The Maroons’ latest lead in any
of the three games was a 5-4 advantage in the final frame.

“We hadn’t been super-sharp the rest of the weekend,”
he said. “Everything just came together today. We’ve been
ﬁring on about three or four cylinders lately, but today
everybody who was out there made a contribution.”

The Generals looked incredibly sharp at the net against
the Maroons. attacking well and blocking more than an
average shareiof Roanoke attacks.

“Everybody up on the net was really strong,’

9

said

A Ruckert, who contributed 13 kills. “We just got up there

and hit it.” ~

Sewanee Overpowers Generals

iigers too much for W&L swimmers in 1st road meet of the 2001-02 season

BY MICHAEL LEE
SPORTS WRITER

SEWANEE, Tenn.—This weekend saw the Generals’
swim teams on the road at the University of the South, but
the Sewanee Tigers proved to be too much for both teams.

The men’s team ended up losing by a ﬁnal score of l 18-

83. Coach Andrew Pulsifer wasn’t heartbroken — he noted V

a lot of improving times on his team.

“Every guy on the team is getting into better shape
and is bringing his times down,” he said. “Ten of the 13
guys on the trip made season best times, and that’s al-
ways nice.

“There were five close races, including a relay, that
could’ve gone our way, but we got second.”

Pulsifer pointed to Patrick Frankfort as a single domi-
nating swimmer. The junior swam to victory in both the
500 and 1,000 freestyle events. ’

“Sewanee has a very strong class of freshmen this
year. Out of the ﬁve, at least three have a very good shot
at NCAA qualifying times,” Pulsifer said.

With that kind of talent, the Tigers were just too tough to beat.

On the women’s side, the ﬁnal score was 135-75. Coach
Kiki Jacobs Moore was happy with the meet.

“Two of my swimmers got career best times, and every-
one else hit good early season times,” Moore said.

Senior Katie Kennedy swam to a pair of wins in the
200 individual medley and the 100 backstroke. Junior
Kelli Austin won the 100 and 200 freestyle events. Moore
also noted an outstanding performance by her 200 med-

FIIT PHOTO
THE BACKSTROKE:_]ut1iOr Kirk Vogel and the Generals lost to
Sewanee 118-83 on the road on Saturday.

ley relay team of Kennedy, Austin, junior Michelle Moore
and freshman Eleanor Williams.

“Sewanee’s a very deep team — they have a couple of
excellent top swimmers,” Moore said. “After this weekend, we
need a little more conditioning in the longer events, but it’s still
a little early in the season to be expecting too much there.”

Both Pulsifer and Moore were quick to point out that
Sewanee is “a long way to go for a dual meet.”

The women’s team opens their Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence schedule Wednesday with a 7 p.m. home meet against Sweet
Biiar. The men’s team returns to action Nov. 1 8 at Gettysburg.

IELD

{.’.2l-ES
s atr::.r:om

Fischbeck added 12 kills for the Generals, and Lux
amassed 36 assists. Freshman Michelle Chastain ﬁnished
with 12 digs.

W&L receives an automatic bid to the NCAA Touma-
ment, where they will participate in the South Regional on
Nov. 8-11. Snyder knows that his team will face an oppo-
nent tougher than any team the ODAC can throw at them,
and he believes the primary aspect the Generals can im-
prove upon is their consistency.

“We look great at some points, and at some points we
look like it’s the ﬁrst day of practice,” Snyder said. “We’ve
gotten to the point where we know, offensively and defen-
sively, what we want to do. It’s just a matter of doing it.”

Ruckert, meanwhile, hopes that W&L can carry some mo-
mentum from the ODAC Tournament into NCAA competition.

“We’ve just got to keep going, keep doing what we’re
doing,” she said. “We’re at a high level. We just need to
maintain it.”

W&L looks sharper with each match

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

For the Washington and Lee volleyball team, the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference Tournament was a story of
improvement.

The Generals, who lost just two conference games all
season in breezing to a 10-0 ODAC record, played pro-
gressively better in dispatching Guilford, Bridgewater and
Roanoke to win the school’s ﬁfth conference title. V

W&L made several mistakes in Friday night’s match
against the No. 8 Quakers, but managed to pull out a three-
game sweep.

“They weren’ t glaring errors,” W&L coach Bryan Snyder
said of his team’s miscues. “Our passing would be a foot off,
a foot too tight, and then our setter didn’t have any options.
We set bad, and that forced us to hit it out of bounds.”

Snyder found a few other areas for his team to improve
upon before Saturday’s semiﬁnal.

“We didn’t serve-receive well,” he said. “We also
didn’t pass the free balls very well, and that’s really what
we can control.”

The Generals may have played poorly against Guilford,
but more importantly, they picked up their play on the sec-
ond day of the tournament. Against a much tougher oppo-
nent in Bridgewater, W&L pulled out a four—game win.

“(Bridgewater) passed the ball pretty well,” Snyder said.
‘Typically, we get a lot of easy points off serves, and we
didn’t. So the games were a lot closer than they normally are.”

The improvement carried over into the championship
match against Roanoke on Saturday afternoon. Snyder
praised the performance of his team’s two all—toumarnent
selections, seniors Lindsay Ruckert and Leslie Fischbeck,
for their play against the Maroons.

“Fpr two seniors to step up in their last home match, it’s
a great feeling for me to see them do that,” Snyder said.
“Lindsay’s a great player. Whenever everything breaks
down, you can put the ball up there, and she’ll bail you out.
She plays great defense, she blocks, she serves well.

“When Leslie’s on, we’re a great team. (Against
Roanoke) we got her the ball and got her in a rhythm, and
she really played great.”

The Maroons’ aggressive attacking played right into
the Generals’ hands, and the rest is history.

“We had to take advantage of the overpasses, their
mistakes, and that starts at the net,” Fischbeck said.

SCOREBOARD

SATuROAY’s FOOTBALL YARDLINE

Emory and Henry 35, W&L 17
W&L O 7 7 3 — 17
Emory and Henry 7 0 7 21 —- 35
First Quarter
E&H — S. Johnson 7 run (Clark kick), 11:32
Second Quarter
W&L — Thomas 12 pass from Dean (Wiginton kick), 14:51
Third Quarter
W&L — Watson 4 run (Wiginton kick), 7:19
E&H — W. Johnson 8 blocked punt return (Clark kick), 4:21
Fourth Quarter
W&L — Wiginton FG 22, 14:16
E&H — Kickliter 14 pass from S. Johnson (Clark kick), 10:15
E&H — Hammonds 30 run (Clark kick), 8:42
E&H — Kickliter 1 pass from S. Johnson (Clark kick), 7:11
A — 5,728

W&L E&H
First downs 22 14
Rushes-yards 49-281 36-123
Passing yards 104 136
Return yards 97 170
Comp-att-int 11 -27-1 10-26-1
Sacked-yards lost 2-14 1-1
Punts-avg 7-32.4 6-40.5
Fumbles-lost 1-1 0-0
Penalties-yards 1-10 4-25
Time of possession 33:00 27:00

INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS

RUSHlNG—W&L: Sullivan 32-162, Watson 10-103, Dean 7-16.
E&H: Cheatham 14-39, Hammonds 4-34, 8. Johnson 9-29, Satteriield
4-10, Mullins 2-6, Bailey 1-5, Scammell 2-0.

PASSlNG—W&L: Dean 11-27-1 104. E&H: S. Johnson 10-26-1 136.

RECElVlNG—W&L: Sullivan 5-15, Thomas 4-41, Brimer 1-43,
Watson 1-5. E&H: Davis 3-39, Brightbill 2-20, Kickliter 2-15, Green 1-
42, Gardner 1-16, Scammell 1-4.

ODAC MEN’s SOCCER TOURNAMENT '

Results from the 2001 Old Dominion Athletic Conference men’s soccer
championships:

Quarterfinals (Oct. 27 at higher seed)

No. 1 Washington and Lee 2, No. 8 Gullford 1

No. 4 Hampden-Sydney 3, No. 5 Lynchburg 0

No. 2 Roanoke 4, No. 7 Eastern Mennonite 0

No. 3 Virginia Wesleyan 2, No. 6 Emory and Henry 1

Semiilnals (Nov. 2 at Washington and Lee)
No. 2 Roanoke 3, No. 3 Virginia Wesleyan 2, 2OT
No. 1 Washington and Lee 1, No. 4 Hampden-Sydney 0

Championship (Nov. 3 at Washington and Lee)
No. 2 Roanoke 3, No. 1 Washington and Lee 2

All-Tournament Team

Brandan Moffett, Roanoke David Kodack, Washington and Lee
Ryan Pflugrad, Roanoke Chad Quenneville, Hampden-Sydney
Chris Ebeling, Roanoke Rob Comegys, Hampden-Sydney
Harold McConnell, Roanoke Eric Shenloogian, Virginia Wesleyan
Paul Wallace, Washington and Lee Curtis Shank, Virginia Wesleyan

Tim Foley, Washington and Lee '

W&L'SCHEOuLE: NOVEMBER 6-19

Tuesday, Nov. 13
Women’s Swimming
W&L at Hollins, 6:30 p.m.

Wednesday, Nov. 7
Women’s Swimming
Sweet Briar at W&L, 7 p.m.

Friday, Nov. 16
Men’s Basketball
W&L at Haverlord, 6 p.m.

November 8-11
Voﬂeyban
W&L at NCAA South Regional

Saturday, Nov. 17

Cross Country

NCAA Nationals (at Augustana
College, Ill.)

Men’s Basketball

W&L vs. Swarthmore, 1 p.m.

Women’s Swimming

W&L at Swarthmore, 2 pm.

Saturday, Nov. 10
Wrestling
VMI Keydet Invitational, 10 a.m.
Cross Country
W&L at NCAA S/SE Regional

(at Mississippi College)
Women’s Swimming
W&L at Randolph-Macon, 11 a.m.
Football
Greensboro at W&L, 1 p.m.

Sunday, Nov. 18
Men's and Women’s Swimming
W&L at Gettysburg, 12 p.m.

ODAC FOOTBALL GLANCE

Conference Overall
Team W L PF PA W L
Bridgewater 221 113
Emory and Henry 128 107
Washington and Lee 153 127
Hampden-Sydney 160 153
Randolph-Macon 82 158
Guiltord 87 165
Catholic 114 122

P F

348
205
194
258
175
144
191

—tr\Jl\)l'\)<a)(DU‘I

Week of November 10
Greensboro at W&L
Hampden-Sydney at
Randolph-Macon
Emory and Henry at Gulltord
Catholic at Bridgewater

November 3 Results

Emory and Henry 35, W&L 17
Bridgewater 62, Randolph-

Macon 15

Guiliord 32, Catholic 23
Hampden-Sydney 45, Maryville 21

ODAC VOLLEYBALL TOURNAMENT

Results from the 2001 Old Dominion Athletic Conference volleyball
championships, held Nov. 2-3 at Washington and Lee:

Quarterfinals (Nov. 2)

No. 1 Washington and Lee def. No. 8 Guilford 30-19, 30-26, 30-26
No. 5 Bridgewater def. No. 4 Eastern Mennonite 30-26, 30-17, 30-26
No. 7 Roanoke def. No. 2 Lynchburg 23-30, 24-30, 30-16, 30-17, 15-8
No. 3 Emory and Henry def. No. 6 Randolph-Maoon 30-22, 30-28, 30-28

Semifinals (Nov. 3)

No. 1 Washington and Lee def. No. 5 Bridgewater 30-21, 27-30,
30-22, 30-24

No. 7 Roanoke def. No. 3 Emory and Henry 30-20, 32-30, 30-27

Championship (Nov. 3)
No. 1 Washington and Lee def. No. 7 Roanoke 30-21, 30-20, 30-15

All-Tournament Team

Heather Cook, Roanoke

Holly Everhart, Emory and Henry
Leslie Fischbeck, Washington and Lee
Sarah French, Bridgewater

Holly Holland, Roanoke

Lindsay Ruckert, Washington and Lee

  

PAGE 8

  

Men’s soccer falls

Mtzt. Ftikimt \ / ’l in Rzngtrrzir P/21'

TWO-GOAL SCORER: Freshmanjustin Mygatt attempts to elude Roanoke’s Tsuyoshi
Oshika in \‘v'&L’s 3-2 loss in the Old Dominion Athletic Conference ﬁnals at the
Liberty Hall Fields. 1\'lygatt scored both ofthe Generals’ goals.

Mistakes prve cotly fr &L

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

EMORY—Emory and Henry con-
verted two blocked punts, a fumbled
kickoff and an interception into
touchdowns Saturday in handing
Washington and Lee a 35-17 defeat
on the gridiron.

Junior Chris Sullivan rushed 32
times for 162 yards, and senior Marc
Watson added 103 yards on 10 car-
ries for the Generals (4-5, 3-3 Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference). W&L
outgained the Wasps (5-4, 3-2) 385-
259 in total offense.

“I for sure believed this was the
year to knock off Emory and Henry,”
said Frank Miriello, who hasn’t de-
feated the Wasps in seven tries as
W&L’s head coach. “Defensively and
offensively, we accomplished that.
Special teams and our critical turnover
proved our demise.

“It’s very disappointing, and again
we played well enough on offense and
defense to pull out that victory.”

Emory and Henry got on the
board in the first quarter after block-
ing sophomore Whit Whitfie1d’s
punt. Quarterback Shannon
Johnson scored on a 7-yard run
three plays later.

  

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 53991

to Roanoke in ODAC championship

Generals knock oit Hampden-Sydney in semiﬁnals before dropping 3-2 decision to No. 2 Maroons in title game

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee men’s
soccer team defeated Hampden-
Sydney in a semifinal match before
falling to Roanoke Saturday in the
championship game of the Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference Tourna-
ment at the Liberty Hall Fields.

The Generals advanced to the fi-
nals with a 1-0 win over the Tigers on
Friday. Senior Paul Wallace scored the
only goal of the match, an unassisted
tally, at the 16:20 mark of the first half.

“Scoring a goal was big with a 1-0
win,” W&L coach Rolf Piranian said.
“That was a great run, too. Obviously,
it was a big-time goal.”

Despite attempting 10 comer kicks,
eight of which came in the second half,
Hampden-Sydney couldn’t put the
ball past W&L junior goalkeeper Tim
Foley. The closest call, an apparent

Fill Photo

OVER THE CENTURY MARK: Senior Marc Watson rushed 10 times for 103 yards and
a touchdown in \lv'&l.’s 35-l7 road loss to Emory and Henry on Saturday.

W&L sophomore quarterback Pe-
ter Dean connected with junior Jay
Thomas on the opening play of the
second quarter for a 12-yard touch-
down and a 7-7 tie.

The Generals went up 14-7 midway
through the third quarter on a 4-yard
Watson TD run. But three minutes later,
Willie Johnson retumed another blocked
Whitﬁeld punt eight yards for a score.

Senior Brad Wiginton put W&L
back up 17-14 early in the fourth with
a 22-yard field -goal. The kick was
Wiginton’s 11th of the season, a
school record.

After that point, the Wasps took
over. Johnson hit Brett Kickliter for a
14-yard touchdown pass. Following
a Dean interception, Dan Hammonds
rushed for a 30-yard TD.

goal by Pat Whitehead, was negated
because of an offside call.

Meanwhile, Foley made four
saves in recording his fourth shut-
out of the season.

“They definitely had the height on
us, which helped them for their cor-
ner kicks,” Foley said. “But I don’t
really get worried a lot because we
have a solid defense. The games we
have trouble in are when we can’t get
our offense clicking.”

W&L also had several chances to
add to their lead after halftime, par-
ticularly in the closing stages of the
game. Sophomore Philip Miller drilled
a shot off the post in the 88th minute.
Freshman Justin Mygatt had a pair of
chances shortly after, including a
header that was saved by the Tigers’
Austin Krison.

Despite the win, Piranian believed
his team Could have turned in a stron-
ger performance.

football

W&L fumbled the ensuing kickoff,
and Johnson found Kickliter for a 1-
yard score to give Emory and Henry
an 18-point cushion.

Sullivan’s rushing effort pushed
him up to 1,071 yards for the year,
making him just the fifth player in
W&L history to rush for more than
1,000 in a season.

“He’s a ﬁne football player, and I’m
looking forward to him having a good
game next week and agreat season
next year,” Miriello said of Sullivan.
"Hopefully he’ll be an all-conference
tailback selection, which he well de-
serves. He’s really done a great job
this year.”

Despite the loss to the Wasps,
Miriello believes his team has im-
proved on last season’s 2-4 confer-
ence mark. The Generals have been
competitive in every ODAC contest,
something that didn’t happen in 2000.

“lt would have been nice to get that
win,” Miriello said. “We’re 3-3 in the
conference, and that’s an improve-
ment. It’s a step in the right direction,
and we‘ve got a fantastic nucleus of
returning lettermen (next season).”

W&L concludesthe 2001 season
Saturday at home against Greensboro.
The teams are set to kick off at 1 p.m.
at Wilson Field.

  Lexington-
Rockbridge County
United Way seeks
webmaster for new
webpage.
Minimal 1
experience
required.  

Con1'ac1'         
mcdermo1'rm@wlu . edu  

“I’d say our kids can play a lot
better than they showed,” the vet-
eran coach said. “We played good
enough to win, and that was about
the extent of it.”

The Generals were unable to repeat
their performance on Saturday, as
Roanoke jumped out to a 3-0 lead
18:15 into the ﬁrst half on goals by
Brandan Moffett, Harold McConnell
and Ryan Pflugrad.

The match quickly adopted a
physical nature, as four Maroons —
including assistant coach Dustin
Fonder — and two Generals received
yellow cards. Roanoke’s Regi
Francois was thrown out of the match
on a red card in the 13th minute.

W&L staged a late rally, as
Mygatt scored twice: the first at
68:39 in the second half off an_as-
sist from sophomore Bret Grote, and
the second with 2:35 remaining by
way of a Miller assist.

“Definitely a highlight,” Piranian
said of Mygatt’s performance. “A lot
of the highlights came from our young
kids. A lot of our veterans didn’t play
exactly well, and the young kids re-
ally picked us up.”

Piranian was also pleased that his
team didn’t pack it in after the first half.

“I would have preferred to see 90
minutes of soccer,” he said. “But I’m
glad we didn’t quit. lt’s a little more
uplifting than getting shellacked 3-0.”

The Generals ﬁnished the year with
an overall record of 12-4-1. Although
they had hoped for a repeat of 2000’s
ODAC title, the team’s first since 1989,
W&L did win the regular season con-
ference crown.

“There’s only been two teams (in
school history) that had more wins
than we had,” Piranian said. “But
I’d be lying to you ifl said I didn’t
think the team was capable of a
little bit more.” ‘

South Regional

Next week on the sports pages of the Phi
-Coverage of the W&L volleyball team in the NCAA

-Previews of men’s and women’s basketball

-Continued coverage of all varsity athletics

 

t3?7s.75’5

"R ’2_
- x/Sgt

T:-I? Ram;-'5'
mo. M. INSIDE

I \z PI-LI

UNDER SIEGE (I3 PAGE 2
AsHt:I<or'I‘ r..I:..-ms (TH:XRC;E
."«C}Al.\S’E‘ crvn. I'.lISF.R'1"lF.S.
W&L SPIKED (1) PAGE 5

\"'(‘>l,l.I"x‘{l%AI.l. r.r..>:~:r;.s TO
l':':‘.-.\.r< Irzv IN S<n,=TI-I
RIIat;r<‘>>¢.=rI. .\l“..‘.ilI<l;’\‘=-'\E.

I ’ ‘z:7<:i;I= \‘Z’.asIr're.\cT: is my Lars; [Ts lK'§€RStT\' sttx-I:I~;

Wiser;  AND LEE U; nvnnsrrr

NG-TUM

1180"‘ (I) O.\‘r.r.\: Jar: P?-§t.'\\; $.i...E:f)

JAMES G. LEYSLWJ LIBRARY
WASHINOWUEN & LE UNNIWSITY
 VA M

NW 1 62001

PHI

Tar. Ilxrsr.-1*-'I.r PHI
I DEX

OPINIC)NS
SPORTS

24/ 7
S(:I:)Rr.B<).ARD

THE PHI WILL
RETURN DEC. 3.

“I-’="sr.:‘.‘.Ir.: CIV’,  XIV

l.r.:>:I'\;~::r‘:;,\», \.7§;‘<.’r':E'\.'l.~‘». L.’.é"+§-it

i\I();\-§.).’r'I’, E\Er';vr.i:sER 12, 2601

  . Run on ﬂu vaccinations; students get first shot

V

I‘

‘.

FLU FACTS

Influenza causes feve
muscle aches.

Flu season lasts from Nov

First two days:

Fever and aches.

mfru-eusrsn

The best time to get the 5

or November.
WHAT TO EXPECT AFTER A
Soreness, redness or swelling

I Any other reactions, such as hig
71 ' need immediate medical attent

te who have received the vacc
they usually get milder cases.
-—Courtesy

more conIII'rsI'YAHoo.co\I, INK)R.\lATlON corrpnrn BY IATRINA Srorqss, l.\FOGlL\PHl(. BYAUS()N TRIx1DAI)/ TI-ir~; Ri.\(;-Tl )1 PHI

Nelson and Jefferson most dangerous crossing

BY MIKE AGNELLO
ASSOCIATE EDITOR

More cars collide at the intersection of Nelson and
Jefferson streets than any other place in Lexington, ac-

cording to police data.

The intersection, one of Lexington’s busiest, has been

the site of several car crashes each year, accounting for
nearly half of all accidents in Lexington’s downtown area.

Police cite Nelson Street’s hilly terrain and proximity
to U.S. Route 11 as the primary factors.

Senior Jeremy Kirkland crashed his Dodge Durango
into a trafﬁc signal at the intersection on Nov. 5 after slam-
ming on his brakes to avoid a Sweetbriar University stu-
dent running a red light.

Kirkland said Lexington’s narrow streets and buildings’
close proximity to the streets contributed to the accident.

, “I could tell she wasn’t going to stop, and I hit my
brakes,” Kirkland said. “I could tell she hit hers as soon as
she saw me, but by then it was too late.”

Other accident—prone intersections include
Jefferson and Washington, Main and Washington, and
Main and Nelson.

The top three causes of accidents are driver inatten-
tion, hit—and-run and failing to yield right—of—way.

Those three types of accidents accounted for
more than half of all Lexington car accidents from
1997-2000, according to Beard’s 2000 report to Lex-
ington City Council.

Beard could not be reached for comment.

KirklarId’s accident was statistically oneof the most
common in Lexington.

His car collided with a driver who failed to yield right
of way at Jefferson and Nelson. When told how common
his accident was, Kirkland said Lexington should do more
to make drivers visible.

Buena Vista recently adopted ﬂashing lights at its
busiest sections to alleviate traffic accidents.

By PETER QUACKENBUSH
START WRITER

Students have priority for ﬂu vaccina-
tions this season at the Student Health Cen-
ter, or Infirmary, because a nationwide vac-
cine shortage has caused a shipment delay.

Four major manufacturers reported dif-
ﬁculties in making the vaccines last year,
and the delay has cut into this year’s pro-
duction cycle.

The Infirrnary has received 150 doses
of the vaccine and expects to receive 200
more in early December.

To accommodate the delay, Washing-
ton and Lee Director of Health Services Jane
Horton said the vaccine will only be offered
to students until the additional vaccine is
received. .

Horton said the Student Health Center
vaccinated about 450 people in 1999, the most
it had done. Only 150 of those vaccinated
were students. In the past, twice as many
faculty and staff members as students got
their ﬂu shots at the Inﬁrmary, said Horton.

Although she encourages students to
get theirs as early as possible, Horton says
it is never too late to get a shot.

In addition to the vaccine, increased
hand washing can help students avoid get-
ting sick. Horton advises those who are
sick to avoid close environments.

Most students and faculty, however, do
not seem to be worried.

“I didn’t think I needed one,” said fresh-
man Chasen Hutchens, who has never got-
ten a shot. “But I heard they hurt.”

According to the Centers for Disease
Control, dormitories or other crowded areas
are considered higher-risk outbreak spots
than most places.

“It makes more sense for students liv-
ing in dormitories to get the shot,” Horton
said. That makes freshmen the most likely
students to get the ﬂu.

Freshman David Larson, showed disbe-
lief at his increased chance of catching the ﬂu
He said, “I have faith in my immune system.”

Junior Joanna James does not have any
plans to take the shot either.

“I don’t take shots if I don’t have to,”
she said. “I’ll try and not get sick.”

Staff and faculty members that are more
likely to need the vaccination have relied on
the Inﬁrmary in the past, including the staff
of Leybum Library.

“We try to get the vaccine because we’re
handling so many books. We tend to get most of
the student diseases,” said Circulation Supervi-
sor Vicki Sessions. “I know a few tried to get it
earlierfromtheirdoctors, but weren’tab1e to.”

The staff tends to get very sick after the
major breaks, she said.

“We think that we have good immune
systems,” Sessions said, “but the students
always come up with something new.”

Horton pointed out that the faculty re-
lies on their primary care physicians, not the
health center. The hospital does not have
sufﬁcient vaccine doses to hold a ﬂu vac-
cine clinic at W&L.

The cost for vaccinations at the Stu-
dent Health Center is $7 and comes with a
free lollipop.

—Latrina Stokes contributed to this story.

Godspell raises
bar in student drama

BY MATIHEW MCDERMUIT
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Godspell, the ﬁrst student-directed production to open

Beard’s 2001 report will come out in early 2002.

‘E-mail news briefs to pIu'@wlu.edu. 

Looking for women

Women’s Forum is accepting
nominations for Inspiring Campus
Woman of the Year.

In 150 words or less explain
why the nominee, any female mem-
ber of the W&L community, is in-
spirational. Submit nominations to
envelopes in the Science Center,
Library and Co-op, or email to
gilkesonn@wlu.edu by Wednes-
day, Nov. 14. Winners will be rec-
ognized in an upcoming issue of
She Says.

Beauty pageant winner
speaks on feminisim

Meghan Shanley, Miss Virginia
2001, will speak in N orthen Audito-
rium at 7:00 PM. on Tuesday. Shanley
will address the topic of femininity
in feminism, with a question/answer
period to follow. Knowledge Empow-
ering Women Leaders (KEWL),
Women’s Forum and the Rockbridge
Area NOW are sponsoring the event.
All members of the W&L commu-
nity are welcome.

;\xr r:oIRII=n' ( )F r3'x.m.\I, l.\JFORI\L\Tl( )N (.0.\lPllFI) In I\rlll\'F. Acmrx) FROM  POIKF. DFPARMIFNI 2000 Ar~.MtAI. RI-'.voIrrTo THE Cm’ COUNCIL

l.\l‘0GRAPHIC BY KATIE HowFrr/ THE RII\'G~71M PHI

on Lenfest Tl1eater’s main stage, will raise curtain on Nov. 30.

Produced and directed by junior Neal Willetts, a his-
tory and theater major, the rock musical is a remake of the
1970’s retelling of the Gospel of Matthew.

Historically, main stage produc-
tions are directed by a faculty member
or senior student pursuing a thesis.
Godspell is instead being performed by

1 members of Mindbending Productions.

“I’m excited by the opportunity,”
Wrﬂetts said “It can seem overwhelm-
ing, but I love the chance to see how a
complete production can come together.”

Over the past ﬁve years, Willetts
has acted or managed 35 productions. He previously di-
rected “You’re a Good Man, Charlie Brown.”

This is the ﬁrst time that Mindbending Productions
has performed anything more complex than a one-act play.

Mindbending Productions is an undergraduate student
theater troup for those interested in theater, but do not have
the time to commit to a normal Theater Department play.

Starring freshmen Matthew Durham as Jesus and Jus-
tin Houston as John the Baptist/Judas, the ten members of
the cast have been rehearsing four or ﬁve days a week for
the past two months. '

Willetts estimates that he spends at least ten hours a
week on the production. On ‘Tech Week,’ the week prior to
opening,’ he estimates that he will spend ﬁve hours a day
on the musical.

“When I’m sitting center of the front aisle and hear the
audience applaud for the first time, then I can relax and
enjoy the show.”

Virginia votes for Democrat

Democrat Mark Warner won
VIrginia’s gubernatorial race last Tues-
day, beating Republican candidate
Mark Earley. Warner is the first Demo-
cratic candidate to be elected gover-
nor in Virginia in a dozen years, win-
ning the majority of votes in Lexing-
ton, Buena Vista and Rockbridge
County.

Democrat Tim Kaine was elected
lieutenant governor over Republican
Jay Katzen, while Republican Jerry
Kilgore took the attorney general po-
sition from Democrat Donald
McEachin.

/FC and Panhel winterize

local homes

Approximately 90 W&L frater-
nity and sorority members spent Sat-
urday, Nov. 3, helping needy area
residents winterize their homes and
save on forthcoming heating bills.
The students volunteered to hang
and seal plastic sheeting to the win-
dows of about 20 homes in
Rockbridge County. ~

UNDERTHESPEII.

I>IIorr0s BY Mrzc FF.RRARA/T/.Ic Ringtxm Pin‘

Frsrs or FURY. Hipnotized, junior Kanishka Thakur demonstrates his
martial arts skills at Tom DeLuca’s show last Friday. The Student Activies
Board event played to an almost full house.


may

Government ofﬁces closed to cel-
ebrate Veteran’s Day.

7 p.m.—Intemational Education
workshop. “How to market your ex-

perience.” Room 114, University -

Center.

8:30 p.m.—Java at the GHQ.
Poston Brown Project.
Tuesday,Nov.13

5 p.m.—Health Professions
Seminar. “Military Medical School
Admissions,” LTC Peter Stavish, as-
sistant dean for adrrrissions and aca-
demic records, University of the
Health Sciences, Bethesda Md.
Room 316, New Science Building,
VMI.

7 p.m.—Lecture. Meghan
Shanley, Miss Virginia 2001. Northen
Auditorium.

8 p.m.—Concert Guild. Borromeo
String Quartet. Lenfest Center.
Wednesday,Nov. 14.

7 p.m.—- International Per-
forming Arts Series 2001-2002.
Gamelan Wthatnala, a group per-
forming Balinese music, dance
and shadow puppetry. Lenfest
Center.

8 p.m.-«AA meeting. Fairfax
Lounge.

Friday, Nov. 16

Thanksgiving Break begins after
classes.
Thursday, Nov.22
Thanksgiving.
Monday,Nov.26
Classes resume.
'Ilresday,Nov.27

7 p.m.—-Endowed Professorship
Lecture. George Kester, W&L profes-
sor of managrnent, The Mamie Fox
'I‘wyman Martel Professorship. Recep-
tion to follow. Northen Auditorirun.
Wednesday, Nov.28 .

7:30 p.m.—Roots lecture. “Prophets
of Theosophy: The Spiritual Journeys of
Madame Blavatsky and Col. Olcott,”
GananathObeyesekere,Prinoet(mUniver-
sity.Nor1iIen Auditorium

8 p.m.—AA meeting. Fairfax
Lounge.

Friday, Nov.30

7:30 p.m.—FI1m Society. “Apoca-
lypse Now, Redux” (USA, 1979/2001),
directed by Francis Ford Coppola.
Troubadour Cinema.

8 p.m.—-Musical. “Godspell,” di-
rected by junior Neil Willetts. Pro-
duced by Mindbending Productions,
W&L student theater troupe; Johnson
Theatre, Lenfest Center.

Saturday, Dec. 1

7:30 p.m.—-Fihn Society. “Apoca-
lypse Now, Redux” (USA, 1979/2001),
directed by Francis Ford Coppola.
Troubadour Cinema.

8 p.m.—-Musical. “Godspell,” di-
rected by junior Neil Willetts. Pro-
duced by Mindbending Productions,
W&L student theater troupe. Johnson
Theatre, Lenfest Center.

 

 

s. '- t."~i.‘-.

 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2001

TIIEl{I>;<_‘r'tir:IrI‘l}.eI:
STAEE EDITORIAL
Donn Counselors: D—hall’s
self—segregating minority

Dorm Counselors surround freshmen, their
tender charges, with love and support. At least
until they enter the Dining Hall.

There the previously solicitious upperclass-
men retreat to their isolated table, ﬂanked to
the rear by a wooden partition and buffered on
the side by the buffet table. Freshmen are ver-
boten, and when a first-year tresspasses, pen-
alties are created and enforced.

“I feel unwanted,” one freshman conﬁded
to a Phi staffer. “Why won’t (dorm counse-
lors) eat with us?”

When this question was posed to one of
these deliquent counselors, she answered that
she and her counterparts “like to eat with our
friends.”

Is this really a satisfactory answer?

Considering that dorm counselors receive
21 meals a week gratis, is it too much to ask
them to spend seven with their wards? After
all, upperclassmen socialization can take place
after eight p.m., when the freshmen leave for
one country house or the other.

It is admittedly true that Resident Assis-
tants are also frequent visitors to the Table of
Exclusion. But this is an entirely different
proposition. Few sophomores, juniors and se-
niors like to be seen with their “hall cops,” much
less regularly eat in the Dining Hall.

But freshmen are not hardened upperclass-
men. They are fresh and earnest, desperately
seeking the approval of their elders. They need
to know what accounting class to take or what
type of khakis to wear.

To deny them this vital exposure to their
betters is to injure the entire body collegiate.
Traditions cannot solely be passed on in the
classroom or on the playing ﬁeld. The bonding
that takes place while eating cannot be over-
rated.

Think of Laetitia Pate Evans, and the dis-
appointment she would feel if she knew dorm
counselors were routinely shirking their duties.
Like all mothers, she worries about her babies,
the freshmen. And if we can’t respect the per-
son for whom our premier eating establishment
is named, we have no right to call ourselves
gentlemen and ladies. , , ,

Eat with the freshmen, dorm counselors.

UOTE OF THE WEEK:

YOU’RE PROBABLY GOING TO
SAY SOMETHING ABOUT MY
POINTY BRA.

—OVERLY-LIBERATED PHI ASSOCIATE EDITOR

THE 

Editor-in-chief
Associate Editor
Layout Editor

News Editor

Asst. News Editor
Opinions Editor
Asst. Opinions Editor
Sports Editor

Asst. Sports Editor

Matthew B. McDermott
Mike Agnello
Katie Howell
Alison Trinidad
Latrina Stokes
Brett T. Kirwan
Andrew Latimer
Jeremy Franklin
Dave Crowell
Mary Guy

Meg Ferrara

J eb Brooks

Paul Seifert
Emily Barker
Robert Floyd
William Litton
Brian Castleberry
Charlie Tonelli
Peter Djalaliev

Photo Editor
Photographers

Business Manager
Asst. Business Manager
Advertising Manager

Circulation Director
Internet Editor

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editor-in-chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following weeks edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and colurrms do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion-of the Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court defun-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi.wlu.edu

THE Rl?.\‘=(3»~’l'UM PIII

PINIONS

Ashcroft undct libties

Have I ever mentioned that I think
Attorney General John Ashcroft is a
terrifying human being? He is terrify-
ing for only one reason: his politics.

In a move that shocked the
nation’s defense attorneys, their cli-
ents and civil libertarians, Ashcroft
armounced the Justice Department has
approved what will be known as the
“eavesdropping rule.” This will allow
the Justice Department to listen in on
conversations and monitor mailings
between lawyers and clients in federal
custody whenever deemed necessary
to prevent violence or terrorism.

Ashcroft armounced the plan in
conjunction with the decision’s writ-
ten release in the Federal Register on
October 31st. It reads as follows:
“(I)n those cases where the attorney
general has certiﬁed that reasonable
suspicion exists . . . this rule amends
the existing regulations to provide
that the Bureau is authorized to moni-
tor mail or communications with at-
torneys in order to deter such (vio-
lent or terrorist ) acts . . 

The rule took effect immediately,
without the usual waiting period for
public comment. The rule allows this
interception of communication, not
only in cases where a person has been
convicted of a crime, but even in cases
where a conviction has yet to be
made. It allows this interception be-
tween clients in custody and their at-
torneys for up to a year at a time.

This move from Ashcroft follows
the signing of the USA Patriot Act by
President Bush last week.

The Act gives the government a
freer hand to conduct searches, de-
tain or deport suspects, eavesdrop on
Internet communications, monitor ﬁ-
nancial transactions and obtain elec-
tronic records on indi-
viduals. All this was
accompanied with an
announcement by
Ashcroft on Novem-
ber 8, that there will be a reorganiza-
tion of the Justice Department and FBI
to concentrate on terrorism. I agree
with defense attorneys, their clients
and other political activists; how is
this not a gross violation of the attor-
ney client privilege? , _ .

Irwin Schwartz, president of the
National Association of Criminal De-
fense Lawyers, denounced this deci-
sion as “an abomination,” and said it
would be challenged in court at the
first available opportunity.

Moreover, immediately following
the armouncement, Senate Judiciary
Committee chairman Senator Patrick
Leahy (D—Vt.) fired a furious letter off
to Ashcroft. Leahy gave the Attorney
General a list of questions to be an-
swered by tomorrow, including the
constitutional basis for intercepting

Letters to the Editor

Capitalism doesn’t equal consen/atism

Dear Editor,

In his editorial “Conservatism wins war of ideas,”
Brett Kirwan claims that Lech Walesa, in his adddress to
the W&L community, armounced the end of history. That
is, a victory of conservatism over communism. Sadly,
Kirwan seems to have misinterpreted President Walesa

on several core points.

First, was the Cold War really an ideological struggle
between communism and conservatism? Capitalism has
prevailed, yes. But that is not the same as conservatism.
The latter is only one end of the political spectrum within

the capitalist system.

European style social democracy is not as such
conservative. But it is not communist either, what-
ever Kirwan might think. At the most, one could call
the free market system “classicly liberal,” to use
Kirwan’s words. And even that means stretching the

ICII11.

LEFT OF CENTER.
NICK RAMSEY ‘O3

BREITT. KIRWAN
OPINIONS FDIIOR

EMAll;l<lRWANB@WlU.EDU

PHOTO lILUS'l'Rr\TIO.\' t‘\;\lDRF.\‘(' LA”il.\lF,R/ T/re Ring-tzw1P/Ji, photo courtesy USATOday.com

DISREGARD: AshcrOft’s decision eviscerates the Sixth Amendment.

attomey—client communications. The
letter also warned Ashcroft to expect
“prompt hearings on these matters.”

“I am deeply troubled at what ap-
pears to be an executive effort to ex-
ercise new powers without judicial
scrutiny or statutory authorization,”
Leahy wrote.

The Justice Department did not
respond to inquiries about Leahy’s
letter but has issued a statement de-
scribing the rule as a mere extension
of existing restrictions on certain in-
mates in terrorism-re-
lated cases. It also
tried to delegitirrnze
the problem by say-
ing “only 13 of
158,000 federal prisoners would be
affected.” The issue here is not num-
bers, but the gross violation of the
right to counsel, guaranteed by the
Sixth Amendment.

Schwartz commented, “If we
can’t speak with a client confiden-

tially, we may not speak with him at ‘

all. And if we can’t do that, the client
is stripped of his Sixth Amendment
right to have a lawyer.”

According to The Washington
Post, the Justice Department defends
its decision, stating it will set up “pro—
cedural safeguards” to protect the
right to counsel. Inmates and their at-
torneys will be notified “of the
government’s listening activities.”
Monitoring of communications is to
be done by a special “taint team” that
will not disclose what it hears to fed-

eral prosecutors or investigators with-
out approval by a federal judge.

The critics are not satisfied.
“Who’s going to be on the taint team?”
asked Kate Martin, director of the Cen-
ter for National Security Studies. She
does not see how information can be
processed without sharing it with oth-
ers also mulling over evidence.

The American Civil Liberties
Union’s national office released a
statement that was especially critical
on the eavesdropping on persons yet
to be convicted. “The idea that this
could be happening to innocent
people is really disturbing.” The
ACLU also went on to add that a
lawyer’s effectiveness could be dra-
matically hindered when the govem—
ment is peering over his shoulder. A
client may become fearful of disclos-
ing all that the attorney needs to know
to mount a forceful defense.

The question really is, how long
can Americans sit back and allow
Washington to take further advan-
tages of our basic liberties? There is a
huge difference between the protec-
tion of liberty and protection at the
cost of liberty. What is most frighten-
ing is the ease with which Ashcroft
implemented these plans with seem-
ingly no guilty conscious or concern
for their ramiﬁcations.

Ashcroft stood at a podium
adorned with the seal of the Depart-
ment of Justice featuring a picture of
Lady. Justice, fully unaware of what
these symbols really represent.

The Mullahs of Iran punish abortion by executing
both the women who have it performed, and those who

perform it. Champions of free trade they are not. Reversely,

dead.

no one would in earnest call pro—chioce Wall Street liber-
als like Jon Corzine socialist.

Thirdly, and most lamentably, how can Kirwan pro-
claim an end of history? Thus far, everyone who did
so was disproven by the same history he presumed

From Karl Marx to Francis Fukuyama, they were all
plain wrong. Even if international politics is moving in a
more conservative direction, that trend needs not con-
tinue indefinitely. And talking about U.S. taxes and abor-

tion laws does not established the existence of a global

still alive.

Secondly, does abortion have anything to do with

the victory of capitalism? Taxes and welfare may. But there
is no inherent connection between classical liberalism and

social conservatism.

    

 

“Because they’re hungover.” .

—-Shelby Stephens ‘05

TALlAcI<::  

Sincerely,

"Ihey are spoiled by major
college football at home.”
--Philip Watson, ‘02

 

“Because they are napping.”
--Catherine Torrey Stroud, ‘O5

trend in the first place.

If Kirwan really possesses the prophetic genius it
takes to explain world history, I bow down in respect. I
have no such claim to the title of Mind of the Century.
So until history proves otherwise, I assume that it is

Hendrik Puschmann ,‘05

See LETTERS, Page 3

 
  

 

“Because they are scared

of terrorist attack.”
--Eddie Eichler, ‘02

PAGE 3
Time warp traps
reflex, retro feminists

Recently, many friends and family have accused me
of being a woman-hating, sexist pig stuck in the dark
ages of male dominance and intolerance. They say I
want every woman to wear ankle—length dresses, speak
only when spoken to and exist solely as an object of
men’s desires. Nothing could be further from the truth.
However, I think it’s time for men to stand up and ﬁght
for what they’ve been losing for the past century—tl1e
leadership of society.

Men naturally lost much power after granting
women the right to vote in 1920. As with so many
other social issues, however, things went too far in
the 1960s. Pop music, always geared more toward
women, featured male stars singing “I Want to Hold
Your Hand” when they really wanted to do much more.

This seemingly innocent movement in the popu-
lar culture spawned a hideous beast: the feminist
movement. Men became the enemy of a bra—buming
feminist move-
ment that villified

any male display SLIRRERY SOAPBOX
or practice of

MIKE AGNELLO ‘02
power. Some even ”*““*“"1—”

went as far as to classify the act of sex itself as in-
herently violent and male—dominated. Women
fought for “rights” that are largely non—existent, like
the “right” to have a day—care center at their work-
place, or the “right” to take extra days off from work
for childcare. Any man will tell you that his boss
never once asked him if he needed time off to care
for his sick little ones, or to take them to a soccer
match. ‘ ’

Women deserve the same treatment. A sick child
might not be the mother’s fault, but it certainly is not
the employer’s. Being a man is hard, and being equal
to men necessarily means equal difficulty. Equal pay
for equal work should mean exactly that, with no
caveats.

Because of evolving social norms in the work-
place and the home, women are not equal to men;
they are superior. Women have choices that men sim-
ply do not have. Most states say that the right to
abort a child is the mother’s alone, excluding juve-
niles—who require only parental permission. Nothing
could be more chauvinistic.

' Women can sue, and usually win, lawsuits against
employers for sex discrimination if they aren’t promoted
as quickly—even though they often don’t spend nearly
as much time working if they decide to have a family.
The law also heavily favors women in custody and child
support cases. In many states, men are forced to pay
wife support (a.k.a. alimony) to ex-wives who make more
money thanthey do. Worse,rrich men who divorce with-
out a prenuptual agreement are forced to perpetuate their
ex-wives’ spoiled existence until the day they die. How
does being married to a rich man entitle you to a lifetime
of luxury? Those girls who move without interruption
from their father’s house to the sorority house to their
husband’s house should have a fourth stop—the poor
house.

Many women justiﬁably complain about the lack
of gentlemanly manners in modern society. But what
caused this? The idea of showing extra respect for
women is derived from archaic ideas about their infe-
riority. Because women were smaller and physically
weaker, they were assumed to have less intelligence
and backbone, and required extra courtesy and defer-
ence. Why should we be surprised that this defer-
ence has been thrown to the dogs in our “enlight—
ened” era of equality? There’s nothing wrong with
traditional manners, and there’s nothing wrong with
equal treatment. Just don’t expect the two to always
go hand-in—hand.

Feminists, in defense of their radical proposals,
say they are trying to “empower” women. Empower
them to do what, and for whom? To kill unborn chil-
dren? To bring the machine of capitalism to a grinding
halt with their expensive and ridiculous demands in the
workplace? To force an exaggerated notion of equality
that (so far) is unjustiﬁable morally, ethically and logis-
tically?

The bottom line: where women have choices,
men have responsibilities. In keeping with this
gross inequity in our society, men should take re-
sponsibility for their brethren and enforce true gen-
der justice.

Women and men are equal? Fine. Let’s start re-
quiring 18-year old girls to sign up for the draft.
Women can alternate door-holding duties with men.
Women who murder can get the death penalty just as
often as their male counterparts. Men can abandon
their tedious, old-fashioned duties of being the pri-
mary provider. Sound ridiculous? You bet it does.
But American society is drawing dangergously close
to this model. Pull your bra out of the fire, sista friend———
the war is over.

 

“I don’t know, I don’t

usually come.”
--Dave Kodack, ‘O2

’ V.

I

  

 

PAGE 3

Uriuions

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2001;

Voting: Both pleasure ad duty

Riciiiiiiiiié
IMRAN NAEEMULLAH ‘05

Last Tuesday, I took a big
step in my life: I voted for the
first time. I walked into the Lex-
ington Fire Station, showed the
election judge my voter registra-
tion card, and headed to the bal-
lot machine to cast my vote. I
share this little anecdote not to
announce to the world that I
voted for the first time, but to
celebrate democracy.

As corny as it sounds, when
I walked out of the fire station
into the fresh air, the first thing I
saw was the American ﬂag flying
high. I felt proud. Proud not so
much for going through a rite of
passage, but for what that rite of
passage stands for.

I thought how wonderful it is
that Ijust went and exercised my
franchise as a free citizen of the
United States of America. No-
body stood outside telling me
whom do vote for,‘ nor did any-
body criticize me for my vote af-
terward. Instead, I was free to
know that I played as equal a role
in our democracy as any other
voter in this country. ,

This is certainly not the case
in Afghanistan, which as I write
we are bombing because its gov-
ernment does not share the same
ideals, and instead, believes in op-
pressing its citizens and support-
ing terrorists, for reasons un-
known to anyone else—it is cer-
tainly not for Islam.

Nor is it the case in count-
less other countries around the
world. Even in relatively “free”
countries like Singapore, a
model society in Southeast
Asia, the government coerces
its citizens into voting for the
“right” par.ty—the one already
in power.

No, in America, and a hand-
ful of other countriesin the

CELEBRATE AMERICA: Taken in 1945,
this picture captures the emotion and
dignity of these Americans too-long
denied, and at long last granted, their

world, we can be proud that we
are truly free. Our political sys-
tem may not
be free of
corruption,
because no
government
is perfect.
We may not
always have
model politi-
cians, but at
least we can
exercise our minds freely.

This has not always been
the case. Women were not al-

No, in America, and a handful of
other countries in the world, we can
be proud that we are truly free. Our
political system rnay not be free of
corruption, because no government is
perfect.

right to vote. Would that all Americans
recognize this all—important sacrament
of our civic religion is a rare privilege
rather than a inconvenience.

lowed to vote in this country
until 1920; Blacks did not have
totally free
access to
the polls un-
til the 1960s.
Now, all are
free and wel-
come to
vote. We did
not arrive at
this liberty
by chance,
however. The freedoms we en-

joy today are the result of hard

work and dedication by men and

women devoted to the principle
that all humans are created equal
and have the same right to be
free as any other.

Today, America is involved in
yet another war for liberty. Although
it is very different from any other war
we have ever fought, I encourage
you to be grateful for the freedoms
we have. Do not take them for
granted. Millions of men and women,
from the War for Independence to
the Gulf War, have made the ultimate
sacrifice to protect our right to vote.
Many more may die in our war on
terrorism.

Even here, in idyllic Lexing-
ton, Virginia, we must not assume
that we are free from harm. While
chances of anything happening
here are slim to none, we must be
thankful that we have a strong
leader in President Bush and his
administration, vocal representa-
tives from both sides of the aisle in
Congress and trusted men and
women in every other elected of-
fice in this land.

This is only the case be-
cause we exercise our freedom
and our rights. We must con-
tinue to do so. No matter what
happens in the world—be it war,
famine, or chaos—we must in-
sist that our rights always be
preserved. No citizen should
avoid participation because he
doesn’t think his voice means
anything.

It does.

Maybe one vote doesn’t really
count, but you bet that the non-
votes of 100,000 people who think
the same way do—just ask a Flo-
ridian. Your congressman might not
listen when you write to him per-
sonally, but he does when a lot of
people write in to say the same
thing.

Nothing can be taken for
granted in this crazy world of ours,
not even freedom. So let it ring, and
let it ring loud.

God bless America

Economics professor
assigns anti-Kinivan homework

LETTERS from page 2

Nobel laureates work

refutes Kinuan’s logic

Dea.rEditor,

A reading of Brett Kirwan’s
“Sweatshops Make Cents” left us
awed at the blatant lack of eviden-
tiary support of his apparent the-
sis that, “It is simply ridiculous to
believe that sweatshops can be
eliminated in countries whose
populations are uneducated, un-
skilled and looking for work.”
Though Kirwan argues that it is the
USAS’s “embarrassing lack of eco-
nomic sense” which drives their
anti-sweatshop sentiment, it is clear
that the columnist himself has not
fully explored this social science,
most noticeably the ﬁeld of Devel-
opment Economics.

Kirwan cites sweatshops as “an
important step in a nation’s devel-
opment” for the opportunity they
provide. However, Nobel laureate of
economics Amartya Sen in his book
Development as Freedom argues
that the most critical factor in a
nation’s development is the avail-
ability of civil, political and social
freedoms and the necessary institu-
tions to protect these freedoms.’
Clearly, the working conditions,
hours of work and rniserly wages
that exist in sweatshops not only
identify currently lacking freedoms
but also continue to prevent sweat-
shop workers from attaining free-
doms.

For instance, children forced to
work in sweatshops are deprived
from the choice of education. It is
ridiculous to argue sweatshops are
needed to enhance development,
because the development of a coun-
try is largely dependant upon edu-
cation. As stated by Schultz, “The
decisive factors of production in
improving the welfare of poor people

are not space, energy, and cropland;
the decisive factors are the improve-
ment in population quality and ad-
vances in knowledge.”

The USAS may not be the
naive economist in this case.

Sincerely,

Paisley Boney ‘02
Scott Hetterman ‘03
Jeremy Kirkland ‘02
Allison Shank ‘03

Sli/eatshopsdorftmakesense

Dear Editor,

We are writing to you in re-
sponse to Brett Kirwan’s article,
“Sweatshops Make Cents.” First, we
are confused by Kirwan’s argument
that sweatshops are a means for de-
velopment, and his failure to address
the presence of sweatshops in de-
veloped countries such as the U.S.

Kirwan fails to provide any
sources to back up his argument. Nobel
prize winning economist, Amartya Sen
has much to say against sweatshops
as the means for development. Sen
sees Freedom as the means and ends
of development. Surely sweatshops
reduce one’s freedom.

He says “28 cents beats zero
any day of the week,” but do these
workers have a choice? The US. has
a minimum wage, but these devel-
oping nations do not have such
laws; should the U.S. provide mini-
mum wage to workers that its com-
panies employ abroad? Would we
as Americans be willing to pay ,a
couple of extra dollars on clothes in
order to assure that sweatshops are
eliminated and people have wages
they can live on? 1

Sincerely,

Courtenay Fisher ‘02
Stacy McLoughlin ‘02
Andrew B amett ‘02
Emily Owens ‘O2
Rusty Hewit ‘02

Model United Nations

POSTONBROWN PROJECT

An all W&L Student and

Alumni Band
9:00 p.m.
C-school
Room 221

  Be fher-e_ Java at the 

Monday, November 12
8:30 P.M.-midnight

Fraternities * Sororities *
Clubs * Studente Groups

Earn $l000—$2000 this semester with the
easy Campusfundraiser.com three hour
fundraising event. Does not involve credit
card applications. Fundraising dates are
filling quickly, so call today! Contact

; Campusfundraiser.com at (888) 923-
3238, or visit www.
campusfundraiser.com

As ever, our individually made hot chocolate and
specialty coffee drinks will be available.

coffee people music more

 

 

iWatson, Sullivan break school records;
defense forces 5 turnovers in blowout win

, BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
1 SPORTS EDITOR

Washington and Lee racked up 493 yards of total of-
fense and forced ﬁve turnovers en route to a 46-14 win
over Greensboro Saturday at Wilson Field to conclude
the 2001 season.

Fifth—year senior Marc Watson broke the W&L career
rushing record, ﬁnishing at 3,112 yards. His Saturday to-
tals included 142 yards on 21 carries and two touchdowns.

“It was a great way to ﬁnish Marc’s career,” Generals
coach Frank Miriello said. “To think he was on the verge
_'Of not even coming back to play this year, it’s very appre-
ciative to Marc to come back and play the way he has.

7 “Records are not important to Marc; he doesn’t even think
.about those things. I’m pleased for him that he’s broken that
record. He’s been a tremendous asset to this program.”

Senior Chris Shortall, who picked off Greensboro
quarterback Tommy Waters twice and also blocked a

punt, expressed the emotions of himself and his class-

mates .

_ “I’ve been thinking about this game for a long time,
and I’m surprised it happened now,” Shortall said. “It feels
weird to thank that I don’t have a next year. I’m real proud
of this team, and it’s nice to ﬁnish on top like that.”

Junior Chris Sullivan broke a record of his own, ending

‘ the 2001 campaign with a best—ever 2,024 all—purpose yards.
A Sullivan ran for 118 yards and three touchdowns and re-

turned a punt 71 yards to the Greensboro 2-yard line.
“When you win your last game, it’s always a stepping

1 stone in the right direction, especially when we have high
M expectations for next season,” Sullivan said. “A win’s al-
1 ways good to end on.”

The Generals had little trouble with the Pride (5-5)
on either side of the football. Greensboro didn’t pick

.up a first down until the 9:01 mark of the second

quarter, and had just 63 offensive yards in the first
half.
Watson scored his first TD on the Generals’ first

‘offensive possession, giving them a 7-0 lead that
1-lasted until the end of the first quarter. Sullivan

L scored on the first play of the second period for a 14--

‘ 0 cushion.

Shortall’s blocked punt led to another Sullivan touch-

1 down with 6:34 left before the half. The junior would

score once more later in the quarter, and a two-point

. conversion pushed the lead to 29-0 with 21 seconds left.

But a Jason Layman kickoff return set up the Pride at the

it W&L 35-yard line with 10 seconds remaining, and Waters

Generals win ODAC home, away openers
1 Women’s swim team knocks off Sweet Briar at home
before traveling to Randolph-Macon for a road victory

 

TiiE1liiE\;Et"§~Tl,’i\vtl Par

jEREv1i’fRNnlll
SPORTS EDITOR
EMAIL FRANKllN]@\XlU.E)U

PORTS

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 

found George Washington for a 20-yard TD strike one play
later to cut the advantage to 29-7.

Senior Brad Wiginton accounted for the only points of
the third quarter, hitting a 32-yard ﬁeld goal with 5:26 left.
The kick, which followed an interception by classmate Jeff
Powell, was Wiginton’s 12th of the season, extending his
school record.

Another senior, fullback Kyle Overstreet, pushed
W&L’s advantage to 39-7 with 13:00 left in the game on a

BY MICHAEL LEE
SPORTS WRITER

This week saw a pair of easy Old
Dominion Athletic Conference wins
for the Washington and Lee Women’s
swimming team.

Wednesday night brought Sweet
Briar to Twombly Pool for a 155-94
Generals’ victory, and Saturday mom-
ing, the Generals traveled to
Randolph-Macon for a 170-74 win.

Wednesday night brought out the
best in the team. Senior Katie Kennedy
swam a season best in the 1,000
freestyle, and a career best in the 100
fly. Classmate Laura Ingoldsby
brought back a pair of wins and sea-
son best times in the 200 and 500
freestyle events.

Junior Michelle Moore made a sea-
son-best time in the 200 backstroke,

  

LEXINGTON-
_QQFJ?..£Er

.‘.:"r:'.a‘.vr:r.;.'.fuEi-if :'.'-:},r.v:.‘-|J':1'.r..r‘.I:’;-

along with a win. Senior Anne
Lachiewicz won the 100 and 200 breast-
stroke, garnering a career—best time in

t\‘LlR\' GUY/i The K/rig-tzrrrr Phi
1 CONFERENCE WIN: Sophomore Erin Dougherty swims in Washington and Lee’s
‘ 155-94 ODAC win over Sweet Briar at the Twombly Pool on Wednesday.

   

  
 

elC*UU5'l'lC MLHJC Vn".E|JNE5D.I'u.'Y MCIRNINGS 3 [.551 -9 iS|[
ESPRESSO ' CAP!’-IJCCJNU *lFR.E.8H ROASTEDCDFFEES -FJNETEAS
9 WE5'I'W:§.SH.INGT(J.\' STREET * I..CBK.Ii‘u'G'IUl'~'! - I16-3-6385

SEASON FINALE:
(Left) Senior
Brad Wiginton
watches his 32-
yard ﬁeld goal
attempt sail
through the
uprights in
Washington and
Lee’s 46-14 win
over Greensboro
on Saturday at
Wilson Field.
(Below) Senior
]effBahl receives
the Gary Fallon
Award at
halftime. (Photos
by Mary Guy/
The Rz'ng—fu77z Pbz)

1-yard TD plunge. Watson’s 41-yard touchdown run less
than ﬁve minutes later made it 46-7.

Miriello credited the play of his defense, which limited
the Pride to 200 yards of total offense.

“We were focused this week to come back and make a
statement about how well we can play on defense,”
Miriello said. “We were determined to put our best foot
forward —-— to end the season in a way to let people know
that we are on our way defensively.”

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2001

&L ends sen wih 46-14 rbing of Greensboro

Generals look ahead to 2002 season

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
' SPORTS EDITOR

At the end of September, Washington and Lee’s foot-
ball season was close to disaster status.

After losing in the ﬁnal seconds to Randolph-Macon,
the Generals were 1-3 with Catholic, Hampden-Sydney,
Bridgewater and Emory and Henry — teams that beat W&L
by a combined 154-48 in 2000 — still on the schedule.

“I remember being 1-3 and thinking the season could
really go downhill fast if we let it,” senior defensive back
Chris Shortall said. “Luckily, we were able to turn it around,
and we had a great ﬁnish this season. These guys are
really young, and they’ve got a big future for them.”

W&L split those four games, adding non-conference
wins against Sewanee and Greensboro to ﬁnish 5-5. Their
3-3 record in the Old Dominion Athletic Conference placed
them in a four-way tie for second place.

More importantly, W&L was competitive in every ODAC
game. Bridgewater, the No. 4 team in the country, had to
go to overtime to beat the Generals, and W&L had fourth
quarter leads in their other two conference losses.

“It shows that we can play with the best teams,” sopho-
more quarterback Peter Dean said of the 2001 season.
“Bridgewater will go on and probably get to the national
semiﬁnals, and we could have easily won that game. It
just shows that we can play with any of these teams.”

The Generals will return most of their starters in 2002.
Junior running back Chris Sullivan, who rushed for 1,189
yards and eight touchdowns this season, believes his team
will have a shot at W&L’s ﬁrst ODAC title since 1985.

“We deﬁnitely have a shot at winning this conference
next season and going to the playoffs,” Sullivan said. “We’ ve
got a good returning nucleus. People better watch out.”

W&L coach Frank Miriello isn’t declaring his team the
conference favorite for next year, but he does expect his
team to improve upon this season.

“I’d like to think we can make a move a little bit,” Miriello
said. “We’ve broken through that banier into the upper
level of the ODAC. Hopefully, we can have a great recruit-
ing year and a great offseason, and come back and make a
run at a little higher ﬁnish.”

Dean, who completed 14-of-23 passes for 177 yards
against the Pride, believes that Saturday’s win will carry
over into next season.

“Last season at this point, the disappointing loss to
Swarthrnore had us questioning how good we are,” Dean
said. “This year, we can see that we’ve gotten better every
single game, and this is kind of the peak of it. This should
give us momentum, and we should have guys working harder
in the offseason. We can see we’re right there.”

CORRECTION

the 200, and freshman Laura

The following errors appeared in last week’s edition of the Phi:

Jeremy Kirkland is a senior, not a junior.

The article on the W&L presidential search process was written
by Peter Quackenbush, not Michael Lee.

Westerman won the 200 individual
medley with a season-best time. Fresh-
man Eleanor Williams put up a season-
best time in winning the 100 backstroke.

Coach Kiki Moore was very
pleased with the meet.

“We had a lot of people swimming
different events than they usually do,
and I think some were very surprised
at how well they did,” Moore said.

Saturday morning, the Generals
visited another ODAC foe in
Randolph-Macon. Junior Kelli Aus-
tin won the 50 and 100 freestyle, while
Kennedy won the 100 breaststroke
and the 200 individual medley.

The Generals’ 200 medley relay,
composed of Austin, Kennedy, Moore
and Williams, cruised to a win, as did
the 200 freestyle relay, made up of Aus-
tin, Moore, Williams and Westennan.

W&L’s Women’s swimming returns
to action Tuesday with a 6:30 p.m.
meet at Hollins.

The Ring-tum Phi
wishes a happy
Thanksgiving to the
Washington and Lee
community. In honor
of the festivities, the
Phi will take a week off
from publication and
will resume at regular
printing schedule on

December 3.

  

The staff
turkey and bl

the PI7

 
 
 
 

it gr

 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2001



PAGE 5

Volleyball flls to Emory in 2nd round of NCAA tourney

Generals beat Christopher
Newport to advance to
semiﬁnals of South Regional

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

SAN ANTONIO, Texas—The
Washington and Lee volleyball
team advanced to the second round
of the NCAA Tournament before
falling to No. 2 seed Emory in the
NCAA South Regional Friday at
Trinity University.

The No. 3 Generals (30-5) set a
new school record for wins with a
30-21, 30-15, 30-15 win over Chris-
topher Newport in Thursday’s open-
ing round.

Senior Leslie Fischbeck had 12
kills and two blocks for W&L, and
classmate Lindsay Ruckert finished
with nine kills, six digs and six aces.
Junior Stacey Kimmel totaled nine
kills, nine digs and seven aces, and
freshman Jennifer Lux added 31 as-
sists.

“Leslie played really well in
the first round match,” W&L
coach Bryan Snyder said. “She

Grapplers open with VMI invite

Morse wins for 3rd straight year as W&L begins season against Division I schools

BY DAVE CROWELL
AssIsTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee wres-
tling team began its 2001-02 sea-
son by competing in the VMI
Keydet Wrestling Invitational on
Sunday.

Due to renovation conﬂicts, the
Generals hosted the 10-teain compe-
tition, which includes mostly Division
I schools, for the second consecutive
year. Another constant at this year’s
competition was the dominance of
senior Ezra Morse.

Morse won his third straight
championship at the 197-pound
weight class at the VMI Invitational,
capping his day with a 3-2 victory
over Matt Bishop of Cumberland
College.

In earlier action, Morse whipped
through the quarterfinals with a 7-
2 win over Tim Gutierrez of Ander-
son College, then followed with a
solid 4-0 victory over Mike Yetter
of Old Dominion University in the
semis.

“Ezra was the standout today,”
coach Gary Franke said.

Other highlights included a
fourth-place finish in the 184-pound
class by sophomore Joe Mueller.
Mueller, a national qualifier last sea-
son, lost the consolation champion-
ship, 6-5, to Josh Muncy of
Cumberland.

“Joe came up with a fourth—place
ﬁnish, but was still disappointed with
giving up a five-point swing and los-

FIIE PHOTO
TEAM EFFORT: Senior Lindsay Ruckert (3) prepares to atmck a ball
in W&L’s ODAC championship win over Roanoke on Nov. 3
as (from left) freshmen Emily Wolﬁng andjerinifer Lux, junior

Generals were eliminated by Emory in the second round of the
NCAA South Regional.

was the biggest player on the
floor, and she took advantage of
that. Lindsay did what she al-
ways does. She was a big factor
like always.

“Stacey Kimmel really stepped up her
play, and she probably had her best match
of the year against Christopher Newport”

For the No. 6 Captains (24-11),
Lindsey Sheppard had seven kills and

six digs, and Nina Richardson con-
tributed 18 assists.

Emory, which received a bye in the
first round, ended W&L’s season on
Friday with a 30-26, 30-23, 30-23 vic-

Stacey Kimmel and sophomore Kari Lassen look on. The .

tory. Kim Ralm paced the Eagles with
12 kills and 10 digs, and Caitlin Crafts
had 38 assists.

Despite the loss, Snyder was
pleased with the play of his
squad.

“Everybody played well,” he said.
“We played real well as a team. It was
a great year, a good experience for ev-
eryone involved.”

Ruckert added to her Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference record with
11 kills, adding six digs and three
aces. The three-time ODAC Player
of the Year finished her career with
1,519 kills.

Ruckert wasn’t the only senior
with a say in the record books.
Fischbeck recorded 12 kills in 19 at-
tempts, ending the season with a
.386 hitting percentage, the best in
W&L history.

Kimmel contributed eight kills,
eight digs and three aces against
Emory. Lux had 31 more assists,
and fellow freshman Emily Wolf-
ing chipped in six kills and nine
digs.

Snyder believed that statistics
didn’t tell the story of the weekend,
particularly with the play of Wolf-
mg.

“(The freshmen) stepped up and

played really well, especially Emily
Wolfing,” Snyder said. “She passed
the ball great, she played good de-
fense, and she probably had her best
back-to-back matches on blocking
this weekend.”
, To repeat as Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference champions and re-
turn to the NCAA Tournament, the
Generals must overcome the loss
of a talented group of seniors:
Fischbeck, Ruckert, Lee
Charbonnet, Sara Heusel and Lizzy
Swann.

“The senior class is just unbe-
lievable,” Snyder said. “They’ve
made tremendous impacts on the
program. They’ve really been in-
strumental in elevating the program
to where it is now.”

But W&L returns a talented
group with enough experience to
return to the South Regional, and
Snyder hopes that next year’s
freshmen will immediately contrib-
ute to the team.

“We’ve got to build on what we
did,” he said. “We’ll see what we do
through the recruiting class. Getting
to the second roundof the NCAA is
definitely going to help that.”

SCOREBOARD

 

Greensboro 0 7 0 7
W&L 7 22 3 14
First Quarter

W&L —- Watson 13 run (Wiginton kick), 8:38
Second Quarter
W&L — Sullivan 12 run (Wiginton kick), 14:51

SATuRDAY’s FOOTBALL YARDLINE
W&L 46, Greensboro 14

-46

Tuesday, Nov. 13

.- 14 Women’s Swimming
W&L at Hollins, 6:30 p.m.

Friday, Nov. 16
Men’s Basketball
W&L vs. Haverford

W&L SCHEDULEZ Nov. 13-DEC. 3

Men’s Basketball
Greensboro at W&L, 3 p.m.

Tuesday, Nov. 27 V
Women’s Swimming
RMWC at W&L, 6:30 p.m.

ing a close one in the last match,”
Franke said.

In the 174-—pound class, senior Ivan
Zdanov ﬁnished with a 2-2 record, despite
getting banged up during the matches.
Zdanov defeated Chris Wilkes of
Cumberland 7-3, then later defeated team-
mateJason Srneeinthe consolation round.

In addition, senior Ben Segal at the
125—pound class, sophomore Corey
Little at 149 and junior Alex Poor at 165
all wrapped up one victory on the day.

Segal won in his ﬁrst consolation
match, defeating Mike Johnson of
Cumberland 6-3. Poor defeated Cory
Engelhard of VMI 5-3, also in his first
consolation match.

 

IVIARY Grwl THE RING-Ttlll PHI
TEAM EFFORT: Sophomore Corey Litde attempts to escape from an opponent in
the 149-pound ﬂight of the VMI Keydet Invitational Sunday at W&L.

Little won his first match of the day
with a pinfall on Wendell Davis of
UNC—Greensboro at 5:30.

Franke, who began his 29th season
as head wrestling coach for the Gener-
als on Saturday, saw the invitational
as a way to gain some experience and
prepare for the upcoming season.

“I thought it was beneficial to face
some good competition,” Franke said.
“It provides a good indication of where
we are, but it’s not ahuge test this early.”

The Generals return to the prac-
tice mat for the next three weeks be-
fore traveling to Pennsylvania to par-
ticipate in the Scranton Invitational
on Dec. 1.

Coming to the Phi sports pages on Dec. 3:

-A preview of the 2001 -02 wrestling season
-Coverage of basketball, swimming and track

   

What time is it?

It s PHI time!

EVERY MONDAY AT 7:00 P.M., COME TO 31 WASHINGTON ST. TO WORK FOR VV&L’S ONLY NEWSPAPER WITH LAYOUT!

W&L — Sullivan 3 run (Wiginton kick), 6:34
W&L — Sullivan 4 run (Wilson pass from Dean), 0:21
GC —- Washington 20 pass from Waters (Naglee kick), 0:00
Third Quarter
W&L —— Wiginton FG 32, 5:26
Fourth Quarter
W&L —- Overstreet 1 run (Wiginton kick), 13:00
W&L — Watson 41 run (Wiginton kick), 8:17
GC — Caldwell 2 run (Naglee kick), 0:40

A — 1,053

GC W&L
First downs 11 24
Rushes-yards 35-85 53-316
Passing yards 115 177
Return yards 129 107
Comp-att-int 9-27-3 14-23-0
Sacked-yards lost 1-13 0-0
Punts-avg 8-33.6 2-35.0
Fumbles-lost 4-1 2-2
Penalties-yards 4-28 1-10
Time of possession 27:36 32:24

INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS
RUSH|NG—GC: Caldwell 8-50, T. Lewis 12-27, Washington 2-12,
Powell 1-8, Scarborough 3-7, Louis 2-2, 0. Lewis 1-(-1), Waters 6-(-

20). W&L: Watson 21-142, Sullivan 21-118, Rapoza 1-15, Overstreet 3-

13, Archie 4-11, Dean 1-10, Caramore 2-7.

PASSlNG—GC: Waters 8-22-3 105, Durham 1-4-0 10, C. Lewis 0-
1-0 0. W&L: Dean 14-23-0 177.

RECE|V|NG—GC: Brown 3-68, McAuley 2-14, Washington 1-20,
Horton 1-10,‘ Wilder 1-3, Louis 1-0. W&L: Watson 5-74, Thomas 4-68,
Rankin 2-20, Overstreet 1-13, Sullivan 1-7, Wilson 1-(-5).

MISSED FIELD GOALS—W&L: Wiginton 46.

FINAL ODAC FOOTBALL STANDINGS

Conference Overall
Team W L PF PA W L PF PA
Bridgewater 6 0 276 126 9 0 403 173
Emory and Henry 3 3 135 124 5 5 212 187
Washington and Lee 3 3 153 127 5 5 240 241
Hampden-Sydney 3 3 198 179 5 5 296 273
Guiltord 3 3 104 172 4 6 161 259
Randolph-Macon 2 4 108 196 4 6 201 298
Catholic 1 5 127 177 3 7 204 253

Nov. 10 Results

W&L 46, Greensboro 14

Hampden-Sydney 38,
Randolph-Macon 26

Guiltord 17, Emory and Henry 7
Bridgewater 55, Catholic 13

End Regular Season

(at Swarlhmore), 6 p.m.

Saturday, Nov. 17

Cross Country

NCAA Nationals (at Augustana
College, III.)

Men’s Basketball

W&L vs. Swarthmore
(at Haverford), 1 p.m.

Women’s Swimming

W&L at Swarthmore, 2 pm

Sunday, Nov. 18
Men’s and Women’s Swimming
W&L at Gettysburg, 12 p.m.

Tuesday, Nov. 20
Men’s Basketball
Wesley at W&L, 1 p.m.

Saturday, Nov. 24
Women’s Basketball
Mcwilliams Classic

W&L at Washington, 3 p.m.

Sunday, Nov. 25
Women’s Basketball
W&L in Mcwilliams Classic, TBA

Wednesday, Nov. 28
Men’s Basketball

W&L at William and Mary, 7 p.m.

Women’s Basketball
W&L at Lynchburg, 7 p.m.

Friday, Nov. 30
Men’s Swimming
VMI at W&L, 7 p.m.
Women’s Swimming
Radford at W&L, 7 p.m.

Saturday, Dec. 1
Wrestling
W&L at Scranton Tournament,
9 a.m.
Indoor Track
W&L at VMI, TBA
Men’s Basketball
W&L at Randolph-Macon, 3 p.m.
Women’s Basketball

Randolph-Macon at W&L, 4 p.m.j

Sunday, Dec. 2
Men’s Basketball

W&L at Virginia Wesleyan, 3 pm,

Women’s Basketball
W&L at Guiltord, 4 p.m.

W&L ODAC AWARD WINNERS

Following are Washington and Lee
recipients of Old Dominion Athletic
Conference postseason awards,
as voted on by coaches:

FIELD HOCKEY

Second Team

Kelly Tafte, sophomore
Honorable Mention
Kitt Murphy, freshman

MEN’s SOCCER

Player of the Year
Paul Wallace, senior
First Team

Brad Murphy, junior
Paul Wallace, senior
Second Team

Tim Foley, junior

Philip Miller, sophomore
Jacob Stoehr, sophomore
Honorable Mention
Rick Schnatz, senior

WoMEN’s SOCCER
First Team
Kate Bldwell, senior
Meghan Hayde, sophomore
Fontaine Marcoux, sophomore I
Honorable Mention
Heather Coleman, sophomore
Lindsay Duran, junior
Kelly Zagol, freshman

VOLLEYBALL

Player of the Year

Lindsay Ruckert, senior
Rookie of the Year

Jennifer Lux, freshman

Coach of the Year

Bryan Snyder, second season
First Team

Lindsay Ruckert, senior
Second Team

Leslie Fischbeck, senior

 

Sﬁoiis

 

MONDAY, Noiitamm i2..2.Q.01..

omen’s basketball boasts veteran squad in 2001-02

(42) will lead the Generals in 2001-02.

Generals look forward to underdog role

Men's basketball team prepares to turn program around despite /ast-p/ace prediction in conference

B_Y JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

For the Washington and Lee men’s
basketball team, a new season pre-
sents what should be the first step to
turning around the program.

The Generals suffered through a
4-20 season, 4- l4 in the Old Don1in-
ion Athletic Conference, last year.
Third—year coach Jeff Lafave be-
lieves his team, which returns no se-
niors and boasts eight freshmen,
will have no trouble getting over
2000-01.

“Theres a totally new team,”
Lafave said. “The majority of our team
are new people. Any time you intro-
duce new people, it’s going to bring a
new attitude."

W&L enters 2001-02 with low
expectations from outside, as the
preseason conference coaches’
poll has them last in the l0-team
league. Sophomore guard Michael
Denbow, who joins classmate
Hamill Jones and junior Jake
McAlister as captains. says his
team will benefit from the less—than-
alorifying prediction.

  
   

CUUKIFJYOFSl’OKIS l_\‘R)R\t-\'il0N
THIRD-HEAR COACH:_]€:ffl_.afaV€ hopes his
Generals will improve on their 4-20 record,
including a 4-14 mark in the ODAC.

COLKIF$YOFSPOKISli\K)R.\|.\llOl\
W&L’s VETERANS: Seniors Megan Babst and Carter Thomas

play.

BY DAVE CROWELL

ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

Experience and veteran leadership will be key for
the 2001-02 Washington and Lee women’s basketball
team, as they hope to return to the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference tournament after last season’s
disappointing finish and absence from postseason

Janet Hollack returns for her second season as head
coach, hoping to improve on an 8-16 record last year. With
the loss of no seniors and the return of key players, the
record will undoubtedly improve.

Like last year, Hollack will look to senior forward and
co—captain Jessica Mentz and senior center Megan Babst
to shoulder the offensive load and lead the team.

Mentz hopes to improve on her fantastic 2000-01 sea-
son, when she earned First Team All-ODAC honors and
demolished 14 school records, most notably the all-time
scoring record (1,223) and scoring average in a season
record (20.7 points per game).

In addition, Mentz averaged a double-double on the
season, chipping in 10.1 rebounds per game.

Babst achieved a breakthrough season, dominating the
paint while also averaging a double-double on the sea-
son. She recorded 15.7 points per game and led the ODAC I
with 11.9 rebounds an outing en route to garnering a spot

on the Honorable Mention All-ODAC team.

“We know that we haven’t done
anything to garner respect,” Denbow
said.-“We know we’re the underdogs,
and we kind of relish that role. We
know we have to sneak up on people.”

With such a large group of fresh-
men, Lafave admits that this will be a
rebuilding year. But he doesn’t be-
lieve that relegates his club to the
conference cellar.

“You can expect some growing
pains,” Lafave said. “But we hope to
make the ODAC Tournament. I think
that’s a legitimate expectation. If we
can get this team in the tournament
and win a game, that will be a tremen-
dous year.”

The Generals should beneﬁt from the
return of junior Scott Hetterrnann, who
missed the ﬁnal six games of last year for
a violation of team rules. Hetterrnarm led
W&L with 11.9 points per game and a
51.9 percent clip from the ﬁeld.

“He brings a kid down low that is
physically ready to play in the paint,"
Lafave said of the 6-foot—4
Hettermann. “He is effective around
the basket, so we’ll put him down in
there again and try to get him the ball
where he can be successful.”

Captains Chad Braley and Will
Ballard — tied for second in W&L scor-
ing at 10.4 a game — graduated, leav-
ing a void in the backcourt. No one
won the starting jobs in preseason
practice, perhaps part of Lafave’s strat-
egy: the coach hopes to have eight
men to rotate in and out of the lineup.

Joining Hetterrnarm down low will
be the 6-4 Jones, the 6-5 McAlister
and 6-2 junior Toussaint Crawford.
With the lack of a true big man in the
post, the guards become that much
more important.

“We have to handle the ball, limit
our turnovers, and we have to shoot
the ball,” Denbow said. “We have to
look at our big men as being a bonus.
We’re going to have to have the best
guard play to be successful.”

Any success the Generals have
will come in one of the tougher Divi-
sion III conferences in the nation.

FRONTCOURT GENERALs:jur1ior co—captain]ake i\/lcAlisrer  and classmate Scott
Hettermann will see playing time in the post for \‘V"'&L.

Harnpden-Sydney, the preseason fa-
vorite to win the ODAC, is a national
contender, while Randolph-Macon
and Roanoke are no pushovers.

But Lafave hasn't circled any dates
on his schedule.

“We look forward to playing ev-
erybody,” he said. “Every team we
play right now, we have to make sure
we’re ready to go."

The coach is teaching teamwork,
the lack of which may have hurt the
Generals a season ago. Win or lose,
chemistry is W&L’s top priority.

“I expect our team, number one, to
stay together,” Lafave said. “We’ve

“Both on and off the court, Mentz and Babst are the
leaders,” Hollack said. “Not only are they the most talented
players, but their work ethic is the mainstay of this team.”

The veteran leadership should extend past the
frontcourt, with Sarah Schmidt and co-captain Carter Tho-
mas, both seniors,«supplementing Mentz and Babst.

Hollack sees Schmidt playing an important role, provid-
ing support at the guard position while helping on the boards,
in addition to displaying experience and leadership.

Thomas, the starting point guard on a team that im-
ished 6-14 in ODAC play last season, will feel a shift in
responsibility on this year’s squad.

“Carter will deﬁnitely have a different role this year,”
Hollack said. “We’ ve moved her from the point guard po-
sition, which should help her out.

“She won’t have to focus on running the offense and
setting up the team anymore. She can use her speed to
move down the ﬂoor and make plays."

The infusion of new talent into the program will allow
Hollack to change the team’s offensive strategy. The coach
believes that the core of seniors, in addition to three in-
coming freshmen, will receive signiﬁcant playing time.

Freshman Bethany Darmelly will step into the role of
point guard, relieving Thomas from the responsibility.

“With Bethany at point guard, we’ll be able to push the
ball down the court more and play transition basketball,”
Hollack said. “Last year, we tended to run a half-court
offense, but that will change a bit.

 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 

CoL1um'r)FSK)RislNKxi\mn\'

been preaching the basketball family
through any kind of adversity.”

Whatever the end results of the
2001-02 season, the Generals want to
make sure they’re headed in the right
direction in the long run.

“We don’t want to sell our-
selves short,” Denbow said. “Re-
alistically, we’re looking to im-
prove. We want to win double-fig-
ure games, we want to go to the
ODAC Tournament.

“Our number one goal is to get this
program turned around, and we look
at ourselves as the forefathers of that
this year.”

“Mentz and Babst run the floor extremely well, so the
transition game should get some easy points.”

While Mentz and Babst will share the bulk of the points,
Hollack is optimistic that freshman Emily Barker can con-
tribute to the offense.

“Emily is an athletic kid that I think will alleviate some
of the pressure on Mentz and Babst. She rebounds well,
but can also play on the perimeter at the three spot,”
Hollack said.

Hollack also noted that freshman guard Michelle Wentz
knows the game well and plays extremely tough on the
court. This brand of aggressive and scrappy basketball
seems to permeate the team’s ranks.

“I’m already noticing in practice a more competitive
atmosphere. The players are really ﬁghting each other for
the ball,” Hollack said. “You’re going to see a new brand
of W&L basketball this season, without a doubt.”

The ODAC gave the Generals an eighth-place pre-
season ranking, which would place the team in the
postseason conference tournament. While a return to the
tournament is a key goal for the team, Hollack expects a
higher ﬁnish.

“I think we can competewith every team in the league,”
Hollack said. “When a team comes to our gym or we go to
theirs, it’ll be a battle.” V I

The Generals begin the 2001-02 campaign when they
travelto Washington University for the McWilliams Clas-
sic on Nov. 24.

 
 
 
   

 
  
  
  
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 
 
  

  
  
   

   

 

1
*.

A ?

J:

 

 
 

P "57 3.755

 

   

  

 

 

 

(Q 55 2..
V‘  \f1AF'¥’lL 4
“O '15 WASi-ilt‘ﬁ
T“‘7 R‘'”‘' 3‘ “ ll“ .. ‘I N -'12’?  1 IX-Y‘---‘:’1'.\§ ’izi
INSIDE ,  . ’ . ..  A. A  . - Iixliol . ’
W&L’: I’.  ® P.  3? .,
r>F~:t<F‘."r:'r' l.l\Il\r!".I~’.ml’l"i’  I K I " J‘ 2 OPINIONS 3
l’Rl'l'.‘9§i)liI'\"i”. 3 SP(_)RTS 7
NEW COAC}~I (I) PAGE 7 l ’ .. _
l\Ir:.~;’s l..‘>.«.l:rt<>-_~.~».r-: .=-rm:  1 j 2fjr'/ /‘ 2 _
(...t=.r<i.\‘o TO Rl",1’~’l,.-Vii‘.  b(:C’ll.lill3(~7l’AR-I-J’ 8
$q~,»,,(,,\;-gq-\,  I Tl--IFZPPII R1-’-.TL.-"R.\.lS.l.»‘x.\7. 14
l”Oi.i.'T\lEf..lV\i, .\o. Kl.’ I MM  l.i;:~;:;\;t:'i‘=.w:\‘, V11-‘.(;i?_\j1:‘«_ 2445i} ltlll-‘D9-*1’. D1 - R3, 209?

Shortened pledgeship proposal eets oppositon

Bv MIKE AGNELLO
.lssor.i.-\TF. EDITOR

A proposal to shorten pledgeship from eight weeks to
six appears headed for failure at today’s faculty meeting.

In preparation for the faculiy’s vote today, the Stu-
dent Affairs Committee released a report on the current
pledgeship standards. Composed of students and fac-
ulty, the SAC regularly reviews student affairs.

According to the report. the current eight-week
pledgeship “is reasonable and should be continued.” T he
report also advocated keeping the present 2.0 minimum GPA to
participate in formal rush, as opposed to raising it to 2.25 or 2.5.

The SAC vote \vas unanimous, with all 12 members
Voting to recommend keeping the current pledgeship stan-
dards. The vote is significant, because the full faculty
usually adopts the SAC's proposals.

In a prior vote, the SAC had voted 1 1-1 to keep the
Current system. Student Judicial Council President Shane
Saunders, a junior,,was the lone dissenting vote. Saunders
reportedly voted against the current standards because
he favored reinstating the ten—week pledgeship. Saunders
could not be reached for comment.

' Since the 1998-99 school year, freshmen must have a
minimum 2.0 GPA to participate in formal rush, and pledgeshi p
has lasted eight weeks. Prior to 1998. pledgeship was 1()
weeks long. Pledgeship was moved the 1996-97 school year
from the fall term to winter term.

At their November 5 meeting, faculty members asked the
SAC to reconsider the length of pledgeship and its academic
requirements. Many were concerned that Greek pledges, par-
ticularly males, suffered unduly from the strain of pledgeship.

“There was some concern that freshman males are

Global holidays

exhausted and not responsive in class,” Dean of Students
David.Howison said.

These faculty asked the SAC to evaluate the pos-
sible benefits of shortening pledgeship to six weeks and
raising the minimum GPA to 2.5.

According to the SAC report, the average fraternity
p1edge’s GPA declines . 176 during winter term, while the aver-
age sorority pledge’s falls only .036. These findings were based
on data from the last three years. During winter term 1998, the
last year of a 10-week pledgeship, fraternity pledge GPAS de-
clined an average of .22. The following year, when this year’s
seniors were freshmen and the ﬁrst year of an eight-week
pledgeship, pledge grades fell only .12. However, in winter
2000, fratemity pledge GPAs fell .23, which was worse than
during the last year of the ten—week pledgeship. This drop
caused many faculty to question the pledgeship program.

History Professor Ted DeLaney made the motion
at the November 5 faculty meeting to shorten
pledgeship to six weeks. DeLaney declined to be in-
terviewed for this article.

Howison said that while he and every other member of '

the SAC voted to recommend keeping the current pledgeship
requirements, the drop in GPA is still cause for concern.

“A second—term freshman’s GPA should not decline,”
Howison said.

The report also explored the beneﬁts of raising the
minimum GPA to 2.25 or 2.5. If 2.25 had been the minimum
GPA last year, 18 additional students - nine men and nine
women - would have been ineligible to participate in
pledgeship. If it had been a 2.5 minimum, this number would
have been 56 students - 32 men and 24 women. ‘

Senior Justin Rubenstein, rush chair for Sigma Nu
and last year’s pledge educator, said requiring a higher

GPA 1PoIiiitAsT

18 (9 men.
A 56 (32‘men,,2

GPA or a shorter pledgeship would be disastrous for
the Greek system.

“It’s already difﬁcult to instill fraternity values in eight
weeks  a shorter (pledgeship) would substantially weaken
Greek life by making houses for divisive intemally,” he said.

Rubenstein added that pledgeship often beneﬁts stu-
dents close to the minimum 2.0 GPA.

“Pledgeship helps out those guys by structuring
their time,” he said.

The SAC report suggests Rubenstein is right. Accord-
ing to the report, most of the recorded drop in fratemity-
pledge GPAs occurs for students who earned between a 3.5
and 4.0 fall term. Of the 22 fraternity pledges in the 20-249

SEE PLEDGE, PAGE 2

University Computing cracks down on file sharing

SAIL in Cunty

   

I MEG Fr.itRARA/ T/J!’ Ring-tum P/21'
FELIZ NAVIDAD. Peter Djalaliev helps children craft holiday ornaments Olast Saturday.

BY MATTHEW MCDERMOTI
EDlTOR—L\—CHlEF

A University Computing plan to increase
Internet speed by limiting ﬁle sharing inadvertantly
resulted in greatly increased download times for
students attempting to get sound and movie files.

File sharing is the transfer of computer files
between two computers over the Internet.

“It all began when we were seeij;g..if there were
enough resources to support the (Internet —acces—
sible) Campaign for the Rising Generation,” said
Systems Administrator Jeff Knudson.

‘ To see how computer resources were being
used, University Computing bought a
packetshaper, a commercially available hardware/
software program that moniters network usage.

“We thought that it would be complicated,” said
JohnWhite, Help Desk Manager. “After we saw the
figures, however, it turned out to be simple.”

Through using the packetshaper, University Com-

FLC collects

puting discovered that 93% of incoming traﬂic was
coming from KaZaa, a popular ﬁle sharing program.

These resources were being used by people
outside of the W&L network who were attracted
by the speed of the Internet connection.

“File sharing programs look for the fastest
connection, which is usually W&L’s,” said senior
Dan Comer, who works for University Computing.

“It’s like we’re driving the red Corvette,”

' ‘White said.

W&L connects to the Internet with a T3 line,
equivalent to 45 megabytes per second.

“The average school our size has a T1 con-
nection,” Knudson said. A T1 connection is
equivalent to 1.5 megabytes, thirty times
slower.

To prevent outsiders from using so much of
limited resources, University Computing limited
file sharing to ten percent of the incoming band-
width—the amount of data that can be transferred
in a given time period. ‘

“We really hoped students wouldn’t notice
(the change),” White said.

“Inbound traffic was 12 to 15 percent of the
pipe,” Knudson said. “As long as students were
downloading, (a 10 percent restriction) should
only have decreased speed by 80 percent.”

The problem proved to be with incoming up-
loads, not outgoing downloads.

Information sent over the Internet is sent in
discreet chunks called packets, which must be ac-
knowledged by the other computer. The ten percent
cap slows the acknowdgements, and thus the down-
loads.

Despite unforeseen drawbacks, University
Computing stands by its decision.

“Ten percent of a pipe is still three times a
T1,” White said. “It’s not like we cut it off.”

To improve students’ ability to download,
Comer designed a webpage available at http://
computing.wlu.edu/howto/filesharing/
h0w_to_help.html.

Mock Con ‘o4 kicks oft

BY IMRAN NAEMULLAH
STAFF WRITER

Approximately 60 children from
the Lexington community came to
Washington and Lee last Saturday to
learn about Christmas celebrations
around the world. W&L student vol-
unteers researched different coun-
tries’ celebrations and staffed stations
in the Science Center to promote in-
ternational awareness.

The activity is one of many that
Students Association for Interna-
tional Learning (SAIL) has on its
agenda this year.

While W&Lhas never been
known for its diversity, recruitment
efforts over the past few years have
yielded increasingly large interna-
tional student populations. This year,
according to Admissions Ofﬁce sta-
tistics, almost. seven percent of the
freshman class comes from outside
the United States, an increase from
ﬁve percent two years ago. Accord-
ingly, new interest groups on campus
have sprung up; one of the most no-
table is SAIL.

Chaired by junior Agnes Flak,
from Poland, the group serves as an
umbrella organization for five differ-
ent committees. They are the Interna-
tional Development and Relief Group
(IDRG), Study Abroad Forum, Model
United Nations, International Stu-
dents Alliance and the Social Com-
mittee, which replaced the Interna-
tional Club and organizes campus
events promoting international learn-
ing and knowledge.

Other than Saturday’s aware-
ness activity, recent events include
International Education Week,
which was the week before Thanks-
giving. Study Abroad Forum had a
slideshow in the GHQ promoting
international learning. The IDRG

 

 

gave a presentation to the Lexing-
ton Rotary Club.

The ISA also set up candles
around the Co-op, served tea and
played Indian music in honor of the
Indian holiday of Diwali (literally, the
festival of lights). '

ISA treasurer and junior Aditya
Chandraghatgi, from India, said the
holiday celebrates religious toleration.

“Traditionally, (the holiday) is
not exclusive to one religious group,”
he said. “but rather, the whole coun-
try takes part.”

The International Holiday Celebra-
tion, which is the name for this year’s
Christmas Dinner, will be served in the
Dining Hall on Wednesday, Dec. 5.

Director of Dining Services Jerry
Darrell said his staff has been work-
ing with rnembers of SAIL to obtain
recipes from international students’
home countries and serve them at the
dinner. Highlights include Mexican
mixed fruit salad, Japanese cucumber
salad, Kenyan coconut rice, Polish
mushroom pierogis. Irish beef and
Brazilian holiday turkey breast.

Other upcoming events include
a country of the month presentation,
with this month’s selection being Po-
land, and “Evening Abroad” in Feb-
ruary, which is a theatrical presenta-
tion put on by international students
displaying various cultural practices
in their home countries.

Despite its 53 16,000 budget ($2,200
from the Executive Committee and
$14,000 from the deans), Flak said SAH.
faces constraints in undertaking all that
it hopes to this year, so they hope to
hold a fundraiser. One idea under seri-
ous consideration is compiling and
selling a recipe book of dishes from all
over the world.

Students interested in any of
SAIL’s activities should Contact
Flakor look for campus notices.

 

cans for holidays

BY MEG HAsToN
STAFF WRITER

The Freshman Leadership
Council is sponsoring a canned
food drive to aid Rockbridge Area
Relief Agency, an organization that
serves the Rockbridge area.

The food drive began Friday,
Nov. 16, and will end Friday, Dec.
7. In order to meet their goal of 100
percent participation, the FLC has
offered a free pizza‘ dinner at
Salemos to the hall that can col-
lect the most cans.

“Even if (it) means that every-
one only gives one can, we want
 as many people as possible to
get involved,” said FLC represen-
tative Kyle Meehan. “(Students
who) are not able to donate canned
goods but would like to donate

money towards (their purchase
should) give  money to any FLC
representative.”

Representative Tran Kim sees
the food drive as an event that
helps not only the needy but also
the participants themselves.

“The canned food drive not
only feeds the stomachs of the
hungry but also the souls of those
giving and receiving,” Kim said.

On behalf of the freshman
class, the FLC has also adopted
two families for whom they will
spend $300 to buy items such as
clothing, toys and games. FLC
members and student volunteers
will wrap the gifts on Tuesday,
Dec. 4, in Evans Dining Hall.

To volunteer to help with this
project, contact Melanie Harris at
Harrism@wlu.edu.

2002-O3 Residence Life

Ri.sn)ENT AssrsTANTs D

RM CoUN ELORS

 

Vanessa Adams Kate Bidwell -loalllla Pelllll
Agnes Flak Amy Blevins Erica Reisbeck
Paul Ledford Mavja Brown Lauren Robbins
Mary Cam1MaZZa Kjmgulka Brandon Seale
Maitena Moure LCSSIB Calhoun Lydia T050
Joel Pepera Bryan Carmody Neth Walker
Karelle Samurda Andy Chapman l-aura Wilson
Emily Small Jennifer Fallon
samamha snabes Robert Floyd DC ALTERNATES
Jonathan Wonham Bill Gilsenan Zack Bedard
Richard Kilby Austin Calhoun
RA ALTERNATE-5 KJ Linthicum Andrew Fotinos
Dustin  COI'y Llttlﬁ  GOIUDICWSKR
A Amina Elgouacem Jeff Merlggl Kelly Kellogg
Kimberly Sampson Rusty Meyer Andy Lunsford
Peter Moore KC Wilson

Farhan Mustafa

BY PETER QUACKENBUSH
STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee’s nationally
recognized Mock Convention is be-
ginning to prepare for the upconring
2004 Democratic Mock Convention.

The Mock Convention serves as
a weathervane for national politics.
Political observers pay attention to
the results of the convention because
it is known for accurately selecting
who will be the challenger to the in-
cumbent party.

Every four years, a Mock Con-
vention for the party out of power is
held to simulate the actual outcome.
The convention has also been tele-
vised nationally on C-SPAN.

“Unlike other schools, which seek
merely to reproduce the format of the

real party conventions, our Mock Con- _
vention is in fact an accurate, predic-

tive exercise that comes as a precursor
to the state primaries,” said senior
Heather Howard, who is helping kick
off the convention preparation.

The Mock Convention takes
three years to prepare for. This
winter’s kickoff, scheduled after
Christmas break, will be the ﬁrst step
to preparing for the 2004 convention.

The kickoff will involve selecting
the three Tri-Chairs: Political Chair-
man, Personnel Chairman and General
Chairman. The Political Chairman
oversees the political nuts and bolts
of the operation, the Personnel Chair-
man is responsible for bringing people
into the convention and the General
Chairman oversees the operation of
the entire Convention.

“(Our) ultimate goal is to con-
tinue our ‘winning streak’ of accurate
predictions for the out-of—office
party’s presidential nominee,” Howard
continued.

Senior Christian Vanderbrouk,
who was a Regional Coordinator in
the 2000 Mock Convention, agrees
with Howard.

“We pride ourselves on being
accurate,” Vanderbrouk said. “It’s not
a popularity contest.”

Speakers at the convention in-
clude both students and American
political figures. Last year’s speak-
ers included Bob Dole, candidate
for Governor of New Jersey Bret
Schundler, Rep. J. C. Watts of Okla-
homa, and William Bennett from
Empower America. In 1988, former
President Bill Clinton made an ap-
pearance as well

Students play an important role
with Mock Convention. The event is
ofﬁcially student-run.

“Since students learn how to
conduct the research and planning
needed for a successful convention,”
Howard said, “this aspect is extremely
important for the academic value of
he Convention.

Currently, however, Howard and
Vanderbrouk are searching for the
students who will lead the exercise in
2004. Vanderbrouk said he had high
hopes for success. He is hoping the
students who get involved will be able
to make it a great experience.

“I think it’s more what they can
bring to the table,” he said.

Ultimately, the hopes are for ev-
ery student to serve the Convention
in some aspect. That requires highly
motivated students.

“I’m expecting enthusiasm on
the part of W & L students,”
Vanderbrouk said.

Both Howard and Vanderbrouk
are looking forward to hearing from
any student interested in participat-
ing. They encouraged interested stu-
dents to contact them.

   

 

 

 

    

 

 

  

 

   

 Rizxt:--viii N
PAGE 2  ZS MONDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2001 E
Today 8.p.m.—Alcoholics Anonymous Meeting. PLEDGE from page 1 Datz said most houses attempted ‘ 1
8 p.m -«Java at the GHQ. Southern Com- Fairfax Lounge. DIVINTIY to abide by the program, while “about
fort. GHQ. ‘ Thursday, Dec.6 pledge GPAs occurs for students ﬁve or six” followed it closely. A
'I1iesday,Dec.4 8 p.m.—Candlelight Service. Featuring the who earned between a 3.5 and 4.0 Panhellenic Council President
. 1 1:30 a.m.—Women’s Studies Colloquium. University Chamber Singers. Lee Chapel. fall term. Of the 22 fraternity pledges Katie Cedarholm, a Senior. Said raising

“Spain in the 1940’s: Women’s Literature and Friday,Dec.7 in the 2.0—2.49 range last year, 18 im— the minimum GPA and shortening '
Popular Culture,” Ellen U n d e r g d a u a r e proved their grades, while only four pledgeship would affect sororities as
Mayock, assistant pro- classes end, declined. In contrast, 22 of 32 well as fraternities. ‘ l
fessor of Romance lan- Noon——Environ- pledges with grades between 3.5 “Sororities already have GPA re- r ‘
guages, W&L. Room 1 14, mental Studies Lun- and 4.0 fall term saw a drop in their quirements from their national (orga-
University Center. (go cheon Series 2001-2002, winter term GPA. nizations), and (Changing the require- in 
through the Dining Hall “The Woods Creek Res- The report also gave credit to IFC ments that way) would make s0rori— 1
luncheon line and men— toration Project,” Bill Advisor Burr Datz’s new pledgeship ties more exclusive, when we’re try-

tion “Women’s Studies”) Blatter, city planner, Lex- program, instituted last year. The pro- ing to work toward a more inclusive

7 p.m.—“Music for ington, Va. Room 114, gram includes recommendations such community,” Cedarholm said. ‘7
the Holidays“ with the University Center. 5 as service projects and seminars on al- Rubenstein said that he feels 1
University Chorus, Uni— Saturday,Dec.8 O kere0aVetheRO0t11lr.<;Fi«:t<[ul;Eéé/egg//rag: cohol, sexual assault and leadership. strongly about the issue but that he ‘
versity Wind Ensemble, University String En— 2 p.m.—Undergraduate exams begin. an h in S amt V 7 W1] 1 BLTP ‘ The program was not mandatory, and sees both sides. -1
semble and University Jazz Ensemble. Keller sun«lay,I>ec.9 ° d (§j’f‘§l V‘ ,, faspg, dnJ°:1‘”“e“\if‘ ﬂj‘ “f H ‘W Datz said this was intentional. “Improving freshman aims is the
Theatre, Lenfest Center. Free conceit, public in- Hanukkah begins. :1In,h h C:1::in t_ de 6? ﬂy me 01 hm uc toﬂum “Compulsion will not get us a goal of everybody, but there’s differ- -o
vited. Friday, Dec. 14 froegﬁ got k f 6:: _Omé€1,Se,r,el*g;1:et:O:S,(?nerneSternS Change in attitude, and that’s what ent ideas how to get there,” he said.
Wednesday, Dec. 5 5 p.m.—Undergraduate exams end. m e fee or “me me an I ' we need,” Datz said. “Everybody’s well-intentioned.” '
8:30 a.m.-—Customer Appreciation Sale. 7:30 p.m.—Holiday Dinner/Dance for fac- _ O t t T
University Bookstore. ulty, administration and staff. Evans Dining Hall. adVeear10nal arenaeeleglsrs exeawnren teennldues
through their certification program. to
The public is invited to attend the organizational meeting on
. Dec. 1 1, 2001 at 7 PM at the Rockbridge County Historical Society at
H 0 p  H  I d  101 East Washington Street. There will be a slide show illustrating A
. some local archaeological work. Contact James Hepner with ques-
, tions at 463-8574 or 348-1464. Or get information online at http.'// n
' www.arch ocva. rg/.
Christmas trees on sale ’ "
 O    The physical plant is selling Frasier Firs ranging in height ' T
y from 6 to 8 ft. for $30.00 each. The tree lot will open at the physical   _ t u
plant office near Woods Creek on Monday, December 3rd at 1:00 The Famny Ednear1°113lR1gnrS andnr1Vaey Aer (3150 known as ~
p_tn_ and will be open eaeh day from 3 nun to 4 n_m_ Monday the Buckley Amendment) protects the privacy and use of your edu-
through Friday. Trees will be for sale until December 19th as long eddenin ree°rd- The reeenny enacted USA PATRIOT Act of 2001
as the Su ply lasts. slightly changed the circumstances under which federal law en- *
u I P 1
You may also go to Skylark Farm to cut your own tree It wih foreement officials can obtain records without permission or prior
open for sales Monday through Friday 8300 u_m_ to 4:00 n_m_ and notification, as well as the records kept of such disclosures. In the ?
from 1:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m on Saturday and Sunday. Please call 377- Past» the registrar has released this lnrerrnanen erny Wren 3 e0P)’ or
c I » 2747 before you go tree hunting written authorization. Please check the University’s policy at http:/ *
/www.wlu.edu/registrar/ferpa.htm, speciﬁcally the sections on Dis-
- losure of Education Records and Record of Disclosures.
CNBC to feature C-School investors °  . .
-— . y of the Unverszty Registrar n
Members of the Williams investment Society will share their
‘ favorite stock market picks with a national television audience on ' '
* _ the CNBC program Power LLHZC/7 Tuesday, Dec. 4.  p   _ ~ﬁ
TWO l_OCOllOnS TO Serve   During the live broadcast, which is expected to begin _ Ed Crannv tne Henry  FOX Jr- Prefesser Or Engllshs has re"
airing between 1:30-1:45 p.ni. on Tuesday, host Bill Griffeth eerved e_ yearlong fenewsnrp frernrne Nanenal endowment for the e
_ will ask the students to elaborate on their recommendations. Hnrnannlee Tnese nrgnly eernpennve fenewenrpe Prevlde °Pp°r'
22 N. MQIH Slfeel Two professional portfolio managers will follow with their tunities for individuals to pursue advanced work in the humanities. Au
' L . 1 reactions. Craun will use his fellowship during the 2002-03 academic year
exlng On CNBC is named on Cable Channel 12_ to complete his book, Fraternal Correction: The Ethics of Social 1'
464_ Criticism in Medieval English.He will spend part of the year finish-
- - - ing up research in English university libraries, the British Library
Historical diggers create local roots ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, ,,,,,,,,,,,, 4!
 walker  A local chapter of the Archaeological Society of Virginia The project is astudy of the ethical debates within clerical and I
_ (ASV) will be forming in December. The ASV has over reformist literature over how to practice fraternal correction in late ’
l_.eXlng'l'On 800 members dedicated to promoting the study of u Medieval England, the often public and harsh criticism of social
 archaeology and anthropology, especially, but limited to, evils, especially those committed by civil and religious authorities.
the prehistoric and historic periods of Virginia. The ASV teaches --courtesy of W&L News Oﬂice
, N
4
7/78  l‘‘€SUm€ ‘
. 7 »
O C O
pub |CC1'l'|Ol‘l a for W|l'l'l'€l“ 
red on January, 4,   O . .
O
. . _. * +
Fraternities O y 0 I  ,
Sororities * . "'
>l<
Clubs ,
Student Groups
A
4
Earn $10()()-$2000 this The Home Depot now hiring
. ‘P *
Semester Wlth the easy for night crew positions!
- A
Campusfund-raiser.com fr _ , , _ ,
-t-nembtann , _ Thats right! The Home Depots night shiftallows you to u
auetge cgy three hour fundraising have your days...free! You II have the ﬂexibility to spend
Ema event Does not involve H  more time with your family, attend school, or just spend _
- your days relaxing outdoors.And you’ll also have access
- to at beneﬁts 8: o ortunities!
credit card 3" pl’ pt 1
' ' ' ' ‘tint "leer .l  ' .:‘i‘ is‘:
apphcatlons. Fundralslng Wt .11 .. 01 mi 5, ll r St 0 p p 0 it it i i i s n on
I
dates are filling quickly, so |deQS . Freight Team Associate,
5 Uav5/N39hl‘»,S-L%it #0 835, A , call today! Contact ~ Receivi n g Associates 4
Condo Lodging-Serious Nightlife W k 4 h h i f h -
_ ‘ 0 I‘ 0 II I‘ 5 ts , S ll C 3.5
 Campusfund 8pm-midnight or Sam-9am In
‘WW9':l°=°ml==r'<°'=°'ll¢°t°='~ raiser.com at (888) 923  o Work 5 to 8 hou r shifts, 5 ti
' -
‘es - - between the hours of 8pm- am
 .1'navei._ .
  . u"ri’i_”5”r"r’:'i“'r“é""i':i  3238, or visit or 4am- I Oam n
__Z'_-_?_°_‘_’_;_‘?§’_e_:EEi;.e__ - shifts ma va sit tl 1
WWW.SKITRAVEL.CDM  ii ( Y ry gh  * ‘
raiser.com . ' -,i
   9 Apply today at any area store!
' 1.
Once you have completed - 4
your application, ask to speak to a’ 4»
member
of our Management Team. V
' e We are an equal opportunity employer 8: drug-free workplace.
. I W U I e U Gl'(~‘dl’ ('.Zlt‘(!(’l'S built iH)l‘(tl T
W

 

MONDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2001

'TllEiil\;(..§--'llT=‘.ll}:>~;?
STAFF EDITORIAL
’Tis the season to give thanks

Too often our readers complain about not
knowing the human face that lies behind the
staff editorial mask. Of course, the Phi will not
abandon its important task of instructing the uni-
versity. To humor our readers, however, and in
the spirit of the season, several editors and staff
writers share the things they are thankful for.

Alison is thankful for the abundance of
news in Lexington.

Andrew is grateful for the ability to ob-
serve genius at close range. He credits mid-
night basketball and the Phi with rescuing him
from the mean streets of Lex and the typical
lawless freshman life.

Brett is thankful for the Bush presidency
and its inspired leadership in these troubled times.

Jeremy is thankful for the infield ﬂy rule
and, for North Carolina State’s victory over
Florida State University.

Kate is thankful for an upscale Co-op un-

, Afraid to stock Splenda sweetner and a.variety
" of hyperpotent, rnixable energy drinks.

Katie is thankful for her scepter, crown and
the dominion she exerts over picas and page
editors alike. She also gives a special shout-
out to “Da Flame,” the phattest playa in the
Icy Hot Stuntaz Krew. Stay real, Flame.

Kris is thankful for editors who extend sub-
mission deadlines beyond the bounds of de-
cency. And for Post-It notes.

Latrina is thankful for the large office
space, especially the desk that enshrines
Maurice, her favorite computer.

Matthew is thankful for the best Phi staff
in living history and a cool personal ofﬁce. In
no particular order.

Mary is thankful for the courage to take
pictures of new people.

Meg is thankful for the little things in life,
like her summer internship in Germany with
the State Department.

Mike is thankful for Thunder Country,
whose righteous beats get him through those
long Sunday nights and Monday mornings. He
wishes they would play George Harrison’s
music more often.

Paul is thankful for the business cave, which is
more completely furnished than that of most deans.

Merry Christmas, W&L, and don’t allow
the faculty to pass the six-week pledgeship
program.

UOTE OF THE WEEK:

TEE ll.l.a.3(}~'l’l,iE\rIl PEI

PINIONS  

Next prez must rest tradition  

The most inﬂuential and long-
lasting change that will come during
our time at W&L won’t be in the form
of bricks, and mortar. No, the new Reid
Hall, the performance art facility and
the Elrod University Commons will all
be outdone by President Elrod’s suc-
cessor. Washington and Lee is look-
ing to move into the twenty-ﬁrst cen-
tury by raising our national reputa-
tion' and attracting top—notch students

- while remaining true to the traditions

that make this such a special place;
the next president will be terribly im-
portant to that future.

Three qualities in particular will
be essential if the next president is to
manage that balancing act success-
f11lly.

Respect for tradition. The Uni-
versity expects that forty percent of
the faculty will retire in the next seven
years. Sinceso many aspects of the
University can be changed by a simple
faculty vote, Spring Term and the
length of pledgeship have recently
been at issue, it is essential to have a
president who is going to lobby in
favor of the W&L’s valuable tradi-
tions.

In fact, many students and alumni
have expressed the view that tradi-
tions such as the independence of the
student body and the unique social
atmosphere have been under assault.
With so much new to soon come to
the school, holding on to the old will
become ever more difﬁcult.

In that regard, an alumnus may
be an ideal candidate for the position
because he will have enjoyed the ben-
eﬁts of our traditions ﬁrsthand and
will ﬁght to preserve them.

The committee must be espe-
cially careful in
choosing a president
because someone
taken from another in-
stitution may be apt
to mold W&L into his vision of a
school rather than respect the tradi-
tions that are W&L’s foundation.

Aﬂinity for the Greek system.
Washington and Lee is part of a rap-
idly shrinking group of universities
that has a ﬂourishing Greek system.
Moves by the faculty to restrain the
activities of fraternities and sororities
indicate that many of them are hostile
to the system. In such an atmosphere,

RIGHT or THE AISLE
__  KIIWAN  and thejoys of living

BREITT. KIRWAN
OPINIONS EDIIOR

PI-Ioro coIJRTF.s\' If/'1I"li".I:'I£.l.I'7LFl/.\"l.vlI‘F/J1‘H-l.l))'RH(),\f:.\' lI.l.['STRAT/lO.\I BY KATIE H0\x/F.I ,1.
MYSTERY MAN: The University must carefully choose the next president.

the University needs a president who
is not just indifferent to or mildly sup-
portive of the system, but one who
will be committed to and vocally sup-
portive of preserving and strengthen-
ing the system. He will need to ensure
that fraternities and sororities become
more integrated with University life,
not further pushed to the fringe as a
particularly troublesome social aspect
of the school.

College is supposed to be a time
of formation and maturation and the
Greek system is an ideal way to teach
students how to be a
friend, the value of
shared responsibility

together. No single
aspect does more to produce the
unique W&L graduate than the Greek
system and the next president will
play a major role in either its stagna-
tion and elimination or its growth and
prosperity.

Conservative academic opin-
ions. It is undeniable that academia is
beholden to liberal ideas and there is
no respite in sight. The ivory tower is
run by proponents of Women’s Stud-

ies, Black Marxism, revisionist history,
and host of other nutty, senseless
pursuits. Once again, W&L is set
apart and above by our resistance to
such trends. The next president will
be called upon to prevent Washing-
ton and Lee from joining the band-
wagon until these academic fads pass.
One with conservative political and
academic opinions will be best suited
to protecting the University from this
claptrap.

A wildcard consideration is the
possibility of bringing star power to
Lexington. Other top-notch universi-
ties have installed famous political ap-
pointees as president and perhaps
W&L should consider bringing a ce-
lebrity to be our next leader. Ben Stein
was smitten with Washington and
Lee when he visited and has excellent
academic credentials. Perhaps a fa-
mous alumnus would be suited to lead
the school. Tom Wolfe and Senator
Warner immediately come to mind.

The Presidential Search Commit-
tee has a huge responsibility and the
ability to chart the schools future.
Let’s hope their choice exemplifies
these characteristics.

I’M ABOUT TO OPEN A CAN OF
“\X/Hoop Ass.”

——ANONYMOUS PHI EDITOR—IN-CHIEF
ABOUT TO TASTE AN ENERGY DRINK

THE  

Editor-in-chief MatthewB.McDer'rnott

Mike Agnello
Katie Howell
Alison Trinidad
Latrina Stokes
Brett T. Kirwan
Andrew Latimer
Matthew A. Coursen
Kate Guy

Jeremy Franklin
Dave Crowell
Mary Guy

Meg Ferrara

Paul Seifert
Emily Barker
Robert Floyd
William Litton
Brian Castleberry
Charlie Tonelli
Peter Djalaliev

Associate Editor
Layout Editor

News Editor

Asst. News Editor
Opinions Editor
Asst. Opinions Editor
W&Life Editors

Sports Editor

Asst. Sports Editor
Photo Editor
Photographers
Business Manager
Asst. Business Manager
Advertising Managers

Circulation Director
Internet Editor

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editor-in-chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week's edition. The

' Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion ofthe Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi.wlu.edu

Letters to the Editor

Dorm Counselors respond

Dear Editor,

Once again, your wit, insight, common sense, and
dedication to providing accurate details have shone
through in an anonymous editorial criticizing the dorm
counselor’s table in the D-Hall. Our selfish desire to eat
our fourteen meals, in the company of upperclassmen
who can understand many of our own problems better
than most freshmen would never have been revealed to
us as inhumane.

How pleasing it is to now know that freshmen. DO
want us around for those extra hours, when we can share
with them our frustration with lnterrnediate Accounting,
Organic Chemistry, the MCAT, the LSAT, GREs, fellowship
applications, job interviews, etc. Instead of giving fresh-
men the chance to discuss their worries and concerns with
the people most likely to share those same concerns and
understand them (i.e. other freshmen), we need to intrude.

As you said anonymously, “[the] bonding that takes
place cannot be overrated.” You have rightly pointed out
that this bonding needs to be with us, not classmates
who will be here for them for the next four years. Alas, all
our other attempts to interact with freshmen are appar-
ently for naught. Oh, the thought of a disappointed look
from Laetitia Pate Evans causes us all to bow our heads in
shame over our trays of chicken tenders and various wrap
bar creations. Though you, who hide behind the authori-
tative mask of anonymity, knew her as well as us (i.e. not
at all), the use of her name to support your opinion is
undoubtedly justiﬁed by your wisdom and clout.

We humbly apologize to those freshmen we have failed,
including you, dear unnamed editorial authors of the Phi,
who were freshmen once, and, hence, neglected. And so,

freshmen, when you see us approaching your table, cease
your babbling about that cute upperclassman, the number
of beers you downed last night, or whatever it is you’re
hiding in your room unbeknownst to us, and allow us to sit
with you and express our upperclassmen trouble!

Sincerely,
The Dorm Counseling Staff 200]-02

DC staff desen/es to ignore freshmen

Dear Editor,

I was surprised to see such a piece (in the Nov.l2
issue) of foolishness by the paper’s staff regarding dorm
counselors and their D—Hall table. Aside from the fact that
the entire basis of your argument is a loud whine from
those who were never invited to sit at that table as fresh-
men, I find serious fault in your referring to the Dorm
Counselor meal plans as “gratis.”

Can you honestly say that spending one or both of your
upperclassman years living in a hall of freshmen isn’t payment
of any kind? Granted, it’s a personal decision to take on that
challenge, and an enjoyable year for the most part. But to
sacriﬁce having your own house, driveway, privacy, escape,
anything for your junior or senior year is no small thing.

So big deal if the dorm counselors want to sit together. Many
of them are friends, classmates, fraternity brothers and sorority
sisters—people they would normally eat with anyway.

Grant them 20 minutes of peace from only being a
door—knock away. And if you really want to cry about it,
go talk to them—it’s what they’re trained for...

Sincerely,
Nate Tencza ‘99

“For break to last for two

“A 1974 911 Turbo.”

—-J on Albanese ‘O4 . mon

79

“To leave Lexington.”
--Sahir Khanna, ‘O4

——Marysia Golubiewska, ‘04

“My car back.”
-—Diya Vohra, ‘O3

GOP’s economic plan

ruins bipartisanship
Democrats righfeousy retrse to pass bad bill

The bizarre scenes of Congressional Republicans
and Democrats shaking hands in agreement on Senate
steps since 9/ 11 are ﬂeeting fast. Several issues in
Washington have redrawn party lines in a big way. The
biggest issue right now: the economy.

President Bush used his weekly radio address last
week to ask that Congressional Democrats quickly pass
his economic stimulus bill that quickly was passed in
the Republican—controlled House. The bill is now in
limbo in the Democrat—controlled Senate.

CNN.com reports the President had this to say,
“There are two immediate priorities for America’s re-
covery. We must
bring quick help to
those who need it
most, and we must re-
store our economy’s
growth. It’s the holiday season. It’s a time to reach out
to Americans who are hurting,’to help them put food
on the table and to keep a roof over their heads.”

However, Democrats in the Senate have not passed
the bill because, as proposed, it does not do that. It
seems the President is playing politics with this bill
instead.

In the weekly Democratic radio address, Senator
Harry Reid of Nevada pointed out that the President’s
economic stimulus plan provides no real relief for work-
ers laid off since the economic slowdown that began in
March. The situation has only worsened since Sep-
tember 1 1th, and it would seem that the holiday season
is the appropriate time to provide Americans with re-
lief.

So why does the President’s economic plan not
offer any unemployment and healthcare beneﬁts for
those who have lost their jobs?

Last month the Washington Post reported that un-
employment in the District of Columbia was worst for
hard-working immigrants in service industries. Often
working more than one job to put their kids through
school in the hopes of a better life, these are the people
that have been laid off while the country’s hotels and
restaurants suffer bad business.

Instead, the President’s proposed economic plan
offers tax breaks primarily to big business, extending
unemployment beneﬁts for the individual by only thir-
teen weeks in states hardest hit by the attacks of 9/ 1 1.

With the country headed further into its current
deﬁcit for the year, such risky tax cuts will not spur
economic growth. The President argues the money can
beused to create more jobs. Cutting taxes for industry

LEFT or CENTER
NICK RAMSEY ‘03

will not help create more consumer demand that is what

will create jobs.

Furthermore, the President wants to accelerate
the proposed tax cuts for next year. Just as his last
tax trick (remember that refund check?) did nothing
to aid the ﬂailing economy, this plans seems no
different.

Rightly so, Democrats also oppose this plan when
an additional $7.5 billion is needed for national defense
this year, further escalating Washington’s impending
deﬁcit. This past week the White House admitted that
a deﬁcit would in fact be a reality this year. It is quite
clear that at this time President Bush’s $1.35 trillion tax
cut is to blame. Hindsight is like that.

Senate Majority leader Tom Daschle spoke on the
issue this week as well. “There is a sensitivity right
now in the administration about the Bush economy.
We are in a recession. That is something we predicted
a long time ago.”

Harry Reid reiterated to the President that help-
ing unemployed people at the source is what must
be done. “Extending unemployment benefits is not
only the right thing to do — it's also the single best
thing we can do to help our economy. Unemployed
workers need that money — to buy groceries, pay
the rent, and keep the lights and heat on this win-
ter,” Reid said.

Republicans are crying foul that Democrats would
result to “politics as usual.” However, Tom Dacshle
had this to say about the Republicans’ woes: “We
strongly support his (Bush’s) efforts in Afghanistan
and we think that he deserves high marks. We have

significant difference of opinion with him on the _

economy, economic policy, and I wouldn’t give him
high marks to the economy.”

It is important to remember at this time of war, that
the liberty to challenge the administration still
remains. It is what makes this nation what it is. America
is not a nation where political opinion should go un-
heard.

Moreover, Republicans using the current situa-
tion to badmouth Democrats that are ﬁghting for a more
efficient and beneficial economic plan is really the
clearest example of “politics as usual.”

0"

“For Bulgaria to win
the World Cup”
--Vassil Stamenov, ‘O4

 
 

    

PAGE 4

I feel kind of bad for Christ-
mas because it climbs an uphill
battle at W&L.

It’s like everyone gets real
geared up for the holidays for
Christmas Weekend and loses sleep
over the pressing issues including,
but not limited to, finding a date,
finding something to wear, and be-
ing able to hit multiple band par-
ties without pissing off your afore-
mentioned date.

And then after that weekend,
we go back to pulling our hair out
about school, due to looming finals.
Granted, Christmas gets celebrated
plenty once our work is finished
and were home.

But why wait that long? There
is an assortment of institutions that,
like Christmas, are not widely enough
appreciated. So in honor of the holi-
day season, I’m capping off my last
Phi piece of 2001 with a list of
things that we should better appre-
ciate and consider during these
hectic times:

1. Fruits that get stuck with
bad names and dwarfed beneath
mainstream foods like apples and
oranges. Boysenberries. The Asian
Pear. Although their names reek of
glamour, they are commonly over-
looked and pushed downward in
the fruit social caste system.

MEIIIIY CHRISTMAS!
lwrfunﬂzsrmanltllnumrssesml

Come by and see Skip, Marla, Connie and l/l/ilson.

‘ SKIP T||0MPSON'S

22 S. Main Street - Lexington, VA
Open Mon, Tues., Thurs, & Fri. 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.;
Sat. 8 a.m. - noon; Closed Wed. & Sun.

540-463-5954

2. Rock stars that forgot to
be talented but still come through
in the clutch with holiday CD’s.
There is no better way to ring in
Christmas than a moving version
of Britney’s “Oh Holy Night” or
*Nsync’s “Oh Come All Ye Faith-
ful.” These Kings of Pop reconcile
Christmas commercialism with

 

MONDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2001

 4
Overlooked items receive recognition

Onomatopoeia, smaller SU Vs, fruits and Britney’s Christmas album all make list of things that deserve a ‘Thank you’

saved due to onomatopoeia should
be entered into a time bank, and
then saved for a rainy day when
you have too much to do and need
more time.

5. Underappreciated SUVs
like Rav—4’s. Like the fruit pariahs,
they typically are mocked by the
more acceptable SUVs like Sub-

good old-fash- urbans and 4-
ioned holiday V .  VVVVV  Runners. Al-
spirit.    though a Rav-4

3. The abil—  " KRlSPOLl.lNA‘03 does resemble

 

ity for soap on

windows to look like snow. I hate it
when it doesn’t snow in December;
Ican’t imagine living in a perpetu-
ally warm climate with no hope ofa
white Christmas. Luckily, soap on
windows can masquerade as snow,
assuaging these fears, and all it
takes is Windex to alter the per-
ceived weather.

4. Onomatopoeia. Words
that sound like the word they de-
scribed make relating stories infi-
nitely easier. For example, instead
of wasting time looking for a word
that conveys severe cold, you can
simply assert, “Burr.”

The best part is, when you’re
writing on a word processor, the
spell check recognizes it as a real
word and doesn’t put a squiggly
line underneath it. All the time

Yoshi of the Su-
per Mario World persuasion, it
still can endure wild terrain and
protruding sticks and branches in
the road. We should give it an-
other chance.

6. The blanket term “ﬂesh-
colored.” In a world of such diver-
sity, a term thatjust assumes all the
same color skin somehow is a uni-
fying force, eradicating the actual
hue implications and suggesting
that all ﬂesh is ﬂesh, and not a color.

7. Electronic Megaphones.
Almost resembling a gun, it puts
across the message that communi-
cation is more powerful than vio-
lence. Also, it plays songs, allow-
ing the user to learn more about
college fight songs.

8. That catch game you play
at the beach with a Velcro tennis

IS taniislutl ii? to in ER

ball and Velcro mitts. You never
miss the ball, boosting athletic mo-
rale and overall confidence in hope— .
ful youth.

9. Bumper stickers on other
people’s cars, not your own. They
prevent boredom in unruly traffic
jams.

10. Middle school-style desks
that have an indentation at the top
for a pencil. During naptime, this
prevents writing utensils from slip-
ping down and hitting your head,
affording the student maximum rest
time potential.

11. Tom, the butcher at
Kroger’s. If you ever need meat late
at night and don’t want any atti-
tude about it, hit up Tom, the ever-
pleasant 60-something mind behind
the goods.

The earth is leaking with
uncelebrated heroes and treasures.
Test tubes. Steak tongs. Cookie
Dough. Wands.

During these crazed times of fi-
nal examinations and other colle-
giate trials and tribulations, I en-
courage you to relish the simple
pleasures in life.

Personally, I value the fact that
since this is the last Phi before
break, no one can write a strongly
worded response to my monument
to blatant inanity for another month.

onomatopoeia and made good usage of the underappreciated literary tool.

|’H( m )(j()l'RTF.SY or TV L'lDF. ARCHIVES
SNAP, CRACKLE, Pop: As Batman, Ad:1m.\V'est understood the value of

 

Have an opinion?

Want to share it with campus?
Seeking to create controversy?
Enjoy receiving nasty letters?

Contact Opinions Editor

Brett Kim/an at X5134 or
kirwanb @wlu

or join us at 7 on Jan. 7.

 

SKE UP TO 91 DRYS FOR THE PRICE OF. 4!

    

 

Garth/lore “Free"

From Your Free Time!

Wintergreen Resort
434-335,-8155
w\vw._'§l'iitnta:rgreenResnrt.cum.

If you're the ktnd of person that‘ wzsuld said every
clay il"yt:2u £L'~=lJLl§(l, ‘JWEEE, new _}-'01.: ttaril Char‘ «Ski &'
Ride Pass git-.«’r:s you up to 91 singer; of $k.lll"§g armzi
5'rit)\\*h4Ja.rdir:g For the rJr£t:t3 of fr:;r.sirl

Ski. 8; Ride Pass $129r*

Best of all, wit.l»a dlra«c:t—n:t-tl'xe-lift actzesa, 
:§'l"l(JWUlé!K‘l.l?tg anti the .l‘-*lit!~z9aI,_le§r‘11ir:'s nerves: and
fasztast lziglzwmatl Eli}, Tire Brim’  .E'x;press,
_yt':l.1.'li grist in .u‘.I:‘.'n:.1'“r‘.'t :;l:ii;w’-.r'I..l.'t.EliE :"I..ms ti1an;3,*::n;: §:vé}:.r‘
i.E1r.:vugti1 pns5lE.:de. SC?! gar yoga’ ski 3: ride pass
today and spmictl all ‘your ‘winner rm.» Eirmrs more
wiatslyi Call liar jg-"<fJ1.§E' Ski &? l5?£ai¢P£’w.$‘1n€£ayl

'-$129 preznoliswnaﬁ prize good thru ‘é..'2:l21.'Gt. Passes valid
daisy Opening étilajr Slim tzlzitﬂrt and after Bliutﬂz. From
12l"2:’:I:.I‘i9‘§ thrsz 3l§t‘l§Iﬁ, pass is walizxd Sunday 12:30 pm thru
Friday iiilghi, exciudiéng ski hc~§%idaya.. Weekends. and aici
holidays, pass heiders receive $5 lift. ticket =cliseoual.

.:I
Q‘

New! The Blue
Ridge Express!

Get to the top of‘ tire
mountain faster than you
can get down — in 2%
minutes fiat l. lntru:fl:ut:lng
the first aigapapeed Ei~
person cluairlift in the
.M‘id-Atiantlr: - The Blue
Rldga Express, E.\:ci.u-
sively at W':intarg1-eon!

   

Java @the GHQ

Presents

a
-I
1'.
[TI
'50
Z
O
3
JD’

 

W&L’s incredible male a cappella group

Monday, December?»
8:30—midnight

As ever, our individually made hot chocolate and
specialty coffee drinks will be available.

 

Jr

ﬁr-

 

 

‘ 4

 

PAGE 5

.,_.,,) .

  

» Mindbending Production’s
* Godspell is more than mere sap

BREAK A LEG: Godspell cast practiced months for the show, which opened over the weekend.

BY MATTHEW MCDERMOTT
EDITOR-lN—CHlEF

Of the successful religious rock operas
hatched in the early ‘70’s, Godspell is one
of the least-remembered. More experimen-
tal than the formulaic Joseph and the
Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat and far
lighter than the divisive Jesus Christ Su-
perstar (both by Andrew Lloyd Webber),
this rock musical is a forgettable union of
hippie absurdism and watered-down
Christianity.

Nonetheless, the high energy and youth
of the cast, assembled by director Neal

Another standout was freshman Andy
Dewherst, who played the disciple Herb.
Along with Durham and the capable junior
Justin Huston (John the Baptist/Judas), he
was one of the few men in the production,
and gave routinely enjoyable set pieces.

The ladies also delivered enjoyable per-
formances, including freshman Lauren
Partridge’s sultry “Tum Back, 0 Man.”

As regards directing, the original
Godspell ’s setting was a blighted urban lot,
with nothing on stage but three unﬁnished
wooden planks, two sawhorses and a chain-_
link fence. The background of a decayed
city contrasted with the actors’ bright cos-

LIFE    
Tw0—sport F

photo courtesy Mindbending Productin

Ti-:l_l}:7. £iilN(_}—"l"l_lM Pl--ll:

MAIIHEIY Cotl<sE\I&KAiE GUY
W&LIEE EDnDRs
EMAII;cotr<sEI\lxI@\lvIlIli)II&GIli’@\II»IiII3DIl

BY MATTHEW A. COURSEN
W&LlFE EDITOR

One of the advantages of attending a
school like W&L is that students have a
wealth of extra-curricular opportunities from
which to choose. Though the vast majority
of students choose to compete in just one
sport or one activity, there are those who are
just plain gifted with the ability to do more.
Juniors Chris Sullivan and John Mele are two
of those rare, exceptional student—athletes
who compete in two varsity sports here at
W&L while maintaining excellent academic
standing as well.

This fall, Sullivan was one of the most dan-
gerous running backs in all of Division HI
football and one of the most proliﬁc in school
history, amassing 2,024 all-purpose yards this
season, a W&L record. Fortunately, the 2-
time Verizon Academic All—Dist1ict Team mem-
ber will be back again next year to help lead
the Generals to the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference Championship.

Mele played defensive back and helped
the generals have one of their most success-
ful defensive seasons in years. Though he
retired midway through the season, Mele
contributed immensely to the program for
nearly three years. In addition to playing
football, both Mele and Sullivan are in the
same fraternity, Phi Gamma Delta, and are
computer science majors.

Sullivan, who boasts a 3.65 grade point
average, also competes on the indoor track
team, running the 100 meters, 200 meters,

ijl

    

duoison

MONDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2001

the right track

   

about his team or their chances to make good
things happen this year. “It’ll  tough, but I’m
sure we can find someone to replace
[Watson]. . .we are a good relay team that com-
petes for ODAC honors every year.”

Chip Muir, the jumping coach for the varsity
track team, is a second-year law student across
campus and was a jumper himself at Washing-
ton and Jefferson College where he earned all
conference honors twice. Both Muir and head
coach Norris Aldridge have tremendous conﬁ-
dence in Sullivan and Mele both as players and
as people. When asked to comment on Sullivan’s
ability, Muir offered some inspiring praise. “Chris
had a great season last year. He was consis-
tently jumping over 22 feet, so any little improve-
ment this year will probably get him an invita-
tion to the NCAA championships.”

Pnorro BY MEG l‘F.RR.\RA/ The Rmg-/um Plli
TRACK TWOSOME:__luni()rS and fraternity brothers john Mele and Chris Sullivan play two sports.

sation, Mele competed in the triple jump event
for the first time in his athletic career. Overcom-
ing a series of hampering injuries, Mele man-
aged to jump the farthest in the entire ODAC
with a distance of 44 feet. Going into the con-
ference championships, Mele was favored to
win the triple jump event; however, his injuries
kept him from competing.

After retiring from the football team midway
through this season to concentrate more on his
impressive major grade point average of 3.3,
Mele is looking to put an exclamation point on
his track career with a trip to the NCAA champi-
onships. When asked how he plans to respond
to his inj ury-plagued ﬁnish last year, Mele said,
“My goal this year is to jump 45 or 46 feet and
be among the top three in the nation.” Mele will
also throw the javelin and run sprints.

it willetts, salvage much of a play heavily re. ’ turnes and clowning, and played up the theme 4x100 meter relay, and partipating in the long During his freshlnan year, Mele played foot- Jumping coach Chip Muir sees trelnendous
liant on its actors’ enthusiasm, of youthful spirituality surrounded by obso_ jump. This winter, Sullivan Will try t0 improve ball and toyed With the idea Of continuing  potential in the two-sport athlete.
Presenting a series of episodes from the lescence and despair upon his performance in the long jump last track career into college. Having participated “John, with a little practice, will turn into
‘ Gospel of Matthew (usually enactments of The  stage production, however, March when 21’ l 1” and won  in the CllSCLlS, Sh0t put, pole vault and  one Of the best  has ever had.”
parables), Godspell offers all of the actors uses instead atrunk and two sirnilarly-painted place at the W&L Invitational. That jump meter race in high school, Mele was ready to It seems athletics just come naturally to guys
a chance to take the solo spotlight for at mini—platforrns and ladders. The amateur set Was 0111)’ 10 inches Shy Of tying the SCh001 compete at the next level. Once he arrived at like Mele and Sullivan. The 5’9” Sullivan played
least a minute or two, staging was visually unappealing and did long jump record set by W.S. Sandifer back W&L, however, Mele found that he enjoyed football, winter soccer and track at Alamo
4 Freshman Matthew Durham ably led the little to advance the themes of the play_ At in 1927. As attainable as breaking that record football more and decided to focus on that Heights High School in Texas. The 5’ 10”, 185-
cast as Jesus, He mustered the necessary least its very prosaicness forced the audi_ may seem, Sullivan lS focused on specific Sp0I‘t full time. At the beginning Of the sea- pound Mele was also a three-sport star in fO0t-
f charisma, and also maintained an appropri— ence to focus on Jesus and his crew_ goals for  team and himself. son, the varsity football team had their ball, wrestling and track at River Hill High SCh0Ol
ate air of divine aloofness from his garnbol- Willetts made good use oflighting_ His use Sullivan’s humble and quiet demeanor be- strength and conditioning tests to measure in Maryland. Both guys are good friends and
ﬂ ing disciples Only tripping up a few times of colopbackgrounds was competent and not lies  tenacity on the playing ﬁeld and hiS individual training habits during the off-sea- fierce competitors. Above all else, Mele and
in his longer second-act speeches, Durhanfs distracting, He also adequately utilized focus for this season, to win the conference son. Head track and field coach Norris Sullivan want to take the W&L men’s track team
greatest fault was an occasional foray into Johnson Theater’s size to promote audience title in the long jump. Naturally, he wants to Aldridge was ﬁnishing his 30"‘ season as an to nationals and win their respective events.
'1 overly-precise speech that wavered be- interaction_0ne ofwilletts’ best moves was to maintain a high level of competition in his assistant football coach when he noticed Whether in the air, on the field, or in the
tween crispness and affectation, Distrac- abandon the clown niake-up, which would have sprinting events as well. With the loss of Marc Mele’s exceptional jumping ability. After set- classroom, Mele and Sully are two great guys
‘ [ions aside , he turned in a good performance obstructed much of the play’s energy/_ Watson, W&L’S multiple record holderin track ting a W&L record for verticaljump, Mele was t0 have on your side. And both are huge rea-
‘ by anyone’s standards, much more for a All in all, the play’s distinguishing fea-  and football, Sullivan’s relay team will most approached by Coach Aldridge the following sons W&L should be noticed more for its ath-
freshman taking on a leading role for his ture, the energy of its cast, was G0dspel1’s likely suffer. However, you won’t catch the winter and was convinced to try out for the letics and, more importantly, its student—ath—
* first W&L production, focal point and its saving grace_ captain saying anything but positive things track and field team. As the sophomore sen- letes.

, Lexington opens a can of whoop ass: energy drinks hit market  

q NEWS EDITOR naturally found in the body. The manufacturers claim that
taurine, combined with some of the other herbal ingredients, _
_ The night is creeping by, midnight more than hours past. boosts physical and mental performance.
9 Head heavy, eyes drooping, drowsiness threatens to take But, mostly, the “kick” comes from the caffeine.
over. No worries, problem solved: reach for energy in an 8.3 Each can contains 80 mgs of caffeine, more than twice as
‘ ounce can. much as a similar serving of Mountain Dew and about the
This is a story becoming more common on college cam- same as a strong cup of coffee.
puses nationwide, including Washington and Lee. Whether W&L’s Horton said increased headaches, heart rate, blood
T it’s to dance the night away in a frat house basement or to pressure and anxiety are possible side effects of consuming
study for that test in a library Carrel, more students are gulp- concentrations of caffeine.
4 ing down so—called “energy drinks” to stay awake and alert. Horton added that the Federal Drug Administration and

BY ALISON TRINIDAD

For W&L senior Quincy Springs, these drinks are a study
aid.

The drinks also contain taurine, an amino acid that is

Federal Trade Commission do not regulate or endorse the
claims of energy—drink labels. The FDA has not yet had

 

‘ “I consume these beverages for a pick—me-up for study— cause to evaluate the safety of energy drinks, but experts
ing or simply to stay awake in class,” he said. “They upset agree that while unhealthy, the drinks are not dangerous to
1* my stomach and they at least cause a placebo effect in that most people without health problems if taken in moderation.
if they are not keeping me awake, I think they are.” Snapple, a company that claims its drinks are made from
A Red Bull, Adrenalin Rush, WhoopAss, Venom. Gener- “the best stuff on Earth,” introduced Venom last July to the Photos courtesy of sh0pping.yahoo.c0m
ally packaged in sleek, slim cans, these caffeine— and sugar- energy drink market. With Venom, Sna le 'oined the likes
laden drinks claim to enhance alertness and stamina. Mean— of Coca-Cola Co., PepsiCo Inc. and Anhlehsei-Busch Cos.— "HI" I a n Ma M" I M can "ammo-ml‘ ea I 0 no 5 S“ In "in 0
;. tvylhile, students and bar patrons in Lexington are downing all of which make. and market their own branded energy 180 Anheuser Busch 243 120 walman $1.64/can
e drinks, working harder and partying longer, as if they drink, and all of which trail behind market-leader Red Bull. walman $1.98/can
g have found the ultimate legal stimulant. I Red Bull is estimated to own two-thirds of a young but Adrenaline Rush 30 Be 246 1 40 Kmart $179/can .
Some, however, are concerned that the beverages will be growing market. With its signature slim can, Red Bull en-
abused like other not-so-legal stimulants. tered the United States from Austria around 1997, creating a Amp PepsiCo, 248 1 20 walman $198/can
‘ Jane Horton, director of W&L health services, said n1ix- buzz among partygoers and the clubbing crowd for mixing watma” $1 _50/can
' ing alcohol with energy drinks is a risk. “Sedation is the well with vodka. Blue Ox Vancol Bev. Group 250 103 W&L Snackbar $1_33/ean
’ body’s warning sign of alcohol intake,” she said. “If energy Since then, energy drinks have developed into a $130 I Walmart $1.50/can
drinks counteract that effect, people may drink more alcohol million enterprise in the United States, Gary Hemphill of Bev— 3- OX orange VanC0l Bev. Group 250 11 0 W&L Snackbar $1 .33/can
l‘ without knowing it.” erage Marketing Corp., an industry consulting group, told Walmarl A $1.50/can
Red Bull, the energy drink that “gives you wings,” made The Wall Street Journal. That ﬁgure is all the more remark- 8- ox real P°wer Vancol Be‘/' Group 250 l 30 W&L Snackbar $1 .33/can
‘ headlines last July when the Swedish National Food Admin— able as it has‘ virtuall doubled in each of the ast ﬁve years: . . Walmm $1 50/93”
I i istration (SNFA) issued a public warning about its safety $75 millionin 1999, sziz niillionin1998and$l2Ir)riillionin 1997. B‘ °“°ta' "“'°a°t Va"°°' Bev‘ Gmup 950 118 W&L 3"a°kba' $1-33/°a“
I g and linked it to the deaths of three people who had drunk it. Hem hill estimates the U.S. market will more than double -_ ~ '
« Two died after mixing the drink with vodka while a third this yearpto roughly $300 million. Dr‘ Enuf T" my iaev’ Group 375 13° W“ S”"‘°"""" $‘ "‘3””°“'e
person died after drinking several cans following a heavy The category still is small, however, when compared with Hansenls Energy Hansen 5 Be‘/' 246 120 Svvsstphparmacy $511299//°a"
I’ workout at the gym. the $60 billion U.S. market for carbonated soft drinks — which Tpepglrglzeyors $550/:22
The manufacturers said that there was no proof the deaths includes popular sodas like Pepsi, Diet Coke and Sprite. Red Bull Red Bull 250 110 By Oasis $3150/can
were linked to Red Bull and that the allegations were fueled Washington Street Purveyors’ owner Chuck Smith says
by speculation. he brought the energy drink market to Lexington. Venom Snapple, Elements 243 130 W. St. Purveyors $1 .99/can
The company maintains that Red Bull’s main purpose is “It probably wouldn’t be where it is now if I hadn’t,” he
as an energy drink and not a mixer. The Independent Florida said. Wh°°PA55 Jones Soda C0. 2 50 110 W. St. Purveyors $1 .99/can

 

Alligator, a daily student newspaper serving the University
of Florida, spoke to Emmy Cortes, national spokeswoman
for Red Bull North America.

“We try to appeal to people who need energy or revital-
ization,” Cortes said. “This could be a college student be-
fore an exam, an athlete before a sporting event or a busi-
ness person before a big meeting.”

Unlike sports drinks such as Gatorade and PowerAde,
energy drinks do not restore ﬂuids and electrolyte balance
which are lost when a person sweats a lot. They are not
“thirst quenchers.” Just the opposite. These sugary soft

He started carrying Red Bull in September because W&L
students often came in looking for the drink. Smith said he
would have started selling the beverage earlier, but there
was no distributor in the area.

Washington Street Purveyors also sells WhoopAss and
Venom, but Smith said Red Bull leads the pack.

“Red Bull surpasses the others far and beyond,” he said.

The W&L Snack Bar carries a variety of beverage cat-
egories, including Dr. Enuf and four ﬂavors of Blue Ox. I

“The kids asked for it,” said Jeff Lynn, snack bar man-

lnformation compiled by Alison Trinidad; Chart designed by Matthew McDermott

tain drinks made up more than 55 percent of total beverage
sales last month, 62 percent in May.

Although CVS would not disclose speciﬁc sales data,
Todd Andrews at the corporate office said the drug store
chain did not sell many energy drink products. Lexington’s
CVS carries only Hansen’s Energy drink.

The Palm’s can go through two cases, or 48 cans, a night
each weekend, said bartender Laurel Smith. The bar started
serving Red Bull about two months ago. Smith said those

Holmes said many law and undergraduate W&L students
had made requests for the drink.

W&L senior Chris Roche, who bartends at Travellers Bar
& Grill, said the requests for Red Bull started corrling in this
school year. The bar, however, does not carry the energy
drink.

“I’m hoping we carry it soon,” Roche said.

Senior Lisa Chew isn’t as anxious as Roche. Regardless
of all the energy—drink hype, her decision came down to taste
when she tried Dr. Enuf. E

' ager, “and when they ask, I try to stock it.” who asked for the drink usually ordered it with a shot of
drinks usually contain lots of caffeine and, occasionally, Those drinks also boast energy boosts, memory reten— vodka. “It tasted horrible,” she said. “It tasted like chewable
guarana, a South African plant that supplies a caffeine-like tion and stress relief effects. In October, the snack bar sold “It’s all pretty much W&L guys,” she said. Flinstone’s vitaniins—oh, it’s horrible.”

Y substance. Caffeine is a diuretic, so the more you drink, the 451 units of Blue Ox and Dr. Enuf, accounting for 4 percent Down the street, at BJ’s Oasis, it’s the same story. Owner Chew said she’s going to stick to drinking Coke at night
thirstier you become. of total beverage sales, down from 5.5 percent in May. Foun- John Holmes started selling Red Bull three weeks ago. to stay awake.

i

 

  

”l‘.h.l.I{;~«';-ii  P~: "
Pmaé        L 4*    0     MONDA’, OCTOBER 22, 2001

iii“! 3‘

4;‘

'4

1:‘? I
/ ""&../1l/ i’.
1' /V,' 3.’ ii‘/I//[J
.!:f..\’ -

:,- ._
. / . //
/{_"({""'.“'i/«"4'//,'

‘T I _'
fl‘;-,‘,/\/7.”

HOLIDAY CARDS 0 DAZZLING ORNAMENTS 0 L|GHTS¢§ 2

121 W. Nelson Street
Lexington, VA 24450

540.464.5002
www.shoppumpl<inseeds.com

COOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO

‘*' SEIEDIOVED NVW.LSlélHZ) 0 S‘|3MEiF ON|'|)|HVclS 0 SEHGNVO <‘.lEllNlM

WARM MITTENS ° FESTIVE SOAPS ° FUZZY HATS

- December 27 — BOSTON, MA - Avalon
18 & Over, Tickets on sale now at: all Next Ticket outlets,
I?’ charge by phone at (617) 423-NEXT'and www.nextticketing.com
With Special Guest Afroman

4. ‘December 28 - PHILADELPHIA, PA - Electric Factory

1 All Ages, Tickets on sale now at all Ticketmaster outlets, chargeby phone

at (215) 336-2000, Electric Factory box office and www.tic|<etmaster.com
With Special Guest Afroman ‘ -

( December 29 - NEW YORK, NY - Irving Plaza
:16 & Over, Tickets on sale now at all Ticketmaster outlets, charge by phone at
(212) 307-7171, Irving Plaza box office and www.ticketmaster.com
- . With Special Guest Afroman

December 30 - WASHINGTON, DC - 9:30 Club  Student apartments ava"ab|e

All Ages, Tickets on sale now at all Ticketmaster outlets, charge by phone
at (202) 432-7328 or (800) 551-7328 (DC area) and (703) 573-7328
(N. VA area), 9:30 Club box office and www.ticketmaster.com

Wit“ 5PeC‘a' Guest Cecilia * One house with 6 bedrooms---available NOW! *

. December 31 ‘ N°RF°'-Kr VA ~ The N°rV-‘=' ' * One house with 4 bedrooms---available in summer. *
All Ages, Tickets on sale now at all Ticketmaster outlets,

charge by phone at (757) 671-8100, Backstage Cafe (757) 622-5915, _ , * Enjoy country living at its finest. *

Ti‘) N b ff‘ — 757 627-4 , . . - -
6 “Va °" ‘2,nL§:‘f,v§,,w__&cketmai‘§,Z,_c“}’,",Z,W t;he”°”’a Cv°m-—  ~ * Just ten miles west of W&L on Waterloo Drive. *

. _ _ ‘_ » —: I A . . _ V .  3..  » _ y Please call Tim Wilhelm at
~.WWW .‘ p a ii m cg eeb a‘n1Ci‘f; C0,; , ‘ 540-463-6575, 540-463-2868, or
V .  I, .    .. . » 1 Wu 540_57o_-191-1(ce")

 

«I» P7 

V

 

 R1N(}~'ftl2ll PEI

MONDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2001

PORTS

  

JEREMYFRANKIIN
SPORTS EDITOR

FMAII;ERANI<IiN)@\IcIIIn)U

PAGE 7

W&L names Cerino men’s lacrosse coach

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

The search for a head coach at one
of Division III’s most proliﬁc men’s
lacrosse programs has ended, as
Washington and Lee appointed Mike
Cerino to the position on Tuesday.

Cerino, 35, founded the men’s la-
crosse program at Division II Lime-
stone in 1990, winning a national cham-
pionship there in 2000. He coached
boys’ lacrosse last year at The Char-
lotte Latin School in North Carolina.

“Mike is a seasoned coach who
has experienced success during his
coaching career,” W&L'athletic direc-
tor Mike Walsh said. “His involve-
ment in the sport of lacrosse is at the
highest level.

“Mike is known as an excellent
teacher and motivator, and we look
forward to having him direct the for-
tunes of our men’s lacrosse program.
I know that he is eager to begin his
work with our lacrosse players.”

Cerino inherits a team that has
qualiﬁed for the NCAA Tournament
in three of the last four seasons, in-
cluding a semifinal appearance in
2000. Though the Generals didn’t
make the tournament last year, they
did ﬁnish third in the ﬁnal USILA Di-
vision III poll.

The new coach admits that there

is immediate pressure to put victories
in the books, but he believes that he’s
well prepared to deal with it.

“There is some pressure to win
now,” Cerino said. “Most of all, the

FRIDAY NXGHT SWIMMING:_]uniOr Patrick Frankfort (above) and the Generals

 

BY MICHAEL LEE
SPORTS WRITER

While most Washington and Lee
students were enjoying Christmas
Weekend kickoff parties on Friday, the
men’s and women’s swim teams were
hard at work, hosting VMI and
Radford at Twombly Pool.

The women defeated Radford 143-
59, while the men routed VMI 126-78.

It was a bittersweet night for the
Generals, however, because it was

defeated VMI 126-78, while junior Kelli Austin (right) and the women’s team
knocked off Radford 143-59. (Photos by Meg Ferrara/ T/Je Ring-tum P/J2)

senior Katie Kennedy’s last night as
a Generals swimmer. Kennedy is
graduating early with a degree in En-
glish, and so has ﬁnished her season.

Women’s coach Kiki Moore rec-
ognized Kennedy’s achievements in
a brief ceremony before the meet be-
gan, noting that Kennedy is the var-
sity record holder in the 100 and 200
breaststroke events.

In the pool, the Generals swam an
excellent meet. Kennedy posted two
individual victories, in the 200 IM and

pressure comes from the inside... I
probably haven’t been as rested for a
lacrosse season in a long time. I hope
that conveys onto the field. I’m look-
ing forward to taking this team as far
as they’ll go.”

Swimmers close Fall Term with victories

the 100 breaststroke, while junior
Patrick Frankfort cruised to easy wins
in the 1,000 freestyle and the 500
freestyle. Both teams swam to early
leads in the point standings, and
never looked back.

Earlier in the week, the women dis-
patched Randolph-Macon Woman’s
College by a ﬁnal score of 176-80 to
improve to 4-0 in the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference.

Kennedy set two meet records, in
the 500 freestyle and the 200 IM, and

The cupboard is certainly not bare
for Cerino, who replaces Jim Stagnitta
at the helm. Stagnitta coached the
Generals to a 383-278-3 record over
12 seasons before leaving for Divi-
sion I Rutgers in October.

 

teamed with junior Michelle Moore,
senior Maggie Fagan and junior Kelli
Austin to win the 200 medley relay.

Senior Laura Ingoldsby, freshman
Katie Johnston, freshman Suzie
LaFleur and Austin also won the 200
freestyle relay.

W&L’s women are now 6-2 for the
season, and the men are 2-2. The
teams depart to Clearwater, Fla., for
winter training on Dec. 28, and will
return to competition at Catholic Uni-
versity on Jan. 12.

Basketball teams start year with mixed results

FROM STAFF REPORTS

' The Washington and Lee women’s
basketball team traveled to Washington
University for the annual McWillia1ns
Classic on Nov. 24-25, looking to face great
competition and gain team experience.

They couldn’t have played a more
difﬁcult team in the opener, facing tour-
nament host, and four-time defending
national champion, Washington Uni-
versity, and losing 75-54. The Gener-
als followed this up by losing the con-
solation match to Swarthmore, 64-49.

, On Wednesday, W&L opened up
Old Dominion Athletic Conference
play with a 66-56 loss to Lynchburg.

After taking their lumps for the week,
the Generals decided to ruin someone
else’s afternoon. The Generals took
Randolph-Macon to double overtime
before pulling out a 76-7 1 victory in their

’ home opener on Saturday night.

The Generals (1-3, 1-1 ODAC)
struggled early on with their passing
game and allowed some key three-
pointers to the Yellow Jackets, but still
only trailed by seven, 28-21, at the half.

W&L worked their way back, even-
tually forcing a tie game at 41-41 half-
way through the second half. Senior
Sarah Schmidt later forced overtime
by splitting a pair of free throws with
20 seconds remaining in regulation.

In the first overtime period, the
Generals pulled ahead 68-66 when
senior Jessica Mentz connected on
two free throw shots with 1:24 to play.
Randolph-Macon, however, forced
the second overtime with a putback
by forward Sarah Crider.

  

MARY U1’/The Ring-/rm! Pi)

NEW QUARTERBACK: Freshman point guard Bethany Dannelly brings the ball upcourt
in W&L’s 76-71, double-overtime win over Randolph-Macon on Saturday.

In the second overtime, the Gener-
als grabbed a 71-69 lead and never
gave it up, hitting four key free throws
in the last minute. Free throw shoot-
ing propelled the Generals’ offense,
as W&L shot 73 percent (30-of-41)
from the charity stripe.

Senior center Megan Babst led the
Generals with 22 points and 13 re-
bounds. Mentz added 20 points and
13 boards, while freshman Emily
Barker chipped in 14 points, four re-
bounds, three steals and two assists.

In their ODAC opener, the Gener-
als led 24-23 at the half, but couldn’t
stop Lynchburg during a 10-0 run in
the second half. The Hornets finished
off W&L in the ﬁnal minutes by mak-
ing seven of eight free throws.

Men’s team opens with
stronger stan‘ than 2000-01

The Washington and Lee men’s
basketball team was determined not to
have another disastrous season-open-
ing run.

The Generals, who started 0-8 a
year ago, opened the regular season
with a 28-point blowout of Haverford
on Nov. 16. Although there have
been some ups and downs since
then, W&L is out to a stronger start
than 2000-01.

Against Haverford in the Equi-
nox Classic, the Generals dominated
the second half in extending a 30-22
halftime lead to a 71-43 final margin.

 

W&L received a 70-63 setback
to Swarthmore on Nov. 17, day two
of the Equinox. The Garnet used a
17-4 run to close the first half and
take a three-point lead into the
break, never trailing after intermis-
sion. 3

The Generals yielded another big
run in a 70-65 loss to Wesley in their
home opener on Nov. 20. W&L led
with just under 13 minutes remaining,
but a 17-2 Wolverines run gave them
a double-digit lead.

W&L evened up its record with
a 56-53 win over Greensboro at the
Warner Center on Nov. 25. The Gen-
erals endured another second-half
run by their opponent, nearly los-
ing a 10-point lead with 2:38 left to
play.

The Pride chipped the W&L ad-
vantage down to 54-53 with 22 sec-
onds left, butjunior Jake McAlister
sank a pair of free throws and a
game-tying buzzer-_beater rimmed
out. '

W&L took to the road on
Wednesday, dropping a 70-55 deci-
sion to Division I William and Mary.
The Generals shot just 31 percent
from the floor in the first half, but
improved to 52 (12-of-23) after half-
time.

Washington and Lee University
opened Old Dominion Athletic
Conference competition on Satur-
day, December 1 at Randolph-Ma-
con. The Randolph-Macon Yellow
Jackets reeled off an 18-1 run to
close the first half, cruising to an
82-64 win.

CERINO FILE

-Coached Limestone College to
80-55 record (1990-2000)

-Won 2000 NCAA Division ll
national championship

-Deep South Conference Coach
of the Year (1994, 1998)

-Street & Smith’s College
Lacrosse USA’s Division ll
National Coach of the Year (2000)

MEET THE PRESS: New Washington and

"Lee men’s lacrosse coach Mike Cerino

ﬁelds questions at a Tuesday morning
press conference.Cerino began the
program at Limestone in 1990, winning
an NCAA Division II national ,
championship there 10 years later. He
begins his duties this week. (Photo by
Meg Ferrara/ T/Je Rirzgmm P/92)

"Ihings are going in a good direction,”
Cerino said. “There are some top-notch
players, the Iecmiting base is strong, we’re
playing (against) the right people.

“Washington and Lee is one of
those special college lacrosse situa-

BY DAVE CROWELL
AssIsTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee track
program began its 2001-02 indoor
season by traveling across town for
the VMI Invitational on Saturday af-
ternoon. The invitational drew both
Division I teams and a number of
Division III programs.

Men’s coach Norris Aldridge
and women’s coach John Tucker
agreed that the invite provided an
important stepping-stone into sea-
son competition, which resumes
on Jan. 25 when the Generals travel
to Christopher Newport.

“The importance of this invite
was to gauge how much work we
need to do as a team. Plus, all the
runners that have been working out
in the fall got to experience some
competition,” Aldridge said.

“This was a good jump in the

pool, just to get our feet wet in com-
petition,” Tucker added. “We go
until April, so this is the first step
on a long road. We expect steady
improvement throughout the
year.” ,
The VMI Invitational differs from
other competitions in that no ofﬁ-
cial team scoring is kept. In addition,
Tucker noted that the events are
evenly distributed with regard to tal-
ent. This helps overcome the pres-
ence of Division I schools.

The invitational functions as a
time trial, giving the athletes a very
early gauge regarding times that
will undoubtedly improve through-
out the season. Tucker and
Aldridge each noted that their run-
ners have not reached peak physi-
cal shape this early.

The coaches still were very
pleased by the overall performances
of the teams.

Tucker pointed out a few run-
ners and throwers who especially
impressed him, including freshmen
Liz Crawford and Jessica Remmert,
who each competed in the 50-meter
dash.

“Liz will become a very competi-
tive runner this season, plus she’ll
add another dimension in the high
jump,” Tucker said. “Jessica has

tions that I really want to be a part
of,” he added. “They have an excel-
lent lacrosse tradition, and Coach
Stagnitta has maintained the program
at the top of Division III for over a
decade. I’m very pleased about tak-
ing the reigns and adding another
chapter to its storied history.”

Cerino’s lacrosse experience ex- T‘
tends well beyond his head coach- . ;

ing résumé. He has served on the
NCAA Men’s Lacrosse Champion-

ship Committee, the NCAA Men’s La- 1. ; .-
crosse Rules Committee, the USILA 
Division II All-America Committee 5‘

and the USILA Division II Ranking
Committee.

He was also named Street & Smith ’s
College Lacrosse USA’s Division II
Coach of the Year in 20()0 and the Deep
South Conference Coach of the Year
in 1994 and 1998. Cerino has earned
the Jim “Ace” Adams National Sports-
manship Award twice.

It’s because of that experience that
Cerino believes he is the perfect ﬁt
for Washington and Lee.

“I.’ve earned my stripes in the re-
cruiting wars,” Cerino said. “I kind of
feel like it’s halftime. A jolt of enthusi-
asm might be beneﬁcial, and I’ m look-
ing forward to bringing that to the
table. I’m excited about what W&L
can accomplish.”

Track teams open 2001-02
season with VMI Invitational

MEG FERRARA / The Ring-in/21 P/21'
STRETCHING our: Audrey Walker and
the Generals opened the season with
the VMI Invitational on Saturday.

never run before and is just learning
the conditioning and preparation
techniques. I was very pleased with
her performance.”

In addition, Tucker said freshman
Kim Gunst and senior Britt Shaffer
performed respectably in the 200
meter, and that freshman Audrey
Walker, also a relative newcomer,
performed well in the shot put.

The invitational, however, did
not reflect the entire team that
Tucker will run during the out-
door season. Athletes who par-
ticipated in fall sports did not run,
with both coaches choosing to
allow those who trained in the fall
to compete.

Aldridge, entering his 32nd
year as head track and field coach,
believed his team ran well, but
conceded that very few compet-
ing teams were in top physical

shape.

He praised the performances of
team captains Mike Hegg and Ian
McAllister, both seniors, and
freshman Brian Krupczak in par-
ticular.

“Overall, this is very early in the
season and I was happy with how
we came out and ran,” Aldridge
said.

INTERESTED IN WRITING FOR THE PHI?
Opportunities are available to cover
men’s and women’s basketball,

swimming, track and wrestling.

Contact Sports Editor Jeremy Franklin at
frank|inj@w|u.edu or x4060.

 

 

    

   

 

 R::<«;.-  §’le:l I
PAGE 8  ‘ MONDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2001 ‘
pI'€pElf€ O1’ 611 €I1I112l F1111 ,
W &L d f C t i 1 
Wrestlers lack depth and experience, but possess enough talent to compete now In conference play
BY JEREMY FRANKLIN V
SPLiR'l‘S EDITOR
Despite losing four seniors and ii
having little depth at all but a handful ,
of weight classes, veteran coach Gary A
Franke has plenty to be excited about
with his 2001-02 Washington and Lee
wrestling team. 4'
To ﬁll the void left by John and Greg
Valentine, Josh Chamberlain and John
Sensing, several Generals have moved
up a weight class, and newcomers and T ’
new starters will ﬁll other voids.
“This year’s team has probably got
a little bit less experience than some
of the others,” said Franke, who is g «
coaching the team for the 29th sea— ’
son. “Those four guys are hard to re-
place because they were in the pro~ 3
gram for four years, and there was a
lot of development.” ’
inexperience and depth are poten-
tial problems, but W&L returns \ F“ Hm-

enough talent to compete now. Lead-
ing the pack is senior captain Ezra
Morse, who was 20-3 last season and
has won the VMI Keydet Invitational
against primarily Division I opponents
three years in a row.

“He brings great intensity,” Franke
said of Morse. "His intensity, his com-
petitiveness, his hard—working spirit
—— he's much more involved than he’s
ever been.”

The l97—pound Morse believes

_ READY TO TACKLE THE CENTENNIAL: Freshman Brian Avello,
shown here in the Nov. 12 VMI Invitational, and the

in the past. We are weak at some
weight classes, but we’ll see howthat
pans out.”

The Generals won’t be a one-man
show, however. Sophomore Joe
Mueller is a returning Centennial Con-
ference champion at the 184-pound
class, and seniors Ben Segal (125) and
Ivan Zdanov (174) are in their fourth

man and also a newcomer, will replace
Sensing as the heavyweight.

The Generals will seek to improve
upon last year’s 3-3 record in the Cen-
tennial, where they compete against
Ursinus, Johns Hopkins, Muhlenberg,
Gettysburg and nationally-ranked
Western Maryland.

“I hope we can improve on our

Washington and Lee wrestling team begin Centennial
Conference play injanuary.

termining how the Generals will per-
form later on in the year.

“The early season just gives you
a chance to see where you are tech-
nically, and to see where you are from
a fitness perspective,” Franke said.
“It gives you some great feedback,
so we can work on certain things we
need to work on. I think it kind of

that this year’s team differs fromgthe year with the program. conference finish,” Franke said. “I sets the tone for the rest of the sea— 
three he’s wrestled for thus far. Sophomore Anjan Ghosh will start think we can gain a lot of experience. son, too.”
“(This team) is very, very different at 133, and junior John Polena is pen— We’re going to have to rely on our Regardless of how W&L performs g‘

from the teams l’ve been on at W&L,”
he said. “This year we have probably
the fewest number of people out, but
talent—wise I think we have one of the
best teams that we’ve had, even
though we don’t have a lot of depth.

“The individuals on this team are
working way harder than they have

ciled in at 141. Sophomore Corey
Little has moved up to replace Cham~
berlain at 149.

W&L will start freshman Brian
Avello at the 157-pound class, while
junior Alex Poor and sophomore Steve
Saks are battling for the 165 spot. Se-
nior Matt Jacobs, an offensive line-

Generals finish fourth

FROM STAFF REPORTS Senior Ivan Zdanov accomplished Tuesday, Dec. 4 Saturday, Jan. 5 Saturday, Jan. 12
the same feat at 174. Zdanov pinned _ W°"‘°"i3 l3a5k°lba” Vvg:stit"('39n b Q d W'°3”l"9 ’ g .
SCRANTON,Pa.——The Washing- Ty Edwards of Albright and beat MW7 W““'”‘~“°” 3‘ W&L’ 12a pnii is uig iia " W&L ai UiS'"”S i”i'iai'°”ai’
ton and Lee wrestling team placed Lycoming’s Dale Jones. Joe Amone ii'iii' women's Basketball Meni.i::'nii,i1' w°men.s
fourth of 1 1 teams at the Scranton In- of Kings defeated him in the ﬁnals. Wednesday’ Dec_ 5 Blidgewalef 31 W&L» 4 P-in swimming

vitational on Saturday.
Senior Ezra Morse won the 197-

pound championship with wins over Brian Avello (157) each recorded one w'°5t”"9_ , _ Tuesday. Jan- 8 i-ynchbuyig ai W&L‘ 3 pm‘
Tegan McKee of Kings Luke win on the day andjunior Alex Poor soiiiiieiii Viigiiiia ai W&L’ w°"'°"iS Baskeiba” women S Baskeibaii
Ro:enberger of Baptist Bible and ' f t h ‘ th 165 733° piii’ W&L ai Viigiiiia weS'ey"”’ W&L“ E"i°iy and iieiiiy’

C ‘ won a pair 0 ma c es in e — 7 p_m_ 4 pm
Glenn Zimmermann of Kings. pound ﬂight. wednesday, Jan, 2

So homore Jose h Mueller was Kin s won the tournament with Women's Basketball Wednesdaltr Jan- 9 Sunday, Jan. 13

P P 2 W H.

the runner—up in the 184-pound 134 points. Lycoming was second at G'ee“5b°'° 3‘ W&L 4 9-” Miﬁls gig W&L 6 M°"i5 Baskelba"

~ _ , , , - - a - Men’s Basketball “ 9” 9'9 ai - pm" Hampden—Sydney at W&L,
weight class, defeating Albright s Bill 69.5, followed by the College of New Gumord at W&L 7 p m Mews Basketba" 3 p m
Brennen and Keith Kubicek of the Jersey at 68.5 and W&L at 47.5. i i ' Eastern Mennonite at W&L, 7 i '
College of New Jersey before falling W&L hosts Southern Virginia in a Friday’ Jan_ 4 pm‘ Monday, Jan_ 14
to Kubiceksteammate, Dale Rismiller, non-conference dual match at 7:30 Women's Basketball Thmsday, Jan_ 10 Men’s and Women’s
in the finals. p.m. on Wednesday. Easier“ Me””°“lle 3‘ W&L: Women's Basketball Swimming

Junior John Polena (141), sopho-
more Corey Little (149), freshman

seniors, the four guys who are in there,
to do well and perform well. We hope
we can get some more conference
champions.”

The coach believes that early-sea—
son tournaments, such as the Nov. 12
VMI invite and Saturday’s Scranton
Invitational, can go a long way in de-

in dual meets, Morse believes several
Generals are in for a strong season.

“Individually, there’s going to be
a lot better wrestlers this year,” Morse
said. “But I’m looking forward to all
the duals, seeing how well we do
against all the other teams. I’m excited
about conference now.”

W&L SPORTS SCHEDULES DEC. 4-JAN. 14

Men’s Basketball
W&L at Bridgewater, 7 p.m.

4 pm.

Men’s Basketball ,
W&L at Roanoke, 7 p.m.

W&L at RMWC, 7 p.m.

W&L at Catholic, 2 p.m.
Men’s Basketball

Grove City at W&L, 6 pm.

® TOYOTA

Celica-
The Inside Story  

On the outside, -it's easy to see that Celica is racetrack
inspired. But the real excitement is on the inside...under the
V hood. Take the Celica GT—S...Toyota worked with Yamaha to
build a 180 HP engine redlined at 7800 RPM...equipped it
with Variable Valve Timing with inteIligence...a computer
that constantly monitors and retunes your engineifoir maxi-
mum performance...a cam with two sets of lobes to provide Driving 3 new Toyota is easier than ever ..
two ranges of valve lift and duration for more usable horse—  ’
power. There’s direct ignition for greater reliability... b€CE1U5€ n0W YOUFTOYOG dealer ha” 5l3€Clal C0“€8€ gladuale
;r;d;um_t;pped Spark plugs for reduced mamtenancema financing program available thru Toyota Financial Services
stainless steel exhaust manifold...a water~cooled oil cooler. that Offers 3 iot of great adVa”la8e5-
And mated with Toyota's 4—speed electronically~Controlled
automatic ”Sportshift”, you get transmission shift switches
on the steering,wheel...just like Formula 1 race cars. Sweet.

www.gettoyota.com p

So if you're within 4 months of graduation... or if you graduated
within the past two years...See your Toyota dealer for details.

 
     
  
      
      

  
 
 

S’i‘r.i,\‘~F,\'

G. EBYIUN-I r.i£mFi“v'
wigli:/l§3'Setr()u a we tmlilliﬁiw

 ‘M 

llii” ll5V""" “ Pl“ V‘ } O  Trsr. L; PI-si

INFLATION (I3 PAGE 3 ' " P I r _ W _ _
L.\Tl.\llil{ i>i::i:i..‘m1~::»: "iris: (“lll Ollill"'(”'l 6

P I:'l_*1i..'rF. we i.\.~ii>i>it<>i>i<iA’r‘r%; Tl--HELTA 8
(3R;‘il)l'~. »\SSl(3t~<.\lEI\’=’l" AIJIJA DE LTA 

A DE:FEAfi‘  PAGE 7 IQXPPA 7
Gl'il\l'~'j.l'~‘.-\l.S Br‘r$KFL'l‘E“n‘\i.l. 
FAI.i.S "rm l’lA.\lPDF.l\'~- Pl Pill 3

\’rn .i.'.‘iiF. Cli’, N’ ». XVI

i.t«.:>:zvs:'ri>., \9':;a.(.a:\:i.-=. ‘Z4450

;Vl\’)1\‘tI).-*.‘.',_l.4.l\1i.'_&’.‘.' E4, 2002

:Sororities, fraternities receive grades, pledges

0 7 Large freshman class he/ps Greeks enjoy successful rush season

BY MATTHEW MCDERMOTT
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF

D

W&L’s record number of freshmen pre-

* sented a golden opportunity to fraternities and

sororities eager to increase membership.
The IFC and Panhellenic Council worked

" with the Dean of Students Office in the com-

plicated process of sorting more than three

‘ 5. fourths of the freshman class into Greek orga-

nizations.

1 ' SORORITYRECRUITMENT

Panhellenic President Katie Cedarholm,

b a senior, and Recruiting Chair Elizabeth Saxtori,

a junior, stayed up past 2 a.m. for nearly a

' * week.

$ wants to participate,”

0 ‘‘There’s a lot of be-

“We’ve been busy trying to place every-
one in a sorority who

Saxtori said.

hind the scenes wor ,”

V g Cedarholm added.

This work included organizing invitations to
last week’s various sorority functions, held last

* week, which include Philanthropy and Skit Nights.

Cedarholm and Saxtori also cross-refer-
enced lists and assisted Panhellenic Advisor
Teresa Glassman in the selection process,
which is electronic.

y‘ “We use a DOS program, so I don’t know

if I’d call it high tech,” Glassman said.

‘ The program takes the preferences of the

sororities and of the potential new members,

‘ ‘and attempts to match them together while

maintaining each house’s quota.

\We’ve been busy trying to place everyone
in a sorority who wants to participate.
ELIZABETH SAXTON ‘04

Dean of Freshmen Dawn Watkins has
been working with dorm counselors to make
sure that the “needs are met” of participants
and non participants of recruitment.

There has been, however, no special Resi-
dence Life meeting called on rush or
pledgeship, Watkins said.

FRATERNITY RUSH

The IFC, which had successfully op-
posed the recent motion to shorten
pledgeship to six weeks, began planning for
rush on a Skylar retreat on Sept. 4.

Several changes grew out of the meet-
ing, including abolishing the usual Lee Chapel
assembly.

Instead, IFC representatives met with sec-
tions of male dormitory halls. Reading from
prepared talking points,
they gave advice and
answered questions.

“The information

sessions helped" out a lot,”
said IFQ President Quincy
Springs, a senior, who believes the personal ap-
proach encoiiiaged more freshmen to rush.

IFC Vice President and senior Brent
Keene is in charge of fraternity rush.

He edited the Rush Book, a publication
that allowed every fraternity two pages to
describe their house, list members, and pro-
vide pictures of activities. .

Before Christmas, freshmen ﬁlled out their
preference cards, where they listed their top
four choices. This past week, freshmen vis-
ited them during rush dates one to four, which
were two ninety—niinute intervals on Tuesday

   

(Arrow)

ll\'1-‘ORMA‘I‘lOl\ COL'R'l‘FSY BRFNT Krnxr, IFC V102 Pn=siI>i=Nr, AND SORO|lI1Tl-S/ INFOGRAPHIC Bi MAi'nii=ii McDi-‘nxiorii;
(mow) lNrORiVlATlO2\1 COURIFSY Draw or STUDFNIS OFFICE

Administration re/eases
Greek GPA’s for Fall Term 2001

BY MATTHEW MCDERMOTT
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF

By one thousandth of a GPA point,
Sigma Nu wrested the academic trophy from
Pi Beta Phi for Fall Term 2001. This is the first
time in recent memory that a fraternity has
beaten a sorority to earn the highest grade
average.

Sigma Nu, with a 3.388, has maintained
the highest fraternity average for the past
two terms.

Sigma Chi, whose 3.339 is the second
highest average, climbed from its previous
fifth rank.

With a 3.387, Pi Beta Kapa had the high-
est sorority average.

Chi Omega moved from first to second
place, with a 3.335 average.

Two fraternities had an A average and
13 had a B average. Two sororities had an
A average and three had a B average.

Every fraternity but Kappa Alpha and Chi
Psi had a higher average than non-fraternity
men. Every sorority had a higher average than
non—sorority women.

Greek men and women had higher aver-
ages than non—Greeks. Women had higher
averages than men.

The average W&L GPA is 3.095.

Fraternity Rankings Sorority Rankings Other Scores

Quota is set before recruitment and is and Wednesday evenings. l’ SlgmaNll 3388 l‘ Pllgela Plll 3387 Allsolollly 3274
the number of participating women divided Selected freshmen were invited back on 2‘ Slgmaclll 3339 2' ClllOmega3'335 Allwomen 3'l94
by ﬁve. This year’s quota was 37 up from rush dates ﬁve and six on Thursday. 3‘ Plll Gamma Della 3238 3'KapPa KaPPaGa‘mma3‘223 N°n’S°l°llly Women 3'lll
last year’s 32. Fully eighty—nine percent of “Some houses have a tendency to hold 4' PlKapPa Plll 3'l97 4' Kappa Alpha Tllela3'229 Allsllldellls 3095
freshman woman are participating in this pledges during rush date ﬁve ” Springs said. 5‘ Plll Della Theta 3‘l45 5' Kappa Della 3'2l6 Allﬁalemlly 3075
.,year’s rush. “The IFC patrolled during rush week, which 6'  Clll Alplla 3'l06 AllMe“ 3'0l_5
' Every woman gets one bid for a sorority. helped the situation.” 7' Slgma Alpha Epslloll 3'08l N°ll‘Flal°mlty Men 2941
Should she reject it, which the Panhellenic Springs believes thatrushwentwell. "Ihere 8‘ Plll Kappa P_sl 3055
#Council discourages, she is unable to pledge. -weieafewbumpsintheroad,7’hesaid,“butthey’ll 9‘ Plll Kappa Slgma 3046

10. Sigma Phi.Epsilon 3.025
1 1. Beta Theta Pi 3.018

12. Kappa Sigma 2.991

13. Pi Kappa Alpha 2.952
14. Kappa Alpha 2.788

15. Chi Psi 2.777

another sorority for a calendar year.
Some women “fall through the cracks,”
* and do not get a bid.
“We are very happy that there are fewer
girls that didn’t get bids this year than last
‘ year,” Glassman said.

be handled at the Monday IFC meeting.”

“It looks like there’s going to be a lot of
alcohol violations from bid night,” Keen said.

“Allin all we’re working out kinks as we
work under the new alcohol rules and regula-
tions,” Springs said.

Fall

  

The institute and its anticipated annual sessions are be-
ing financed by $750,000, raised by Billy Schaefer ’60 from
members of the Class of 1960. The Institute’s goals are still
being formulated but include promoting academic integrity in
secondary schools and colleges, while
also emphasizing ways that alurrmi can

-mail news briefs to

ODK initiates new students

W&L-founded national honor society inducts 22 undergrads, 9 law students

     
 

further promote integrity in the profes— COMPILED BY
sions and in the workplace, institute or- STAFF REPORTS Class of 2002 William Guthn-6 Packard, HI
' , , , ganizers said. - -
‘ NEW p0//t/CS COUfS9 On ,0/l/Sm In 1992, Washington and Lee was Membership in Omicron Delta Kappa hull/153:: iffgfyaglglj Cltgfgil (2133:: -Fggrtssggn
‘ - - amon 24 foundin institutions of the Cen— is awarded to under aduate 'unior and se- -
a ﬁrs Sta te W] m e d I a  Vere ter forg Academic Irgitegrity, formerly spear— MUDD nior students, gradirate students, to fac- rll~:1§:a]::‘E3lg):eG1:l:s:l;I?k Law Class 01-2002
,1 Washington and Leo Univorsity’s new course on terror- headed by McCabe and now based at Duke University’s Kenan ulty, staff, adnii nistration and alumni; and Veronica Ellen Gfiﬁ-uh Ryan Andmw Becker

ism has boon in the media spotlight this week with news orga- Institute of Ethics. The center’s 1997 armual convention was to persons qualifying for membership hon— Thomas Galen Grove John Stanﬁeld Buford

nizations from across the state Visiting campus and interview- hosted by W&L on ltS national historic landmark carripus ll’! oris causa. Charene Amelia Jones Hillary B eth Coombs

ing Politics Professor Bob strong about his creation of the 0 Lexington. Today, the center has about 250 institution mem- Student candidates must rank in the Anne Monica Lachiewicz Sarah Margaret Cravens

popular 2()0-lcvel course. bers, including many of the country’s most erriinent colleges upper 35 percent of their college and must Amanda Lewis Chﬁsty Lynn M CQH amy

A strong, head of tho politics department in W&L’s and universities. show leadership in scholarship, athlet- Elizabeth B1airMannmg Stacy Eve Smith
Williams school of Commorco, Economics, and Politics, Mudd, who has become in recent years an avid com- ics, community service, social or reli— E1iaImaJ0euaMaIZiani
, began planning the course days after the mentator and speaker on professional ethics, will launch the gious activities, campus government, Robert Oaconner Moynihan Law Class 01.2003
Sept, 11 attacks on the world Trade weekend events with his Founders’ Day convocation ad- mass media, or the creative or perform— Deeksha prakash John Frank Eismger
Center and the Pentagon, Though hav- dress, “Honor: Is It Absolute or Is It Relative?” The speech, ing arts. Hamid Ems Shaw, In H eath Holland Galloway
ing long incorporated issuos of terror- which is open to the public, is at 11:30 a.m. Friday, Jan. 18, in ODK was founded on Dec. 3, 1914, Micah paul Tolman Sara Scott McGe0rge
ism in his classes, strong has devoted Lee Chapel. at Washington and Lee University, Lex- Abram Jonas Trosky
hundreds of hours to dovoloping tho now McCabe, aRutgers University professor of organizational ington, Virginia, by 15 student and fac- Alumni
STRONG coursels examination of the volatile is- management, will deliver the institute’s keynote address at 11 ulty leaders. . Class of 2003 Thomas R_ Shepherd
; sues facing policy makers grappling with a.m. Saturday, Jan. 19, in the Law School s moot courtroom. ODK was the first college honor so- Robert EaI1Benson
terrorism and its repercussions. The institute’s inaugural two—day session will include a ciety of a national scope to recognize Agnes Maria Flak Honoris Causa
ﬁr student demand for the class has been intense, with un- series of workshops and discussions, which are not open to leadership and service in extracurricular Avery Flinn Gholston W~1uiamF'MCC0rk1e’Jr.
dergraduates continuing to seek spots in one of three sections the public, featuring Mudd, McCabe, members 0fW&L’S fac- activities. N an Cy Shepherd
A of the course as W&L’s winter term classes opened this week. 111i)’, UIliV6fSit)' Officials and Outside SPCak€TS-
Media coverage of the course also has prompted inquiries from
- .0 faculty at other colleges, said Strong, a nationally known expert  IE  es 
on American foreign policy and the U.S. Presidency. Wednesday’ Jan 16

News coverage of the W&L course include articles by
? the Norfolk Virginian-Pilot, the Associated Press, the
Roanoke Times, the Staunton News-Leader and television

of chemistry in building the atomic bomb

Frank A. Settle, professor of chemistry at Washing-

, 8:00 p.m.——Alcoholic Anonymous meet-
ing. Fairfax Lounge. Coffee provided. All

it reports by WDBJ-7 and WSLS—I0 in Roanoke and WSET-I3 in ml‘ and Le? l.l“l"°lSfllA7’ lllas .““lll‘g;°‘l ll” °°¥.°’1 S(l1°f:l°l mvitm
L nchburg this month s issue 0 na ytzca emzstry. it e na-
y ' lytical Chemistry and the Manhattan Project,” Settle ex- Th“1‘Sd3YsJ3n- 17 ~
amines the major role analytical chemists played in the 7P-in-—“Wi11d°Wt0PaTiS-” Russianwith Sub"

titles. Rm. 221, Williams School.

7:30 p.m.—-—Guest speaker. “Addressing Pov-
erty in West Africa: The Case of Niger,” by Jason
Hahn ’99, former Peace Corps Volunteer. Room 114,

success of the top-secret Manhattan Project to build the
first atomic bomb.

For the last two years, Settle, who teaches analytical
chemistry and an interdisciplinary course on the nuclear age,

.4»
Roger Mudd ‘50, Donald McCabe

“ ‘ will speak to launch W&L Institute for Honor
0 )1 Newsman Roger Mudd, a 1950 W&L alumnus and

 

Y widely respected journalist, and Dr. Donald L. McCabe, has b66n building a Web Site. thﬁ A1508 Di ital Libf for Science Center’
one of the country’s leading authorities on academic in-  1 r Issues, that is Part Of the Naiimlai Science _
Alytegrity and collegiate Honor Systems, are the featured F011I1dati0n’s $40 million National Science Digital Library Tilda)’ F"llay’Ja“' 18

Founder’s Day/ODK Convocation
1 1 :30 a.m.-—ODK Convocation and Inaugural

8:30 p.m. to 12:00 a.m.—Java at the GHQ. Robin
Stone, accompanied by precussionist. Soulfolk, fun,

project designed to create, organize and install high—quality
educational resources on the Internet.

speakers at Washington and Lee University Founders’
8 Day events and the inaugural session of the W&L Insti-

tute for Honor The Alsos site, created through a $250,000 NSF grant, and jazz music. Lﬁctureo f Inslitute for H°“°r- Roger Mudd ‘50-
Tho Jan_ 18-19 festivities, which include students’ initia- provides a rich array of authoritative and reliable references L5eCi1aP91- . . “
tion into the Omicron Delta Kappa honor society for leader— drawn fmm Sources w°lldwlde' T“°5d3YsJan- 15 7'30 P'm‘_ Fllm S°°lely' Apocalypse Now’

Redux” (USA, 1979/2001 ). Directed by Francis Ford
Coppola. Troubadour Cinema.

Noon—Fellowship lunch. W&L employees
brown bag lunch. Rm 108, University Center.

The current Alsos Library is directed by Settle and Tho-
mas P. Whaley, professor of computer science at W&L.

ship achievements, are designed to highlight the launching of

Y the W&L Institute for Honor.

 

  
    
  
  
   
 

Mo DAY, JANUARY 14, 2002 ,‘

‘ll

WATERLOO HOUSES FOR RENT

M

 

10 student apartments available

* One house with 6 bedrooms---available NOW! * ~
* One house with 4 bedrooms-- available in summer. * +
* Enjoy country living at its finest. *
* Just ten miles west of W&L on Waterloo Drive. *

 

Please call Time Wilhelm at
540-463-6575, 540-463-2868, or ,, 4
540-570-1911 (cell)

an. 18-24 30% off    
an 25-31 40% off
Feb. 1-9 I 5@°/o oIF!!!!!

CUSTOM ORDERS NOT INCLUDED

MAKING ROOM FOR THE
NEW SPRING INVENTORY

  

Glasses      
starting soon!

MCAT prep at W&Lestarts January 6166 !! I

    

astichancei teprep for the April '02 test date !!

      
     
   
    

Call NOW to reserve your spot !!
(ask for course code MCCV2301) I   ‘

can or visit us onllne today to enroll!

 

‘.’V°'."d Leade:
"1 Test Prep.

___.

  
   
   
     

 

4 N 1-800-KAP-TEST
kaptest.com 6
AOL keyword: Kaplan

’*MCAT is a registered trademark of the Association ‘of American Medical Celleges-

1MCAO054

 

.\ if A MONDAY, JANUARY 14, 2002

'l”RINc-R1\il*}—.n

TAFF EDITORIAL

Pledgeship 2002:
W&L’s master class

Professors, take heed. An ever-lengthen-
ing and ragged column of freshmen will soon
be straggling into your classes at 8: 10, 9:05, or
even 10:15.

Meanwhile, the empty seats surrounding
the tardy will memorialize peers unable to win
the battle against alcohol consumption and sleep
deprivation.

Some teachers would use this situation as
an excuse to “crack down,” enforcing pre-es-
tablished rules on attendance and participation.

Nothing could be less fair.

Don’t be fooled, professors. Your tender
charges are learning——-that out-of-classroom,
true-to-life learning that W&L values.

All of the academy is contained within
pledgeship: the history of one’s Greek-letter
organization, man’s biological response to con-
suming gallons of alcohol, the chemistry of al-
temative pharmaceuticals, and the economics
of buying cigarettes for house officers.

Weighed against a syllabus like this, any-
thing outside the C-School suddenly loses its

luster. The academic disciplines like philology, A

philosophy, and phenomenology might be well
and good, but when you climb down from the
ivory tower, you see that networking and as-
similation get you the better job.

Understandably, lessons as important as
these carmot be taught for a few hours every
night. Often instruction continues early into the
morning, and lesser subjects must of course
make way.

Because students are working so ﬁendishly
outside of class, the solution is for professors
to relax within it. Grade-inflation is an ugly and
imprecise term; consider it grade-massage.

The grades the Class of 2005 can be sub-
tly inﬂuenced by understanding what’s going
on off the Hill. A paper ordinarily meriting a C
can look like a B when you realize its author
wrote it after the Keg Relay. A D-quiz can be
quite C+ish when you realize only three hours

intervened since the student was re‘le_;,as_e_;d frgm 

scavenger hunting by his brother. . .

In the eight weeks ahead, we ask -that.“

W&L teachers demonstrate their commitment
to the true meaning of education.

TEE RiN<;;-uni PH

PINIONS

W&L must avoid t

There are certain things that students
miss about heading home for the holidays,
namely the lack of schoolwork. As much
as I enjoy life here on campus, I would be
lying if I said that I didn’t miss some as-
pects of winter break. However, the prom-
ise of getting a report card is not one of
them.

Just like any other student, I hardly
wanted to bring home a 1.0 GPA for Christ-
mas. And just like any other student, there
are times when I become so overwhelmed
that a part of me wishes that the A’s were
handed to me on a platter with no work
attached.

In light of my dread, I naturally was
intrigued by a recent Boston Globe article
regarding grade inﬂation at Harvard Uni-
versity. What I found astounded me.

A whopping 91 percent of the class of
2001 graduated with honors, and 48.5 per-
cent of last year’s undergraduates earned
A’s or A-minuses. For the record, the na-
tional average is around 27 percent, which
itself is up from 7 percent in 1969.

To say that something didn’t seem
right about the numbers is an understate-
ment. Anyone would agree that even the
briefest glance at the lists posted outside
Payne Hall indicates that the situation is
hardly similar on our campus.

Even Harvard’s tou ghest- grading profes-
sor, Harvey C. Mansﬁeld, acknowledged in a
Chronicle of Higher Education interview last
April that Washington and Lee is one of the
few selective universities that hasn’t fallen
victim to unchecked “upward grade homog-
enization,” Yale’s oﬂicial euphemism.

Indeed, one of my reasons for attend-
ing W&L was its reputation for honest
appraisals of academic ability. Neither my
parents nor I wanted to throw away tens of
thousands of dollars to a diploma mill or
brand school.

In my mind, employers and graduate
schools should not respect that kind of
system, an opinion bolstered by a Harvard
Crimson piece in which a professor at the

BREIT T. KIRWAN
OPINIONS EDIIOR

EMAIL’ l<lRWAl\lB@Wlll.EDU

emptation of gra

COURTFSY C4l54LJERDAll)’.COM

HOT AIR. Grade inﬂation has carried schools to sky-high GPA’s. W&L should not follow suit.

University of Rochester deemed as now
almost worthless the once vaunted
Harvard Business School Degree.

Quite simply, whenever higher educa-
tion succumbs to boosting grades, those with
above—average talent carmot be differenti-
ated from the mediocre.

Inevitably, the more
I read the more my mind
turned to the possibil-
ity of inﬂation in Lexing-
ton. By no means arn I
qualiﬁed to determine the current level of
grade inﬂation on the Hill. After all, I’ve
only received a single trimester report card.

Nevertheless, consideration of national
trends and accounts of other institutions
struggles with pumped-up grades does im-
ply that Washington and Lee is not immune
to this insidious epidemic. There is ample
reason to believe that the school will need
to increase its diligence in upcoming years
in order to keep standards high.

—COGENT COMMENTARY
ANDREW LATIMER ‘05

Washington Hall must reinforce its
fight against the current of popular per-
ception and expectations of a college edu-
cation. Some have dubbed this trend the
“college consumer syndrome,” and the
term ﬁts well. Applicants browse their cata-
logs (such as the US News and World Re-
port rankings and F iske ’s
Guide to Colleges) and
shop around for the most
satisfying and comfort-
able establishment.

Once they have enrolled, the consumer-
friendly college must keep students and their
paying parents happy in order to retain their
ﬁnancial support (read: throw criticism out
the window, lower standards and pacify ev-
eryone with A’s). In theory, the problem is
most acute at universities that rely on tuition
for the majority of their ftmding.

Not that having a donation-dominated
cash ﬂow would be much better. Realisti-
cally, you would expect your typical deep-

PAGE 3

de inﬂation

pocketed parent would want to see some
sort of return on a sizable investment. With
the mounting of the mammoth “Campaign
For The Rising Generation,” such a point
is more pertinent than ever.

If W&L remains steadfast in its com-
rnitrnent to honest grading and refuses to
play the game, it will be in the minority. To
give in to the pressure would be most
tempting if enrollment slackened.

The solution, however, is not to peg
grading to a curve or keep rules stagnant.
Rather, professors must update and reﬁne
their grade scales and expectations as times
dictate. One of the favorite arguments of
those who believe that inﬂation is a myth
is that the rise in GPA only shows that stu-
dents have grown more intellectually ca-
pable and diligent in their studies.

That’s all well and good, but there isn’t
much point in maintaining a system that
compares us to our parents and not our
classmates. All it can beneﬁt is how we feel
about ourselves, and the last time I checked,
no employer has advertised a position for a
worker with “high self—esteem.”

Also, if the administration lets battles
over academic funding get out of hand, the
competition could turn lethal to academics.
Should a department head aim to boost a
sagging program, he or she might suggest
that professors drop unpopular assignments
in order to accommodate more students.

Such an approach may work in the short-
tenn, but the practice will always prove detri-
mental to the depamnents, and therefore the
schools, in the long run. The ultimate losers
in this grim scenario: the students.

Iknow that I would be appalled if I found,
as Harvey C. Mar1sﬁeld’s students at Harvard
do, two grades for each course on my next
report card: the ofﬁcial one-— and then the
unofﬁcial grade the professor felt I truly de-
served. The fact that conditions have dete-
riorated so badly at our nation’s supposedly
top university is appalling, and to let any-
thing like that happen to Washington and
Lee would be even more tragic.

UOTE OF THE WEEK:

AND THEN THEY TOOK US TO
THREE SORORITIES, AND MADE

US STRIP DOWN TO OUR BRIEFS.
—FREsHMAN, FOOLISHLY THINKING
THE WORST IS OVER

Editor-in-chief
Layout Editor
News Editor

Asst. News Editors

Matthew B. McDemrott
Katie J. Howell
Alison Trinidad
Latrina Stokes
Irnran Naeemullah
Brett T. Kirwan
Andrew Latirner
Matthew A. Coursen
Catherine C. Guy
Jeremy S. Franklin
Dave Crowell

Mary Guy

Meg Ferrara

Paul Seifert

Emily Barker
Robert Floyd
William Litton
Brian Castleberry
Peter Djalaliev

Opinions Editor
Asst. Opinions Editor
W&Life Editors

Sports Editor

Asst. Sports Editor
Photo Editor
Photographers
Business Manager
Asst. Business Manager
Advertising Managers

Internet Editor

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editor-in-chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion of the Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi.wlu.edu

Education can prevent future acts of terrorism

A Jan. 10 New York Times article reports on the grow-

‘ j ing conﬂict in Indonesia between Muslims and Christians.
'  Tem'ble’anger, on both sides, butparticularly’ among the

Muslims, has resulted in horriﬁc atrocities.

Highlighted is a 20-year-old male named N oko, who
is described as “sweet-faced.” Yet Noko is no longer a
sweet boy; he now wears Arab robes when engaging in
clashes, because he believes this is his key to heaven. He
ﬁghts in the name of God.

I pity N oko, for he is not an evil person. He has merely
been seduced by an incredibly well—organized and well-
fmanced worldwide militant movement in
the Muslim religion. President Bush and
his allies are ﬁghting to rescue men like
Noko by attacking terrorism.

Yet the military action employed so
far is only one part of a multi-pronged approach to help-
ing the Muslim world discover enlightenment in its own
cultural and religious context. I say we educate the Mus-
lim world, one country at a time. First stop: Afghani-
stan. ,

In Afghanistan, we have the truly unique opportu-
nity to shape a nation. For the first time in our lifetimes,
we can witness the actual rebuilding of a nation by
international consensus integrating and building upon
local opinions.

After militarily devastating Afghanistan and its former
Taliban rulers, we have rescued the Afghan people from
the tyranny of an unjust government that used a great
and peaceful religion as both its shield and sword. We
have given them the chance to build a new life, one that is
compatible with the Western ideals of freedom, democ-
racy, and human rights, and that rejects the intolerant form
of Islam preached by the Osarna bin Ladens of this world.

But while our intentions are noble, and the efforts of
those involved valiant, we will only succeed on one level:
building a better standard of living in Afghanistan. You
don’t build a better car just by improving the tires or rede-
signing the suspension. You have to reengineer the whole
machine, for it is the sum of its parts.

Think of the car as an analogy to the Muslim world,
a disparate collection of different components that
together, form a civilization of over a billion people
united by a single faith despite geographic, cultural,
and political differences. While it is not our job to
interpret the Muslim religion for them, we can aid them
in creating ideas.

“A nose hair trimmer.”
——Patrick Connolly ‘O3

RlGHT—WlNG RESPONSE
IMRAN NAEEMUHAH ‘05 most importantly, theywillteach Islam.

“Four pairs of gloves.”
—-Page Thomas ‘05

This is where we can truly shine, by making a solid
education system the number one priority now that we
have installed a friendly and seemingly moderate govern-
ment. We can do this by providing the necessary funding
through the appropriate means to the new Afghan gov-
emment-—and using the sword of swift military action
and withdrawal of economic support should they fail to
comply—to educate its people.

We will give them the means to design a whole new
system of public schools, each of a certain high standard, to
teach not only traditional Afghan and Muslim history, but
the history of many different cultures. They
will also teach science, mathematics, foreign
languages, and computer skills. Finally, and

We will establish the support for the
training and retention of scholars of the highest merit from
around the world who will become the real agents of
change, drawing directly from the Koran and applying it
to modern day life. What they teach should be the reli-
gious education in Afghan schools, taught to the young
of Afghanistan, who will be our colleagues when we be-
come America’s leaders.

Should they be taught this form of Islam, they will be
our friends, our supporters, and our collaborators in our
quest for a more perfect and just world.

This is because Islam does not conﬂict with Western
ideals. The Koran granted universal suffrage and the right
to own property and inherit money by both man and
woman over 1400 years ago. Murder of innocents was
made illegal, as were rape and incest. Backstabbing was
described as a sin, along with show-
ing disrespect to one’s parents.
From the Prophet, we draw wisdom
from sayings like “he who educates
his sons and daughters equally is
assured of a place in Paradise.” This
is the same Prophet who said, “Seek
knowledge, even as far as China,
for it has been made incumbent
upon you.”

This Islam, which is drawn directly from the holy book
and its messenger himself, does not conﬂict with the West.
This is the Islam which inspired a civilization that invented
algebra, charted the stars, mapped the earth, translated
the works of ancient Greek scholars, and produced great
works of art and buildings like the Alhambra Palace in

“A rinky-dink tool kit”
—-Pete Moore ‘03

We have rescued the Afghan people
from the tyranny
of an unjust government
that used a great and peaceful religion
as both its shield and sword.

Spain—still admired today for their magniﬁcent beauty.
The government of this civilization, led by the Caliph, was
so revered for its religious tolerance that on the one hand,
the Caliph Ali refused to pray in a Church on the grounds
that future generations might seek to tum it into a mosque
because he had prayed there, and on the other, was wel-
come by Christians and Jews alike as a savior from a re-
pressive government. All this while our own civilization
was in its darkest times, waging brutal wars across Europe
and burning alleged heretics at the stake. Now the Europe
of the medieval ages is eerily similar to the Islamic world of
today. We need to ensure that the Islamic world enters an
Enlightenment of its own, just as Europe did, lest it never
emerge from its downward spiral and continue to tolerate
and follow false messiahs like Osama bin Laden.

In doing so, we will show our respect to a civilization
that, while culturally very different from our own, is in
many ways our equal. We just need to help it reach that
point, by giving it the means to rediscover its past and
build upon that to establish a bright future. Once we have
helped establish Afghanistan’s educational system, we
will help other Islamic nations. We will then have taken
our erstwhile enemy (Islam) by his hand, exorcised him of
the evil spirits lurking within his body (“fundamentalists”
like Osama bin Laden), and given him a new life that rec-
onciles not only with his own heritage but ours as well, in
a mutually beneﬁcial relationship that will help preserve
both cultures.

There will be problems along the way, to be sure.
Poverty will still exist in its saddest form for a very long
time, and political tensions over places like Israel and
Kashmir will not disappear over-
night. A deep—rooted hatred of
America will continue to simmer
among some, particularly the old
and hardened. And a similar hatred
of Islam will still bum among some
segments of our own society. But
the young—our fellow leaders of
tomorrow—wil1 be strong, enlight-
ened and capable of separating
political disputes from religious issues, and fully aware
of their own distinct identity while recognizing, accept-
ing, and even taking some parts of ours. Far from impos-
ing our own ideals, we will be taking our shared values
and helping them to rebuild their societies based upon
these.

“A phone card.”
--McLean Gordon ‘05

 
  
        



  

L EX [N G TO N
COEFEE

.‘/in (IN/Ll.I‘l(/' (1'r1my2(u_II/

LINGER M A FIRESIDE TABLE
COFFEE - ESPRESSO - CAPPUCCINO 0 PASTRIES I BAGELS
9 WEST WASHINGTON STREET ‘ LEXINGTON 0 464-6586

 

Undergraduate Admissions Counselor Position

The Washington and Lee Undergraduate Office of Admissions wishes to
announce an opening for the position of Admissions Counselor. Responsi-
bilities include: student interviews, application evaluation, and recruit-
ment travel. Strong communication skills and demonstrated organizational
abilities are expected. The successful candidate will be both willing and
able to work as part of a highly successful admissions team, yet capable of
creative self-direction.

Bachelor’s degree is required, as is a valid driver ’s license. All interested
candidates should submit a cover letter and resume’, including two refer-
ences, no later than Monday, February 11, 2002. All materials should be

sent t0.’

Julia M. Kozak

 
  

 

WE CAN DO IT!

Repairs-Contacts
COOL FRAMES!
HOT LENSES!
SHADES!

WE MW ©W!l@!h!!.!lto3

20 years serving Flockbridge
at 203 N. Main Street, Lexington
463-7440

MONDAY, !ANUARY 14, 2002 '

v

LOOK Youn BEST
FOR PLEDGESHIP!
Best of Luck!

Come by and see Skip, Marla, Connie and Wilson.

SKIP THOMPSON’S

BARBER SHOP

22 S. Main Street 0 Lexington, VA

Open Mon., Tues., Thurs., & Fri. 8 a.m. -5 p.m.;
Sat. 8 a.m.—noon; Closed Wed. & Sun.

540-463-5954

Fraternities ' Sororities 0
Clubsvstudent Groups

Earn $1000-$2000 this semester
with the easy

Campusfundraiser. com three hour
fundraising event. Does not
involve credit card applications.
Fundraising dates are ﬁlling
quickly, so call today! Contact
Campustundraiser. com at (888)

#1 Spring Break Vacations!
Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas,
& Florida.

Best Parties, Best Hotels,
Best Prices!

Group Discounts, Group
organizers travel free!
Space is lin1ited! Hurry up
& Book Now!
1-800-234-7007
www.endlesssummertours.com

  

Jfharfy Mhaye
£12 it/hCraer€en

Catherine Oz/erenrf
Mara jaeoh fﬁanhin

J31 astirz jeott
ﬂlhson jefho
Qann Jyrrzanofa
Meh’s5a Qizfhert
Kathryn Tenzph
ﬂaphne Trainor
ﬂlrhhy Trice
Zhanor ‘I/I/z'[h'arn5

““°:,‘;;f,:,f’,j;."j,,‘;{,,;f§,;’,f;'}';“'°"S 923-3233, or visit
Lexington, VA 24450 www.campusfundraiser.com
   4   Coryratafatzons to the            
 Zeta phage chars ‘
.3 3     of.7Ca,opa ﬂehafl
Zrta ﬂleree Matha franh/ort
Mara Jllhfnllge Manon fnerson
jaha filter/ooa’ Moe garth
Zrnih Bafhryee Coartenay ghkson
grace Barhza Cazthn Mayan
Coartnea Berg Jeanne /‘Z/anoa/eff
it/hﬂan Bzrefy Jane 5‘/enson
Jasanna Brazffonf £7!/hzoan Jhff

fl/h@ Qirozan Effie /“hnrhhy
£12 Craa/fonf .’7Cate Moaren

Cara Cronin greer Johnson

ﬁora Farris ﬁznricq Jfnezjrper

Ceha Lanrhyren

 

Vb.

 

PAGE 5

THE RlNC}—’l@\itl Pin
&LlFE

Man behindswitchboard speaks

Sophomore weekend security dispatcher discusses freshmen in towels, Asian Studies, and 50 hard-boi/ed eggs

BY Mmnsw A COURSEN
W&LlFE EDITOR

On most Saturday mornings, you can
ﬁnd sophomore Colin Harding sitting in the
Security ofﬁce on the ﬁrst ﬂoor of GrahaIn—
Lees. Since September, Colin has worked
the 8-4 shift at the Security Switchboard.
The Rockville, Md. native and independent
enjoys the surprisingly good wage it pays
despite the unenviable hours.

Do you enjoy working this shift?

Well, it is one of the most undesirable
shifts, but I love the job. I was built for this
job.

What do you mean?
My ass was made for sitting for eight
straight hours.

What speciﬁcally does your job entail?
I work the switchboard, dispatch offic-
ers, and answer calls.

Who is your favorite officer?
I’d probably have to say Larry Stuart.

Are you also a big fan of the Redskins
like Larry and myself?

Yes, one of the biggest. Over the break,
I went down to New Orleans to visit a friend,
and we ended up scalping some cheap tick-
ets to the Saints/Skins game at the
Superdome. It was great. Skins crushed
‘em

Wow, sounds like a great time. VW1at is
the strangest phone call you ’ve ever re-
ceived while on duty here?

A Well, the strangest phone call is also my

*.

it

favorite call of the year. This kid called up
and was very angry because he had locked
himself out of his room after taking a
shower. So he was just in a towel, freezing
cold, without a key. What was so strange
was that he acted like he was angry at me,
as if it was my fault he forgot his key. He
demanded that I do something right then
and there, so I called Larry [Stuart] and told
him to help the kid out.

That ’s pretty funny. What is your major?
East Asian studies.

Oh, wow! How ’d you get interested in
that .7

      

" nu. R

5 hurt"

FIELD OF DREAMS. Sophomore Colin Harding enjoys some free time away from the security switchboard.

Well, I just enjoy it. I would like to visit
Japan soon.

Do you think you ’ll go abroad?
Yeah, actually, I think I’m going to Ja-
pan this spring.

What prompted you to come to
W&L?

My dad fell in love with the school,
and I like it too. I’m very happy here.

How does it feel being independent at
a time like this when most kids on campus
are involved with formal rush?

I just sleep a lot more. V

So you don ’t mind being an indepen-
dent?

No, not now. It was harder last year, but
now it’s ﬁne. Give it a week, and you can go
to all of the parties anyway.

That’s very true. Do you know a lot of
freshman this year?

Yeah, I know some, from East Asian
studies classes.‘  . _  _

Do you think there’s a diﬁerence in the
attitude of some of the freshmen with re-
gard to the new alcohol policy compared
to your feeling last year?

I don’t think the kids are scared of
the new policy. I just think the school
has been trying to draw a lot more inde-
pendent students to W&L resulting in a
decreased participation in the Greek sys-
tem. I think the administration has been
trying to even out the percentage a little
bit.

What do you do on your free time?
I like to mess around with my computer
and play the guitar.

Oh, you ’re a musician?
Well, self-taught, I’m still learning.

Whats your favorite song to play?
I like to play “Butterﬂy” by Weezer.

Can you tell me the most inter-
esting fact about you that nobody
else knows?

Yeah, It’s a funny story. When-
ever I say that I can do something,
my dad responds with a movie
quote from Cool Hand Luke that
goes; “Yeah, well I can eat 50 eggs.”
About two summers ago, I was
watching “Cool Hand Luke” with
my dad and after it was over, I
looked at him and said, “I think I
could do that.”

 

What? Eat 50 eggs?
Yeah, so I did.

You ate 50 raw eggs?
No, no. I ate 50 hard-boiled eggs.

Wow.’ How long did it take you?

About 4 hours. I didn’t want to throw it
all up, so I took my time.

Whatdidyourdad say after you ﬁnished ?

[Laughing] He said, “Don’t ever tell any-
one that story !”.

MATIHEW COURSEN&CATHERlNE GUY ,-
W&I.lPEED1’IORS

EMAH;(DlJl2SENl\l@WilJ.EDU&GUY(@WlU.El)U

MONDAY, JANUARY 14, 2002

‘Rings’reviewed

If you’re looking for my pick for the best picture of 2001,
Peter Jackson’s “Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring”
may be it. Packed with an all-star cast and stunning visuals,
“Lord of the Rings” may forever change the way we see the
fantasy genre, much the same way Tolkien’s epic changed the
world of fiction.

The ﬁlm centers on the idea
that even the smallest among us
may be called upon to do great
things. And that everyone, no
matter how insigniﬁcant, has an
important place in the world.
When Frodo Baggins, a young
hobbit who lives in the peace-
ful and idyllic world of the shire,
receives a magic ring from his
uncle, he is swept up in an epic
quest to destroy the ring and
restore peace in an ancient king-
dom.

Though Director Peter
Jackson could have easily
made a film that few understood, “Lord of the Rings” is not
difficult to follow. Every scene and situation is both com-
plex and thought provoking. I left the movie wanting to
read every book written by Tolkien and see all of J ackson’s
films. I saw this movie twice, and each time I noticed differ-
ent details and themes that moved me.

For me, the mark of a great film is when you can watch a movie
again and again and continue to find interesting things about it
each time. “Lord of the Rings” is one such ﬁlm.

The ﬁlm stars Elijah Wood, Sir Ian McKellen, Ian Holm, Sean
Astin and numberous talented actors. Each character has a fasci-
nating story and each actor played his or her part well. There is a
tendency in fantasy ﬁlms to overact, just look at “Beastmaster”,
but this ﬁhn was honest and thoughtful in its portrayals. This
picture cast aside every prejudice I had about fantasy ﬁlms. The
character Gollum, a former keeper of the ring whose need for the
ring’s power consumes him, particularly fascinated me. Gollum is
an intriguing character who exempliﬁes the dangers of our needs
and desires.

I did have a few problems with the film though. Some of the
scenes were sentimental to the point of being hokey. I was
most concerned with the natural progression of the film. It is
basically split in half, with one part of the film centering on
Frodo’s ﬂight to safety and the other the beginning of his
quest to destroy the ring. You get the sense that the film could
end halfway through, and that you are seeing two movies rolled
into one.

Despite this small critique, Jackson’s visual direction is
stunning. Each scene inspired emotion without using words.
I actually felt the emotions of the characters and was fright-
ened or happy with them. Jackson’s film sucks you into an-
other world, a world so rich and textured that you feel easily
a part of it. Touching on basic human themes that inspire
and compel, “Lord of the Rings” is a film you can’t afford to
miss.

1’! Z’¢?a‘a Ta/1

Lﬂlilﬂiﬂl .7lQL7l9\/I3
/‘2l‘ZlQ)9{‘£9’ Q3£9\rsaroo¢

?(9{9’5'I19\[a Q39{o‘W9\[
?(1M23£:r{L9* Q3t1L9(a

KRISTINE CﬂlLQ)Z9{O9\[£
Jasarroxrcrz Caux

Racarec CJ{15o'L:M

félmirmraxrz Damraarr

.’HILL,‘?l9{f)’ Daﬁllaaar
Latina faaaacc

 

  7/I//5a/2:5 T0 ‘kl/zxcoa/a /:73 2002 fczbga" CZ/"155

£:7{I9\[ fHaM1LTo9\[
Cﬂl‘I9{£9{I£7\[£ Joaragsrroar
Lama Kira
KELL £9’ 91/[ag1LL
C9{9{I5‘TI:7\[£ 9i/[C/‘Zlf7\[‘llLQf)’
Lisa fll/[ILL£9{
joasirara Taarsro
£LIZ52lQ3£‘I9{ £Po9\[93£:r{

5 tzsaai Soaraas
Tagz Taroovbais

000000O00000OOOOCOO00000OO00000O000000O000000OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOCCO&6VFWff‘9000000000000O00000OOOOCCOOOOOOOOOOOOOO

 

 

 

   

PAGE 6    M  H ‘ MONDAY, IANUARY 14, 2002

       

  
 

 

 
 

Chi Omega Welcomes Our New Sustersgi
     Peggy Altman Sahar Kamali Katherine Sharpe 
 Emily Barker Elizabeth King Joy Simon 
 Anne Bounds Christina Kolock Casey Sharpe 

 Megan Brooks Kara Lehman Brittany Smith 
 McQueen Calvert Heather McArthur Liz Tessier §’l
 Bethany Catron Marisa Meyer Ann Tompkins 
 Richele Cole Rebecca Parker Marie Trimble §.
 Meredith Donegan Emily Patterson Jill Waity 
 Ruth Esponda Allison Perry Katie Wall 
 Alexis Fernandez Anne Raff Katherine Wang 
 Adrienne Fleurke Justine Sessions Laura Westerman 
 Mary ahn   '  H ‘ Dianne Winter 
 Emily owe    Megan Zingarelli 

A

Y’

W

1;.“

Y

TE-iii RI:»st};s~Tr,?:I\

:MONDAY, JANUARY 14, 2002

 Loss is 5th in 6 games for

 young Genera/s team

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

After an overtime win against
:“'Eastern Mennonite on Wednes-
»day, the Washington and Lee
_men’s basketball team suffered
Qthrough a pair of home losses over
"the weekend.

 Sunday’s 78-51 defeat at the
‘hands of nationally-ranked
Hampden—Sydney (13-1, 7-1 Old

0 " Dominion Athletic Conference) left

5

i

A

Q

It

$

3, 

A,

0

the Generals 2-6 in the ODAC, 4-9
':‘overall.
I Third-year head coach Jeff
;,Lafave believes his team’s primary
problems at the season’s midway
’ point are depth and the lack of a true
big man.
“We’ve got to have more depth.
You can’t play the game of basketball
' with six guys,” Lafave said. “We don’t
have a starting center who can come
up and play.”
Mike Stuart set a W&L freshman
record for points in a game against
~ Eastern Mennonite, draining 33 on
11-of- 16 from the ﬂoor, 7-of-10 from
3 three-point range. The Generals built
a 13-point halftime lead, but a sec-
ond-half charge by the Royals forced
“overtime.
 Stuart scored 12 points in the ex-
‘Ftra frame, as W&L eked out a 76-73
...win. Junior Scott Hettermann added
”’17 points for the Generals, and
classmate John Warren finished
with 12.

W&L let another big halftime
lead slip away against Lynchburg in
.a 75-71 loss on Saturday. The Gen-
erals had a 31-19 lead at the 4:11
~,-mark of the first half and were still

up by a comfortable 35-28 margin at
the break.

\ However, despite career scoring
nights for Hettermann at 25 points and

' freshman Ian McClure at 17, a 15-2

‘ 1

Q

‘

 

A9?)

 PORTS
‘;:,Hampden-Sydney hnls WL

 

I Pnr

l\l’\RY Gu'/ Te Ring-tum P/11'

ROYAL PERFORMANCE: Freshman Mike Stuart (23) set a Washington and Lee record for most points by a first-year player in
the Generals’ 76-73, overtime win over Eastern Mennonite at the Warner Center on Wednesday. Freshman Mark Franceski
(54) and juniors Scott Hettermann (24) and John Warren trail the play.

second-half run by the Hornets gave
them the lead for good. Lynchburg
shot 65 percent from the ﬁeld after
halftime. V

“Over the course of a 40-minute
game. you know you’re going to give
up some points,” Lafave said. “But if
we score 71 points, we should win the
game at home with the way we play
defense.”

The coach was still pleased with
the performance of Hettermann, who
hit 11 of his 15 field goal attempts and
grabbed seven rebounds.

“We know Scott’s going to be a
warrior,” Lafave said. “He’s going

to play hard for us all the time. He
was playing against a guy he could
score on, so we knew we could get
him the ball.”

Hampden—Sydney never trailed in
a 78-51 win in the Warner Center on
Sunday, opening up a 10-0 lead over
the game’s first 4:21. The Generals
kept within striking distance until the
ﬁnal stretch of the half, but the Tigers
outscored W&L 19-5 over the last
5:52 to build an insurmountable 37-15
halftime lead.

The Generals didn’t help their
cause on the offensive end, turn-
ing the ball over 10 times and shoot-

ing 22 percent from the ﬂoor prior
to the break.

Freshman Mark Franceski led
W&L with 12 points, while sopho-
more Hamill Jones added 10. Matt
McKeag and Jason Holman led the
Tigers with 16 apiece.

“We couldn’t make shots,” Lafave
said. “You can play hard, but if you
can’t make baskets, you can’t win.
We’ll keep working at it. The kids
played with effort, and that’s all you
can ask.”

W&L returns to ODAC play with
a 7 p.m. road contest against Guilford
on Wednesday.

  

  

JE.REMYl“RANKll1\l

SPORTS EDITOR
EllAll.'PRAl\ll<lll\ll@\ll/1lJ.EDL'
PAGE 7

Generals knock off Wasps,
even record in ODAC play

W&L builds 3-game conference winning streak

BY DAVE CROWELL
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

After a disappointing home loss
to Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence—leading Bridgewater on Jan.
5, a game in which the women’s
basketball team held a lead for part
of the second half, coach Janet
Hollack gave her team some advice
for big games.

“I told them not to feel like an
underdog,” Hollack said. “Some-
times we get too tight and lose our
focus when we see who’s across
the court. We need to simply play
our game and focus on our of-
fense.”

The W&L (6-6, 4-4 ODAC) of-
fense, led by senior center Megan
Babst’s 34 points, responded to the
challenge by upsetting Emory and
Henry (8-4, 5-3), 77-62, on Satur-
day and opening up a three- game
winning streak. The Generals eas-
ily rolled past Randolph-Macon
Woman’s College and Virginia
Wesleyan earlier in the week.

In Saturday’s impressive vic-
tory over the Wasps, Babst shot
13-of—l9 from the ﬁeld and also hit
8-of-9 from the free throw line. Her
34 points also put her over the
1,000 point mark for her career,
making her only the fourth woman
in W&L history to reach that pla-
teau.

Babst’s performance mirrored
the strong shooting day that the
Generals enjoyed. After focusing
on shooting drills throughout the
practice week, W&L shot 55 per-
cent from the ﬁeld (27-of-49) and
took advantage of their trips to the
charity stripe, making 22-of-23."

Senior forward Jessica Mentz
added 20 points and 10 rebounds for
the Generals, while freshman guard

Bethany Dannelly dished out nine as-
sists.

The trip to Emory proved to be a key
game for W&L after wins over two rela-
tively weak teams in the ODAC.

In Thursday’s 54-39 defeat of
winless Randolph-Macon Woman’s
College, the Generals led the entire
way, starting the game on an 8-0 run
before leading at halftime, 30- 15.

Babst paced W&L with 20 points
and 12 rebounds.

Thursday’s action proved to be a
little more exciting, as the Generals
held off a ﬁrst-half surge by Virginia
Wesleyan to coast to a 59-44 victory.

A quick 10-4 run to begin the game
was negated by the Marlins, who took
a 21-20 lead late in the ﬁrst half. W&L,
however, fought back and went on a
21-7 run that spanned both halves.

The Generals took advantage of
their trips to the foul line, shooting 77
percent by hitting 24 of their 31 at-
tempts. Babst led the way with 22
points and 11 rebounds, while senior
Sarah Schmidt added 12 points.

In earlier action over winter break,
W&L defeated non-conference oppo-
nent Greensboro 71-40 on Jan. 2, but
suffered a difﬁcult loss to conference
foe Eastern Mennonite 56-52 on Jan.
4, despite holding the top scorer in
Division IH, Emily Mullet, to only four
points.

The Generals next play host to
Lynchburg on Wednesday night in an
important game following Saturday’s
victory.

“We need to display consistency
with the game plan and execute all
parts very well,” Hollack said.

“The ﬁve seniors have brought it
to my attention that they, above all,
want to work on consistency,” the
second—year coach added. “Hopefully,
we can send them out while fulﬁlling
this goal.”

      

noutLn"roﬁﬁr:'
 ._ . .-

Kristin

Congratulations to the
002 Pledge Class
of Kappa Kappa Gamma!!!!!

Patricia Ballantyne
Ann Stewart Banker

Collins

Caroline Crawford
Amelie Eagan
Ana Estrada
Carol Estrada
Catie Fox-
Christine Fritz
Leah Greenberg
I Kim Gunst
Carli Hague

Carolyn

Harrolc

Meg Haston
Katie Henderson
Marriott Horton

Alison Irvin

Nisha Kaul

Emily Larish
Meredith Marks
Kemp McDonough

Tricia Moore
Katherine Mullen

Sarah

Orvin

Priscilla Powell

Kenda.l Priddy
Kiersten Salander
Kim Sanford
Allison Santoro
Maggie Speasmaker
Marian Steele
Catherine Stroud
Laurie Timmons
Catherine Turner
Meredith Walker
Romney Willson
Elizabeth Wilson

 

 

PAGE 8

   

MONDAY, JANUARY 14, 2002

  

   
  
   
     
    
 

      

     

  
     

 

4.
I I
W&L opens New Year on mats Swimmers Splll road W&LSP°RlsJA~- 15-28 ‘
_  »   I Wednesday, Jan. 16 Men's Basketball
F“°”ST“"R"°“TS £1 ‘ " l   C  Men’s Basketball Ra”d°lPll-MaoonatW&L7P.m. '*

The Washington and Lee wrestling ' W&L at GUlll0|'d. 7 Pm-
team began the New Year with the BY MICHAEL LEE Women’s Basketball Wednesday, Jan. 23 ’
Gettysburg Quadrangular before drop- S W Lynchburg at W&L, 7 p.m. Men’s Basketball ,
ping a home meet against Muhlenberg PORTS RITER W&L at Emory and Henry, 7 p.m.
Wednesday and competing in the WASHINGTON—Saturday morning, as Kappa Friday, Jan. 18 Women’s Basketball It
Ursllllls lnvllalmllal Satulday- Kappa Gamma pledges were pelted with water balloons Women’s Basketball Gullford at W&L, 7 p.m.

At the Gettysburg Quad On 1311- 5» from the Gilliam dormitory, the Generals’ swimtearns were Hollins at W&L, 7 p.m. -
the Generals lest le Gettysburg and boarding the bus for their trip to Catholic University. January 25-26 ‘‘
Pensacola Christian and Picked UP all Just minutes from the Pentagon, the men’s team de- Saturday, Jan. 19 Indoor Track
unciiflvcvizll I:/ichiry ;1ver Daéledson). feated the Cardinals 135-67, while the women dropped wresﬂing W&L at Christopher Newport hr

,5 OSS t° “VS mg’ 3 131-74 CleClSl0n- W&L Invitational 10 a.m. Swimming

.fr°S.hm:ln Blrnlan A: $10 (£157 pﬁunds)’ Junie‘ Patllel‘ Flankfen We“ the 200 _ll“ll"ld“al med‘ Women’s Basketball W&L vs. Johns Hopkins and

_]111'110I‘ ex oor( )an sop ornore ley and the 500 freestyle, and swam with sophomores W&L at Roanoke_ 5:30 p_m_ Mary Washington, TBA

-lee Mueller (184) defeated lllell OP" Drew Catanese and Eric Ritter and senior Rick Black to 5
ponents. Seniors Ivan Zdanov (174) win the 400 medley relay

and l1eaV)’Welglll Mall -laeebs W011 ....... .. For the women, senior Laura Ingoldsby won the   26 ?
by f°l'fell- 1,000 freestyle, and junior Kelli Austin took second in . . ‘

Poor was the only General to score / _ A the 100 and 200 freest 16 events VlrglnlaWesleyanatW&L,1 p.m. W&L Quadrangular, 11 a.m. .
a victo in Pensacola Christian’s 43- MW Gm M Rmgmi Pl” ’ ' y I ‘ - - w°men’5 Basketball "

. ry . ATTACKING STANCE: Senior 125—p0uncler Ben Segal (left) prepares to lock up with The men 5 team Improved to 3'2 with the Wm’ Whlle Monda Jam 21 W&L at Brid ewater 4 pm.
3 Wm‘ Flve W&L Wrestlers were Muhlenber ’s Brian Marcotulli in Wedncsda "5 Centennial Conference match the Women dropped to 6'3‘ - y-’ g ’
pinned in the defeat. g ‘ l ‘ ' The Generals rennn to action on Monday night’ Swlmmlng Men’s Basketball 4

The third match for W&L was a 24- Zdanov won his match by pinfall, Pa., on Saturday. Zdanov recorded a when they host Grove City at Twombly P001 at 6 p_m_ Ma"Ym°'~"ll al W&L: 5 P-m- Fl°an°ke at W&L» 7 W"-

15 win against Division I Davidson. and Mueller picked up a win at the second-place finish at 174, while A
However, the victory was unofficial, as 184—pound class. They were the only Mueller placed third at 184.
Davison did not have enough wrestlers. Generals (1-3, 0-2 Centennial) to record Poor and freshman Walt Hoyt also _

Wednesday’s return home wasn’t victories. won a match apiece, both at the 165- A V
kind to the Generals, as Muhlenberg W&L took abreak from team com— pound class, for the Generals, who
handed them a 40-9 loss in Centen- petition with the individual-only host the W&L Invitational at 10 a.m. . ' A .*
nial Conference competition. Ursinus Invitational in Collegeville, Saturday.   ag ,

O
ASS1StaHt l3.CI'OSS€ CO21Cl1 I1ElII1€(l Osition 0 en 9
f I - “I am excited about Ricky working with our players » l
  I t 9 because of his enthusiasm and background in the sport of  3 - - - - - -
. t t t t t H  lacrosse” he Said. yOll I6 1IllI6I'CSt€Cl 1I1 lOg1St1CS, orgamzatron, "
resigns 0 accep op pos a am on n . .
e move comes after assistant football and ass1s— and  Cash
FROM STAFF REPORTS tant men’s lacrosse coach Gene McCabe resigned to be- 5
come head lacrosse and assistant football coach at email  @  ed“

Washington and Lee has added another component of Hamilton College. .
Limestone’s 2000 Division II National Championship team I 1. V
to its men’s lacrosse staff, as Ricky Matthews was named     A 
assistant coach this week. 4’

Matthews played for new W&L head coach Mike The soccer season is long over, but accolades are still H’  , — ,_

Cerino at Limestone, where he also served as offensive trickling in for the W&L Women’s team. A A "3    . .
coordinator and face-off unit coach last season for a team Senior midfielder Kate Bidwell and sophomore   The Pm mourns the passing i‘
that lost in the national title game. forward Fontaine Marcoux were named to the “Menu , _ of Dave Thomas h

“We are fortunate to have someone of Ricky’s stature National Soccer Coaches Association of America IAMAIW‘ founder of Wendy,5 Old Fashloned Hamburgers 4'
working with us at W&L,” athletics director Mike Walsh Al1—South Women’s Soccer Team as Second Team ‘f,‘{’¢{’,;,“f,‘}',i _____._
said. “He is an accomplished player who is anxious to selections. , )'
begin a successful coaching career. We are pleased to Bidwell, athree-time Third Team choice, scored 10 spmhhhenx
welcome Ricky to our department and men’s lacrosse goals and notched four assists for a team that went 11- . E ' T
Program-” 4-1 and lost to Roanoke in the Old Dominion Athletic   G’  . . .

Cerino believes that adding a former player to his staff Conference Tournament semiﬁnals. WWWSPRIGBRERKDIRECIEUM 4.
will “bring some familiarity to the program because of our Marcoux had six goals to go along with a school-record I
pas,  ,0ge,her_.. lzassistsinznnn 800.367. 1252

4
J
Kappa Alplla l ll€ta proudly ’

 
 
 

-1

presents and welcomes ‘N
our new members for 2002! *

 

Rebecca Merritt «
Kitt Murphy «
Adrienne Norwood *
Cristin Nunez ,
Lauren Partridge  
Molly Plummer
Erin Rathbone
Annie Rochfort *
Alexis Roosth ,
Alex Schaerrer 
Emily Wolfing .*

Elizabeth Falco
Tasia Fisher
Charlotte Grumly
Lindsey Hagerman
Blake Hastings
Ginny Helms
Natalya Hoobchaak
Maggie Hope
Anne Idsal
Anne Johansen
Amanda Jones

Katie Abplanalp
Martha Allgood
Elizabeth Amoni
Meredith Bailey
Courtney Brent
Kristen Brown
Anne Callison
Michelle Chastain
Liz Clarke
Quintina Conway
Kristin Crawford

 

 

Bethany Dannelly Jennifer Lux Kelly Zaggl 1:
Kyle Meehan ,

 

    

, ‘r

Q '5 7 ‘6«755

R557.
v» \ 0 4-

’ \'-.;-:':..\Il-‘II:

 

  
        
   

 
   

-.'- -. ‘HY

wsHImw at LIE umiu-tsnv
 vb. auao

JAN 2 4 28532

   

i . T’fl?'-‘~ '1‘:-2=,l".:->:t,-:=:.\.IPt;
p vw-I7 INSIDE INDEX ‘
' S'l'A’l‘llES ¢I> PAGE 3 . V.  I7

Kll?.\.‘(«’Al\.Z PREEiERS THE   ‘ EV” ’“
rz<t;'I‘I—I To POLITICAL OPEN} 3
<_1oN\rENIENr;.E V(,7g(L;§E 5
I)r.rEAT 41> PAGE 7 '1 _  ,,
.., __  U W , ., SPORIS 
lxt)r‘\N\)l\l:: l:;‘\’DL l-l\'{:.~ AA /_ I
(_;»\§»tl:‘.‘§L"(I)A  l~-lO(I)PS 24/7 2
STR1? A K SCLO RE’. l3{)/\.Rl) 8
W. ('.?l\’IN<’:-.7\'Vll l:li\.‘V<L>§‘<=’§E(‘;"§1 §vl«.'I>;Di=.\;’.}.E<L:IRr23.2002

ﬁr
.'

V,
'6

‘H

§

S + ?

#-

   
  
  
     
     
    
  
    
  
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
  
   
     
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  

4"

    

HIS NAME Is MUDD

No arres 3
mar rush wee

BY PETER QUACKENBUSH '
STAFF WRITER

No students were arrested during Rush Week, the
beginning of the induction process into sororities and
fraternities.

“This is the first year I can remember when no stu-
dent was arrested during Rush Week or Tear Night,” Dean
of Student David Howison said.

University Security believes that the threat of pun-
ishment forced students to think more responsibly when
attending parties.

The alcohol policies instituted at the beginning of
the year entail a three—strike system resulting in increas-
ingly stiffer punishment, culminating with the possibility
of suspension.

To comply with the policy, the Intrafraternity Council
instituted a "Dry Rush": Alcohol was strictly prohibited
during the rush period.

However, there were several violations.

"Three frats were issued strikes, and there is one
case pending," IFC President Quincy Springs said.

"We're a little disappointed in the Dry Rush. We're
disappointed in that three frats were caught with alcohol
violations.

"Violating Dry Rush is an extreme problem."

The IFC was encouraged by some recent statistics
regarding the first semester under the three—strike system.
Over Winter Break, the Alcohol Task Force issued a report
showing a decrease in student arrests by over 30 percent.

"We're very pleased with decreased arrests... A lot of
negative aspects of Greek life are down from years past,"
Springs said.

Overall, the IFC is pleased with the outcome of Rush
Week, but feels that more action may be necessary.

"We, as an IFC, are always looking for improvement,"
Springs said.

While there is nothing on the forseeable horizon,
Springs did not rule out the possibility of more changes to

"facilitate both freshmen and fraternities having a more
enjoyable time.

Associate Director of Security Steve Tornlinson ech-
oed those sentiments on the security side.

"There‘s always room ‘for "improvement,"
Tomlinson said.

Freshmen reviews of dry rush were mixed. Some
thought that it was not an accurate picture of Greek life
and seemed awkward. Others believed that dry rush made
relationship, not alcohol, top priority One such freshmen,

"(Dry Rush) really helped me to get to know the broth-
ers," freshman Jack Murray said.

 

MUDD ADDRESSING AND IN A DRESS. Rbgéi‘ Mudd
((50) began W/&L’s first—ever Institute for Honor
Friday with a keynote address discussing honor
at W&L, honor in his career and the difference
between the two. Mudd, a renowned journal-
ist, spoke in Lee Chapel to an audience of 600
attending the combined Founders Day Con-
vocation and ODK initiation. The Institute,

 

PHOTO ILLIISTRWON BY MARI’ GUY / The Ring—rum P/2:‘, INSET: PHOTO COURTFSY OF C 0.115 C HEER FOR W/IS}iINGT0I\’AI\’[) 1.55,

copyright Washington and Lee University, 1998
"fu'ﬁdeCl by the class of l960, is a $750,000 pro:
gram aimed at promoting academic integrity in
secondary schools and colleges, while also em-
phasizing ways that alumni can further pro-
mote integrity in the professions and the work-
place. lnset: Mudd and date Nancy Paddock in
1950 dress according to theme for the King
Arthur’s Court Fancy Dress Ball.

New alliance promotes unity, awareness

Originally an ad hoc committee of the Minor-
ity Student Association, the BFA announced its
separation early this year to work “on behalf of a
more collective attitude toward issues of diver-
sity.” Their mission statement pledges to “expose
and correct all action displaying prejudice, . . . dis-
seminate a higher level of consciousness and
educate our campus community on the meaning
of and demand for both unity and diversity.”

They hope to collaborate with several orga-
nizations already on campus that devote efforts
to promoting diversity and understanding on
campus, including the MSA, the Gay-Straight
Alliance, SAIL and PRIDE.

PRIDE Co—Chair Patrice Wedderbum looks
forward to working with the BFA.

“By working with different student.orgar1i-
zations on campus, we hope to further drive home
the point that diversity is not limited to a certain
race, ethnic group, social class, etc.,” she said.
“Diversity begins with the individual.”

The founders of the BFA, five black female
sophomores, say two incidents this year of racial ig-

BY ALISON TRINIDAD
CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

The Black Female Alliance, a newly—forrned
student organization, kicked off a carnpus-wide
racial awareness campaign Jan. 10.

Titled “Unity in Diversity: Roll Call 1/10/02,”
the campaign seeks to document and “gauge the
racial temperature” of Washington and Lee for
the next six months. The BFA plans to meet with
university administration, faculty, student orga-
nizations, fraternities and sororities to survey at-
titudes and actions concerning race and gender
issues on campus. They hope to release the
progress and results of their study through news-
letters, and end-of—the—year report card and an
open forum in June.

Ultimately, they would like to see a sepa-
rate, university governing body created to hear
and settle accusations of racial discrimination,
similar to the Student—Faculty Hearing Board,
which deals with accusations of sexual miscon-
duct.

norance prompted them to begin the campaign. Shortly
after Sept. 11, three female W&L students and their
friends, all black, were forced to show their university
cards before being allowed to a fraternity party.

“These students were told that their entrance
could present an insurance risk (and) that they
didn’t look like ‘Washington and Lee students,”
the BFA stated in a press release.

Interfraternity Council President Quincy
Springs, a senior, remembers being called to the scene
and having to talk with that fratemity’s president.

“As a black man representing the Greek com-
munity,” Springs said, “I’m disappointed by the
way in which black people, in general, are stigma-
tized when they enter fraternity parties, especially
when those people are students.”

The second incident occurred on Oct. 31 when
a student entered the Co—op dressed in blackface.

“Things happen and people are comfortable
with it,” said BFA Chair Marinda Harrell. “To us,
that’s a problem.

“This is campus learning. Let’s learn about each
other—not in a lovey—dovey but fact-based way.”

Servers sick
of slight salary

GHQ workers upset by lack of tips, low wages

BY lMRAN NAEEMULLAH
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR

Many upperclassmen complain
about how the GHQ Bistro’s menu has
been signiﬁcantly cut back this year.
Yet, what most don’t realize, is that
one thing hasn’t been cut back—-but
hasn’t been increased, either—and
that is the servers’ wages.

According to one of the GHQ’s
student managers, junior Erica
Riesbeck, the present hourly wage
for student servers is $2.25 per hour.
On top of that, servers get tips. Ide-
ally, the wages plus tips equals or
exceeds the federal minimum wage
standard of $5.15 per hour. However,
according to Riesbeck, this is not
the case.

Said Riesbeck, “We ask people
when they check out if they want to
leave a tip. Many people do, but
there is a lot of people who say they
don’t have any general debit funds
in their account, so they can’t leave
a tip.”

Riesbeck says that not having
general debits is not a problem, since
students can also leave cash tips.
However, the students who don’t
have the debits typically don’t have
cash on them, either. Riesbeck asks,
“Why would you go to a restaurant
where service is
provided and
not expect to
leave a tip? You
wouldn’t do that
in a regular res-
taurant, {so -why
here?”

Part of the
problem may be
that the other eat-
eries on cam-
p u s — E v a n s
Dining Hall and
the Snack Bar Express—are self—ser—
vice. People grow accustomed to not
having service, and consequently, the
idea of paying anything extra for a
meal falls to the wayside.

Collecting tips at the register is
one things; asking people to leave
one is another. Says Riesbeck, “You
don’t want to be rude, but basically,
you need to make people feel guilty.
With upperclassmen, there’s not so
much of a problem because they un-
derstand the concept of paying for
service. But with the freshmen, since
they have a new meal plan that in-
corporates three meals in the GHQ
per week, I think they tend to forget
that the meal plan actually just rep-
resents a dollar amount they can
spend in here before having to pay

extra. It’s not that they’re inconsid- ,

erate or anything like that, they are
just unaware.”

This is not to say that none of
the servers ever make a decent
amount of money. Riesbeck says that
when she worked as a server last year,
she would often make as much as $20

 

per night in tips. However, she also
says that one of her servers this year
made only $4 in tips for two nights’
work one week. Cash ﬂow, she says,
is an issue.

The effect upon the servers is to
decrease their morale, because with-
out sufficient income, they have little
incentive to provide good service.
Says another student manager, Jen
Nelsen, also a junior, “Waitresses are
almost solely dependent on tips. If
you receive bad service, then under-
standably, you should not leave a
large tip. But at least leave some-
thing.” '

Another hitch is that the hours
of the GHQ have been signiﬁcantly
trimmed this year in an effort to make
it more financially viable. The effect
upon its employees, however, is to re-
duce the number of hours they work.
Not only does that mean they receive
less pay in the form of hourly wages,
but, as Riesbeck said, they don’t have
as much time to wait a table and re-
ceive a tip.

“When the GHQ is open for an
hour and a half, that’s basically
enough time to wait maybe two sit-
tings at a table,” Riesbeck said. “Tum-
over is very low.”

The solution, of course, would
be to lengthen the GHQ’s hours,
which would
also help reduce
the crowding
that one ob-
serves at 5:30,
when the
restaurant ’ s
doors open for
dinner.

However, the
reason for short-
ening operating
hours, as previ-
ously noted, was
to alleviate financial woes at the GHQ,
which lost $60,000 last year.

Riesbeck agreed with the idea
that adding wages and tips earned
together at the end of a two—week
pay period, figuring out the aver-
age hourly wage from that amount,
and then adding on whatever is
necessary to meet the minimum
wage is a good idea. Either the serv-
ers earn $5.15 an hour, significantly
better than what they sometimes
make now, or they make even more
than that, in which case, the GHQ
doesn’t have to pay them anything
extra.

Riesbeck seemed confident that
a minimum wage level was a solid
idea. It avoids having the GHQ
lengthen its hours, puts less pres-
sure on cashiers to ask for tips and
ensures that student workers in the
GHQ earn a comparable amount to
what other student employees on
campus do.

Said sophomore Samantha
Snabes, a cashier, “Then you will at
least make minimum wage.”

Pregnant cadets win support of women’s groups

FILEPHOTO
OME CHEER FOR . omen’s ri ts rou s o ose new
4‘ C VMI W gh g p pp

policies that affect these and other female cadets.

BY JACK HAGLE
STAFF CORRESPONDENT

A new policy that makes marriage or parenthood a
bootable offense for Virginia Military Institute cadets has
been met with a barrage of criticism from two national
women’s rights organizations.

Days after the National Women’s Law Center sent VMI a
letter asking the state—funded  school to end the policy,
the National Organization for Women’s Virginia chapter on
Wed. decried the policy as “illegal and inexcusable discrimina-
tion against women.” Both organizations have asked the school
to rescind the policy. NWLC Oﬁicials said they “have not
foreclosed any options,” regarding legal action.

Issued by Superintendent Josiah Bunting 111 Dec. 20
and put into effect at this semester’s start, the “values driven”
policy states that any cadet — male or female — who causes a
pregnancy or rrrarries while enrolled at VMI will be expelled.
The policy applies to inter-Barracks relationships and rela-
tionships between cadets and their non—VMI partners.

NOW issued a statement charging that the policy vio-
lates Title IX laws ensuring gender equality in state—funded
education. The organization also said the ban on pregnancy
violates the commonwealth’s Human Rights Act.

“NOW believes that pregnancy is a natural part of
the human experience and should never be used to limit
woInen’s opportunities,” the statement said.

Although the VMI policy states that “any policy govem-
ing marriage and parenthood or pregnancy must be even
handed in its treatment of male and female cadets,” NOW and
NWLC called the policy discriminatory along gender lines.

“With a woman, you can see when she is about to
become a parent,” said Jocelyn Samuels, NWLC vice presi-
dent and director of education, “whereas there is no mecha-
nism for discovering or confirming that male cadets have
become parents.”

But VMI officials have defended the policy, saying
the school was following orders from the Department of
Justice to develop a policy that would drop the 1996 fed-
eral lawsuit against the college. For over 150 years, VMI
employed a male-only admissions policy. The U.S. Su-
preme Court gave VMI the choice to accept women or
lose state funding. Recently, the case was dropped and
oversight from DOJ ended.

‘The notion of a legal challenge was not totally unex-
pected,” said VMI spokesman Chuck Steenburgh. “But our
advice from our attorneys is that what we have a policy that is
permissible under the law. We’re pretty serious about this policy

and we think it’s the best policy for VMI and our cadets.”

No-rrrarriage policies apply at all the federal military acad-
emies. And most academies treat pregnancy as a disability,
allowing pregnant cadets to return after the child is bom.

VMI, a state school, is not under the same guidelines.
VMI cadets pay tuition and have no military commitment
upon graduation. Federal service academy cadets’ tuition
is covered by taxpayers, but they must serve in the rnili—
tary upon graduation.

NOW said the policy is in direct response to VMI
acknowledging its first pregnant cadet last spring. VMI
begs to differ.

“The Department of Justice really insisted upon a
written policy that covered pregnancy as a condition for
the court case,” said Steenburgh. “Our preference would
have been to continue to handle these very complex and
important issues on a case-by-case basis, as we have been
doing, in order to have the court case dismissed. To say
that this is in response to our pregnant female cadet is
false as these organizations are charging.”

Pressure from alumni and the school’s board of visi-
tors to adopt a policy has increased. A growing trend of
cadets fathering children while trying to remain cadets was
also considered in forming the policy, Steenburgh said.

 

5 versity.

l

a

ll!

eras

 

W&L, Settle debut new
website on nuclear energy

Come inside the secret world of the Manhat-
tan Proj ect. Track nuclear proliferation count:ry-by-

, country. Examine the impact of the arms race on
A espionage and terrorism. Explore the beneﬁts and
( dangers of America’s growing use of nuclear en-
\ ergy. Discover the complexity —— or not — of build-
. ing an atomic bomb.

All this is a few clicks away on a Washington

' and Lee University Web site going up this month

to help students, teachers, policy makers and sci-
entists quickly ﬁnd accurate and comprehensive
infomiation on the nuclear age.

V The Web site —http://alsos.wlu.edu-— is part
of the National Science Foundation’s $40 million
National Science Digital Library designed to create,
organize and install high-quality educational re-
sources on the Internet. The Alsos site, created
through a $250,000 NSF grant, provides infom1a-

, tion about a rich array of authoritative and reliable
v materials drawn from sources worldwide.

The strength of the W&L Web site is the inte-

. gration of material from different disciplines, rang-

ing from physics to art, with both a current and an

3 historical perspective on issues involving nuclear
5 energy,” said Dr. Frank A. Settle Jr., a Washington
, and Lee chemistry professor and co-director of the
, project. The Alsos site currently features about 350
A annotations of books, articles, videos, photographic
I collections, CD-ROMs and links to other Web sites

to help users track how the development of nuclear

Z energy has and continues to inﬂuence the evolu-
, tion of science, technology, domestic politics, in-
; temational relations and the arts and humanities.

The seminal Invisible Man
still influences American politics

Lucas Morel was a high school sophomore
when he was assigned to read Ralph Ellison’s In-
visible Man, the controversial and critically ac-
claimed novel about an alienated black youth’s jour-

V ney through post-war America.

Morel forgot the book until several years ago,

‘ when he was exploring ways to bring political theory

to life for his students at Washington and Lee Uni-

Discovering the many facets of Invisible Man
— a work deemed by The New York Times as rel-

Y evant and important today as it was when first pub-

 

symposium featuring the country’s leading Ellison
scholars and renowned political and literary com-
mentators meeting Feb. 1-2 at Washington and Lee’s
historic campus.

Through the lens of today’s social and political
struggles, the symposium will examine how Ellison’s
sharp pen captured the attention—and changed the
views——of mainstream Arrrerica as racial tensions es-
calated duiing the budding Civil Rights Movement
and the explosive school desegregation cases work-
ing their way to the U.S. Supreme Court.

— Courtes y Latrina Stokes

C-schoc/ canceling classes

Planning for the future can be as inconvenient
as it is necessary. Just ask most of the professors of
the Williams Commerce School. Many canceled
classes on the ﬁrst Friday of the semester to attend
a two-day planning session as the ﬁrst step toward
developing new educational initiatives.

The process will require that professors cancel
class twice more this semester in order to meet with
the facilitators of the Ernst and Young Foundation,
the strategic planning partners who have donated
time and resources to aid in this process.

There was no other choice, said Dean Eliza-
beth Oliver about canceling classes. They settled
with “the three most inconvenient Fridays,” in-
cluding the last day of registration for spring
term and the last day of winter term classes.

VMI Supt. Bunting set to retire

Virginia Military Institiite’s superintendent,
Josiah BuntingIII, annourroedearlylastmonththathe
willstepasideattheendofthecurrentschoolyear.

“It struckmethatthisisagoodtimeforthe
[Board of Visitors] to go out and look for new
leadership,” Bunting told The Associated Press.

Bunting told the VMI Board of Visitors in a
written statementthathewil1stayatVlVl1asa
spokesman foracunent $175 million capital
campaign, designed to boost the school’s academic
reputation. Hewillalsoactasanadvisortothe
incoming superintendent until his contract expires in
Ju1y2(X)3.

“With the beneﬁt of General Bunting’s
leadership, VMI has entered a new century poised to
become stronger and more cohesive than in any time
in recent memory,” Samuel B. Witt III, president of
the VMI Board of Visitors, said in a statement. “We
have a community of faculty, cadets, and staff
unsurpassed in its collective talent and energy, with
an extraordinary capacity to push forward the
boundaries of learning and leadership.”

Bunting, whocarnetoVlV1Iin 1995, is best
known forleadingVlVII ina1996U.S.SuprerneCouit
battle to keep the state-fimded college male only. He
oversaw the eventual assimilation of women into the

MONDAY, lANUARY LL02

BEHOLD, THE NEW KNIGHT or ODK

BLACK INDUCTED INTO ODK. Senior Richard Black is initiated into
the Omicron Delta Kappa honor society by senior Stacy McLoughlin.
ODK, founded at Washington and Lee in 1914, recognizes superior

MART (rm/Rmg—zum 2‘
leadership as well as outstanding academics. This year, 31 students
were inducted, representing junior and senior undergraduate stu-
dents and second and third year law students.

 

7 p.m—Lecture. “El poder subvertido en la
escritura fernenina de Mexico,” Leon Guillermo
Gutierrez, author, literary critic, lawyer and professor
 NorthenAiiditoiiurnRetieshrnents

Thursday,Jan.24

8 p.m—Lecture. ‘“Avaritia’ and ‘paupertas’: On
thePlaceoftheEarlyFranciscansintheHistoryof
Avarice,” Richard Newhauser, Trinity University.
Northen Auditoriurrr

Fn°day,Jan.25

l2prrr——Women @ Work speaker. PulitzerPri2e
vvinnerAnnTelriaes. RSVP de Maria x8932.

73()pm—E]rrrS<xiety.‘SexyBe2st?’(Frrglarﬂ,2(D1).
DirectedbyJoriathar1GlazerTroubadourCirerna

9 p.m.—1 6th annual lip synch contest. Strident

7pm-Martir1LinherKingJrcandleligl1trallyancl
marclrLeeChapelorIee(1iapelparkir1glotReoeptior1
tofol1owinFaiif'axLounge.

'Iiiesday,Jan.22

4 pm—Glasgow Endowment Reading. “Leon
Guillemio Gutierrez y el alrna mexicana,” Leon
GuillerrnoGutieneLaiithor,literaryciitic,1awyerarrd
professor from Mexico City. Northen Auditorium

Wednesday,Jan.23

8pm—AlooholicsArior1yrnousrneeting.Fairfax
Lounge. Al1W&LstudenIs,faculty/staff, andtheLex-

& Florida.

  

Ce|ica—

 
  

? ﬁshed 50 yea“ ago _ is the goal of agnaﬁopnal corps of cadetsin 1997. _COurtesyJackHageI tofollow.Operitothepiiblic.  Activities Pavilion. Tickets soldatthe door. \
*Fraternities* ‘
*Sororities* ® 
#1 Spring Break Vacations! *C1|1bS*
Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, *St|ldent G1'0“PS*

Best Parties, Best Hotels,
Best Prices!

Group Discounts, Group
organizers travel free!

Space is limited! Hurry up &
Book Now!

1-800-234-7007
www.endles'ssummertours.com

  
  

LEXINGTON

Earn $l,OO0—$2,000 this
semester with the easy
Campusfundraiser.com three
hour fundraising event.
Does not involve credit card
applications. Fundraising
dates are ﬁlling quickly, so
call today! Contact
Campusfundraiser.com at
(888) 923-3238, or Visit
www.campusfundraiser.com

 
 
      

LINGER AT A FIRESIDE TABLE
COFFEE 0 ESPRESSO - CAPPUCCINO 0 PASTRIES ° BAGELS
9 WEST WASHINGTON STREET 0 LEXINGTON - 464-6586

The Inside Story

On the outside, its easy to see that Celica is race—track
inspired. But the real excitement is on the inside...under the
hood. Take the Celica GT—S...Toyota worked with Yamaha to
build a 180 HP engine redlined at 7800 RPM...equipped it
with Variable Valve Timing with intelligence...a computer
that constantly monitors and retunes your engine for maxi-
mum performance...a cam with two sets of lobes to provide
two ranges of valve lift and duration for more usable horse-
power. There’s direct ignition for greater reliability...
iridium-tipped spark plugs for reduced maintenance...a
stainless steel exhaust manifold...a watercooled oil cooler.
And mated with Toyota's 4-speed electronically-controlled
automatic ”Sportshift”, you get transmission shift switches
on the steering wheel...just like Formula 1 race cars. Sweet.

 

  

www.gettoyota.c.om

Driving a new Toyota is easier than ever —

  

because now your Toyota dealer has a special college graduate
financing program available thru Toyota Financial Services
that offers a lot of great advantages.

 
  

So if you're within 4 months of graduation... or if you graduated
within the past two years...See your Toyota dealer for details.

    

WIJDE Sjlll

ll_l._._E'.

BEGINS FRIDAY. MNIIARY 11
Jan. 11-17 25% off evervilsinq
Jan. 18-24 30% ol-'1-'
Jan 25-31 40% ol-"F

Feb. 1-9

-1 55@% ol-'I3!!!!!

ZIJETZBJ ZQIIJERE IQZT IIVZLIJQEZ

MAKING ROOM FOR THE

N 5!” SPRING lNVENT0RV

0-...’

iv

J» V‘4i-1»-bl‘

 

 

'5

r 9 V i>»‘,..'”

4

V

 

9*}?!

Siit t“iD1TomAL

It’s time to tear down
Woods Creek Apartments

In days of yore, parents would expose their
malformed offspring in the woods, leaving them
to die out of sight. University architects appar-
ently had the same idea with the Woods Creek
Apartments, placing those niisshapened build-
ings on the far side of the Dell arid ensuring
that only residents are forced to see them.

The Apartments are the only structures on
campus that make Leyburn Library look tradi-
tional and attractive. Their clumsy attempts at
modernity look less like Lloyd Wright than
Picasso. If the earth vomited up a pile of ugly
concrete blocks, it would resemble Woods
Creek’s exterior.

Of course, looks aren’t everything. It would
be one thing if the Woods Creek Apartments
only appeared to be hewn out of a particularly
infelicitous clump of boulders. The creature
comforts inside, however, are better suited to
the bathysphere than to upperclassman living.

The rooms are dark and damp. Institutional
cinderblock walls and airport high-trafﬁc car-
peting do not make happy rooms, and the case-
ment windows’ synergy with the penitentiary
ﬂuorescents has doubtless inspired prison archi-
tects. The windows are ugly enough that resi-
dents are grateful there aren’t too many of them.
Residents suffering Seasonal Affective Disor-
der should probably spend Winter Term abroad.

The steep stairs lace a labyrinthine ﬂoor
plan that makes navigating a chore. The balco-
nies are only good for hanging clothes to dry,
which further adds to the Third World appeal.

The complex’s sylvan setting makes it dif-
ficult, even dangerous, to approach. Woods
Creek residents returning from the Hill have to
transverse a very poorly lit path that becomes
treacherous after snow or rain. Recently, the
creek froze, and the ice-slicked bridge became
more problematic than picturesque.

There’s no reason for security, since only
those doomed to live there, or eager for a se-
cure drinking location, will want to visit.

After building the University Commons, re-
furbishing Reid Hall, and erecting the Wilson
Fine Arts Center, the University might well con-
sider new housing that could be advertised,
rather than sequestered on the creek’s far side.

UOTE OF THE WEEK:

PINIONS  
PC snafu strikes FDNY

0 THE. RING-TUM PHI
MONDAY, JANUARY 21, 2002

One of the most striking images
to be published following the Sept 1 1
attacks was a picture of three firemen
raising an American ﬂag over the
wreckage of the World Trade Center.
The picture, taken by Tom Franklin of
The Record of Hackensack, N .J ., re-
minds one of the photograph of sol-
diers raising the ﬂag over Iwo Jima
and perhaps foretold that a similarly
harrowing ﬁght would be necessary
to win this war.

Fittingly, the property company
which owns fire department’s head-
quarters building had decided to con-
struct a memorial to the ﬁreﬁghters
who died on the 11th and chose to
commission a statue based on the
photograph. Unfortunately for those
who crusade in the name of “diver-
sity,” the photograph depicted three
white ﬁreﬁghters raising the ﬂag. So,
instead of producing a statue that
mirrored reality, the ﬁre department
chose to have cast a statue depicting
one black, one Hispanic, and one
white ﬁreﬁghter raising the ﬂag. How
exactly does one depict an Hispanic
in bronze, anyway?

Yes, that’s right, in the interest of
political correctness, inclusiveness,
diversity and a host of other liberal
buzzwords, the department chiefs de-
cided to ignore the actual events that
took place and instead mold reality
into what they saw as, supposedly, a
better reﬂection of the event.

Their attitude can best be
summed up by a black fireman who
was quoted as having said, “The sym-
bolism is far more im-
portant than repre-
senting the actual
people. I think the ar-
tistic expression over
diversity would supersede any con-
cern over factual correctness.”

“Any concern for factual correct-
ness?!” The liberals have a great new
replacement expression for “truth.”
Just as the handicapped are now “dif-
ferently—abled,” and the short are now
“vertically—challenged,” the truth is
now no more than “factual correct-
ness.” It should of course be sacriﬁced
in favor of “diversity.” After all, the
FDNY is 2.7% black and 3.2% Hispanic.

This effort to fool with the truth
has enraged many of New York’s ﬁn-

BREYTT. KIRWAN
OPINIONS EDIIOR
FMAll:l<lR\lVANB@\lVtU.lEl)U

est, especially since those who dis-
approve of the decision to sacriﬁce
reality to liberal politics are being la-
beled as “racist” and “insensitive.” It
must be their hidden racist agendas
that prevent them from supporting the
re-engineering of actual events. Noth-
ing could be further from the truth
about ﬁreﬁghters who risk their lives

daily to save New

RIGHT OF THE AISLE Yorkers of all colors
BRETTT. KIRWAN ‘O4

and who, on the 1 1th,
saved people from
around the globe.

In an interview with Rod Dreher
of National Review, ﬁreﬁghters ques-
tioned the decision to replace the
firefighters depicted in the photo-
graph by asking if changes in the Iwo
Jima memorial or Mount Rushmore
would be next. Perhaps, one offered,
“They (‘re) going to have to take Tho-
mas Jefferson off Mount Rushmore
because he owned slaves.”

Maybe paintings of the signing

of the Declaration of Independence will
be redrawn to better reﬂect America’s
current racial make-up. Perchance the

CoLrirrrsYvrwivpou(oM1ArEcoM
OUR FLAG WAS STILL THERE: This photo was to be perverted for “diversity.”

story of Apollo 11 will be rewritten to
include Miguel Collins, the Hispanic
astronaut who backed-up Neil and
Buzz. After all, “factual correctness”
isn’t as important as diversity.

Similarly, the Soviets had a policy
of air-bushing individuals out of pho-
tographs after they had been deemed
unsavory by the party. Also, in
George Orwel1’s I 984, the hero, Win-
ston Smith, is employed with the gov-
ernment ministry whose task it is to
alter news accounts of the past so
they reﬂect the current government
line. Modern leftists have adopted a
similar attitude toward the truth.

In response to this revisionist
campaign, Brooklyn ﬁreﬁghter Steve
Cassidy faxed a petition to firehouses
asking that ﬁreﬁghters sign to pro-
test the department’s decision. Ap-
parently, they may have listened and
Fire Commissioner Nicolas Scoppetta

«..-. said thatrother ideaswill be examined

so that a-more “ﬁtting” memorial will
be built. Hopefully, the next memorial
won’t confuse true heroism with the
heroes of the left.

Assr. EDITORS DoN’T
DESERVE ARMS. THEY CAN
TYPE WITH THEIR NOSES.

—DISGRUNTLED PHI OPINIONS EDITOR

 

Editor-in-chief Matthew B. McDermott
Associate Editor Katie J. Howell
Asst. News Editor Latrina Stokes
Asst. News Editor Irnran Naeemullah
Opinions Editor Brett T. Kirwan
Asst. Opinions Editor Andrew Laﬁmer
W&Life Editors Matthew A. Coursen
Catherine C. Guy
Sports Editor Jeremy S. Franklin
Asst. Sports Editor Dave Crowell
Contributing Editor Alison Trinidad

Photo Editor MaryE.Guy
Photographer Meg Ferrara
Business Manager Paul A. Seifert
Asst. Business Manager Emily Barker
Advertising Managers Rober'tFloyd
William Litton
Brian Castleberry

Internet Editor Peter L. Djalaliev

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editor-in-chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
pm. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion of the Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu

http://phi.wlu.edu

   

Letters to the Editor

IFC answers poor depiction of pledgeship

Dear Editor, '

Last week’s Staff Editorial painted an unfair picture
both of the Greek System and the pledgeship process.
The article is particularly troubling because of the audi-
ence it reaches. Through their own experiences, students,
both non—Greek and Greek alike, recognize the true ele-
ments and the exaggerations present in the article. The
faculty do not have the same frame of reference; however,
and know only about the Greek System what they see in
the news and the anecdotal evidence they gather in the
classroom. This is what makes last week’s editorial coun-
terproductive to all of the progress made over the last
year, by the IFC and the Greek System as a whole.

The comments made that pledges will be consuming
inordinate amounts of alcohol, and other “pharmaceuti-
cals” is harmful to the already precarious situation that
the Greek System is encountering. Given the tragic events
of last year, the IFC’s Alcohol Initiatives and the ATF’s
policies, it is unfair to casually state that pledges will con-
sume “gallons of alcohol.” Much progress has been made
to making the environment at Washington and Lee safer.
For the first time in many years, there were no arrests on
the weekend of Tear Night. Arrests for this entire school
year are down, as are inﬁrmary visits. It is a misrepresenta-
tion of pledgeship to infer that rampant alcoholism will be
encouraged, or even tolerated.

, Furthermore, to state that the educational aspects of
pledgeship should supercede that of the classroom does
not reﬂect the attitude or present priorities of the Greek
System. Since the faculty demonstrated so much displea-
sure with the academic performance of pledges by con-
sidering shortening pledgeship, the IFC is offering $5,000
to the fraternities to reward academic improvement. The

 TALKBACK  

I 6€S g.7’ -

fraternity whose pledges demonstrate the most improve-
ment from first to second semester will receive $2,000,
second place will receive $1,500, third place $1,000 and
fourth place will receive $500.

In closing, the IFC feels that the editorial last week
had the potential to damage all the hard work that has
been done over the last year to improve the pledgeship
process. Faculty members are not aware of the good things
that have been done and are being done to make
pledgeship safer and more educational, but by reading
last week’s article they have gotten another negative pic-
ture of the Greek System.

Sincerely,
The Inter-Fraternity Council

Senior citizens support students’ right to cany

Dear Editor,

The recent killings at a Florida college is the third
violent attack to take place on a school campus this month.
Our schools are victim—rich environments for criminals
because the criminals know that they will not face resis-
tance from anyone armed with a gun.

It is time to make our schools safe. We need to follow
the Israeli approach and arm parents and grandparents
and have them guard our schools. This plan has worked
well in Israel since 1974. Yet we continue the failed scheme
of making schools “gun free”.

On college campuses we need to allow all adults to
carry a gun. There is no reason that adults between the
ages of eighteen and twenty—one should be barred from
owning and carrying a handgun. The average age of our

SEE LETTERS, PAGE 4

PAGE 3

Robertson snuggles
with African dictator

Who is Charles Taylor? He is the President of the
impoverished, war-ravaged nation of Liberia whose
checkered past has crossed with Pat Robertson’s
checkered present.

After a bloody coup d ’etat involving numerous
public executions in 1980, Charles Taylor joined the
ranks of the new Liberian government led by Samuel
Doe. Taylor proceeded to gain Doe’s trust, smuggle $1
million from him, and ﬂee to the United States. He was
arrested and held for extradition, but turned up in Liberia
again after breaking—out of a Massachusetts prison.

In the Liberian rain forests, he assembled an army
of emaciated villagers, diugging their children and send-
ing them on his most dangerous missions. Slowly, he
overtook areas of the

country. Doe’s forces LEFT OF CENTER
were unable to stop '

him  L®-L

Taylor sold off
rubber plants, mineral deposits and any other resource
he gained to foreign exporters when he overtook a new
area of the country. His wealth growing, Taylor was
elected to the presidency in 1997.

Why am I telling you all this? Because the identity
of one of this murderously corrupt president’s busi-
ness partners fascinates me. You might have heard of
him: Pat Robertson, W&L alumnus, president of the
Christian Coalition, Christian Broadcasting Network,
and Freedom Gold Limited. FGL is a company
Robertson founded in 1998 that funds and proﬁts from
mineral and gold excavation. Its proﬁts are held in the
Cayman Islands.

This information comes from an unlikely place, the
December issue of GQ. However, while Robertson de-
clined to talk to GQ for the article, his attorneys did
acknowledge the fact that Robertson is indeed putting
his money into the project in Liberia.

What the GQ article hopes to show is the corrupt
manner that Robertson’s company pulled the rug out
from under two American businessmen running the
operation in Liberia, Ken Ross H and Ken Ross III.

While this is somewhat interesting, the real shock
is the fact that Robertson has no qualms about his
current business partner. Whether or not Pat Robertson
and Charles Taylor have ever met face to face is still
uncertain, but Ken Ross 11 has been in a seven hour
meeting with the television evangelist and several of
Taylor’s aids. It was in this meeting that Ross allegedly
turned over his maps and information to Robertson so
he would consider investing in the project.

Ken Ross 11 and his son claim that Robertson,
instead, took this information and went straight to make
a deal with Charles Taylor, excluding them from the
venture. If that is in fact true, it stands alone as a des-
picable truth.

Moreover, was it not Robertson who, after the at-
tacks on Sept. 11th, posted the following on his CBN
web site? ‘”Ihe focus of many in America has been the
pursuit of health, wealth, material pleasures, and sexu-
ality. Sadly, those in the churches have been as self-
indulgent as those in the world.”

Strong words for a man whose current Liberian busi-
ness partner formally backed the vicious Revolutionary
United Front in neighboring Sierra Leone. The RUF’s sig-
nature is the machete that they use to lop off the heads of
the heads of terrorized men, women and children while
illegally trafﬁcking mortars, riﬂes, satellite phones, com-
puters, vehicles, food and drugs from Liberia.

The GQ article quotes Robertson’s attomey, speaking
on his behalf, ‘”Ihe U.S. has not discouraged or prohibited
dealings in Liberia nor are any U.S. national security inter-
ests adversely affected by an investment in Liberia”

That is all well and good, but I am not so certain
that the Almighty will fail to have a problem with the
lapse of judgement that Robertson seems to be having
here. While talking out of one side of his face, accus-
ing Americans and their churches of having only ﬁ-
nancial gains and sex on the brain, he is keeping re-
turns of millions of dollars from a partnership with a
detestable, evil Liberian “president” in the Caymans.

Moreover, Robertson’s attorneys also conﬁrmed
that Taylor had recently phoned Robertson, “protest-
ing the unfairness of UN sanctions.” Taylor has more
than once been linked to the kidnappings of UN diplo-
mats and leaders on the African continent. Clearly, Tay-
lor knew to call upon his business associate as
Robertson believes the United Nations General As-
sembly to be, “pro-socialist, pro-Islam, anti-American
and anti-Israel.”

Not wanting to judge, I ask the following: Has Pat
Robertson crossed a moral line pairing up with a tor-
tiirer and murderer whose armies have ravaged Liberia’:
resources, stolen food out of starving villagers’ mouths
and cut off the arms of innocent women and children’:
The phrase, “anything for a buck,” has never been this
disturbing.

    

 

c5S1 g.99 M   ‘O2 ultas Cold.” csltss pretty.”  S Wpathﬂi Ygll Can
-—Mike Reynold, ‘02 eP1:::1 Siag’ --Matt Kaufmann, ‘05 --Anne J ohansen, ‘O5 __AES::tv$1a1'l, ‘O5

 

   

 

PAGE 4

The party’s over

Compact disc copy protection threatens consumers

Little do most consumers
know it, but since last Sept. the
battle over piracy has reached a
fevered pitch in the music indus-
try. Yet while 2001 was the year of
the computer with Napster and
file sharing litigation, develop-
ments during the coming months
will affect anyone who owns a
compact disc player.

If the RIAA has its way, it
won’t be long until all we see on
store shelves is a new breed of
copy—protected CDs. The implica-
tions are dramatic for anyone who
listens to music.

Debate has centered on a en-
coding data scheme designed by
Israel—based Midbar Technolo-
gies. Dubbed the Cactus Data
Shield, the system works by de-
liberately corrupting a disc so that
any computer
based player
Cannot prop-
erly read it. This
ensures that
only devices like your average ste-
reo can access the songs.

Test copies of Cactus discs
secretly made their way into the
market a year ago, and now labels
such as BMG and Universal have
announced plans to produces all
their titles with copy protection.

With Cactus, you’re out of luck
not only if you want to bum a copy

  

ANDREW LATIMER ‘05

of a CD, but also if you try play mu-
sic on your computer, DVD player,
game console, MP3 player, high—end
stereo equipment or even certain car
CD players. Try to play a rip of an
encoded CD or use a Cactus on one
of the aforementioned devices at a
high volume, and you run the risk of
blowing out your speakers.

Chances are you already own
one of these corrupted discs and
don’t know it. There are no mark-
ings on the packaging to distinguish
Cactus-enabled albums from regu-
lar ones, nor is there any ofﬁcial
RIAA list of modiﬁed titles. For now,
all you can do is cross your ﬁngers
when you go to a music store and
hope that you don’t walk out with
an anti—rip CD.

These steps are not being
taken in the name of defending
the intellectual
property of mu-
sicians. Labels
are merely inter-
ested in making
sure that digital song swapping
does not eat into their profits.

It’s no great surprise that ma-
jor media outlets have not even
bothered to cover this issue of
copy protection. Music labels
have ensured that the transition
to Cactus discs be as quiet as pos-
sible. To them, music duplication
should not be available for home

ORiN1oNs

CDURTESY WWW. 7E[£K)IVIOi. E9

OLD DAYS: W/e’ll return to the golden days of radio should the music industry prevail.

use, even if it is protected by law
and does not fall under the Digi-
tal Millennium Copyright Act.

Concemed music buyers should
write to their local congressman and
ask to draft legislation that requires
manufacturers to include waming la-
bels on protected CDs. Music com-
panies cannot be allowed to sell an
inferior product without ﬁrst notify-
ing the purchaser.

Once the labels are in place, the
best way the American public can deal
with the issue successfully is to follow
the example set by Britain in Nov. Con-
sumers reacted strongly to word that

the latest Natalie Irnbruglia compact
disc had been modiﬁed, and thousands
complained and retumed their Cactus
albums for non—encoded stock The
outcry was so pronounced that there
areno f1rrtl1erplanstoirrrplenrentcopy-
protection in Britain’s near future.
Only time can tell how Ameri-
cans will react to the recording
industry’s plans for a brave new
world. Either we sit idly by and have
inferior products foisted on us, or
we protests the further spread of
Cactus encryption. The choices we
make before the year’s end will re-
shape the way we listen to music .

LETTERS from page 2

. degree of pressure to

 

soldiers fighting in Afghanistan is just un-
der twenty years old. When these young
adults come home they are barred from own-
ing and carrying a handgun to protect them-
selves and their families.

On college and university campuses
these young adults are not the only ones
who are barred from exercising their civil
rights. Everyone, student and faculty
alike, is stripped of the right to own and
carry a gun. This puts everyone on cam-
pus at risk.

John Bender, executive director of Se-
niors United Supporting the Second Amend-
ment said, “There is no question that every-

 

one at these schools would have been safer
if armed adults were there in sufﬁcient numbers.

“Last year we offered to pay the tu-
ition at a firearms training facility for five
volunteers from the first public school to
implement the Israeli program. No school
accepted our offer.

“I will extend that offer to the Martin
Luther School in New York so they can make
their school safe and protect their students.
I have no doubt that had this program been
in place before the attack there, the attack
wouldn’t have happened.

“Colleges have a student body and staff

composed of adults. They just need to allow

To be eligible to win:

these adults to exercise their civil rights. The
schools need to allow all adults on campus
to make the choice whether to be armed or
not. It will make the schools much safer.”

The young men and women in our
nation’s colleges deserve to be safe and
to have all their civil rights protected and
respected. There is no reason that they
should be turned into defenseless targets
just to satisfy the ravings of the radical
anti—civil rights groups.

   

Sincerely,
Seniors United Supporting
the Second Amendment

ONE WINNER WILL BE RAND .
THE CONTEST DATE, IULY 1. 200
THE CONTEST, ONE OF THE S

SELECTED TO WIN THE GRAND

  

MONDAY, JANUARY 21, 2002

W&L’s Top 10 conflicts exposed

Campus is beholden to nearly a dozen senseless competitions

Let me begin by first apologizing for my
lack of article in last week’s Phi. I opted not
to write because had I done so, I would have
immediately fallen into the trap of recount-
ing rush week and all its proverbial glory,
something that perhaps might be erring on

6.) GHQ vs. The D-Hall: In addition to
all their other commitments, freshmen are
now forced to choose between Evans Din-
ing Hall and the GHQ for their meals. I’ m not
sure if this is a fair trial to place before them.
Especially since the Cooperational Facility

the side of cliché. of Glory will ultimately win
As my inaugural ad— ORTHERN ’ XPOSURE anyway.
dressof2002,Ifeelsome ORS E 7.) Boys vs. Girls:

write something good,

but then I remembered that nothing really
registers in one’s mind for more than a span
of a second. Therefore, what I write today
will tomorrow be rendered as just another
testament to weak journalism.

After reading last week’s Trident, I
couldn’t help but be reminded of the inanity
of The Trident’s war with The Phi, which
brought me to thinking about the slew of
odd conﬂicts permeating the school. And
thus, I present the Top 10 Most Prominent
Conﬂicts in W&L’s Bubble.

1.) The Trident vs. The Phi: Ireally don’t
understand what the big deal is. It’s not like
we’re publishing The New York Times here.
They’re college papers. We can probably
co—exist in the same realm without constant
scrutinization of each other’s typos. No one
really cares anyway.

2.) North vs. South: Perhaps I only con-
sider this stupid because I’m the underdog
and on the losing side. Virginia isn’t that
southern. I live only six hours from school,
whereas Texans live roughly seventeen.
That should count for something.

3.) Inter—fraterr1ity Conﬂict: What’s in a
name, that by which we call any other frater-
nity would smell as sweet. Though I revere
the Greek system, I sometimes feel like we
might need NATO to monitor its respective
alliances and conﬂicts.

4.) Inter-sorority Conﬂict: Never as
much manifested as it is during Rush Week
and Derby Days, it’s pretty damn cut—throat.

5.) VMI vs. W&L: Poor VMI’s. They’re
just trying to do the right thing... which ap-
parently is running for fifteen hours a day.

KRIS POLLINA ‘O3

Speaking of waxing
cliché...I think I might be
tired of hearing people bitching about the
opposite sex. Given our fantastic social cul-
ture, it very well might represent the epitome
of hypocrisy.

8.) Palms vs. BJ’s: I couldn’t do a lot of
ﬁeldwork in this area since I’m still under-
age, but just as the freshmen must choose
between the D-Hall and the GHQ, stressed
upperclassmen must face the question of
Palms or BJ’s. I’m not entirely positive, but I
think the Palms might have the edge.

9.) C—School Majors vs. The World:
They’re convinced the real world is out to
plan their derrrise. You should probably re-
lax. You’re smarter than everyone else.

10.) Humanities Majors vs. Their Inner
Turmoil: When my sister left for college and
she asked for some parting words of wis-
dom, I told her not to date a philosophy major
because you never know when he’s going
to get up and leave to ﬁnd himself. (She goes
to Georgetown, so it’s not like I was ruining
anyone’s game. I can already hear the cries
of protest.)

Perhaps the greatest conflict but the one
I’m hesitant to list because I hate subscrib-
ing to the alcohol—related media, is the
struggle between man and his drunk coun-
terpart. But if I didn’t put something in about
alcohol, this might have ended up on the
cutting room ﬂoor. I suppose we couldn’t
have fostered the unadulterated sense of in-
dividualism and character without competi-
tion here. Oh, wait, I have another one. The
struggle between the newspaper columnist
and her Sunday night deadline. I’m all about
disclaimers.

Write for The Ring-tum Phi
Washington and Lee’s Paper of Record

E—mail phi @wlu. edu for more information

‘A’ You must be a single person age 12 through 29. If you win and are under 18, your
parent or guardian must agree to‘ take title to the car.

‘A’ You must not father, conceive, or give birth to a child from July 1. 2001 through th
contest award date of February 12, 2002. .

* You must currently reside in Buena Vista, Harrisonburg, Lexington, Staunton, or
Waynesboro cities OR Augusta, Bath, Highland, Rockbridge, or Rockingham counties
both at the time you enter the contest and on the award date of February 12, 2002.

A complete list of official rules and regulations is available at your local
Health Department and online at http://www.mb4c.org.

There is no limit on the number of times that you may enter the contest. However; each
personal statement that you write must be different. You may also enter your
statement on any 8.5 x 11 sheet of paper or onllne at the website listed above. Entries
may also be mailed to MB4C at P. 0. Box 2126, Staunton, VA 244-02.

MONTHLY WINNERS WILL BE RANDOMLY
f , ZE, A2001 IEEP WRANGLER. AWARDED ON
FEBRUARY 12, 2002. THE RUNNERS-UP VWILL RECEIVE $1000 SAVINGS BONDS.
PRIZES WILL ALSO BE AWARDED FOR OLJALITY ENTRIES.

 

j l

4 l

lVlATIllEWCOLiRSH\J&CATHERINEGUY
W&lIFE EDITORS
EMAI.-cnURsENAI@IIrIuEI)U8cGIIYc@wInEDU

PAGE 5

BY MIKE GEORGE

t STAFF WRITER
A Michael Mann’s retelling of the
5 life and times of heavyweight boxer
Muhammad Ali is certainly long
enough to paint a vivid picture of a
fascinating figure in American his-
tory. At a running time of over three
5’ hours, “Ali” certainly had time to say
something. When I left the theater,
‘however, I was
frustrated and
annoyed at this
'film’s lack of
depth and char-
Vacter develop-
ment. This
Vmovie is a whole
lot of ﬂuff, a pic-
ture that looks
good but says very little about Ali

himself.

, Starring Will Smith, “Ali” por-
trays the life of the self—proclaimed
, “greatest boxer of all time” from Ali’s
;.ﬁrst title victory over Sonny Liston
to his resurgence against George
L Foreman in Nigeria’s “Rumble in the
Jungle.” This film is full of great ac-
tors who are misused and left watch-
‘ ing Will Smith, who seems to be do-
ing all the talking. The sad part is
that “Ali” seems to not really say
. ything about the complexity of the
' man himself. The ﬁlm touches on few
of the controversies that surrounded
he champion, from the allegations
that Liston threw the first fight to the
story about Howard Cosell’s fight
with ABC to find exposure for the
former champion. All you see is a
series of situations with no resolu-
.ions, from Ali’s ﬁght with the gov-
ernment to his problems with the

  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
   
  
   
   
   
 
   
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
  
  

W&LIPE EDITOR

life.

in that area.

Goshen native.

fraternity in Red Square. Despite
the better wage, the admittedly
I outspoken and fun—loving father of
two loathed the duty.

Cleaning the fraternities
was nearly unbearable (being
a member of one myself, I am
familiar with the extreme filth
that‘can accumulate in a mat-
ter of hours inside one of the
‘seemingly pristine redbrick

mansions).
4 After two grueling years
cleaning the frats, Dale as-

dorms.

_ In only 18 months, Dale was the head custo-
‘tdian of the BDG quad, the position he currently

holds.

5 To Dale, hard work is just a part of life. After grow-
ing up on a farm in Goshen, not too far from his farm
‘in Kerr’s Creek where he and his family now reside,

’ the young high school graduate decided to join the

Army and serve his country.

y After three years stationed in Germany, Dale re-
turned to the United States, ready to have some

1 -‘gun.

jobs popped up.

However, his exploration of the rest of the coun-
try was not enough to keep him away from

Rockbridge County for long.

 

photo courtesy of httpz//www.coIona.bc.ca/tils/details/ali.h[ml

;*AIrIaIIs short of knockout

THIS MOVIE IS A WHOLE
LOT OF FLUFF, A PICTURE
THAT LOOKS GOOD BUT
SAYS VERY LITTLE ABOUT
ALI HIMSELF.

BY MATTHEW A. COIIRSEN

For Steven “Dale” Lyle, the head custodian in
-he BDG Quad, variety is a must—have quality of

For the last 12 years, Dale has served the Wash-
'ngton and Lee community doing a number of differ-
ent jobs. Starting in early 1990, Dale went to work for
he printing center of the University, running the
binding department and all of the copiers on cam-
us. For a total of seven years, Dale enjoyed his time

Interacting with students, faculty, and adminis-
tration daily was a special perk of the job for the

In 1997, Dale went to work as the custodian of a

sumed the position of a custodian of the

The avid camper and hunter then traveled to the
;Midwest and lived from North Dakota to New Mexico
working on seismograph crews and doing whatever

    

Nation of Islam and his own family.
But none of these conﬂicts are ar-
gued from either side of the issue,
they are just presented. For a ﬁlm
that focuses so much on one charac-
ter, Ali seems lost in the turbulence
of the world around him, and the fo-
cus of the film is lost.

Jon Voight, Ron Silver, and
Mario Van Peebles are all excellent
in their roles, but don’t expect to
see enough of
them. As much
as the film
seemed cloudy
and confusing,
Will Smith ’ s
portrayal of the
champ solidi-
fies him as a le-
gitimate actor.
His portrayal is both humorous and
convincing, and brings some en-
joyment to an otherwise frustrating
picture. Mario Van Peebles is amaz-
ing as Malcolm X, but Denzel
Washington played the same char-
acter before, and you can’t help but
compare.

Michael Marm’s direction is a step
above anything Ihave seen. “Ali’s” ﬁght
scenes are dazzling and unlike anything I
have seen in ﬁlm. As much as this ﬁlm
may earn Michael Mann an Oscar, it
seemed too artsy and surreal for me. The
ﬁlm was probably meant to be a moving
work of art, but that doesn’t work with
biographical ﬁlms. Mann would have
made a great photographer or artist; his
work is often inspiring and unique. As a
storyteller, however,  far short.
Thisﬁlmis worth seeing once, butit is far
less than what anyone expected. The
story of Muhammad Ali’s life is fascinat-
ing, but this re-telling is not.

 

Photo courtesyof http://www.gary.gIay.Clara.net/comingsoon/alipI'e.hIm

SWING. ABOVE LEFT:Will Smith as Moharnmed Ali tkaes a swing at his audience in
a scene popularized as one of the film’s promotional posters. ABOVE: A victori-
ous, bulked—up Smith as Ali cheered to glory by a throng of adoring fans. The

movie, unfortunatley, does not meet with equal praise.

  yle lays down law in dorms

  ead custodian brings years of diverse experience to the freshman dorms

So the young man returned to Goshen and
took ajob at the wood plant for 7 years. After the
wood plant, Dale also worked at a frozen food

good.

hna.

delivery company called Schwan’s for a little over
a year before coming to Washington and Lee for

About ﬁve times each year, Dale, his wife, Karen,
who has worked for W&L for 20 years, and their two
kids, Steven Henry, 12, and Nicole Hope, 16, enjoy
camping and fishing at the Outer Banks of North Caro-

Finding the trips very relaxing, Dale remembers what

he loves the most about his variety of jobs on cam-

pus: precision and challenges.
Eventually, Dale would like to return to the

printing department, maybe to retire. For him,

AFTER 11 A.M., DALE AND
HIS CREW OF FOUR
CUSTODIANS ARE
RESPONSIBLE FOR ANY
CUSTODIAL MATTER THAT
MAY COME UP ON CAMPUS,
EXCEPT IN THE DOREMUS
GYM.

the printing job is where his heart is. The rela-

tionships he developed with
his co-workers and his mas-
tery of the skill were special
to Dale.

For now though, Dale is quite
happy helping to keep W&L as
beautiful and well—kept as it al-
ways has been.

What most people do not re-
alize is that after 11 a.m., Dale and
his crew of four custodians are
responsible for any custodial
matter that may come up on cam-
pus, except in the Doremus Gym.

That is a lot of responsibility forjust one small crew.

For an experienced world traveler, patriot, cattle-
raiser, and ocean fisherman, it’s just another thing that
gives his life variety. Though head custodian will prob-

ably not be his only job until retirement, Dale Lyle will

sible.

certainly do his best and make it as enriching as pos-

When asked what he thinks of the impact his
job has to the community, Dale responded with

an encouraging statement: “I think we do a good

job keeping the dorms looking good for the stu-
dents. I think the students and the parents seem

to be more appreciative each year of what we do.

And that’s nice.”
So if you see Dale walking from dorm to dorm, or
coming out of the “Den” under Graham-Lees, give a

wave, say “hello” and take pride in the way our

school looks each day.
Without people like Dale, this school would not

be the aesthetically magnificent university that it is.

 

I taste a delicious stereotype every
time I throw on my itchy gray tunic.
Volumes are spoken when I say I’m a
VMI cadet.

To alumni we’re part of an age-old
tradition and a heritage that
transcends any one person or time.

To our fathers we’re handsome
young men and women marching in
crisp unity on our 13-acre front yard
pledging a life of service and duty to
the country and the commonwealth.

To our mothers it’s an opportunity
to sport our cryptic spider logo on
everything from polo shirts to giant
stickers on the back of every vehicle
that we own. ,

To W&L (we Self—conscious cadets
think) we’re a group of mindless jack-
booted misogynistic robots.

To us it’s a drag.

It’s all true, but it’s not the whole
picture. A

I think more often than not, an
educated, open—minded person will hold
an intense bias against the military.
Bright, observant people have a built—in
reaction to all things regirnented.

 

MONDAY, JANUARY 21, 2002

top tenBOOKS@W&L

According to amazomcom, Harry Potter
is the book of choice for most W&L students...

   
  

5
up

3Z0¥l . COIT!

(737/rrﬂvrmrrrrzvn caurzrry af

baa/rr ardercd from

H‘  tter and the Goblet of Fire
Mary Grandpre (Illustrator)

National Security from
Through the Dawn of a

amrrzan. earn it

  
  

  

   
 

$20.96 on amazontom
lirl qf 1/re current /op mi
domain

Mme W/11.5//I1

INFOGRAPHIC BY KATIE HOWELL / The Ring—tum Phi

The guy next door: 1

A VMI point of View

I remember walking into a
vegetarian restaurant on Washington
Street. Heads turned and the room
went silent as I came in wearing my
uniform. The psychic vibe screamed
“Whats that hyper-conservative
jingoist doing subverting my tofu
experience?”

Hey, you don’t have to wear
Birkenstocks to get a kick out of good
bean paste.

To the other extreme, I was walking
back from lunch when a well—dressed,
well—spoken, genteel Southern
woman asked me to pose for a picture.
She snapped a quick shot of me
standing up straight, with my hands
in the small of my back. Then she
pushed her sunglasses into her hair,
smiled, and extended a diamond-
studded hand out to me.

She told me there was a moral
war raging against American values
and places like VMI were among the
few bastions of hope left in the
country. I smiled, nodded, and
walked back to my room, past
clusters of cadets who were

 

BY SAM LAGRONE/STAEE CORRESPONDENT

smoking, swearing, and telling dirty
jokes.

But we have our own bias too.
There’s a joke that ﬂoats around post.
And I’m sure there are plenty about
Vlvﬂ.

“How many W&L students does
it take to screw in a light bulb?”

“Two, one to mix the drinks and
one to call his da 

There might be some truth to that,
but it’s not the whole story. I know.

And how would I know, the only
time I go on your campus is when I’m
puffing through on my mandatory
three mile run.

It goes to show that we can’t
fully understand everything right
away. That’s why I’m here. Every
week, assuming the fine editors of
the Ring-tum Phi will let me blow
my horn, I get to tell you a little about
the lives of the guys and gals who
walk like robots across your
campus.

If you want me to write about
something, if you want to disagree, drop
me a line at lagr0nesr@mail.vmI'.edu

Pamper yourself. . .

 

You know you want to write, so do it
email phi@wlu.edu

  

A

4

 
  
  

r:

.  ;

 

‘ll/llloNDAY, JANUARY 21, 2002

( W&L vaults to upper half of

3 Art; ODAC with midseason spurt

BYJERENIYFRANRDN
SPORTS EDITOR

Although Roanoke snapped the
Washington and Lee women’s bas-
ketball ﬁve— game winning streak with
a 71-62 overtime win on Sunday, the
Generals have done enough to turn
their season around.

Back-to—back home losses to East-
ern Mennonite and Bridgewater on

A Jan. 4-5 left the Generals 3-6, 1-4 in

the Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
. ence. Now, despite Sunday’s setback

'3 to the Maroons, W&L has climbed

; into the top half of the ODAC stand-
ings at 8-7, 6-5.

V ‘ “At that point in time where it was
‘ 3-6, it was getting to the point where

u

I *§

: it wasn’t fun anymore,” senior for-
ward Jessica Mentz said. “Now we’re
‘' all playing together, and we’re hav-

4, ing an amazing time. We’ve really

‘..

A clicked, and we have really good team
chemistry right now.”

, In addition to playing together,

’ W&L coach Janet Hollack says her

4 BY MICHAEL LEE

SroRTs WRITER

V Monday night saw a pair of wins

for Washington and Lee swimming at

, Twombly Pool.

Grove City College traveled from
Pennsylvania to challenge the Gener-

V als, but were unsuccessful. The W&L

4

4

V

4

.‘.

 

O .

,4>V'$P

men triumphed 1 13-92, and the women
won 13 1-74.

players are starting to believe that
they can beat anyone on their
schedule.

“I think they’re actually starting to
believe in themselves and in our sys-
tem,” she said. “Once we all get on
the same page, we realize the poten-
tial that we have, and now we’re try-
ing to achieve that.”

The Generals maintained their mo-
mentum from a three-game road win-
ning streak with a 62-37 win over
Lynchburg Wednesday at the Warner
Center. W&L had little trouble with
the Hornets, rolling to a 28-12 half-
time lead.

Freshman Bethany Dannelly set a
school record with 11 assists, and
Mentz led the Generals with 29 points
and 13 rebounds. Senior Megan
Babst contributed 13 points, while
freshman Emily Barker scored 1 1.

W&L’s defense, which held
Lynchburg to 26 percent shooting
from the field, surpassed that effort in
a 57-33 drubbing of Hollins on Friday.
The Pride shot 16 percent from the
ﬂoor in the second half — 23 percent
for the game — and scored just 14
points after the break.

“That’s definitely a hats-off to

The women leapt to an early lead
over the Wolverines, capturing the
200 medley relay and never look-
ing back.

Junior Blair Huffman swept her
events, winning the 200 individual
medley, 200 breaststroke, and the 200
butterﬂy.

The Generals also concluded the
meet with a win, taking the 200 freestyle
relay and cruising to an easy victory.

PORTS

Roanoke ends Generals’ 5 - game winning strek

1
TIE: RrNo—’I‘tIM PI~II

_jLl\t.IVll1‘l\m\l\llN
Smmﬁmn
mmﬂmmmwwmo

our defense,” Hollack said. “Hollins
is a good shooting team. I didn’t
want us to get caught by surprise
by them able to get hot in our own
gym, so we certainly had to make
sure that we got our hands up in
their face.”

The Generals weren’t hurting on
the offensive end, as Mentz (19
points, 14 rebounds) and Babst (19,
11) each finished with double-
doubles. Barker added seven points,
and Dannelly had six points and six
assists.

Mentz was 6—of-10 from the floor

and Babst hit 8-of—l7 for a team that —

hit 48 percent of their field goals,
many of which came from down low.

“We always try to put it inside a
lot,” Mentz said. “A lot of times it
gets hard, because they crash and
pressure inside so much. Megan and
I are the ones who can usually pro-
duce and finish inside, but we have
to rely on our outside players to hit
some shots and open it up for us to
do that.”

Despite double-doubles for Mentz
and Babst again on Sunday, W&L
couldn’t set a new school record for
consecutive wins against Roanoke.

I if . . .
.;Sw1mmers swe ve City in home meet

~ Neither team could build a lead of bet-

ter than three points for the ﬁnal 15 :48
of the second half, as the game was
knotted at 59-59 after regulation. '

However, the Generals managed
just three points in the extra frame in
the defeat.

Mentz had 25 points and 11 re-
bounds, while Babst added 19 points
and 12 rebounds. Barker contributed
13 points and seven boards.

Dannelly added 10 more assists,
breaking senior teammate Carter Tho-
mas’ year-old school record for single-
season assists at 86. 3

With nine ODAC contests remain-
ing, Hollack wants her team to con-
tinue doing the things that led to ﬁve
straight wins.

“Every coach always wants you
to continue doing what you’ve been
doing,” Hollack said. “That’s what I’m
preaching to them at practice: don’t
do anything out of the ordinary, re-
main consistent, lean on the things
that have gotten us there.

“If we improve each game and each
day, we’re deﬁnitely going to ﬁnish
at the top if we retain this roll.”

The Generals host conference power
Guilford at 7 p.m. on Wednesday.

WOLVERINES BITTEN: Juniors Blair Huffman (left) and Kirk Vogel swim in
Monday’s home dual meet against Grove City.,The W&L women defeated

Mary Guy/ The Ring-tum Pbz)

The men, on the other hand,
were behind at first. Grove City
won the 200 medley relay by four
hundredths of a second, in spite
of W&Ljunior Brett Burns’ come-
back on the anchor leg of 50
freestyle.

That first loss didn’t slow the Gen-
erals a bit. Junior Patrick Frankfort
and sophomore Colin Mitchell re-
stored the team’s confidence with

the Wolverines 13 l -74, while the men won by a 1 13-92 score. (Photos by

 

wins in the 1,000 freestyle and 200
freestyle, respectively.

Sophomore Eric Ritter also won his
two individual events, surprising
Grove City from the outside lane in
the 50 and 100 freestyle.

Monday night, Marymount Uni-
versity will travel to Lexington to con-
test the Generals in their ﬁnal home
dual meet of the season. The meet
starts at 6 p.m.

    

PAGE 7

RY G/The Rig-tum P/Ji

GOOD POINT: Freshman Bethany Dannelly set a pair of school records for assists
this week: 1 1 in a single game in Wednesday’s 62-37 Win over Lynchburg and 86
in a season in the Generals’ 71-62 overtime loss to Roanoke on Sunday.

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SI>oRrs EDITOR

The Washington and Lee men’s
basketball team suffered through
more growing pains this week, drop-
ping a road contest to Guilford and
a home game to Virginia Wesleyan.

Aron McMillan led Guilford to a
65-51 win in Greensboro on
Wednesday. McMillan hit all eight
of his shots from the ﬁeld for 16
points and collected eight rebounds
for the Quakers.

Junior Touissant Crawford led
the Generals with a season-high 16
points on 4-of—5 shooting from
three—point range, and classmate
Scott Hettermann added 15 points
and 10 rebounds.

W&L ran into a red—hot Virginia
Wesleyan team on Sunday. The Blue
Marlins (9-7, 7-3 ODAC), who upset
conference powerhouse Harnpden-
Sydney on the road on Wednesday,
used that momentum to pull out a 67-
50 win at the Warner Center.

Hetterrnann, who leads W&L in
scoring this season, left with a leg

Struggles continue for
young men’s hoops team

injury at the 15:36 mark of the ﬁrst
half and didn’t return. The Generals
struggled mightily from the ﬁeld, fail-
ing to hit a field goal for the first 10
minutes of the game and shooting
just 26.5 percent from the ﬂoor.

But W&L’s defense kept them in
the game, and the Generals trailed
just 27-19 at halftime. An early sec-
ond-half run closed the gap to 29-
28, but foul trouble soon plagued
the W&L frontcourt.

With freshman Mark Franceski
and sophomore Hamill Jones — who
led the team with 13 and 10 points,
respectively — on the bench, the
Blue Marlins blew the game open
with second-chance points. Virginia
Wesleyan outrebounded W&L 47-
28 for the contest.

Life won’t get any easier for
the Generals (4-1 1, 2-8) this week,
as the top-ranked Division 111
team in the nation, Randolph-
Macon, visits the Warner Center
at 7 p.m. tonight. W&L also faces
Emory and Henry on the road
Wednesday and Roanoke at
home Saturday.

Get involved with the best in NCAA Division III athletics...
Write or he spor 3 section 0

THE RING—TUM PHI

Opportunities are available now to cover basketball, rack  
and wrestling and, in he near uture, spring sports —

rom baseball to golf, lacrosse to tennis.
Contact Jeremy Franklin at X4060 or franklinj @wlu.edu

 

 

PAGE 8

  
 

MONOAY, JANUARY 21, 2002 V

Generals focus on remainder of season

W&L wrestlers host triangular Saturday look ahead to Feb. 16 Centennial Conference championships

BYDAVE CROWELL
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee wres-
tling team retumed to its roots in host-
ing the 25th annual W&L Invitational
on Saturday afternoon.

In the presence of W&L wrestling
alumni, the oldest having grappled
about six decades ago, the Generals
(2-3, 0-2 Centennial) ended the day
with a disappointing ﬁnish, accord-
ing to coach Gary Franke.

“We got some difﬁcult draws to-
day,” the veteran coach said. “(Sopho-
more) Corey Little and (freshman) Brian
Avello faced some especially tough op-
ponents. Sometimes that happens to
you in big tournaments.

“I still think we need to get a little
more out of our seniors though, as far
as leadership and energy goes.”

Sophomore Joe Mueller placed
highest for the Generals, capturing
second place in the 184-pound class.
Mueller wrestled two close matches,
first defeating Adam Hicks of
Pensacola Christian College 3-2 in the
semifinals.

In the ﬁnals, Mueller fell to Wes
Kusetski, 5-3, of Washington and
Jefferson.

Senior Ivan Zdanov also wrestled
well on Saturday, seizing third place
in the 174-pound division.

Zdanov began his day with an im-
pressive showing against Chad
Lasher of Pensacola Christian, getting
a pin at 1:24. Zdanov was then de-
feated, 11-8, by Matt Smith of Wash-
ington and Jefferson, placing him in
the consolation ﬁnals.

CANCUN
JAMIIICJI
BIIHIIMAS

 

    
 

 

 
     
   
   
   
    

_ DISCOUNTED PIICKRGESI

AIAIIIII alltlanltlivl

A='LomuA...' .........

5?RlNBBREAK V
V

www.snkmcsnaa:rDIREC1fcoM

0.367. 125

MARY GUY/T/7e Rir1g—tum P/11'

THIRD-PLACE FINISH: Senior Ivan Zdanov (top) wrestles Washington and Jelfersons Matt Smith in the 174-pound class semifinals
at Saturdays W&L Invitational. Smith won the match, 1 1-8, but Zdanov beat Scranton’s ]ose Valdez in the consolation ﬁnals. .

Zdanov responded by beating Jose
Valdez of Scranton, 7-0, to capture third.

This weekend’s finish followed on
the heels of his second place showing
at the Ursinus Invitational on J an. 12.

“Ivan has been wrestling very well
for us,” Franke said. “He lost a real
heartbreaker last weekend , which was
a bit disappointing, but he’ll continue
to work hard.”

According to Franke, juniors Alex
Poor and John Polena also had a good
tournament at home, each being de-
feated in the consolation finals.

The Generals, however, had to en-
dure another day without their best

wrestler, senior captain Ezra Morse,
who has been sidelined with an ankle
injury.

“We’ve definitely missed Ezra,”
Franke said. “We’re looking forward
to him returning and providing his
leadership and energy.

“When you lose his kind of leader-
ship, it takes away some of the spark.”

Franke, for good reason, believes
that leadership, especially from se-
niors Zdanov and Ben Segal, will be
key as the team heads towards next
weekend’s W&L Triangular, in
which the Generals will face West-
ern Maryland and Ursinus.

Gallaudet recently dropped out of
the competition, which was origi-
nally designed as a quadrangular.

“We have two real challenges com-
ing up,” Franke said. “Westem Mary-
land is very tough and I believe
Ursinus is the second best team in
the Centennial Conference.

In addition, the team is moving
closer to the ultimate test, the Cen-
tennial Conference Tournament on
Feb. 16.

“It’s in the back of our heads, but
right now we need to concentrate on
our triangulars and going to Newport
News,” Sega] said.

  

W&L SPORTS SCHEDULES JANUARY 22-28

Monday, Jan. 21

Wednesday, Jan. 23 January 25-26

Swimming Men’s Basketball Indoor Track wrestling
, Mary’moBiint|s:1tVl\,I&|||_,6p.m. W&Lat Emory and Henry, \;V&.Lat('3hristopherNewpOrt 
com Men s as et a 7p.m. wimming | W&L at Bridgewater, 4 pm
FlandolphMaoonatW&L, Women’s Basketball W&L vs. Johns Hopkins Menis Basketbau
7p.m. Guiltord at W&L, 7 p.m. and Mary Washington Roanoke at W&L, 7 p.m.

Saturday, Jan. 26

‘x

   
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
 
   
  
   
   
   
   
  
   
  
  
    
   
  
  
   
  
   
  
   
   
    

80

Photobywchaelmaueo

its nopammm our-mpaﬁauon

This bracelet was a gift Amber Apodaca
received from the center where she helped teens with
drug and alcohol problems. She was wearing it

when an underage drunk driver took her life.

Friends Don’_t Let Friends Drive Drunk.

 
   
    
   

     

* rt _
£372. 755

 

 

 

 

   

 

Q 551 JAN???  t;t_x‘V‘ntn-w tamv '
V’  1"”;r{,N,_;m!‘1;,.1, ‘ : _:- p.  .  .. . .. . _ p .    H!‘ RIMFEAM ‘ H
W0.   _ _, .-‘ V, _ »-........,..«.,.,,‘ _  } 
BFA <13 PAGE 3 . 2 H .
Y  E e 2002 N  an
N E\\7 (iR<.:,n.xrz.»w:t'>N 3  L '  ““ “ ‘* Em” *“
r_>EEEAr.s (J‘\‘/TN r>Ur<m:;E. A   \l   N  OPINEONS 3
LIP Smc <I> PA(3l:j 5 \X;rggLH,-E 5
I’i1c.)‘m tfzoi 1 Ar: '1 _ _ p L,
ANN! Em mt-1.1 l‘-‘t’-2. — SPLWI 5 
DEt=EA'i (I) .l’A<:;r: 7 24/7 2
’ EVi:’.R‘x'(f)NE?. I..(}S'I'. 1'”)  PKJSA 
V (3:15, ;(jl\v’,  XX-’il1l ?vi«.‘;>;n:n*. ,I.w.'RRi’  2002

 

BY ANDREW LATIMER

1 ASSISTANT OPINIONS EDITOR

. The Contact Committee kicks off
\ 4 a new year of talks this Tuesday in
_ Lee Chapel with Amb. Edward S.
1 Walker, Jr., former American Ambas-
sador to Egypt and Israel and current

President and CEO of The Middle East
Institute .

Mr. Walker, whose experience with
foreign affairs spans over three decades,
will draw upon his years of expertise for
his speech, entitled “The Middle East:
An Insider’s Perspective.”

“The events of Sept. make issues

in the Middle East all the more impor-
tant to understand. The ambassador
regularly travels to the Middle East and
his background, especially of Egypt
and Israel, provide a great perspective
to let us know about the current situa-
tion,” said Contact president Samuel
Langholz, a senior.

The address will focus on the
United States and the role its policies
play in shaping the Middle East, as well
as the crucial decisions and events that
contributed to the attacks of Sept. 11.

Securing a speaker on Middle East-
ern has been a priority for some time.
“We’ve been trying to ﬁnd the right

DAMN, IT FEELS GOOD TO BE A PLEDGE

: Ambassador to expose Middle East politics

person to bring for as long as I’ ve been
on the committee,” stressed Langholz.

Mr. Walker’s resume is extensive,
starting with his 1967 acceptance into
the Foreign Services. Prior to hisiten—
ure as Ambassador to Israel from 1997
to 1999, he was Ambassador to the
Arab Republic of Egypt from 1994 to

1997, as well as to the United Arab
Emirates from 1989 to 1992.
Additionally, he served as Deputy
Permanent Representative of the
United States to the United Nations
with Ambassadorial Rank from 1993 to

SEE WALKER, PAGEZ

ACLJ de ends VMI

    

5

470-§*t

  

A A

I

 

 

MARKY-MARK. Freshman Noble Stafford and other Sigma Phi Ep-
silon pledges serenade hundreds of onlookers at the annual SA-
RAH lip sync fundraiser Friday night. Over forty groups partici-
pated in the event that helps fund one of the largest food pantries in
Rockbridge County. This event served a dual purpose of raising

MEG FBzRARA/ 77)eRingtumP/Ii
money for Rockbridge area hunger and allowing fraternity pledges

and sorority new members to show house pride. Washington and
Lee Dining Services helps to sponsor the event that has provided
several tons of food to area residents in past years. For more pictures
and information about lip synch 2002 turn to page 5.

BY IMRAN NAEEMULLAH

 Students react to foreign travel advisories

 

W&L alumnus Pat Robertson, Christian legal group support mealtime prayer

 

FIIEPHOIO

GRACE. Cadets eat after prayer, a custom that may change if the ACLU suit is successful.

BY JACK HAGEL AND SAM LAGRONE
srAEEooRREsI>oNDENrs

A legal group founded by former Christian
Coalition president Pat Robertson has offered
to support Virginia Military Institute should the
state—funded college choose to appeal a federal
court decision that last week deemed as uncon-
stitutional its supper prayer tradition.

The American Center for Law and Justice
released a statement Friday from its Virginia
Beach headquarters expressing its intention to
ﬁle a brief in federal appeals court. The group
said it is willing to represent VMI cadets who
want the prayers to continue. ‘

“The prayers do not violate the ‘constitu-
tion and are no different than the prayers that
are offered in state and federal government in-
stitutions — including Virginia’s General Assem-
bly and the U.S. Congress,” said Jay Sekulow,
chief counsel of the ACLJ.

On Thursday, U.S. District Court Judge
Norman K. Moon ruled that the dinner prayer
practice, in his opinion, compelled “students to
participate in a state—sponsored religious exer-
cise.”

VMI, upon Moon’s decision, halted the
practice. The

The case was brought by the American Civil
Liberties Union on the behalf of two cadets, Neil

- Mellen of Ranchos Palos Verdes, Calif ., and Paul

Knick of Woodbridge.

Mellen first voiced his opinion in an edito-
rial in the school newspaper. Then he approached
VMI officials, requesting cadets be exempt from
the prayer. After his requests went unheeded,
he contacted the ACLU. The cadets named VMI
Superintendent Josiah Bunting IH as the defen-
dant.

“Because the prayers are drafted and
recited at the direction of the Institute’s Su-
perintendent, the result is that government
has become impermissibly entangled with
religion,” Moon wrote in his 35-page deci-
sion.

Virginia Attorney General Jerry Kilgore re-
sponded to the decision, vowing to appeal to
the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals.

“These prayers are part of VMI’s educa-
tional program and are precisely the sort of

prayers recited in the United States Military, on
ships at sea each night, and before lunch at the
United States Naval Academy. Furthermore, no
one is required to recite the prayer, bow his or
her head, or even participate in its recitation,”
Kilgore said in a statement following Thursday’s
decision.

“It is a shame,” he continued, “that while
American soldiers are fighting for our liberties
in places like Afghanistan, our young men and
women training to be soldiers and leaders at
VMI are prevented from praying for their safety
as a body.”

Mellen said it was difﬁcult to refrain from
prayer without receiving derogatory remarks
from pro-prayer cadets. When the case was
heating up last spring, Mellen, who was raised
Catholic, said he was called “the boy who hates
Jesus” by cadets supporting the prayer policy.

“I was pleased to see a strong ruling by
Judge Moon,” Mellen told the Ring—tum Phi.
“The diehards misunderstand compulsory
prayer and think it limits their freedom to pray.
The Attorney General, equating a state college
with troops in the battleﬁeld, is absurd. Troops
engage in battle under the USMJ, not civilian
law. This is ultimately a state school. The gov-
ernor is not going to callus into battle anytime
soon.”

VMI, a state school, is not under the
same guidelines as the federal service acad-
ernies.

The academies fall under the Uniformed
Code of Military Justice, a legal doctrine that
does not give military personnel the same civil
liberties protections as civilians.

VMI cadets do not make a commitment to
the armed forces when they sign on to the In-
stitute, and are not under the rules of the
UCMJ.

VMI voluntary stopped its mandatory
chapel services in 1972, in the wake of Ander-
son vs. Laird, a Washington, D.C., Circuit Court
ruling that stopped services at the federal ser-
vice academies.

This is VMI’s latest federal court case
since the 1996 U.S. Supreme Court case that
gave VMI the choice to end its 150—year-old
male—only admissions policy or lose state

Bachelors

ASSIST ANT NEWS EDITOR

This fall, 43 Washington and Lee
students attended classes and re-
ceived transfer credit in over a dozen
countries from Australia to Kenya.

The Office of International Edu-
cation, headed by Director Williarn G.
Klingelhofer, coordinates the study
abroad program. Located on the mez-
zanine level of Tucker Hall, the ofﬁce
provides information on studying,
working and volunteering abroad in
fall, winter and spring terms, as well
as the summer.

The number of students study-
ing abroad has regularly increased,
said Silvana Flinn, chair of the Study
Abroad Forum, a branch of the Stu-
dent Association for International
Learning. Study abroad opportunities
at W&L do not just include going

overseas, Flinn said. Other possibili-
ties include a study abroad slide show,
study abroad photo competition and
study abroad poster making.

This year, though, study
abroad was complicated by the
events of Sept. 11. While programs
went on, students were affected.
Junior Amina Elgouacem, who went
to France, was originally scheduled
to leave on the date, but her ﬂight
was canceled in the national ban
imposed by the Federal Aviation
Administration. She ended up leav-
ing five days later.

“I was very scared to ﬂy in light
of what had happened,” Elgouacem
said. She reasoned, however, “Some—
thing like this can’t stop people from
traveling, though. Whatever happens
is your destiny; you can’t control it.”

She believed she made the right
decision.

“Everybody there was so kind
and concerned,” she said. “People
were always asking me how every-
thing was back home, and the actual
professors involved with the study
abroad program went out of their way
to show their concern for me and make
sure I was okay.”

Junior Skye Justice went to
Kenya, where he took courses in poli-
tics while absorbing Kenya’s culture
and landscape. He also ventured to
Tanzania, meeting locals and conduct-
ing research for his frfty—page paper.

Terrorists bombed the U.S. em-
bassy in Kenya in 1998, and migh have
encountered anti-American sentiment.

“I had no problems,” Justice
said. “My host family was very con-
cerned about what had happened.
and kept asking me if I knew any-
body affected by the tragedy, and re-
assured me with their kindness.”

People he met on the street, like shop-
keepers, inquired about the situation in
America and expressed their concern.
He said there were a couple of small
demonstrations,‘ including one in
Mombassa, that worried him, but over-
all, he felt completely safe over in Africa
and did not suddenly want to return.

“In fact, I actually felt safer out there,
removedfromthechaos,thanIwouldhave
had I been in Lexington,” Justice said

And, “I did not fall behind in my
major at all,” he said. «

Elgouacem had the misfortune to
have returned on Dec. 22, the day that
alleged “shoe bomber” Richard Reid
attempted to ﬂy from Paris to Miami.

“I ended up being stranded in
[Charles] de Gaulle airport for ﬁfteen
hours while my ﬂight was delayed
again and again,” she said.

' Despite this, “I would deﬁnitely
study abroad again,” she said.

PH BY Ec 1E(y—Tl/{PHI
BACHELORS. Alex Wilkins on the block.

benefit Habitat

BY PETER QUACKENBUSH
STAFFWRITER

Two different Washington and
Lee Student auctions are taking place
this week. Habitat for Humanity spon-
sored a Bachelor Auction held imme-
diately following the annual SARAH
Lip—Sync Auction.

Habitat for Humanity is a national
organization that builds affordable
housing for needy families. The farm-
lies pay for the houses through down
payments, monthly loan payments,
and sweat equity into the house.

“Right now, we’re collecting
starting funds to begin our projects,”
said sophomore Natalie Deibel.

SEE BACHELOR, PAGE 2

    

PAGE 2

Law student found dead

Memorial service planned to honor Thomas Moore

BY MATTHEW MCDERMOTT
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF

First-year law student
Thomas Moore was found
dead in his Houston Street
apartment Wednesday by
two classmates concerned
about his absence from
class.

“The medical examiner
was called, but the cause of
death has not been deter-
mined,” wrote Thomas
White, director of communi-
cations, in a campus-wide
email sent Thursday.

There was no indication
that foul play was involved,
White wrote.

Associate Director of Se-
curity Stephen Tomlinson said
that the case is under investi-
gation, and could not comment.

The official medical re-
port on Moore’s death, widely

believed to be a suicide, will
be issued in a week or two.

Dean of the Law School
David Partlett did not sus-
pend classes from his office,
though professors were al-
lowed to at their discretion.

“Our thought was that it
might be better for our stu-
dents to be together in the
law school rather than home
alone,” said Associate Dean
for Student Affairs Susan
Palmer.

“We thought that
meeting classes would give
members of our community
— faculty and students —
an opportunity to talk,” she
said.

Several first year classes
were cancelled, and many
classes that did meet spent
most of their time talking
about stress, community and
priorities, Palmer said.

“We also had a first-year
class open meeting so that
students could ask ques-
tions, and volunteer sugges-
tions for the memorial ser-
vice, request resources such
as counseling center out-
reach, peer counse1ors,”,she
said.

The law school is plan-
ning a Lee Chapel memorial
service some time this week.

He had studied English as
an undergraduate at Washing-
ton and Jefferson University in
Washington, Penn.

Moore majored in
English,White wrote, and was
a member of the Beta Theta
Pi fraternit and, the school’s
literary society. Moore also
volunteered at a local home-
less mission.

There has been only one
law school suicide in the last
eighteen years, Palmer said.

 

MONDAY. JANUARY LLLOZ

 

 

ail news briefs ti.‘ '
it-lu.edu

  Allll

GENERA ‘om
W&L, Sen‘/e debut new

LEXINGTON, VA. - Donald L. McCabe, a
leading expert on collegiate honor systems, con-
cluded the inaugural session of Washington and
Lee University’s Institute for Honor Saturday
by deeming one of the nation’s strongest but
warning that rapid societal and technological
changes challenge students’ oaths of integrity.

“A major challenge. . .will be to ﬁnd ways
to respond effectively to (this) change while
maintaining the fundamental principles of honor
espoused by both Lee and Washington,” said
McCabe, a Rutgers University professor of or-
ganization management.

“A challenge worthy of the honor institute,
in my view, would be identifying strategies to

 

help W&L preserve its own tradition, while also
helping to spread the basic principles of hon-
esty and integrity beyond Lexington,” he added.

McCabe’s Jan. 19th speech before a packed
audience at the W&L School of Law brought to
a close the opening session of the University’s
Institute for Honor, ﬁnanced by $750,000 raised
by alumnus Billy Schaefer from fellow members
of the Class of 1960.

A key focus of the two—day session, which
coincided with Founders’ Day at the 253—year—
old college, was reﬁning the institute’s goals to
promote academic integrity in secondary
schools and colleges, while also emphasizing
ways that alumni can further promote integrity
in the professions and the workplace.

McCabe, who applauded these goals, be-
came intrigued with W&L’s venerable traditions
when he was director of the Center for Academic
Integrity, a group founded a decade ago by W&L
and 23 other institutions. Based at Duke Uni-
versity, the center has about 250 institutional
members, including many of the country’s emi-
nent universities.

BACHELOR from page 1

“They’re [the houses] built by W&L stu-
dents,” Deibel continued. Other people from
the community and construction professionals
will participate as well.

“I thought it was a good opportunity to
help a deserving charity,” sophomore partici-
pant Whit Whitﬁeld said

The bidding on most bachelors was in-
tense.

“I feel like a piece of meat,” exclaimed se-
nior Dave Thomhill.

The Bachelor who brought home the most
bacon was Peter Dean, who went for $70, mak-
ing his 185 lb. body the most prime cut of beef

at 38 cents per pound.

Steve Martinenza enjoyed the prospect of
being treated like a piece of meat. It feels, “pretty
damn good,” he said. “lt’s a nice change of pace.”

Not all the items up for auction were pleased
with their going price. Freshman Jack Murray,
dressed in a Village People construction worker
outﬁt, went for just $5.

“I feel pathetic,” Murray jested.

The most determined bachelor up for auc-
tion was Abram Trosky who, disappointed
with only a $15 bid, removed his shirt for the
pack of women below. He managed to triple
the bid.

WALKER from page 1

1994, Deputy Assistant to the Secretary in the
Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs, Executive As-
sistant to the Deputy Secretary of State, and as
Special Assistant to the Presidents Special Rep-
resentative for the Middle East Peace Negotia-
tions from 1979 until 1981.

“I think he has an interesting perspective.
He’s seen both sides of the issue, he’s one of
the few people who’s been involved on both
sides and can give a rather unbiased judgment,”
commented junior Jenny Parks, Contact mem-
ber and family friend who invited Mr. Walker to
the campus. _

“After 9/11, I went and asked, ‘Would you
like to come speak at our school,’ and he was
all for it.”

Students enrolled in Washington and Lee’s
newly founded Politics 295B Terrorism course

Learn the fundamentals of:
- Accounting ° Marketing

° Finance

Team building

at

 
 
 
 

0 Organizational Behavior

- Hands-on market & ﬁnancial research

Effective communication & presentation skills

will all attend the event. The speech is part of a
week centered on Arab and Jewish relations.
The ambassador’s talk will be followed on
Thursday in Lee Chapel by a Special Evening
Lecture by David Shipler, noted journalist and
Pulitzer Prize-winning author of Arab and Jew.
Senior and Vice Chair for Publicity Dustin
Olson noted, “After Sept. 11, we were deeply
moved, as was everyone at the university. And
as a result, we’ve developed a lecture series that
we feel addresses the challenges facing our na-
tion at this pivotal time.”
“I think we’ve done well in hosting Amb.
Walker, who can shed light on a region that may
hold the key to many of the issues that con-
front us. From this week of speakers, hopefully
we will be enlightened as to how we can recon-
cile two histories, two religions and two truths.”

Are You a Non-Business Major? Do You Want to Improve Your Marketability?

The Haas School of Business
at the University of California, Berkeley
Intensive BASE Summer Program lS FORYOU!
July 8 -August I6, 2002

Preparing for the corporate recruiting process

For more information, visit our website at:
http:I/haas.berkeley.eduIUndergradIBASE.html

THIS oNE’s FOR YOU, KID

BLAST FROM THE PAST. Before becoming an academic powerhouse
with the highest GPA on campus, Sigma Nu was renowned for its
wild festivites. T he rollicking house partied so heartily. in fact, that it

    
  
   
   
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
   
   
  
  
   
   
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
    
  
 

M.-\R\' GUY/Ring-nmz PM
was kicked off campus in 1981. Here Sigma Nu brothers, blissfully , 
ignorant of the upcoming ejection, enjoy their basement bar and the j '
company of visiting women.

 

_.._  __,__,__,_, .,_., _,,_  _   .,_._-.._,___.__,_ *
'll1esday, Jan. 22 Thursday, Jan. 24
7:30 p.1n.~ Contact speaker. Edward 7:30 pm.— Film Society. Elia Kazan “A T
S. Walker. former ambassador to Egypt and Streetcar Named Desire." ( 1951) Troubadour '
Israel and president of the Middle East In— Cinema. 
stitute. Lee Chapel. 1
Friday, Jan. 25 '7
Today Wednesday, Jan. 23 2:00 p.m. Terrorism: An Interdisciplinary
7 p.m.—FaCu1ty Gr ant D€m0nStl‘£1ti0I1. 8 p.m.—Alcoholics Anonymous meet— Perspective Series. “Middle East Terrorism,” ’
ROCk€f6116r/Clllpeper Faculty Gram PI‘€SCI1- ing. Fairfax Lounge. All W&L students, fac- David Shipler. Rm. A214, Science Center.
tation. “Vid€0-Téxt-Based CUll111'€11 L€£1I11i11g.,” ulty/ staff, and the Lexington community are 7:30 p.m. Film Society. Elia Kazan Fes- A) '

Prof. Greta McCaughrin, German—Russian
Dept., W&L. TMC, Tucker Hall 408.

 

Mistakes ?

Unlikely,
but if. . .

email
phi@ wlu.edu
and join

so it’ll
never

happen
again

 

 

Arts, Sciences, and Engineering students will beneﬁt from this rigorous,
six-week summer curriculum that wili include lectures, case studies,
company visits, guest speakers and ongoing interaction with students
from over 20 ofvthe best universities in the world.

 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  

tival continues. “On the Waterfront” (1954).
Troubadour Cinema.

welcome. Coffee is provided.

  

 
  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  

  

_ _"e_c iorki lo

.\...\

 
 
 
   
   
  
 
  
  

  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 

         

 
 
 
  
 
    

  

 
 

 
 

   
 
 

    

 

  

’-

9+3‘

MONDAY, JANUARY 28, 2002



Don’t let the C-school
violate Graham—Lees

W&L’s campus is littered with construc-
tion debris. Cranes swing ominously over piles
of rubble. Stemmons Plaza is cut by chain-link
fences. A gutted Reid Hall perches atop a dy-
namited hillside.

This desolation, however, only foreshad-
ows the physical and intellectual destruction
to come when the Ernest Williams II School
of Commerce breaks ground on its proposed
expansion.

The unchecked proliferation of affiliate
classrooms in the Science and University Cen-
ters made it inevitable that administrators would
attempt to isolate all vocational training in one
building.

The ﬁrst plan was to convert the Co-op to
C-school ofﬁces. This plan was shelved, how-
ever. Perhaps because the snack spot didn’t
offer T-3 lines, satellite hook-ups, or sufficiently
luxurious carpeting.

A second suggestion was adding an extra
ﬂoor to the Tool School. This was scrapped
because no W&L building is supposed to stand
taller than Washington Hall’s eponymous statue.

This is regrettable. Erecting a Skyscraper
of Greed would aptly symbolize the potency of
our growing ranks of marketing and business
administration majors. Truly, their numbers are
legion.

What is alarming, however, is the latest plan
to construct an annex on the back of the cur-
rent C-school building.

This addition would make extend danger-
ously close to Graham Lees. For goodness’s
sakes, freshmen innocently sleep yards away.
Do we really want a C-school protrusion ex-
tending between the twin legs of the Graham-
Lees dormitory?

Better instead to hock our heritage.

Rather than play around with a satellite
building, extra ﬂoors, or a threatening annex,
we need to give the School of Commerce a
seat worthy of its august academic merit.

Newcomb Hall should be dedicated to ac-
counting, Payne for economics, Robinson for
public policy, Tucker for politics, and Washing-
ton for the revered science of management.

 UOTE OF THE WEEK:

0 THE RING-THAT PHT

PINIONS

Cuban winter kind to captives

Guantanamo guests
get what they deserve

The newest front in the war on
terrorism is the battle that interna-
tional human rights organizations
are waging against the Marines at
the Guantanamo Bay naval base in
Cuba. These Marines have been

charged with guarding hundreds of _

the most dangerous and senior al-
Qaeda members who have been sent
to the base for interrogation. Their
mission has been a success, as the
FBI has reported that the informa-
tion gleaned from these terrorists
has prevented terror attacks.

The attacks from human rights
groups have been charges that the
al—Qaeda captives are not being
treated humanely or as the Geneva
Convention states that they, as pris-
oners of war should be treated. What
right does the Red Cross have to com-
plain anyway? They took months to
distribute funds to the victims of the
9/ l l attacks, but have spoken up im-
mediately to condemn our treatment
of the prisoners.

The discrepancy is that the U.S.
has not classified these men as pris-
oners of war, but rather as “unlaw-
ful combatants.” The military was
right to do so since the Geneva con-
vention cites those who should be
classified as prisoners of war as hav-
ing a fixed distinctive sign recog-
nizable at a distance, i.e. wearing a
uniform, and conducting their op-
erations in accor-
dance with the laws
and customs of war.
In Afghanistan a tur-
ban, ﬂowing robes
and a beard don’t count as a uni-
form and ﬂying airplanes into civil-
ian building is most certainly not in
accordance with the customs of war.

Vice President Cheney said it
bestwhen speaking in Cincinnati on
Friday, “They are probably getting
better than they deserve.” He’s
more than right. These men have
declared war not only on America,
but on Western civilization itself.
They simply do not deserve to be
treated to the advantages of the
culture they wish to destroy.

  

BRETTT. KIRWAN
OPINIONSEDITOR
EMAIL i<IR\Y/ANE@ww.EDU

Moreover, they have chosen to
ﬁght this war in a cowardly, dastardly,
evil fashion. They hide in caves and
strike at our homes, caring not
whether the target is man or woman,
adult or child, declared combatant or
innocent civilian. Why should they
be granted the respect and concern
civilized people deserve when they

ﬁght like barbarians

 THE AISLE and treat women like
BRETTT. KIRWAN ‘04_

common dogs?
Nonetheless,
the treatment the
captives have received has been
more than adequate and certainly
better than what they enjoyed in the
caves of Tora Bora. Each has his
own eight by eight foot cell, where
he can seek shelter from the sun and
enjoy the warm Caribbean breeze.
They have regular hot meals and are
led in prayer by a Muslim Marine
chaplain. The sick receive medical
care and a number have undergone
surgery to repair broken bones or
clean gunshot wounds. For the first
time in years, each is clean shaven.

CDUKIEBYWWW/.0WCUM
INHUMANE? This photo sparked protest against poor treatment ofal-Qaeda captives.

As Sec. of Defense Rumsfeld put
it, “To be in . . . sunny, beautiful
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, is not inhu-
mane treatment.”

Complaints about the captives’
treatment reached a fever pitch
when a photo was released show-
ing captives in orange jumpsuits
kneeling on the ground in leg irons.
Amnesty International claimed that
this and other practices are “clas-
sic techniques employed to ‘break’
the spirit of individuals ahead of
interrogation.” Could it be that
these men who have given their
lives to a religious war against “The
Great Satan” need to be subdued
to ensure the safety of the Marines
who guard them? Security con-
cerns justifiably override attention
to the comfort of captives whose
last bed was a cold stone floor.

Hopefully, human rights
groups will find time in their busy

schedule of coddling terrorists to’

comfort the fatherless children
and widows who have truly suf-
fered inhumane treatment.

 

“MEsMER1ziNG.”

—OGLED-EYED FRESHMAN
AT LIP SYNCH VERY IMPRESSED WITH
SCANTILY—CLAD CHI—O?S

Matthew B. McDermott
Katie J. Howell
Latrina Stokes
Imran Naeemullah
Brett T. Kirwan V
Andrew Latimer
Matthew A. Coursen
Catherine C. Guy
Jeremy S. Franklin
Dave Crowell

Alison M. Trinidad
Mary E Guy

Meg Ferrara

Paul A. Seifert
Brian Castleberry
Emily Barker
Robert Floyd
William Litton
Peter L. Djalaliev

THE

Editor—in-chief
Associate Editor
Asst. News Editor
Asst. News Editor
Opinions Editor
Asst. Opinions Editor
W&Life Editors

 

Sports Editor

Asst. Sports Editor
Contributing Editor
Photo Editor
Photographer

Business Manager
Circulation Manager
Asst. Business Manager

, Advertising Managers

Internet Editor

The Ring—tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editor-in-chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-turn Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. [All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion of the Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi.wlu.edu

Divisive BFA defeats own purpose

To quote the Sept. 24, 2001 issue of the Phi, “Virginia
Military Institute cadets attacked two Washington and
Lee students and one alumnus early Saturday, Sept. 15 at
Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity, witnesses said.” As a result of
this incident, Scott Hook ’00 received a fractured jaw and
lost a tooth, and later that night, another PiKA brother
lost two front teeth when plain—clothed VMI cadets
assaulted him behind the Beta Theta Pi house.

Other violent incidents involving non-W&L students
this academic year include young Lexington residents
attacking a dorm counselor at a fraternity party and young
Lexington residents causing a ﬁght at Sigma Chi’s Pole
House.

In last week’s- edition of the Phi, an article about the
newly founded Black Female Alliance mentioned an
incident in which three female W&L
students and their friends, all black, were 
asked to show their ID cards and were
told that their entrance could pose an
insurance risk. The BFA cites this
incident, along with a Halloween night incident where a
W&L student entered the Co-op dressed in blacldace,
understandably offending several students, as their reason
for being. Their mission: increasing unity and diversity at
W&L.

Unfortunately for the BFA, their first example of racism
and discrimination is groundless in light of the facts.
Considering the altercations I listed above, there is clearly
a legitimate security threat posed by non-W&L students
attending our parties, unless they are the invited guests
of W&L students. Outsiders pose a statistical risk that
must be dealt with in order to ensure the safety of W&L
students.

In fact, shortly after the aforementioned attack at
PiKA, I was attempting to enter a party with several friends
of mine, who were white and looked like “typical” W&L

  
  

students, and we were all asked to show our ID cards.
One of my friends questioned this, and was told that they
were just making sure everyone at the party was from
W&L. We were welcomed and nothing more was made of
our having to show our cards, even though that’s not
exactly common procedure.

The fact is, these black female students are in the
minority at W&L. Not just in terms of the student body as
a whole, but also in the fraternity system, where black
members can unfortunately only be counted on one hand.
Therefore, black students at W&L are generally not a
familiar face in the fraternity scene, and consequently,
have a much higher chance of being perceived as outsiders
if someone doesn’t recognize them.

According to the former risk manager of one W&L
fraternity, IFC rules dictate that all
fraternity parties must have stated guest
lists. This could be as simple as saying
that all W&L students are invited, which
is generally the case and is a big part of
the reason why our Greek system is so wonderful. In
enforcing the guest list, fraternities have the duty of
making sure that uninvited guests are not present at the
parties. The brother monitoring the door at the fraternity
party where the three students and their friends were not
allowed obviously did not recognize them, or he would
have let them in. By asking for their ID, he simply veriﬁed
their presence on the guest list, a perfectly reasonable
request.

The BFA also alleges that these individuals were told
they could pose an insurance risk. The key word here is
could, because, according to the risk manager, insurance
policies do not cover accidents, such as tripping down
stairs, if illegal activity was the cause of them—i.e.,

RIGHT WING RESPONSE
MRAN NAEEMULLAH ‘05

SEE BFA, PAGE 4

PAGE 3

Bush won’t report
real state of Union

This Tuesday, President George W. Bush will de-
liver the first State of the Union address of his presi-
dency. Just as any politician would, and should, he will
capitalize on the successes of his first year in ofﬁce.

To ﬁnd these successes, Bush’s focus will of course
turn to Afghanistan. He will speak on the “war on ter-
rorism,” what America has done to help, our militaiy’s
strength and dominance in this situation, and the relief
efforts that are going towards helping the new Afghan
government back on its feet.

Ifhe is feeling particularly conﬁdent, he will speak
of the security measures that have been put into place
by his always—controversial Attorney General John
Ashcroft. Security measures, breaches of constitu-
tional rights. .. same
thing, right?

But, what is the LEFT OF CENTER
real state of the

__ NICK B_Al_\4SEY ‘O3
union? That is the

real question, not what is the state of Afghanistan.

First of all, the economy is a mess. In January
of 2001, America had a surplus of $281 billion that
was projected as a $5.6 trillion surplus over the
next decade. We currently have a deficit of $106
billion. But hey, next year the deficit is only pro-
jected to be $80 billion.

Moreover, Social Security has been raided of $845
billion with its trust fund money being spent every
year until 2010. This is after a speech in March where
Bush said, “Another priority is retirement systems of
Americans. And so the budget I set up says that pay-
roll taxes are only going to be spent on one thing, and
that’s Social Security.”

The use of Social Security’s funds catmot be com-
pletely blamed on the events of September 11"‘. By
August of 2001, the Congressional Budget Ofﬁce al-
ready had released information stating that under
Bush’s budget the government has already due to steal
$9 billion from Social Security.

While many Republicans on Capital Hill say that
Bush cannot be blamed for these economic problems,
Bush did promise “we can proceed with tax relief with-
out fear of budget deﬁcits, even if the economy soft-
ens,” in his remarks to the campus of Western Michi-
gan University last March.

All these ﬁgures, released from the White House
or the CBO, show a grim economic outlook that has not
been seen since 1992.

Here in Virginia, where the state budget is al-
ready in trouble because of irresponsible spend-
ing and cutting by the previous Governor, James
Gilmore, unemployment is up by nearly two per-
cent and Bush’s economic stimulus, plan would
cost the Commonwealth $140 million.

But the economy is not the only issue that needs
attention. Women have not faired extremely well in the
workplace under Bush. In the first three quarters of
Bush’s administration the median wage for women in
the work place fell from $508 a week to $507 a week.
Men however enjoyed a median a wage hike from $668
to $674, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.

So what has Bush planned to do to help? He will
close down ten regional offices of the Labor
Department’s Women’s Bureau, as they are not funded
under the 2003 budget. The eighty-year old
organization’s only surviving ofﬁce will be the Wash-
ington D.C. Bureau according to the January 8, 2002,
edition of the Boston Globe.

Minorities will also find themselves harder hit
by the cuts made to Social Security under Bush.
Statistics in the Washington Post found minority
workers were the hardest hit by the loss of jobs
after 9/ 11. The reason cited was that many immi-
grants and minorities find work in service indus-
tries like hotels and restaurants. These industries
were the hardest hit after the terrorist attacks.

But, to make matters worse, the more than 4.5 mil-
lion African Americans and 2 million Hispanics receiv-
ing Social Security beneﬁts will be hurt the most. The
President says that his tax cuts will help Americans hit
hardest by the current recession. It is, however, diffi-
cult to say how tax cuts will help those that are not
currently making any income.

Lastly, environmental policy. This card-carry-
ing member of Greenpeace happily gave his monthly
donation to an organization fighting Bush at every
turn on his proposal to drill for oil in the Alaskan
Wildlife Reserve. The lift on emission bans under
Bush also still needs attention.

But, like many pressing domestic issues, their
failures have been over-shadowed by the war and
humanitarian efforts abroad. Can you say war and
humanitarian efforts together like that? It sounds
a bit strange.

Do not be fooled by Bush’s Tuesday night address.
The state of the Union is actually quite worrisome.

 

. ‘ akin “D nk 1 h d ’t ,, .. . ,, , . ,,
“Dressing up.” ‘P1edgti:$Se1Ve‘: asses of 62:6 ifI;:?S:rveVWOup0,r,l Humihation of pledges. ‘Winning.
--A (It B nshoof, ‘O5 ' _ V ‘ ' --R Lgﬁn ,‘()2 --Caroline McKinney, ‘04
U By C --Marshall Woodworth, ‘02 —K1mBu1ka. 04 ya" 6

 

 
 

 

BFA from page 3

underage drinking. However, these policies
are in effect if the drinkers were of legal
age, that is, 21 years old. The brothers moni-
toring the door did not know the identities
of the individuals involved, let alone their
ages, and therefore had doubly good cause
to verify their identity in order to protect
themselves and the guests present at the
party. After all, if, despite the many ways
one can get to know people at W&L—go—
ing to class, walking along the Colonnade,
sitting in the Co—op, eating in the D—hall,
and particularly for fraternities, reading the
face book——someone is not recognized, then
in the eyes of the people at the door, there
is a high probability that he is an outsider.
By asking for ID, they are acting prudently
and in the best interests of everyone.
This is known in simpler terms as profil-
ing. While some may be vehemently against
it, the fact is, when an incident has occurred
that justiﬁes increased vigilance, the easiest
and most effective way to go about this is by
singling out those who pose the greatest sta-
tistical threat. In light of the Sept. 11 tragedy,
airport security workers have stepped up their
security measures in particular against those
who pose the greatest statistical likelihood of
being terrorists: young males of Middle East-
ern origin. Few would dispute the validity of
this practice, considering that everyone in-
volved in the Sept. 11 attacks fits this profile.
Similarly, after the Oklahoma City bombing in
1995, law enforcement ofﬁcials would have
been perfectly in the right if they had increased
their surveillance of white supremacist groups.
Therefore, the BFA’s use of this example
is completely unjustified and, in fact, attempts
to paint as racist an incident that is perfectly
within the lines of IFC rules. If the BFA would
like to petition the IFC to change its rules so
that any old Joe can enter the fraternity par-
ties without being questioned, they can.
Additionally, the BFA is an inherently ex-
clusionist group. In theory, by not being black
and female, the vast majority of W&L students
are not eligible to join the group. The BFA’s
stated purpose of unity and diversity is de-
feated by their own name! The group’s racial
and gender makeup must change drastically, if
they wish to achieve their stated goals.
Furthermore, the BFA has clearly plagia-
rized the ideas and methodologies of other
campus groups like PRIDE and MSA, in what
appears to be the vain hope of one—upping

BFA seeks separasm not olidarity

      

them. What don’t they understand about the
fact that by being an exclusive group, they
are as guilty of discrimination and racism as
the people they aim to slander? They may use
pretty language and inclusive terms in their
propaganda, but if you look carefully, this is a
group of ﬁve women who are trying to tackle
the entire campus, and nothing more. They
talk of collaboration, but in reality, they want
it to be all about them. Determined? Deﬁnitely.
Courageous? Perhaps. Realistic? Absolutely
not. The BFA would be better advised to en-
courage minorities to integrate more into the
W&L community of their own accord, ap-
proaching others without preconceived no-
tions or skeptical attitudes——however sub-
conscious they may be~and joining them.
Instead of attempting to needlessly perpetu-
ate the myth that blacks and whites are any
different, and feeding off this fear it generates
in minorities, they should take the moral high
ground and work for genuine racial harmony
through sharing interests and common goals,
not generating an atmosphere of discontent
and mistrust. Shame on them.

The BFA also aims to establish a sepa-
rate, university governing body to hear and
settle accusations of racial discrimination, simi-
lar to the Student-Faculty Hearing Board,
which deals with accusations of sexual mis-
conduct. There is absolutely no need to es-
tablish a separate body, since one of the best
parts about W&L student government is that
it is easily understood and its members are

MONDAY, IANUARY 28, 2002

COUKIEW or WW/W.BIATt/D1EXU(3B.EDU

THE ORIGINAI; Perhaps these founders of the Black Studies Dept. at UCSB inspired the founders ofVV 8:115 BFA.

very accessible. As soon as we start creating
more forms of government on this campus,
we run the risk of deteriorating this positive
quality of W&L. Furthermore, federal law al-
ready prohibits discrimination in any form, and
W&L already has the mechanisms in place to
deal with accusations of discrimination. A new
governing body would be redundant, and one
wonders if perhaps the BFA is seeking to make
itself a governing body of the university.
While the virtues of genuine diversity are
very real—a tolerant society made up of indi-
viduals who can work well together despite
their varied backgrounds is the democratic
ideal—it is highly unlikely that we will ever
achieve this at W&L, nor should it be our
goal. While it is imperative that the university
should continue to recruit and admit qualiﬁed
minority students—heck, I’m a minority—it
is also of importance that these students fit
into the typical W&L profile, which is to say,
someone who enjoys working hard, reveres
our honor system, and is interested in living
and continuing over 250 years of our tradi-
tion. Race, gender, religion, and various other
“diversity” factors are not a part of this equa-
tion, and nor should they be. W&L is a spe-
cial place for one reason: its stellar academic
reputation, superb honor system, friendly and
trusting environment, and lively social life all
work well together. None of these concepts
involve any notion of “diversity” factors.
False diversity will only serve to fracture the
bond that holds W&L together so well.

 

Cover the campus for Washington and Lee's paper of record

Join the staff at one of its weekly meetings, held in the offices of
Thirty—one Washington Street every Monday at 5:05.

69

 V

7.

 

Kate

from your friends,
HRH, BK, MM, & AL

 

4'12:-..  .. ‘ . -2. . ‘
.. : ; (n;_i..d.. _. _»t.,~§.<.-.~e_.«v_'xr_,r

Ei§§P§iiEf§;S€3 *  *  RQASTEB COFE%si‘? *  ”i‘F;;A$
53 WEST W.A8HlZN£3”¥l0ﬁ  * LEKINGTOR '* 4 

For some reason, i.e., the famed Pi Phi
frat Artie—Braces-Off Party, a slew of
graduates rolled into Lexington this week-
end. It’s funny, but a lot of them slipped
beneath my radar when they went here,
but whenever I see them back in school,
you’d think it was the second coming of
Christ.

So ensued the mindless babble oth-
erwise known as social chitchat, begin-
ning, of course, with “So what are you
doing now that you’re
out in the proverbial
‘Real World’?” And to
which one responded,
“I’m so jealous of you
right now. I’d give my left arm to be back
in college again.”

Compounded by my parents’ con-
stant inquires of the “what the hell are
you going to do with a double major in
English and Theater after school?” per-
suasion, seeing all these out-of-place
faces just aggravated my contemptuous
feelings toward life after W&L.

At the risk of sounding cliche, and
it’s a pretty big risk, I feel like I was cook-
ing Easy Mac in a micro-fridge microwave
in Graham-Lees just yesterday. And to
think I have only a year and half left...
the mere thought garners sheer terror.

So this got me thinking. I feel like
there are some certain things I should do
before I cash in my college chips. In no
specific order, the top 10 things I aim to
accomplish before graduation:

1.) Spend 24 straight hours in
Walmart. It’s open all day, seven days a
week. That’s definitely something I
should be capitalizing on. I would have
chosen Waffle House (or as my faithful
companion refers to it, “The House That
Wafﬂe Built”) but that might induce the
adoption of the phrase, “The Senior 50.”
Similar to, but much worse, than the
Freshman 15.

2.) Go to Fiji. I feel that might be an
untapped resource. Perhaps because
it’s a little farther than my lazy legs will
carry me, but I’m well into my junior year,
and still have not set foot inside their
house.

3.) Go 24 hours without logging in
face time at the Cooperational Facility
of Glory. Given my track record, this

   

ORTHERNER’S EXPOSURE
. 

Pre-graduation must-do’s explained

Some good and not-so-good goals for those facing the outside world

might err on the side of impossible, but
that which does not kill us makes us
stronger.

4.) Avoid the Junior/Senior party at
Zollman stereotype, marked by under-
classmen coming out to nearly gone se-
niors with “what they really think of
them.” It’s justlike what Michael said in
‘My Best Friend’s Wedding,’ “Kimmy
says to say what you feel right when
you think it.” Good 01’ Kimmy.

5.) Do something
completely selﬂess that
will never go on a resume,
and will simply better me
as a person.

6.) Drive the Live Drive Van. It’s one
thing to sober drive because you’re in
the comfort of your SUV. It’s another
thing to drive that monster of a truck
around and instantly be rendered as the
metaphorical oasis in a desert. It’s like a
collegiate soccer-morn/dad role-playing.

7.) Write a paper a long time before it’s
due. This might be ever harder than #3.

8.) Abandon high maintenance ten-
dencies, and take advantage of the wealth
of outdoors activities.

9.) Watch a sports event in its en-
tirety. I’m not sure whether this is the
product of Attention Deficit Disorder or
what, but I’ll get all excited once I re-
solve to go to a game, and then after-
I’m not even kidding— roughly 3.71
minutes, I get restless. I think when I
execute this fine goal, I’m going to go

the whole nine yards and paint my face 5

and stuff.

10.) Write with wild disregard for pub-
lic reception. I think is why I would never
be a good journalist. I’m way too con-
cerned with how I’m perceived. And my
sister always says to me, “Hey, I’d rather
have the public hiss than yawn.”

It’s not too daunting a list. I mean,
maintaining a working GPA while engaged
in all the aforementioned activities might
throw a monkey wrench in my social com-
mitments, but I feel like it’d be worth it to
graduate without regret.

I don’t know if I could live happily
with myself if I never spent a day in a
strange superstore and continued to do
papers at the last minute. The trials and
tribulations of an overzealous columnist.

  SATcIaisses
are filling fast!

LSAT Super Prep at W&L

starts February 26

space is limited ll

    Call NOW to reserve your spot

(Ask for course code LSCV2301)

Caller visit us onllne today to enroll!

    

1-Bllil-llllll’-TEST

kaptest.com '

‘LSAT is a regstered tradematlt at the  School admission 00-mail.

    

OLSAOOZKO

  Test Prep, Admissions and Guidance. For life.

}

} J

 

  
 

  
   

MATIHEWCDURSEN &L‘AIHHz1NEGUY I
W&Lm3E.Drr0Rs
FMAH:(DURSEI\I1\A@W[U.E1)U8(GLJYC@W[UE)U

MONDAY, JANUARY 28, 2002

LIPSYNCH 2002. ONCEAGAIN
WASANASIOUNDIAGSLAIEX;
\X/AS!-[E\'GID!\'A\IDIi£STLDB\TS
RAm>IH0LsAN13soFDouAKsroR
SARAH. (STLDENTSAGAINST
Roo<BRu3cEAREAHum£R),As
\vr1LAsATmNDa3ANsHoWmAns
AL\msHuMoRomTH1sym’s
WIIVNBGWI-RET]-iEMK)iAH.
JAGGON DANG§?SOFKAPPAAU’HA
TH1:rA(Bo1ToM mam). THEFIRST
RU!\T\IE{S—UP\)VEREQUlNQ/SI’R]I\I(B
AM)mELADi£s0PFoURmAY
(ABOVE)\V}~lOI’£RK)RMP1)ATRIBUIE
TOAAUYAH. THESEQOND
RUN\JI-RS—LT’Wl§§ETPIEKr\I’I’A
DammzmwNcUNsamAm.

 

PHOTOS av MEG FERRARA AND
Mm G uv/ T/7e Ring—tum P/Ji

PAGE 6

BY MICHEAL GEORGE
STAFF WRITER

Black Hawk Down may be the
most thou ght-provoking and gut-
wrenching ﬁlm that will come out this
year. It’s early in 2002, but I have to
say that by next December, this ﬁlm
will remain one of the year’s best, if
not the best. A mix of action, emotion,
and history, Black Hawk Down held
me captive for its entirety. You carmot
miss this ﬁlm.

In the fall of 1993, a group of 120
elite U. S. Army Delta Force and Army
Ranger infantry units were dropped
into downtown Mogadishu, Somalia.
What was expected to be a routine
mission to capture two lieutenants of
a powerful local warlord became an
unexpected battle against nearly 3,000
militia ﬁghters. After two black hawk
helicopters were gunned down in the

   
   

AMH<IcANSoiimsDmri>mniEBHAwKIiniOOrIniTOHGrrwSOMAin

PPUIOGXJRIBYOFHFIE//WWW.l<ﬂ1E1MOVlB.0)WMOVES/AKIK1.l3/l578.mML

city, a routine mission became a
struggle to leave no man behind.
Directed by the illustrious Ridley
Scott, Black Hawk Down is the most
accurate depiction of modern warfare I
have seen in ﬁlm. Scott’s direction and
camera work is amazing, as he brings
the audience into the confusion and
surrealism of battle. Scott has solidiﬁed
himself as a master of tension and
sound. I felt as if I was in the black
hawk as it crashed to earth or beside
the soldiers as he decided his next
move. Hans Zimmer’s astounding
soundtrack brings moviegoers into the
world of Eastern Africa and into the
mindset of American soldiers.

Stars Josh Hartnett, Ewan
McGregor, and Tom Sizemore play
honest, American heroes with humility
and compassion. Their work is
unpretentious and direct, and they
provide the audience with an honest

i‘Black Hawk Down’ can’t be missed

expression of what it means to be an
American soldier. It’s not about
politics or ideology, but protecting the
guy next to you.

Although I found the ﬁlm exciting
and it’s depth and compassion
moving, I felt that Scott did not give a
strong enough explanation of why the
Somalis fought against us. Scott’s
main intention appeared to be an
explanation the reasons why soldiers
do what they do, and in that he
succeeded.

I left the theater emotionally drained,
wondering if everyone else who had
seen this film with me felt the way I
did. You can’t afford to miss this ﬁhn.
It’s not simply about an incident in 1993
that left 19 American soldiers dead and
dozens wounded, but an explanation
of the dynamics of friendship, heroism,
and duty among men who ﬁght and
die for what they believe in.

 

One of the neat things about VMI
is that our language doesn’t change.
I’m not taking about the swearing that
we dish from family size cartons
lodged in our cabin fever brains. I
mean words and phrases that only
exist in our own little world.

While the outside goes through

. iteration after iteration of “cool”

(dope, ﬂy, rad, giiarly), we still have
the same terms that cadets coined
generations ago. For example we call
shoes low—quarters. Beds to us are
“racks.” Our starched white pants are
called ducks, and so on. When we
get in a group we pull bizarre, archaic
term after tenn in conversation. To us,
its a tie that binds. To others, it’s
obnoxious. People around us get
whiplash from rolling their eyes.

It starts when a cadet first enters
VlVlI from the real world he or she is
thrust into the entirely new, irregular,
illogical jumble of jargon I call Institute-
ese.

The first thing a new cadet leams
is the title he or she will be addressed
as for the next six to seven months:
Rats. No one knows why we call them
rats (er, somebody probably knows.
And that old alum will no doubt e-
mail me, inform me of my stupidity.
Then this whole paragraph will seem
useless, just like prom night, which is
another colunm all together) or what
it has to do with the military, other
than in sometimes you have to fight
them for food in the trenches. My
foreign language professor suspects

  The guy next door: V 
Breaking the language barrier

VBY SAM LAGRONE/STAEE CORRESPONDENT

that it may come from the French term
for shaved, referring to the strict
stubble standard we enforce, but I
wasn’t really paying attention. I was
still tying to convert the price of a
wheel of Camembert from francs into
dollars in my head.

The language that you pick up as
a Rat carries over to the rest of your
time at VMI. On post we live our life
here through acronyms. Everything
breaks down into a two or three letter
treatment. In the morning we go to
B.R.C.(Breakfast Roll Call), marching
behind our CO (Commanding Officer),
to grab some S.O.S. (Slop on a
Shingle), and maybe wash it down
with some O.J. We do the same thing
for lunch (D.R.C.) and dinner (S.R.C.).
S o m e t i m e s ,
though, we get a
wild hair and slip
over to the P.X.
(Post Exchange)
and grab a B.L.T.
or a P.B. and J.
But that’s only
after we make it down to the Q.M.D.,
assuming we have C.Q. for C.C.T.,
which would totally rule, right?

For one of our “hops” (a school
dance, usually with some sideshow
attractions) we had a comedian trained
in the Seinfield-ian school of
observational humor. He was
advertised as a big hit on college
campuses around the country and
one of our alphabet organizations -
the cadet program board, or C.P.B. —

THE LANGUAGE THAT YOU
PICK UP AS A RAT CARRIES
OVER To THE REST OF YOUR
TIME AT VMI

  

MONDAY, JANUARY 28, 2002

 
 

thought he would be a good addition
to the bill. His bit started out with
material like: “What about these
sorority girls?” and “Man, I can never
figure out what to wear to class.”

The room went silent. We just
stared. Okay, I think one guy blinked.
Chirp. Chirp. Captain Hilarious had to
think fast. And in a spectacular comic
triple—lutz, he recalled his tour of the
campus and started spitting our jargon
back at us. “So this guy starts talking
to me about low quarters. I look
around and don’t see any quarters,
must less scrimpy midget ones. Then
he tells me he’s gonna go to the rack.
What rack? Like a spice rack? Is there
a place to get some bay leaves in every
military school? Hey, it’s been great
playing here, I’m
gonna go see if I
can feed some of
these ducks
everyone’s talking
about.”

It wasn’t
funny at the time,
let alone in retrospect. But at that
moment, he had tapped into how wacky
we sound to the rest of the world. What
sounds normal to us is a little kooky on
the outside. So please bear with us, I
have to go rack until C.Q.R.B. I’ll
probably hit the books until the first
O.C.M.N.I. check runs. Oh, and keep
your eyes peeled for the O.D.  and e-
mail me at lagronesr@mail.virii.edu if
you see the O.G., but only if he’s
“certiﬁed to bone.”

Plentiful piles of pulchritudinous pancakes pander to pupils’persnickety palettes

BY CATHERINE GUY

\l(/&LIEE EDITOR

When the prospect of one too many D-hall brunches
starts to get you down, don’t despair. A few miles east of
here on Route 1 1, or at 2809 North Lee Highway to be precise,
lies a lovely altemativez Aunt Sarah’s Pancake House. Con-
veniently located on the grounds of the Lexington
Travelodge, Aunt Sarah’s serves a tempting array of tasty
treats. Their breakfast offerings, particularly pancakes and

Cancun, Jamaica,

Best Parties,
Best Hotels,
Best Prices!
Group Discounts,

Space is limited!

1-800-234-7007

#1 Spring Break Vacations!

Bahamas, & Florida.

Group organizers travel free!
Hurry up & Book Now!

WWW.CIlC1lCSSSl1I'IlIIlCI‘IOU1'S.COIl’l

omelets are among the rriore popular items served at this estab-

lishment.

This Saturday, a large group of my friends and I attended

brunch. Our waitress was friendly and accommodating, and
as soon as she saw the size of our party she opened the
banquet room to provide us with a larger table. The decor of
the dining rooms is adorable, with country ﬂair and a gift shop
specializing in local knick-knacks. Among one of the rriost
evident examples of Aunt Sarah’s personality is the menu,
which is decorated with various amusing pictures and clever

*Fraternities*
*Sororities*

*Clubs*

*Student Groups*

Earn $1,000-$2,000 this
semster with the easy
Campusfundraiser.com
three hour fundraising
event. Does not involve
credit card applications.)
Fundraising dates are filling
quickly, so call today!
Contact
Campusfundraiser.com at
(888) 923-3238, or visit
www.campusfundraiser.com

  

WANTED: Summer Scholars Counselors
June 26 - July 27, 2002

Are you looking for a great chance to be a
mentor and to experience working with high
school students while staying at W&L for the
month of July? The Washington and Lee
Summer Scholars Program is an exciting four
week academic program for approximately 150
rising high school seniors. We are looking for
responsible students to help guide participants
and to plan extracurricular activities such as
talent shows, lip syncs, weekend hikes, trips to
Goshen and more.

captions describing the food. The service was a bit slow,
despite the friendly attitude. Even our drinks took a signiﬁ-
cant amount of time in delivery. Being a native New Yorker, I
ﬁnd myself to be particular about the speed of service.

The food, however, was worth waiting for. I ordered a west-
ern omelet, which came with silver dollar pancakes and hash
browns. It was an enonnous amount of food, and was sold for
the surprisingly affordable price of $6.50. All of the food was
perfectly prepared, and the hash browns were quite possibly
the best I’ve ever had. The pancakes were light and ﬂuffy,

 

individually.

while.

      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
     
   
    
 
   
   
   
   
 
    
   

with a delicious ﬂavor. They were described as small, but
were a perfectly appropriate size. The Omelet was also su-
perb, with all components well—cooked and balanced in ﬂa-
vor. After we ate, the waitress gave us the bill with all of the
items listed separately, making it easy for each of us to pay

Overall, Aunt Sarah’s is a wonderful place for a morning
meal anytime of the day. The food and service are both warm
and satisfying, and the travel and wait will be well worth your

 

 

Qt

7+9-4,

 

TH: R§?.’*éiC_e»"i"l...=‘it«'i' Ft-II

MONDAY, JANUARY 28, 2002

Loss is 7th straight for the
Generals, all in ODAC play

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee men’s
basketball team couldn’t have come
much closer to putting another vic-
tory in the books this week.

But a one-point road loss to Emory
and Henry and an overtime home loss
to Roanoke left the Generals (4-14, 2-
1 1 Old Dominion Athletic Conference)
in the midst of a seven—game losing
streak.

“You’re going to win some and
lose some, and sometimes you’ve got
to learn how to win those games,”
W&L coach Jeff Lafave said after
Saturday’s 76-69 loss to Roanoke. “It’s
another growing experience for a
bunch of young kids.

“I told the guys that if our attitude
and effort remain the same, we’re go-
ing to be OK.”

W&L began the week at home
against Randolph—Macon, then the
N o. 1—rar1ked team in NCAA Division
IH. Despite being tied 22-22 at halftime,
the Generals couldn’t keep pace with
the Yellow Jackets after the break, and
the visitors emerged with a 62-39 win.

W&L toppe

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

After a ﬁve-game winning streak
turned their season around, the Wash-
ington and Lee women’s basketball
team ran into the roughest stretch of
its schedule this week.

After an overtime loss at Roanoke
on Sunday, the Generals (8-9, 6-7 Old
Dominion Athletic Conference) fell to
the top two teams in the conference:

Guilford at home on Wednesday and

Bridgewater on the road Saturday.
W&L’s struggles against the

J Quakers were primarily at the offen-

sive end. Although senior center
Megan Babst recorded 18 points and
10 rebounds, classmate Jessica Mentz
was just 3—of—l0 from the ﬂoor for nine
points.

Freshman Bethany Dannelly, the
ODAC leader in assists, had just two
while turning the ball over 10 times. As

a team, W&L committed 33 turnovers. 1

But despite 19 percent shooting
from the ﬁeld in the first half, the Gen-
erals’ defense kept them in the game,

1 and Guilford managed just a 20-13 lead

at halftime.

“The first half was a little dismal,
to say the least, but we still had 20
minutes left to go,” W&L coach Janet
Hollack said. “Defensively, we were
doing a good job on that end. As far
as offense goes, we weren’t able to
handle the pressure.

“We knew coming in that Guilford

J was a pressure-packed team,” she

added. “You try to prepare for that,
but sometimes it’s hard to adjust to
that when you see it in live action.”

 

Sophomore Hamill Jones was the
story in Wednesday’s 76-75 defeat at
Emory and Henry. Jones set a school
record for accuracy by hitting l5—of-
16 ﬁeld goals, ﬁnishing with a career-
high 32 points.

The Generals led by 10 points in
the second half, but the Wasps
outscored W&L 21-12 over the
game’s ﬁnal 8:49, including just four
points for the Generals in the ﬁnal 5: 13.

Junior Toussiant Crawford
matched a season-best effort with 16
points, while junior John Warren and
freshman Mark Franceski added nine
apiece.

W&L faced a similar scenario
against the Maroons (12—7, 7-5) at the
Warner Center on Saturday. W&L led
by as many as 11 in the first half and
seven after the break, but could never
put the defending ODAC co-champi-
ons away.

Roanoke’s Robby Pridgen gave
his team a 56-55 lead with a three-
pointer with 36 seconds left, and two
free throws by Jaimar Mansel 1 1 sec-
onds later extended the lead to 58-55.

But W&L junior Scott Hettermann,
playing for the first time since injur-
ing his ankle against Virginia
Wesleyan on Jan. 20, created a three-
point play with 18 seconds left, and
the game went to overtime.

OUT OF BOUNDS 10...: Senior Megan Babst and Guilford’s
Nicole McCrory (on floor) and Jennie Keichline wait for the

The Quakers took the initiative in
the second half, building a 49-23 lead
before Babst capped off a late 16-0
run with a basket to pull the Generals
to within 10 at 49-39 with 2:06 remain-
ing. Guilford pushed the final margin
to 60-41 by hitting several free throws.

W&L’s run came too late to affect
the outcome of the game, but Hollack
was pleased that her team didn’t give
up against the Quakers.

“Deﬁnitely a positive was the fact
that we didn’t lie down and die,”
Hollack said. “For eight minutes, we
played quality basketball where we
didn’t let the game come to us, we
took the game. I told them how proud

PORTS    

Roanoke stops &L in overtime hartbreaker;

JEREMYFRANKIRI
SI>ORTsEDIToi_i
EMAll;FRANKllNJ@WlU.FDEl

  

BACK IN THE LINEUP: Junior Scott Hettermann, shown here
in Washington and Lee’s 76-73 win over Eastern Mennonite
on Jan. 9, returned to action in the Generals’ 76-69 overtime

“Scott’s our biggest, strongest kid
on the floor, and that’s probably what
we lack on our team,” Lafave said.
“With his presence on the floor, other
guys feed off him.”

The extra frame saw a back—and—
forth pace until the final 90 seconds.

(1 by top of conferene ha

I was that they did scrap back —- a
little too late, but better late than
never.”

There was no reprieve for the Gen-
erals, who moved from facing the sec-
ond-best team in the conference to vis-
iting the ODAC leader, Bridgewater, on
Saturday. The Eagles (15-1, 12-0),
ranked No. 24 in the nation, took a 10-
po1nt halftime lead and held off a late
W&L charge in pulling out a 68-60 win.

Bridgewater led by as many as 15
points in the second half, but the Gen-
erals whittled the lead down to 61-57
with 1:09 left. But the Eagles hit 5-of-
6 free throws in the final minute to
secure the victory.

Josh Foster’s three-point play back
at the 2:51 mark proved to be the
game-winner, as it gave Roanoke the
lead for good at 65-63.

Hettermann, who finished with
team-highs of 17 points and seven
rebounds, fouled out on a charge call

MARY GUY/Th? Rzrzg-tum Phz

referees call in Washington and Lee’s 60-41 loss to the Quakers
at home on Wednesday. Babst led all scorers with 18.

Babst again led W&L in scoring,
finishing with 25 points. Mentz re-
turned to previous form with 21 points
and nine rebounds, and senior Sarah
Schmidt contributed 10 points.

The Generals will try to snap a
three—game losing streak on Wednes-
day when they host Randolph—Ma-
con Woman’s College at 7 p.m. Then
comes the rematch with Roanoke,
which comes to the Warner Center on
Friday.

“We have a lot of potential here,”
Hollack said. ‘‘If we can just get over
that mental block — even more so than
they physical end, our mental game’s
got to be top—notch as well.”

Swimmers top Marymount, drop 2 on road

Generals are victorious in home dual meet, but drop road contests to Johns Hopkins, Mary Washington

BY MICHAEL LEE
SPORTS WRITER

For Washington and Lee swim-
rning fans, it just doesn’t get much
better than Monday nights at
T wombly Pool. In this week’s edition,
the Generals wrapped up their final
home meet with a pair of wins against
Marymount University.

The Generals won big, with victo-
ries in 18 of the 22 events on the sched-

$ "Tile. If not for the disqualiﬁcation of

both Generals’ 200 freestyle relay
teams, that total would have increased
to 20.

The only other pair of events lost
that night was the 100 breaststroke,
and while all the W&L swimmers were
disqualiﬁed in that event as well, none
of their times would have beaten
Lauren Forestello or Walter Harris of
Marymount.

Still, it was a remarkable meet for
W&L, as the men won 133-57 and the
women pulled out a 111-63 victory.

Junior Patrick Frankfort and sopho-
more Eric Ritter each posted meet
records in the 200 freestyle and 200

 

FILE PHOTO

HOME SWEET HOME: The Washington and Lee swim teams racked up dual meet
wins at home against Marymount on Monday before losing to Johns Hopkins
and Mary Washington in Fredericksburg over the weekend.

individual medley, respectively.
Sophomores Drew Catanese and Colin
Mitchell also set meet records in the
100 butterﬂy and 100 backstroke.

Senior Rick Black posted a pair of wins
in the 1,000 and 500 freestyle events, and
junior Zach Fake rounded out the squad
with a win in the 50 freestyle.

The women were similarly suc-
cessful in their outing that night. Se-
nior Laura Ingoldsby won the 200
freestyle, and juniors Blair Huffman,
Kelli Austin and Jackie Green won the
200 IM, 100 butterfly, and 100
freestyle.

Freshmen Suzie LaFleur and
Eleanor Williams won the 50 freestyle
and 100 backstroke.

The road wasn’t so kind to the
Generals, as both the men and women
lost dual meets to Johns Hopkins and
Mary Washington in Fredericksburg
on Friday and Saturday.

The men fell to Mary Washington,
the event’s host, 95-59 and lost to
Hopkins by a 1 15-36 score. The home
team beat W&L’s women 113-38, and
the Blue Jays defeated the Generals
120-31.

Frankfort won the 1,650 freestyle
and the 200 freestyle against the
Eagles, while Ritter was victorious
in the 200 backstroke for both
meets.

The Generals will conclude the
regular season at the Grove City Invi-
tational over the Washington Holiday.

FILE PHOTO

loss to Roanoke on Saturday after missing a week’s action
with an ankle injury. 1-lettermann led W&L with 17 points,
including a three-point play that forced the extra period.

at the 1:30 mark, and the Maroons
sealed the win by hitting 1 1-of— 1 2 free
throws the rest of the game.

Pridgen led all scorers with 24.
Crawford added another 16 points for
the Generals, and freshman Mike
Stuart ended the contest with 15.

BY DAVE CROWELL
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee wres-
tling team fell victim to the two top
teams in the Centennial Conference,
losing 38-9 to Ursinus and 37-12 to

angular on Saturday.

Senior Ivan Zdanov led the Gen-
erals (2-5, 0-4 Centennial), winning
both of his matches for the day. He
pinned Ursinus’ Sebastian
Voltarelli in 1:39 in his match,
then followed with a gruel-
ing 3-1 victory over West-
ern Maryland’s Andy
Chencharik.

“Those teams are probably
the two bestinthe conference, '
so it feels good to go out and
beat their wrestlers,” Zdanov
said.

The four-year veteran has been
forced to carry a majority of the se-
nior leadership load because of Ben
Segal’s shoulder injury last week-
end and Ezra Morse’s ankle injury.

“I’ve tried to motivate the guys
everyday, especially with the expe-
rience I bring to the mat,” Zdanov
said. “I want them to realize that ev-
ery match counts, especially with
only three weeks left in the season.”

Sophomore Joe Mueller and
freshman Brian Avello each split
their matches on Saturday. Mueller
began the day with a 3-1 victory over
Travis Allred of Ursinus, but later
fell to Dan Riggs of the Green Terror
by a 13-7 score.

“Joe wrestled well today, but
faced a very tough competitor
against Western Maryland,” coach
Gary Franke said.

Avello reversed Mueller’s fate,
losing his ﬁrst match before show-
ing a great deal of energy in defeat-
ing French Pope of the Terror, 9-7.

3

T 7 Wéste‘fn’Ma‘fy1andi’nthe W&L 'l‘n'- '

    

ZDANOV

PAGE 8

(.

The free throw line again proved
disastrous for W&L, which hit just 523
percent from the charity stripe for the
game —— 50 percent in regulation. The
Maroons, who lead the conference in
free throw percentage, shot 86 per;
cent for the contest. 

“That’s a battle each and every
kid individually has to go through in
practice,” Lafave said of free throw
shooting. “It’s been the Achilles’ heel
for us the whole year, and it’s cost
us some games. It was a big factor in
this one.” .

Despite the loss, Lafave was
pleased with the effort of his team.
The third—year coach hopes that the
moral victories from this week’s con-
tests will turn into victories on pa-
per against such teams against
Emory and Henry, which visits
W&L at 7 p.m. on Wednesday, and
Lynchburg.

“It would have been great to get a
game like (Roanoke) to have our kids
conﬁdent, but as long as our attitude
remains the same and we play with
that kind of effort in the next games
coming up, we should ﬁnd ourselves
in pretty good position,” he said. “We
seem to be closing the gap with a lot
of teams in the ODAC.

“We’re knocking on the door, and
hopefully someday we’ll go through.”

Generals battle injuries,
top-notch Certennial foes

W&L falls to pair of conference powers in home triangular

Avello seemed slow in the middle
of the match, but eventually showed
extreme desire by getting a key
takedown in the ﬁnal period. »

“Brian wrestled well, but these
are the last three weeks of the sea-
son. We need energy from every
wrestler because this is the time to’
pick it up,” Franke said. _‘

Despite the setbacks against
Ursinus and Western Maryland;
Franke still noted the difﬁculty of
wrestling with a battered
team that most likely will see-
the return of Morse next"
weekend. 

“We’re very anxious toj
get Ezra back on Saturdayfi,
the 29-year veteran coach‘
’ said. “With him and Beri,
out, it’s tough to compete’-
against the top teams like.
Western Maryland and‘:
Ursinus. In a situation like that, youf,’

need extraordinary performances’-

from everyone.” 
In the third matchup of the trian-I

gular, Westem Maryland rallied late,:' '
winning the ﬁnal four matches, in-'«

cluding a thrilling ﬁnal match in the"
heavyweight class, to defeat‘
Ursinus 21-19. 

The Generals next travel to South--I
em Virginia College in Buena Vista‘.
for a 7:30 p.m. matchup on Wednes»
day against a squad that W&L de-L
feated 34- 15 earlier in the season.

However, Franke expects a stiff‘
challenge from the Knights.

“When we beat SVC earlier in the
season, we had Ezra and Ben,”
Franke said. “That team’s improved,
throughout the year and gained‘
some experience while we’ve suf-
fered in a few weight classes.

“It will be a very tough matchup
and we’ll need to prepare even
harder to get good individual per-
formances.”

W&L SPORTS SCHEDULEZ JAN. 29-FEB. 4

Wednesday, Jan. 30

Women’s Basketball
Randolph-Macon Woman’s College

at W&L, 5 p.m.

Men’s Basketball

Emory and Henry at W&L, 7 p.m.
Wrestling

W&L at Southern Virginia, 7:30 p.m.

Friday, Feb. 1
Women’s Basketball
Roanoke at W&L, 7 p.m.

Saturday, Feb. 2

Wrestling

W&L at Newport News Apprentice

Invitational, 8 a.m.

Men’s Basketball

W&L at Hampden-Sydney, 2 p.m.
Indoor Track

W&L at VMI Relays, TBA

Sunday, Feb. 3

Men’s Basketball

W&L at Lynchburg, 2 p.m.
Women’s Basketball
Shenandoah at W&L, 2 p.m.

Follow W&L sports each week in The Hing-tum Phi.

 

  

PAGE 8



MONDAY, JANUARY 28, 2002

W&L track teams kick off 2002 season indoors

Women complement strong returning corps with freshmen, look to compete now in ODAC

Veteran Aldridge anticipates strong year

BY DAVE CROWELL
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee men’s track team enters the
2001-02 indoor season with a number of newcomers who
will hopefully help the squad improve on last season’s
fourth place (out of ﬁve) ﬁnish at the Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference indoor championships.

Coach Norris Aldridge returns for his 32nd season as
head coach and brings along two veterans to lead
the team of youngsters, senior Mike Hegg and jun-
ior Chris Sullivan.

“Chris and Mike are the two leaders and cap-
tains,” Aldridge said. “They provide the most ex-
perience and energy to this team.”

Hegg ﬁnished third in the 55-meter hurdles with
a time of 8.42 seconds at last season’s indoor
championships, then fell short in his bid to com-
pete in the NCAA Division HI Championships in
the 110-meter hurdles last May.

Sullivan will return to the long jump pit, where he took
fourth place at last season’s indoor championships.

Sullivan’s speed on the gridiron, where he earned AP
All-America honors for Division II and HI players as an
all-purpose runner earlier this year, should translate to
success in sprinting events, including the 100—meter dash,
where he competed last season.

The key to the team’s success, however, will ultimately
rest with the young runners, jumpers and throwers.

“My ultimate goal is for us to ﬁnish as high as we have
the capabilities to,” Aldridge said. “I think we’ve improved
with our new talent and are a better team than last season.

“Obviously, though, I haven’t seen too many other
squads, and I’m assuming they’ve improved as well.”

 

ALDRIDGE

Aldridge has been impressed with the efforts from fresh-
men Wes Bell, who will run distance events and relays; Steve
Chambers, another distance runner; and Brian Krupczak.

“Brian has jumped very well for us and ran well in De-
cember, but he pulled his hamstring on Saturday (at Chris-
topher Newport),” Aldridge said. “Hopefully we can get
him back soon.”

A few non—freshrnan newcomers have also put in good
performances through the ﬁrst couple months of the season.

Junior Mat Rapoza, coming off a football campaign where
he earned D3Football.com All-America honors on the offen-
sive line, enters his first season throwing the shot
put for W&L after transferring from Swarthmore.

, Sophomore Andrew Fotinos, who has run on

" the cross country team the past two seasons, also

, . decided to come out for the indoor season and
A will run distance events.

The team’s second test of the young season
came on Friday and Saturday, when they traveled
to Christopher Newport for a two-day competi-
tion. Aldridge viewed the event as another way
to gauge his team’s progress as they move towards the
ODAC Indoor Championships at Lynchburg on Feb. 23.

“It was the first meet we’d had in a few weeks, so I was
interested in seeing our progress,” Aldridge said. “I saw
some very good performances, including Wes, who ran
well on our relay teams.”

The team next heads across town to compete in the VMI
Relays, where Aldridge will get the opportunity to see more
individual scores. The team’s preparation and training, how-
ever, lead directly to Feb. 23, when improving on last
season’s fourth place ﬁnish will be the order of the day.

“We’ll work hard over the next weeks, then taper down
for the championships,” he said.

“A lot of training is done in January and February so
that we can peak at the right time.”

Generals run at Newport Classic

W&L begins New Year with individual-only event across the state at Newport News

FROM STAFF REPORTS

The Washington and Lee men’s
and women’s indoor track teams com-
peted for the ﬁrst time in the New Year,
traveling to Newport News for the
Christopher Newport Indoor Classic
on Friday and Saturday.

The meet focused on individual per-
formances and no team scores were kept.

Junior Chris Sullivan led the men’s
squad with two top 10 finishes.
Sullivan ﬁnished ﬁfth in the 60—meter
dash with a time of 7.31 seconds and

also took eighth place in the long
jump (20 feet, 8 1/2 inches).

Classmate Mat Rapoza also took
home a ﬁfth—place ﬁnish, this time in the
shot put, tossing 42 feet, 10 3/4 inches.

Freshman Wes Bell also competed
well, ﬁnishing ninth in the 1,500 meters
(4: 12.34).

The women’s squad was led by
junior Burke Duncan, who took 13th
place in the 3—kilometer run with a time
of 1 1:00.18.

Two freshmen also performed well
at the Indoor Classic. Meredith Walker

took home two top 20 ﬁnishes, taking
15th in the long jump (14 feet, 3 1/4
inches) and 18th in the 200-meter dash
(30.19).

Audrey Walker improved on her
17th-place ﬁnish (30 feet) in the shot put
last month at the VMI Invitational. At
Newport News, she took home an 1 1th-
place ﬁnish, tossing 30 feet, 6 3/4 inches.

The men’s and women’s teams
both travel across town next Satur-
day to compete at the VMI Relays,
another competition focusing on in-
dividual, not team, scores.

Photo 2»; Mtctzaa Mazzeo

us Dopartmom omuupoihuan

This bracelet was a gift Amber Apociaca

received from the center where she helped teenswith
drug and alcohol problems. She was wearing it

when an underage drunk driver took her life.

Friends Don’t Let Friends Drive Drunk.

BY DIYA VOHRA
SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee women’s
track team prepares for their season
with high hopes, anticipation and
hard work. The ﬁrst meet in Decern—
ber at the VMI Invitational saw some
positive results, but there was no scor-
ing kept at the meet, only individual
competitions.

John Tucker, in his 14th year as
the team’s coach,
is optimistic about ‘
this season. He
said he wishes to
“see our team
members develop
their athletic po-
tential to the maxi-
mum extent they
can, so that we
can, as a group, be
as competitive as possible.”

The Generals boast a strong mix of
freshmen and upperclassmen as they
compete in the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference.

“There is vast diversity and I ex-
pect to see significant conference-
level contributions from all team mem-
bers,” Tucker said.

The season kicked off full-ﬂedged
on Friday and Saturday at the Chris-

TUCKER

 

topher Newport Invitational. Most
team members, who were busy with
other sports at the end of last year,
are now back, in shape and ready to
compete.

Tucker motivates the team by “tell-
ing a story about the importance of
every member.”

“Each member is developing their
own ﬁtness and athletic ability, and if
we strive to improve as individuals, it
will inspire the other members,” he said.
0 Senior and second-year captain
Melissa Palombo, who participates in
sprints, hurdles and jumps, wants to
“place better at the ODACs this year.”
Her enthusiasm for a team that is larger
and more talented than recent squads
is evident.

The Generals placed fourth at last
year’s ODAC outdoor track and ﬁeld
championships, at which seniors
Megan Babst and Sarah Schmidt both
claimed individual titles. Palombo
hopes to improve upon that ﬁnish in
2002 since the “team is working best
and the team unit is the most cohe-
sive it has been in four years.”

Palombo is grateful for the increase
in coaching staff who are “really strong
and better organized” than last year.

The team has complete confidence
in the freshmen, who will allow W&L
to compete in several events in which

the Generals haven’t participated in
recent years. Freshman Kim Gunst, a
pole vaulter and sprinter, has “aspira-
tions and has displayed a strong per-
formance in pole vault,” according to
Tucker.

Freshman Liz Crawford, a high
jumper and sprinter who has not run
competitively before, is showing “me-
teoric improvement,” the coach said.

Roommates and classmates
Audrey Walker and Casey Sharpe,
also freshmen, are valuable new ad-
ditions to the team. A cross coun-
try runner who has not run track
and field before, Sharpe “has taken
the distance runners by storm,”
Tucker said.

Junior Burke Duncan, an accom-
plished distance runner on the na-
tional scene, is one of the team’s high-
est hopes. Freshman Meredith Walker
is “very athletically talented and is go-
ing to have a big impact on the team,”
according to Tucker.

The team spirit as a whole seems

h
.7

A

4

A

to be high, and members are excited 1‘

about their individual events.
Tucker is proud of the experience,

talent and ability of the team members,

for whom, he claims, “winning ODAC

(championships) as individuals or a '

team” is the motivation and guiding
factor behind their perseverance.

Jan. 11-17

Jan 25-31
Feb. 1-9

E SALE

aims rnmv. Mmmnv 11
25% oﬂ evervilsinq

Jan. 18-24 30% ofl-'

40°/o ol-'F

« 569% oFF!!!!!

ZLIETZBA ZQZEQE I\IZ'l" IIVZLLJEEZ

MAKING ROOM FOR THE ,
NEW SPRING 'NVENT.0BlL

l

v ,

1

t»

«T 4

 

 

JAMES  LFiY'ti£I.i!'\r‘~1 triad-"~.rs*r
WASH|i"H‘TON & LE UNW§*5lTY
2.  VA 20460

. «G 376.”! 55 '

J

 

§?§.?;    p  rise 0 5 2002  V
W7. rq INSIEE Iiifﬁiéx ”
Sueasaowr. 
I§li31".§.‘XC)N o   l ! I 

     

Lambda Chi
burglarized

Locals raid basement for Budweiser;
discovered and foiled by fraternity brother

? ‘9

By PETER QUACKENBUSH
STAFF WRITER

4

Two Lexington residents entered the Lambda Chi
house last Tuesday in an attempt to steal beer from the
basement refridgerator.

“All of the doors were unlocked,” said junior
Raphael Penteado, who discovered them. Not feeling
threatened, Penteado called the Lexington Police in front
of the two men.-

“One of them left, but one of them stayed,” Penteado
said, who saw them “trying to steal a case of beer.” De-
spite rumors that men attempted to abscond with Natural
“Natty” Light, Penteado asserts that the refridgerator con-
tained Budweiser.

Upon arrival, the police arrested one of the men for
trespassing. According to the police log, Frank Merchant,
of 1 Country Club Rd., was cited for trespassing, being .
drunk in public and for possession of alcohol under 21.

Merchant, who is not related to W&L History Profes-
sor Holt Merchant, claimed that he was returning a CD
case he had found in the Lambda parking lot. The case, a
double-deckered zebra—skin affair, went unclaimed by any

 

Br Aimruaw LATIMER
.:ss:sr;r~rr OPINIONS EDITOR

,’ BY MATTHEW MCDERMOTT League President Caddll Th0mPs0n~ ,
EmOR_ENﬁCﬂ3F “("316 program) will be Open to every- F orrner Director of the Central In-
One, but especially target me imp0V€r_ telligence Agency Robert Gates will
gr Nabors Service League will spon- ished—many of whomotherwise would discuss the terfdrisnfs Challenges in '3
sor an “Oaks and Acorns” fundraiser have no access whatsoever to artistic Thursday address in Lee Ch3Pe1- His
on Sunday to beneﬁt a community- and musical opportunities.” speechs “T€1T0dsm3
ﬁr wide effort at raising art conciousness Tickets willbe soldfornine dollars; A New FaC‘3*—A
among Rockbridge residents. and children under 8 may attend free. New World” Will
The fundraiser consists of a si— The new program was begun by Cdnceﬂtrats 011
’‘ lent auction and a concert, with per— four county residents: Ellen Campbell, gdwmmsnt intellk

formances by Larry Keel, Ringsend
and Southern Comfort. The auction

0 will highlight pieces by local artists
as well as Washington and Lee stu-

I dents. All proceeds will go directly
to the “Oaks and Acorns” program.
“Currently, little to no enrichment
programs exist for the youngest and old-
est members of this community—4he
* age groups which are most prized by
many cultures but often pushed to the
side in our own,” said Nabors Service

ational Associaton.

in August.

IF.-mail news briefs to
V hi@wlu.edu

it . y

-- '7 '-: ‘E ‘.
GENERAL‘

, , Re/a y for Life auction
beneﬁts American Cancer Society

This past Thursday, Jan. 31, almost $3,000 was raised
in an auction for the Rockbridge area Relay For Life, which
supports the American Cancer Society. Organized by
Katrina Knick and Dee Miriello of Dining Services, the
auction’s offerings were dates. More specifically, students
volunteered to go up on stage and be bid upon, and the
winning bidder got to take the student on a date.

This year, 38 people were “auctioned” off. The high-
est bid was for $300, in the forrri of a “two for one” special
for seniors Quincy Springs and Jason Mander. The high-
est female bid was $1 10 for junior Stacey Kimmel.

Said freshman Anne J ohansen, who was “bought” for
$60, “I was kind of nervous about going up there to be
auctioned, but I knew it was for a good cause, so I think it’s
worth it to be embarrassed. Plus, you get a date out of it!”

Knick says that this year, the auction raised almost
$100 more than it did last year, and she has high hopes for
the future.

Indeed, interest in the auction was high, with 175 stu-
dents crowding into Evans Dining Hall to witness the event.

Said Knick, “The Relay for Life is very important to
4 W&L students. Few can say they do not know someone

who has been affected by cancer.”
Contributions can still be made to the Relay for Life
7‘ by sending Knick a check through campus mail.

'4.’ Black history month calendar unveiled

Forthcoming programs include:

It Wednesday, February 6, 2002: Satellite Broadcast,
I “On the Front Lines: Television and African American Is-
sues,” Williams School Room 221, 7:00 pm.

This documentary, the first in a four—part series, brings
together an activist and a journalist from the Civil Rights
movement to explore the symbiotic relationship between
it and the media. Nicholas deBelleville Katzenback, former

 

NOTES -

sv-

sf»

  

A

i

 

a blueglass musician, Marvey Harvey,
a musician, Kelly Fujiwara, director of
Success by Six and Phillip Kramer, a
member of the Rockbridge Area Recre-

“N abors is not doing a cultural
program,” Nabors Publicity Co-
Chair Daniel Vos said. “The com-
munity is doing a cultural program.”

Rockbridge’s program, which
Nabors is raising money for, will begin

 

gence and counter-
terrorism in both
historical and cur-
rent contexts.

Director of
the CIA from 1991 to 1993, Gates
oversaw the agency following the
Soviet Union’s dissolution. An ad-
visor to six presidential administra-
tions, Gates is the only career of-
ficer to rise from entry-level em-
ployee to director.

 

DR . ROBERT GATES

U.S. Attorney General, and Judy Richardson, Producer of
“Eyes on the Prize,” are the panelists. The series, “The
African—American Experience: Civil Rights and Beyond,”
is produced by the Museum of Television and Radio. The
showing is sponsored by the Minority Student Associa-
tion and W&L’s journalism department.

Tuesday, February 12, 2002: Lecture by Lucas Mo-
rel, “Abraham Lincoln as the first Black President? Frederick
Douglass on the Lincoln Presidency.” Northen Audito-
rium at Leybum Library, 7:00 p.m.

Publicity co-chair will give a scholarly view of Fredrick
Douglass and his sophisticated view of Abraham Lincoln
as president of all Americans. The lecture is sponsored by
the Minority Student Association and the Dean of Stu-
dents Office.

Wednesday, February 13, 2002: Satellite Broadcast,
“Television and African—American Issues in the Post-Civil
Rights Era,” Williams School Room 221, 7:00 p.m.

Monday, February 25, 2002: Rene Marie in concert,
the Lenfest Center for the Performing Arts, Keller Theatre,
7:30 p.m.

Formerly of Roanoke, this Richmond—based vocalist
says she cut her teeth on the songs of Ella Fitzgerald and
Sarah Vaughan. Jazz critic Jane Mitchell calls Marie, “A
charismatic singer,” who has a voice that “is a lithe and
clear as it is warm and assured.” Sponsored by PRIDE
(Programming for the Respect of Individuals and Diver-
sity in Education).

Wednesday, February 27, 2002: Satellite Broadcast,
“Images of African—Americans on Prime—Time Television,”
Williams School Room 221, 7:00 p.m.

The panelists include Producer Topper Carew; Actor
Tim Reid, also a producer and director; and Mel Watkins,
a writer.

Thursday, February 28, 2002: Lecture by Ervin L
Jordan, J r., “History’s Heretics: Afro—Confederates and
the American Civil War,” Williams School Room 327,
7:00 p.m.

Professor Jordan is the research archivist of the Uni-
versity of Virginia’s Special Collections at Alderman Li-
brary. He specializes in the Civil War and African—Ameri-
can History and is the author of three books, 19th Wr-
ginia Cavalry (1987), Charlottesville and the University
of Virginia in the Civil War (1988), and Black Confeder-
ates anal Afro-Yankees in the Civil War Virginia (Univer-
sity Press of Virginia, 1995). Sponsored by MSA and the
history department.

Chm or ']IE tmmrz "rm L@<iflg'tOl’1 residents attarptecl to pilfer alcohol than the basarerit of lambda Gii Alpha’s ﬂatariityhouse last Tuesday.

Nabors raises arts awareness

.. ‘Oaks and Acorns’ progam reaches out to Rockbridge

Espionage expert to

“Bob Gates . . .is uniquely quali-
ﬁed to talk about American counter-
terrorism efforts in the Cold War era
and the new dimensions of this prob-
lem in the post—Cold War world,” said
Politics Professor Robert Strong.

The Contact Committee, which
secured Dr. Gates in December, antici-
pates high interest in this lecture. .

“The cloak and dagger world of
spy versus spy is naturally appeal-
ing,” said senior Dustin Olson, vice
chair for publicity. “I wouldn’t be at
all surprised if this turns out to be an
immensely popular speaker.”

Gate’s 1997 memoirs, From The
Shadows, described the sometimes
shocking goings—on within the
Agency and established him as an
expert on security matters. Copies are
available in the University Bookstore.

In an exclusive interview with The
Ring—tum Phi, Gates likened the events
of 2001 to those of 1941: “I think the

J P5 BROOI~’S/ The RL\i'G'7Li'-i PHI

 

resident in the house.
:In the future, Lambda President Richard Kilby, a jun-

ior, said, “We’ll start locking our doors.”

speak on terrorism

one major structural change that will
come about as a result of Sept. 11 ac-
tually has its parallel with Pearl Harbor.
The CIA was created not to fight the
Cold War, but because of Pearl Harbor.

“Historians realize that there had
been bits and pieces of information
scattered about all over the govem-

ferent light “There were some people who
wondered after the Cold War whether we
needed a CIA anymore,” Gates said.

“(Today) there’s a renewed ap-
preciation for the need for the CIA
and for very aggressive efforts to pro-
tect Americans.”

Heightened awareness of the CIA’s

ment priorto Dec. .7. that ﬂ Vmwme Predominant
all been put together in one place and . downsizing trend which began after the

integrated and analyzed, it might have
provided warning of the attack, and
thus the reason for creating the CIA.

“Now what happened on Sept. 1 1 is,
I suspect they’re going to ﬁnd out, that
there were bits and pieces of information
held by the FBI, by the CIA, by the Immi-
gration and Naturalization Service, by the
FAA and by others, that if they all came
together in one place they might have
provided some kind of warning ortipo .”

According to the former director, the
post-Sept. 11 world has come to view
American intelligence operaﬁons in a dif-

STEP ON UP IF THE PRICE IS RIGHT

seeﬁrsttkreralsbbte.

Gone om, com; 'IWJIE. Resplendent in a tuxedo, Johri Taffe, the
Alumi Office's directorof aaecial ever1ts,tcoka tumas auctimeerat
aberiefit for theAmericar1Cancer Society. Not evaihis 0/sndaiighter
(sopharore Kelly Taffe) was safe, as Taffe nastermirided the sale of
over twenty W&L students. Bids ran high as sophomores Maiteria
lvbure and Rory lbwlirig each received $100 . For more iDfOIII'atiOl'1,

 

Mzwesr/TheRing—turn

Soviet Union’s demise. “It really began
during the Bush years. Congress really
took the lead in cutting the budget.

“So, in a time. . . where the intelli-
gence community was being asked to
do more and more, they were in effect
given less and less money and people
to do it with. The CIA was 25 percent
smaller, in terms of the number of
people working there, within three
years of when I retired.”

The address, scheduled to take
place at 7:30 p.m., will be followed by
a reception in Alumni Hall.

.3313

8:30 p.m.—Javainthe GHQ. Jubilee.

Tuesday, Feb. 5

7:30 p.m.—Speaker. “Courage to
Care,” Carolyn Comelison, Ph.D. Lee
Chapel. (sponsored by LIFE,
Pariliellenic, Interfraternity Council,
Ofﬁce of Health Promotion)

8:00 p.m.—Concert Guild.
Orchestre de Bretagne conducted by
Stefan Sanderling. Frederic Chiu,
guest pianist. Keller Theater, Lenfest
Center.

Wednesday, Feb. 6

6:30 p.m.———Leadership Seminar
Series. The Spirit of a Man. Room 205,
University Center. Facilitated by W.C.
“Burr” Datz, director of Leadership
Development.

7:30 p.m.—Outing Club Event.
General Meeting and Bike Workshop.
At 9 p.m., an evening of star gazing.
Outing Club House.

Thursday, Feb. 7

7 p.m.—Winter 2002 Politics
Filmfest. “Legend of the Lone Ranger’ ’
(US, 1949). Directed by George Seitz.
Room 221, Williams School.

7 p.m.—-—Speaker. “Servant Lead-
ership,” Kathie Soroka ‘01. Room 327,
Williams School.

Friday, Feb. 8

2 p.m.———Terrorism: An Interdisci-
plinary Perspective Series. “Religious
Terrorism in Japan,” Winston Davis,
W&L professor of religion. Room
A214, Science Center.

7 :30 p.m.—Film Society. “The Tao
of Steve.” (USA, 2000). Troubador.

  

 

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2002

 

 R.?I‘33""i‘*l~'3 ' 
TAFF

‘EDITORIAL

W&L sells itself
to corporate interests

The University’s desire to improve its fa-
cilities is commendable, but not when that
comes at the price of becoming a corporate
franchisee.

Who can walk from the University Center
to the Alumni Center without seeing a plaque
lining a path or dedicating a tree? This is not to
say that some of those plaques (the one for
Nabors, for example) are without merit.

Still, it becomes ridiculous whenour walk-
ways are littered with granite circles proclaim-
ing so-and-so’s largess. No one needs to worry
about misspelling “magniﬁcent” or “generous”
around this campus—just look at the nearest
wall or sidewalk.

Naming things after rich people, however,
is nothing to the perils of corporate franchise.
Already we are a Coca-Cola Campus®. The
fountains and taps of our dining establishments
suffer not Pepsi or Dr. Pepper. Students are
forced to smuggle in non-University-sanctioned
beverages.

Gone ‘are the days when students could
freely sample the full spectrum of soda, the
burbling panoply of carbonated beverages. At
that time, a man (or woman) could choose to
drink what he wanted, not what a corporate
empire commanded.

Now that we’ve set our foot on the slip-
pery slope, though, we’re destined to ski to the
rock bottom.

Consider how this effects the children.

Upon hearing about this editorial, a junior
editor emerged from his bassinet and inquired:
“But who will we then name our buildings af-
ter?”

The ignorance of this otherwise consum-
mately well-informed youngster gives us some
inkling of the problem. He could not conceive
of buildings not named after those who pay for
the privilege.

To him, these things are commonplace.
Indeed, when he grows into a man’s estate,
and sends his own children off to W&L, they
will likely attend classes at Nike Hall, watch

our footballtearn . ~

center, and attend special assemblies in Gen-
eral Motors Chapel.

.these admitted ter-,,,...;....
rorists remain on university facul-

UOTE OF THE WEEK!

”I ’LL GIVE YOU A HUNDRED

II

IIILAIE IF‘ . . .
—INNuMERABLE PAR‘I‘Y—GOERS AT THE
CHI—O/ KAPPA "ANYTHING FOR

MONEY ” MIXER

   . 

l
(4

 

PINIONS

BRETT T. KIRWAN
OPJNIONS EDIIOR
EMAIL: KlRWANB@WLU.EDU

Terrorist tenured at U

Academia continues to be held
hostage by the Left. Studies con-
tinue to emerge detailing the high
percentage of liberals found among
college students and in the ranks of
college professors. A particularly
terrible example emerged soon after
the Sept. 11 attacks.

It turns out that the Northwest-
ern University Law School counts an
“unrepentant terrorist” as one of its
faculty members. Bernadine Dohm
was once on the FBI’s Ten Most
Wanted List and was labeled by J.
Edgar Hoover as “the most danger-
ous woman in America.” All this arose
from her days as a member of the
Weather Underground, a 1970s terror-
ist group that bombed government
buildings. Now, she is the director of
the Children and Family Justice Cen-
ter at the school.

Her husband, Bill Ayers, who was
also a “Weatherman,” is now a pro-
fessor of education at the University
of Illinois at Chicago. He recently re-
leased a memoir entitled Fugitive Days
recounting his time as a terrorist and
was proﬁled in The New York Times
on Sept. ll“‘. As readers were watch-
ing planes crash into the World Trade
Center and Pentagon, they read about
Ayer’s career as a terrorist, including
the 1972 bombing of the Pentagon
arranged by the Weathermen.

Along with Dohm and Ayers, the
Weathermen participated in 18 bomb-
ings, killing six and leaving nine children
orphans. Most disturbingly, the article
quoted Ayers as saying he did not re-
gret his involvement in the bombings
and did not forswear using violence in
the future. Similarly, Dohm signed a dec-
laration of war against the United States
and, although she has renounced vio-
lence, has never recanted.

Even in this time of increased
concern about the threat terrorism
poses to the United States, having
suffered not only the Sept. 11 at-
tacks, but also the
domestic terrorism of
Timthy McVeigh and
the Unabomber,

    

ties. Moreover, David E. Van Zandt,
dean of the Northwestern Law
School, has defended Dohm and her
employment in the face of criticism
by many alumni and the editorial
page of The Wall Street Journal.
Mark Rosati, a University of Illinois
spokesman, defended Ayers’ com-
ments saying that he was within his
First Amendment rights, but con-

 

COURTESY WWW. NOIWHWESTEIRNCI-IRONICLE.ORG

Vhmmmm: Dohm proudly displays her picture ﬁiztm the Mast Wanted List.

ceded that some might ﬁnd his sup-
port of terrorism “objectionable.”

Disastrously, these two incidents
were accompanied by dozens of other
acts of liberal idiocy on campus this
past year. Each year the Young
America’s Foundation compiles a list
of the lowlights, some of the worst are:

- Hampshire College overwhelm-
ingly approving a resolution con-
demning the war on terror, claiming
that it “is symptomatic
of the racism of
American society.”

- The Madison,
Wisconsin School

RIGHT or THE AISLE
BREII T. KIRwAN '04

’E8a}&*s "decision to allow only the in-

strumental version of the national an-
them to be performed. Ofﬁcials claimed
that the words of the song were too
bellicose. The board also barmed reci-
tation of the Pledge of Allegiance in
schools for fear that foreign or natu-
ralized students would be offended.
- The minuteman mascot of
Jefferson Middle School in Fort
Wayne, Indiana losing his musket

because the principal decided that
“guns have no place in school.” He
claimed that the disarmed minuteman
sends a “better, stronger message
about patriotism.”

- Texas A&M’s decision to for-
bid students from ﬂying American
flags outside their windows. Ofﬁcials
felt that if an exception was made to
the school’s policy forbidding ban-
ners to be flown, foreign students
would feel excluded.

- The students of Brown, Ber-
keley and University of Wiscon-
sin at Madison stealing the cam-
pus newspaper to prevent, distri-
bution of an ad taken out by David
Horowitz arguing against repara-
tions for slavery.

These examples demonstrate
that free speech is only important
if used in furtherance of liberal
aims, history is subject to reinter-
pretation to suit liberal goals and
should remind W&L students how
lucky we are to not be held hos-
tage by leftist nutcases.

Matthew B. McDermott
Katie J. Howell
Latrina Stokes
Imran Naeemullah
Brett T. Kirwan
Andrew Latimer
Matthew A. Coursen
Catherine C. Guy
Jeremy S. Franklin
Dave Crowell

Alison M. 'll'inidad
Mary E Guy

Meg Ferrara

J eb Brooks

Paul A. Seifert
Brian Castleberry
Emily Barker
Robert Floyd
William Litton
Peter L. Djalaliev

Editor-in—chief
Associate Editor
Asst. News Editor
Asst. News Editor
Opinions Editor
Asst. Opinions Editor
W&Life Editors

Sports Editor

Asst. Sports Editor
Contributing Editor
Photo Editor
Photographers

Business Manager
Circulation Manager
Asst. Business Manager
Advertising Managers

Internet Editor

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editor-in-chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible subrriis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit subrriissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and colurrms do not necessarily

vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court defini-
tions of libel and obscenity.
The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Wrginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu

http://phi.wlu.edu

reﬂect the opinion of the Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad- »

Letter to the Editor

BFA answers aiiic/e, explains mission

Dear Editor,

BFA is an organization of women who have come to-
gether to address the intolerance for difference on this carn-
pus. We are a collective body that will earnestly work towards
uncovering the conscious and unconscious covert acts of
discrimination, racism and bigotry that dwell among us.

The name of this organization came about simply be-
cause we are Aﬁican-American women. We are not separatists
— we are proud of the fact that we are young, black women who
are seeking a common goal, tolerance.

Beyond Naeemullah’s slanderous words, he used a pic-
ture of four, beautiful Afiican—American women to perpetuate
his negative perception of our organization. Why is the pic-
ture of the four Africari-American women who started the Black
Studies Program at UCSB offensive?

Naeemu1lah’s claim that we are an exclusive organization

. that will shun the thoughts of students of different backgrounds

is a lie. BFA is open‘ to the participation, suggestions, and
ideas of all of W&L’s students and faculty. I urge W&L to get
past our name and look at what we are attempting to do.

Naeemullah has also gone as far as stating that we have
plagiarized the missions of organizations such as MSA and
PRIDE. I guess Gandhi and King were guilty of the same crime,
the collective promotion of nonviolence. Let it be known that
BFA is not atiempting to take the place of any organization;
rather we are hoping we can come together on the same accord
working in the interests of this campus.

    

“No self—serve gasoline.”
--John Melillo, ‘03

“Ryan Pace.”
—-Lincoln Rose, ‘03

Naeemullah brought to light two incidents that occurred
on this campus. In early Sept., several Af1ican—American fresh-
men ladies were attempting to get into a fratemity party. He
argues for security reasons, the young ladies were carded.
However, I am conﬁdent that harassing these women after it
was conﬁrmed that they were students at W&L is procedure.
After the ladies were ﬁnally admitted into the party, they were
made to feel uncomfortable.

Another incident occurred on Halloween, when some-
one decided that it was entertaining to wear blackface. Before
blacks could enter into the entertainment world, some white
Americans found it pleasurable to mirriic black Americans by
wearing blackface. Negative stereotypes were perpetuated,
such as, “the chicken eating nigger,” “the dancing Topsy,”
and the “singing nitwit.” The caricatures were meant to sug-
gest that blackness was ugly.

Like Naeemullah, I am a minority and am new to this cam-
pus. I believe W&L is a wonderful environment ﬁlled with
lovely people. However, I will not ignore and idly watch the
unfair treatment of students, regardless of background, race,
gender, or sexual orientation. Racism exists. . .bigots are on the
rise. . .discrimination has become a silent norm. Iftliat means
we have to turn this campus upside down and rufﬂe some
feathers, then so be it.

I did not apply to Washington and Lee just because it is
a fine institution. I came to W&L because I believe I have
something to offer, myself.

Sincerely,
Kisha N. Barnes ‘04

PAGE 22'

U.S. ignores AIDS fund

Bush spends bi//ions on defense, little
to help the world's poorest and most i//

The United States is spending a lot of money
these days on protecting its citizens from terror-
ists the world over. In his State of the Union ad-
dress Tuesday night, money and spending were
hot topics for the President. Bush stated, “My
budget supports three main goals for America: We
will win this war, we will protect our homeland,
and we will revive our economy.”

We will also do all this while keeping current
tax cuts in place that, again, give us a deficit this
year of $106 billion and next year a deficit of $80
billion. Very well
then, if it must be
back to Reagan
politics, there is
not a whole lot I can
do but to vote against Bush again in the next elec-
tion.

Thus, it seems that we in America have put a
huge price on protecting the lives of our civilians
from biological warfare, airplanes ﬂying into build-
ings, and bombs aimed at our cities. I have no com-
plaint here.

What is troublesome, is if America can afford
the current debt, why couldn’t we afford another
$1.2 billion dollars to help support something that
helps millions of people worldwide?

The United States’ contribution to the Global
Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, was
less than impressive this year. While the Secre-
tary of Health and Human Services Tommy Thomp-
son, always loyal to his boss, hailed America’s con-
tribution of $200 million this year stating that
“(America) is committed to advancing the work of
the fund for many years to come,” nothing could
be further from the truth.

Many world leaders involved with the Fund
are not particularly impressed. Currently the
United States is putting money in the Pentagon’s
coffers in numbers not seen since the Cold War,
yet we give pitifully to a cause that is helping to
stop three diseases which kill six million people
annually.

In December, the House of Representatives
gave authorization for the United States to con-
tribute $l.2 billion to the Global Fund to Fight
AIDS.

U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan said he
wanted to see only $1 billion from the United
States, but Bush gave only the difference between

LEFT or CENTER

 

mwhat _the_House authorized and what the U.N. ex-

pected.

Why, after the Republican controlled House
authorized Bush to give up to $1.2 billion, did he
only contribute just over sixteen percent of that
amount? Moreover, according to the Global AIDS
Alliance, America’s pledge this year is actually
quite smaller by percentage than any of the world’s
richest nations.

Moreover, this trend is not new this year. Last
year, the United Kingdom, Japan and Italy were all
able to match the United States’ contributions. Why
is it that the world’s richest nation’s contribution
is not the largest contribution for something that
is so important?

With the current rate of U.S. investment, the
GAA is projecting that during Bush’s term there
will be 12 million people dying from AIDS and at
least 20 million new HIV infections around the
world. Why are we putting such a high price on
some lives, and so small a price on so many oth-
ers? Something here is amiss.

It might be that the outbreak of AIDS does
seem quite foreign to many Americans at the mo-

ment. We seem to realize it is a problem, but for the ’

majority of Americans, AIDS is not a part of our
daily lives.

But in places like Africa and rural China, the
outbreak is so far—reaching that entire villages are
dying. Mothers, unaware of the damage they are
doing, pass the HIV virus to their newly born
young through breast-milk. Safe sex is unheard of
because when you struggle to feed yourself every
day, you seldom worry how to get a latex condom,
if you even know what it is.

America is spending a lot to protect its citi-
zens from the unknown. However, when it comes
to a problem that could not be more prevalent,
our government’s performance is greatly disap-
pointing. It appears that America still has the
mindset that we can take care of our own, but to
spend the money on others is not of any great
importance.

I wonder what all the Americans currently dy-
ing of AIDS would think about that-.

Ro NEw   S

“Apparently, it’s the armpit “Newark.” “Ben Jovi ..
- of America” “Kara Lehman’ ‘05 -—Brent Vaisman ‘05
—-Ann6 Callison, ‘05 Resident of New Jersey 9

 

PAGE 3

 

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2002

ONS

Colleges more liberal than ever

There are more liberals on college cam-

 puses today than at any other time since the
'7 Vietnam War. Assert something like that at

Washington and Lee and you’re liable to get
a slew of scoffs and blank stares. Yet as much
as it’s hard for the average General to believe
that statement, a recent study by UCLA de-
ﬁnitively detects a sharp rise in the number of
left-wing American university students.

According to the report, over 32 percent
of citizens our age demand the death penalty
be abolished, one third think marijuana should
be legalized, 48 percent participated in orga-
nized political demonstrations and nearly 58
percent want gay marriages recognized by law,
the highest levels since 1980. All in all, about
29 percent of students identify themselves as
being politically far left., a ﬁgure that has grown
signiﬁcantly since 1996.

But students aren’t the only ones par-
ticipating in the trend. A survey by Luntz
Research Associates reveals just how many
Ivy League professors regard themselves
as conservative: not a single one. I guess
that’s not terribly shocking news from a
group where 84 percent cast ballots for Al
Gore in 2000. Incidentally, the same polls
showed that Bush barely squeaked by
Nader, only 13 percent think tax cuts are a
good idea and a mere 1 percent would over-
turn Roe v. Wade if given the chance.

These numbers reveal why I last April I
decided to enroll at W&L, and it’s not be-
cause of some knee—jerk conservative ideol-
ogy. I may have worked for
College Republicans this
last election cycle, but I’d
never gush about Ronald
Reagan being the greatest
president of the twentieth century.

Rather than seeking a large group of like-
minded individuals, I struck out to ﬁnd an
environment where actual debate and dialogue
were possible. I needed a university where
political correctness didn’t numb political
thought. Hearing about such events as Mock
Convention motivated me to consider paying
a visit to Lexington.

Yet it was my tour that finally sealed
the decision. I distinctly remember my guide
quipping,, “When you’re talking about col-
lege campuses, the term ‘conservative’
means that only half the faculty is Commu-
nist.” By the time I sent my response back
to W&L’s acceptance letter, I was con-

 
 

: vinced I had at last stumbled upon the in-

stitution that was right for me.

COGENT COMMENTARY‘
ANDREW LATIMER '05



W

 

more coURrrsvTizECALyx

Frrmz Pam: Expect to see more Volkswagon Mj_ni'—Buses‘ aound carrpus.

While I can only speculate, I’d surmise
that the same balanced character cannot be
found at the majority of upper—tier American
colleges. To me, a bias too far to the left or to
the right endangers the very reason for any
institution’s purpose: to enable and engage
in the pursuit of knowledge. When ideas can-

,not be brought out into the community for

dialogue, I fail to see how they can be chal-
lenged and subsequently authenticated as
truth.

Even so, I am somewhat encouraged by
the declining trend in student apathy. The
surge may favor the liberals,
but at least it signifies that
more Americans our age are
adopting political view-
points. Researchers specu-
late as to the movement’s cause, pointing to
recent events like the extremely tight 2000
presidential race, the aftermath of Sept. 1 l or
post—Lewinsky era regeneration of faith in gov-
emment, just to name a few.

I have only been here for a little over a
trimester, so I realize I am hardly qualified to
pass judgment on the status of political dia-
logue amongst students. Regardless, it has
been my experience that surprisingly few of
my conversations have revolved around po-
litical opinion. It seems the events of Sept.
only spawned a deluge of anti-Osama jokes,
not serious discourse.

My fear now is that the traditional
school mentality breeds indifference to is-
sues that don’t happen to directly penetrate
our grand bubble. Sure, the Mock Conven-

#.7 Spring Break
I/oca t/ons./
Cancun, Jamaica,

Bahamas, oi F/or/o’a.
Best Prices!

organ/zers trave/ free!

ct Book Now!
1-800-234-7007

Best Par ties, Best Ho te/s,
éroup D/scoun ts, Group

Space rs //'m/teof/ Hurry up

14/ww.eno’/esssum/nertourscom

risiisourets

for

Studegnts

www.councEitraveicom  
1-800—2COUNCiL

WE CAN DO IT!

Repairs ~ Cataracts

COOL FRAMESE
HOT LENSES?
SHADES!

2:’) years where’  V rir 
at 263 R. Mae Street, Lerrirrgteri
ass-we V

tion may get the water stirring every four
years, yet the pool of thought seems lamen-
tably stagnant, especially for a school with
a strong politics department.

The solution I propose may not be a
complete one, yet I feel that it’s a start. For
instance, there’s the lackluster state of de-
bating, be it team-based or otherwise. Wash-
ington and Lee ought to follow in the tradi-
tion of Georgetown in starting our own ver-
sion of their Philodemic Society, a body that
periodically prepares a question or topic for
two teams that square off against each other
in front an audience. Such a group is actu-
ally a throwback to the 19”‘ century—style
campus politics in many ways, but if it gets
hiding liberals to come out of the woodwork,
I’d say it’s worth it.

Additionally, instead of lying largely dor-
mant after the election has passed, College
Republicans, College Libertarians and Young
Democrats could either work individually or
pool their resources to foster organized de-
bate on relevant issues. That may in turn pro-
duce more community communication regard-
ing national issues.

Washington and Lee has all the ingredi-
ents for a charged political atmosphere with
its relative balance of left-wing and right—wing
in both academic and student circles, but the
university’s tendency to stick by tradition and
bypass national trends has resulted in a mood
of complacency. Once the latter is remedied, I
see no reason why W&L could not become a
bastion of political thought and discussion
for the entire nation.

Tet Prep, Admissions and Guidance. For life.

Find a fascinatingly fun friend

Top ten qualities one should seek in a sou/mate are revealed

Probably the biggest concern when
one enters into the realm of lunacy we
know as college, is the ongoing struggle
for acceptance. I think that the ease at
which you make friends alternates
throughout different stages of your life.

For example, grammar school was basi-
cally cream cheese. All you had to do was
share your Crayolas, invite someone to play
kickball with you at recess, or have a slum-
ber party (if you’re a girl. If you’re a boy, all
you had to do was find an obscene sexual
reference to anything.)
So naturally one would
assume that life is beau-
tiful and people are nice.

Then high school
roles around, and I personally thought that
my contemporaries were a little mean. My
best friend Daisy would come up to me in
the morning and say, “Who’s it today?
Abby?,” which meant by the end of the day,
she would somehow get the entire school to
loathe Abby.

“Hey, Elise. Abby said you were fat.”

“That bitch!”

Good thing Daisy and I were friends.
And then I get to college and it turns out
tragedy has been averted, and the world has
been restored of its pleasantries.

But the bottom line is, throughout my
years of seeking social companionship, I’ve
come to the conclusion that there are cer-
tain people that are by far and away cooler
than everyone else. There are roughly, let’s
call it ten, types of people that are so ludi-
crously cool that one cannot afford to not
have them as a friend. I haven’t met them
yet, but I think it’s about time I have. I was
just trying to think of people that would be
a lot of fun.

1. I think it’d be pretty funny to meet
someone who writes thank you notes for
every occasion. Like if you hold the door
open for him, and then the next day you get
a thank you note. Or if you told him he looked

 

ORTHERNER'S EXPOSURE
KRIS POLLINA '03

nice, you’d get a thank you note. Constant
mail. It’d be like a Utopia. I

2. Someone who always had a good
knock-knock joke on hand. There would
never be any awkward silences in groups of
dumb people.

3. Someone who always walked
around in costume.

4. I wish there was someone who had a
tangible buddy list. Like you have the AOL
Instant Messenger, and there’s a list of
people that you’ve recorded as your “bud-
dies.” I want to see some-
one walking around at a
party with a yellow notepad
writing down his buddies,
so he remembers at the end
of the night whom he likes. It’d be so money.
If someone comes up to you, and you don’t
exactly remember your stand on him, you
can just refer to the buddy list.

5. Someone who always had a cell phone
going off. She would look so popular, and
you can be popular by association.

6. Someone who can do a really good
Moonwalk and/or climb trees really well.

7. Anyone who quotes Swingers 22
hours of the day.

8. That boy in Wonder Boys who could
list all celebrity suicides alphabetically. Al-
beit morbid, he was interesting.

9. Any boy who thinks a perfect date
would be to take a girl to the Natural
Bridge Wax Museum.

10. I could probably derive constant
amusement from someone who never put
any inﬂection in his speech, so you never
know when the sentence ends.

I would also like to meet someone who
grows cacti, but I ran out of numbers. Far be if
for me to throw convention to the wind and
procure a Top 1 1. I think between checking off
things on my Pre—Graduation List and finding
the Top 10 Coolest People, my days and nights
are going to be booked in case you wanted to
take me to the wax museum or something.

Write for The Ring—tum Phi

Washington and Lee’s Paper of Record

E-mail phi @wlu. edu for more information

LSAT Srrmr Prep at W&L
stars February 26 ii!

Space is limited 1!

Cali NOW to reserve your spot it!
(Ask for course code LSCV2301)

Cali or visit us drrline today to enroll!

r-anr~rrr«rrsr
kaptestcom '

rt-.S.at‘u.: asngaras:~r‘rsarterrmordsa amsemd 

Musical pass ort  

Orchestra takes audience throu

BY CATHERINE GUY
W&L1:~‘€ ED;'TCP.

This Saturday, February 2, Washington
and Lee’s own University Shenandoah
Symphony Orchestra (USSO) performed its
second full program concert of the 2001-
2002 academic _year. This performance
featured ethnic music of Russia, America,
and Italy. Included in the program were
Muszorgsky’s Night on Bald Mountain (a
piece popularized by Disney’s ‘Fantasia’),
and Aaron Copland’s Billy the Kid Ballet
Suite, as well as showcase piece, Resphigi’s
Pines of Rome. The performance was
exceptionallycarried out, and played to a
nearly packed house. The orchestra was
able to capture aptly the widely ranging
moods and atmospheres of the three pieces.

The ensemble is composed of an eclectic
mix of people, including W&L students,
VMI cadets, professional musicians, and
some local residents who love participating
in the group.

This motley crew is led by the expert
guidance of Professor Barry Kolman. A

Brooklyn, NY native, Dr. Kolman has spent
fourteen years working as the conductor
for Washington and Lee’s student
performance groups of the Orchestra and
Wind Ensemble. Dr. Kolman was trained on
the clarinet and studied music education at
Crane School in Potsdam NY, clarinet
performance at ’
Illinois State
University and
Berlin, Germany,
and received his

It AMAZES ME HOW

‘doctorate at the

University of
N o r t h e r 11
Colorado. He has
taught at James Madison University,
Bemidji State University, Muhlenberg
College, Mount Senario College in WI, as
well as High School in Cheyenne WY,
Denver CO, and Washingtonville, NY. He
has played clarinet with the Peoria and
Bloornington—Norrnal Symphony Orchestras
as well as with the Greeley Philharmonic and
Cheyenne Symphony. Dr. Kolman’s varied
experience has led him to guest conduct

DR.

Do you believe all
of NYC’s students
deserve a quality education?

CHEMISTRY MAJOR 0a A GERI-IAN MAJOR 03
A BUSlNE-S MAJOR CAN ALSO FIND TIME FOR
Ann as so DEDICATED TO THEIR MUSIC.

BARRY KOLMAN

O 0

time, regions
around the globe, in such exotic locations
as Poland, Brazil, Argentina, Belgium,
Canada, Romania and Slovakia. He has
recorded 5 CDs, last one being a Gershwin
CD. A sixth the music of Kurt Weill is in the
making. Dr. Kolman stated that “I love the
classic repertoire but I am also extremely
fond of frlrn music.”
Dr. Kolman
loves working here
at W&L, and feels
that the group’s
strongest asset
are the students.
He loves the way
that “they inspire
me to be the best I can be.” Indeed, the ties
that bind the members of the group extend
way beyond the four years as students.
Dr. Kolman still keeps in contact with
several students who have graduated from
W&L, and a recent graduate hired several
of her friends and fellow musicians from
orchestra to play at her wedding this
summer. As might come as a surprise, most
of the member of the USSO are not music

SOMEONE WHO IS A

avk/A\AJl:J\l J. ,t..i.... Jtnv

W&L1FE EDITORS

L- iAAu._rvu

Eli2uL: COURSEl\lM@WLU.E.'DU & GUYC@WLU.EDU

I\l*~.<‘.~ :i/ The Ring—twn Phi
Umwizo eanrus. Conducter Barry Kolman
has spent 14 years at W&L.

majors. In fact, Dr. Kolman states that “It
amazes me how someone who is a
chemistry major or a German major or a
business major can also find time for and
be so dedicated to their music.”

The ensemble practices every Tuesday
from 5-6 PM and every Wednesday from
7:30-9 PM in Dupont Hall. This year’s
concertmistress is freshman Celia
Landgren. The group puts in many hours
of hard work, especially when concerts
loom large on the horizon. This year the
USSO has performed in a September gala
for the trustees, a November full program
concert, and a December holiday show in
conjunction with the Wind Ensemble,
Chorus, and Chamber Singers.

University Shenandoah Symphony
Orchestra is always looking for new,
dedicated members to share in the superb
experience of making music. For as Dr. Kolman
states “I know there are many musicians on
campus who are not playing in the Orchestra;
they are missing out on such an enormous
opportunity to be part of something so
creative, so beautiful, and so memorable.”

Prove it.

Join a select group of talented professionals and
graduates who will teach in our city’s under-performing
classrooms this fall_. No previous teaching experience
required. You'll receive a salary while working toward a
fully paid Master’s Degree. This isiyour opportunity to
ensure that all NYC students get the quality education
they deserve. Apply now. Call 1-877-NYFELLO or visit
wwwmycteachingfellows.org.

NYC TEACHING FELLOWS

A program of the New York City Board of Education, an affirmative action/equal opportunity employer.

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2002

The guy next door: 1,53;
Of VMI sports A

Br SAM LAGULE/Snrr 

One of the more armoying obligations we cadets
sign up for when we come to VMI has to be required
attendance of a given event——on short notice.

The concept does make sense. I mean you need sol-
diers on the front, holding back the enemy, not by the tents
playing hearts or jumping double—Dutch. After all, we go to
a military school that trains up to be effective killers, right?

But VMI uses- no, abuses— this requirement for the sake of
having an instant crowd of 1300 people anytime, anywhere?‘

It usually starts like this: a metallic voice sweeps
through the Barracks over an intercom about 6:27 P.M.,
declaring “There will be a formation at 1830 hours on
the track for a speech in Cameron Hall on the physical
impact of excessive ﬂag—waving. Uniform is gray
blouse. All cadets must attend.”

It’s like those capsules that turn into sponge toys.
Get a glass of warm water. . .drop the capsule in.
POOF! . .. soggy giraffe.

As a collective we work about the same way. Find an
unpopular event... make the event mandatory for ca-
dets. . . POOF! . . . surly crowd. That’s pretty impressive. If
I could have 1300 of America’s ﬁnest men and womenTM at
any give time, I would use it too.

That’s why our sporting events are so well attended— not
because we— all 1,300 of us— have any great love for competi-
tion of athletes, but because we have to be there under
penalty of our lives becoming even more unbearable.

We don’t all want to be there. Some of us can think of
countless things we’d rather be doing: these include
homework (heaven forbid), or shining our shoes (yeah
right) or crafting beaded macramé ﬂowerpot hangers.

Football games at VMI are about as painful as stand-
ing still, exposed, in the sweltering sun for three hours
with a blinding glare shooting straight into your pin-
hole pupils. Actually, folks, that’s exactly what hap-
pens. I swear if solar power companies came to Memo-
rial Stadium on game day, the reﬂection of our white
uniforms could power Rhode Island.

Watching the team doesn’t help. Loss after loss after
loss piles up, crushing our spirits. Our ﬁght song talks
about it: “For when our line starts to weaken, our backs fail
to gain. Our ends are so crippled, to win seems in vain. . .”

The cadets who actually watch don’t care about
winning. They just look to beating the point spread.
The rest of us wait out the clock.

So, at the next VMI— W&L Lee—Jackson Lacrosse Clas-
sic, when you see us staring into space, it’s not us 
about goalie stats, chop checks, or defense strategies.

We’re imagining being back in our rooms, doing

homework, shining our shoes, or crafting beaded 1.

macramé ﬂowerpot hangers. . .or winning.

*0

  

illloNoAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2002

Smrm rmrmsrm: Co-captain Rob 
r.t:ledial s@m1$m&yaﬁajrm taam.

: W&L secures 1,000th win for

r :;Generals break 7-game losing skid, knock off Emory and Hemy on Ian Mo

, BY Jaarnrr FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

/5 9‘ Finally, luck was on the side of the
_Washington and Lee men’s basket-

ball team.

 

5

'.

V

VI

‘.

I‘. 1

Freshman Ian McClure’s layup off
the top of the backboard with 0.5 sec-

onds remaining lifted the Generals to

?.a 62-60 win over Emory and Henry at
the Warner Center on Wednesday,

-snapping a seven-game losing streak
and keeping W&L in contention for
the ﬁnal tournament slot in the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference.

_A The win was also the 1,000th in the
96-year history of the program

“I’m proud of our guys,” W&L
coach Jeff Lafave said. “You think of

 the people that you represent, that
have come before you, and all the
hard work that they put in. To ﬁnally

g get that 1,000th win is big.

   

__ “For our season and our guys, it’s
ifbur ﬁfth win of the year,” he added.
Right now, we’re eighth in the league
%and in the ODAC Tournament, which
 our ultimate goal.”

 The Generals dictated the pace of

«I

 game on Wednesday. The Wasps,
ﬁiivho came in averaging 84.9 points per
"fgarne, didn’t help themselves on the
géffensive end, missing all 16 of their

liiflrree-point attempts.

4

 “We knew that if we controlled the
tempo, we’d be able to have some suc-
:§cess,” Lafave said. “We mixed it up
ion defense) and went to that 1-3-1

ﬂiione pretty late. A combination of

Svéhanging defenses and our guys’ ef-

gz-;f\c)rt made a big difference.”

0»

it

F

'  W&L controlled the game com-
pletely in the ﬁrst half, as junior John
.Warren scored all 13 of his point be-
 the break behind 4-of-6 shooting

BY DAVE CROWELL

 

ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

}  When the Washington and Lee
iwomen’s basketball team traveled
to Roanoke on Jan. 20, the Gener-
gals and Maroons traded leads
throughout the game, with neither
ifeam holding larger than a three-
lpoint cushion in the last 15:43 of
regulation.

i’ Roanoke came out victorious that

‘ ‘night, holding on for a tough 71-62

fovertime victory.

On Saturday night at the Warner
Center, Katrina Williams ensured
‘there would be no question as to
‘the outcome, scoring Roanoke’s
‘first 10 points and leading an 18-6
run out of the gates. The Generals"
(9-10, 7-8 Old Dominion Athletic
Conference) trailed by double dig-
its the entire contest, finally falling

,, 71-57.

r

Despite a stingy Roanoke de-
ifense that often employed the press

for half-court trap in order to force

525 W&L turnovers, coach Janet

'?“Hollack believes her team’s woes

didn’t stem from an inability to per-

# ‘form.

4*

l. “I think the thing we’re lacking
right now is mental toughness,” the
‘second-year coach said. “We have
the talent, the size and all the tan-
igibles. We just aren’t tough enough
right now.”

R

 

* I

JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDIYOR
ENAIL: ERAl\lKL]l\U@WIll.EDU

Generals defend ODAC championship,
look to return to Atlantic South Regional

BY DIYA Vorma
SPORTS WRITER

After an NCAA Division III second round appear-
ance a year ago, the Washington and Lee men’s ten-
nis team will look to continue its recent success in
2002.

This year’s squad boasts 11 returning players and
four freshmen. They believe their hard work and perse-
verance will show off when it counts the most, from the
Old Dominion Athletic Conference Tournament to
NCAA competition.

After a victory over Swarthmore in the ﬁrst round of
last year’s Atlantic South Regional, the Generals were de-
feated by Washington College. ,

The team’s biggest goal this year is to make it to the
ﬁnal eight — a win against Washington would have put
them there in 2001 — and thus a trip to nationals. Cur-
rently ranked 19th in the nation, W&L looks forward to a
triumphant season.

“On paper, it looks like we are a favorite to be at the top
of the region,” said senior Andrew Roberts, one of two

Clure’s circus shot in the ﬁnal

W&L captains. “But we saw over the fall that other teams
have improved as well, and our region will be a lot stron-
ger. It will be close again.”

Roberts’ co-captain, senior Rob Moynihan, says the
Generals want “to beat some teams that we’re not sup-
posed to beat.”

“Our strength as a team is our depth,” he said. “We
typically win all our matches at No. 5 and No. 6 singles,
which helps to take some pressure off our top guys.”

In his second year as head coach, David Detwiler is
excited and optimistic about the coming months. For-
merly an assistant coach to the women’s tennis team,
Detwiler enjoys vast experience with tennis and coach-
ing. His main concern is that “the team stays strong by
being healthy.”

“We’ve had to deal with a lot of serious injuries this
year, including senior Andrew Roberts, who had a screw
put in his foot, and sophomore Austin Kim, who is still
recovering from an ankle sprain,” Detwiler said.

The team usually practices six days a week for two
hours a day. Most of the players are currently involved
in playing challenge matches that determine their seeds
within the team.

Although still undecided, Detwiler should maintain his
top four from last season: senior Rhys James, Roberts,
Kim and sophomore Graham Nix.

program

second

aqua

   

43?

Faorr STAFF REPORTS

PAGE 5

rMen’s tennis team seeks return to national glory

Regardless of the ﬁnal singles or doubles orders —
Detwiler warns of “a few variations” — Moynihan points
out that tennis isn’t simply an individual sport.

“Since every spot in our startingtlineup counts the
same towards our team score, every player is equally valu-
able,” Moynihan said.

According to the co-captain, the Generals will also be
able to count on contributions from newcomers Paul
McClure, Jeff Lusk, David Ellison and Marshall Vrney now
and in the long run.

“We’ve got four talented freshmen this year that will
all contribute a lot to the team’s success in the next four
years,” said Roberts, who added that he, James and
McClure were the three Generals who qualiﬁed for the
quarterﬁnals of the ITA Rolex Southeast Regional at
Swarthmore in October.

The level of incoming talent can only improve by good
coaching and team spirit, two intangibles that one of the
freshmen has already noticed.

“Coach Detwiler has brought with him an attitude and
level of coaching that will take us to the nationals,” Lusk
said. “The team in general is really strong, and there is not a
huge gap between the levels of play. We all play to our ability,
and there is close camaraderie among the team members.”

The season kicks off with a match against Division I
Tennessee-Chattanooga on Saturday.

Plagued by injuries, W&L
falls to Southern Virginia

Knights avenge December loss with home victory

W&L returns home for a triangu-
lar meet against Albright and Johns

MARY G11/The Ring—tum Phi

'Ib'I!-EE\§<t?.I‘: Junior Johnwaxren drives to thehoop in vtechesdayat thelAlan'1erOa’1teras ﬁreslrranMarkFh:arr3eski

lAEishi_r1gtonandLee’s 62—6OwinoverEtrDryar1dH:—riryo1'1 (54)1cd<s<I1. lrilarrE=.rﬁ.r1is‘t3ilvr'Ltl'i13poir1ts.

 

BUENA VISTA—-The retum of se-
nior 197-pounder Ezra Morse wasn’t
enough for the Washington and Lee
wrestling team on Wednesday, as the
Generals dropped a 28-22 decision to
Southern Virginia on the road.

Forfeits at the 125 and 133-pound
classes decided the meet, in which
ﬁve wrestlers picked up individual
wins for W&L (2-6).

Senior Ivan Zdanov pinned 174-
pound opponent Jon Lindsey in
4:23, while sophomore 184-pounder
Joe Mueller recorded a pinfall over
Allen McDonald in 2:39.

Meanwhile, Morse defeated the
Knights’ Andrew Coffman, 9-1, in
his first match since suffering a bro-
ken ankle over Christmas break.

Junior Alex Poor (165 pounds)
and freshman Brian Avello (157)
were the other Generals to win their

Hopkins on Saturday. The event
begins at 11 a.m.

Me/anson, Conners named to
All-America lacrosse team

Two W&L men’s lacrosse play-
ers received preseason recognition
from 360Lacrosse.com this week.

Junior Tom Melanson was named
to the web site’s First Team Pre-
season All-America. The midﬁelder
won had a .735 faceoff percentage
to complement nine goals and ﬁve
assists in 2001.

Classmate Matt Conners was se-
lected for the third team as a defender.
W&L led NCAA Division III in scor-
ing defense at 4.87 goals per game
last season.

The Generals, 14-1 a year ago,
open the 2002 season at home

from three-point range. The Generals
ended the first 20 minutes with a 36-
26 lead.

But the Wasps, who defeated
then-No. 1 Randolph-Macon just four
days earlier, took away W&L’s out-
side shooting in the second half.
Emory and Hemy clawed their way
back into the contest, taking their ﬁrst
lead at 53-51 with 2:27 to play.

McClure’s three-point play at the
1:42 mark gave the Generals a 56-55
lead. After the Wasps’ Jay Rosser tied
the game with a pair of free throws
with 46 seconds remaining, W&L
freshman Mark Franceski tipped in his
own miss for a 60-58 lead with 17.5
seconds to play.

  

But Rosser drove the length of the
court and hit a baseline jumper with
9.5 seconds to go, setting up
McClure’s heroics.

“The last few mirrutes of the game,
the biggest thing was trying to get
stops,” Lafave said. “We had the score
where we wanted it, and we knew we
had a chance to win the game.”

Though Warren was held without
a point in the second half, his team-
mates picked it up on the offensive
end. Sophomore forward Hamill Jones
scored all nine of his points in the
second half, and McClure had six of
his 1 1 after halftime.

“You need guys to step up at certain
times,” Lafave said. “Obviously, J ohn’s

“Generals split pair f home ODAC contests

Fm GA’/The Ring—tum Phi

Snmumar-ms: Junior guard Elizabeth Igo played 23 minutes off the bench in
W8L’s 71-57 hare loss to Roanoke on Friday.

Senior Megan Babst led the way
for the Generals, scoring 24 points and
pulling down 10 rebounds to register
another double-double.

Classmate Jessica Mentz
grabbed a career-high 18 boards and
scored 15 points, 13 in the second
half.

Williams led the Maroons with 17
points, five rebounds and five steals.

The key for Roanoke, however,
was a stiﬂing defense that forced the
Generals to commit 18 turnovers and
shoot 25 percent from the floor in the
ﬁrst half.

“We need to return to the funda-
mentals,” Hollack said. “There are
ﬂashes of brilliance where we perform
like we can, but we need to be more
consistent and stick to the game plan.”

The Generals’ loss gave Roanoke
their ﬁrst winning streak of the sea-
son. The defeat also stunted W&L’s
attempt to start another winning streak
following a Wednesday night defeat
of Randolph-Macon Woman’s Col-
lege, 60-52.

Mentz scored 26 points and
grabbed 12 boards to lead the Gener-
als in the win over the WildCats. Babst

 

ﬁrst half kept us in the game and gave us
the lead, and then you had Hamill and

matches on the night.

against Bates on Feb. 23.

Ian step up in the second half.”
W&L fell to 5- 15, including a 3-12

W&L SPORTS SCHEDULES FEBRUARY 5-11

mark in the ODAC, with an 80-63 loss
at Harnpden-Sydney on Saturday. The
Generals led 32-26 at halftime, but fell
victim to a red-hot Tiger team after
the break, as the home team shot 70
percent from the ﬁeld and 7—of-8 from
three-point range in the second half.

McClure and junior Touissant
Crawford led W&L with 13 points
each, while Warren and freshman

W&LtFi dlh-M ,4..
Mike Stuart contributed 10 apiece. February 8'9 .a an O p H acon p m
The Generals step out of ODAC Indoor Track Men S Basketba
W&L at Christopher Newport W&L at Eastern Mennonite, 7 p.m.

play on Thursday with a 7 p.m. home
contest against Mary Washington.

Wednesday, Feb. 6
Women's Basketball
W&L at Eastern Mennonite, 7 p.m.

Thursday, Feb. 7
Men’s Basketball
Mary Washington at W&L, 7 p.m.

Saturday, Feb. 9

Men’s Tennis

Tennessee-Chattanooga at W&L,
11 a.m.

Wrestling

W&L Triangular, 11 a.m.

Women’s Basketball

added 14 points and 10 rebounds and
blocked a school-record six shots.

Freshman Bethany Dannelly, the
conference leader in assists at 5.9 per
game, dished out nine assists and
added nine points.

The next week for the Generals will
be key in determining who they play
in the ODAC Tournament later in
February. W&L faces Eastern Men-
nonite and Randolph-Macon, two
teams just above and below W&L in
the conference standings, on the
road.

When the Generals travel to
Harrisonburg for a 7 p.m. game on
Wednesday, they will need to con-
tain Emily Mullet, the leading
scorer in ODAC play. Mullet
scored a career—low four points on
1-of—7 shooting from the field in
the Royals’ 56-52 win over W&L
on Jan. 4.

“We contained her in the last game,
but they played well in the post,”
Hollack said.

More importantly, however,
Hollack believes her team needs to
focus on their own performance and
ignore who they’re playing.

“I feel that we need to take care of
ourselves, and not focus on our op-
ponents,” she said. “The key right
now is that we continually make the V
same mistakes. We need to take a step
back and learn from our mistakes in
order to improve.”

Coming soon to the sports pages of

THE RJ1\lG—TUM PHI. . .
Next Week:

Previews of men’s lacrosse, women’s lacrosse and
baseball, plus continued coverage of men’s and
women’s basketball, track and wrestling.

After the Washington Holiday:

Previews of golf and women’s tennis, a wrap-up of
W&L winter sports, and coverage of the Generals in
the spring season.

Questions, comments or suggestions? interested in
covering Washington and Lee athletics for the Phi?

Contact Jeremy Franklin at x4060 or franklinj@wlu.edu.

 MONDAY, i7EBRUAR‘{77gg__4W,_viVg

{hie

  

av mm ‘
FEB. 3, 9.. 11 3. 12 AT 3 PM :

W&L crosse town, "53- 9 3* *0 AT 2 PM   A

runs at VMI Relays       »
A Box  4534   A 1
Emauamzz -ms-r: The Washington and . __  . - . A . —; .. " I ‘
(bmack Field House for an individual— ' ‘ 4‘
only ocrtpetition on Saturday. (Above)
Sophomore Andrew Fotinos chases

freshman Steve(lham‘bers inthemen’s ‘?
mile run. (left) Sophomore Vanessa WANTED: Surrmer Scholars Counselors V
Adams runs in thewcmenls version of

theae _RIﬁﬂ maﬁa June26—July27, 2002 1'
oft‘heeventlog<I1totl'JeWas‘r1irgto'1arri 1
LeeAth1etirsv£bsiteatati'ﬂ.etirs.wlu.e3.1. . . .
(gptoslymygy/ﬂERing_mHu», Areyou looking foragreat chance tobe anraitorand to e>@ience I’

workingwith high school stixieits mhile staying at W&L for the Ironth
of July? The Washington and Lee Summer Scholars Program is an 4.

 

      
    
 

    

  

 

 

f excitzing four week academic program for approximately 150 rising
highschool seniors. Weareloolcing forresponsjble studeits tohelp ‘V
  "'§f?.‘£'!!€‘! ::4s:<:=.€e=£'. E—File Your Federal & State Returns guide participants ardtoplar1e><tramrri<iﬂar activities suchas tal-
ggﬂuﬁgga $9 95 f 11 at shows, lip syncs, meekeridhikes, trips toGoshenandnore. '
‘BAHAMAS. um . or A I at ‘ ,,
  Www°123f11e'net Forﬁrrtlerinfonraticnarritoobtainapplications, please contact 4,
. 1  See web—site for additional credit. J31niferI—OttSr ﬁrmer ﬁlolarsr H3—U- House at 463-8722-

 (”bOokmark” this ad for future reference) ’*
Thedeadljne forti1rnjnginap_plications isFebruary27, 2002. "

‘A

     ﬁn

zttﬁi ~%t,:§ _ ff”

1»

h

»

..~

4

-1

A

'1

  azsmxsso - mmatsrmo » ,13AGH-L3 - mm:m‘s ~ £’R{ITlS3;A3~§‘I’$
~ ' 9WFSE‘¥Y% §¥KEK?#EJXIN3T0?§*“4€ﬂ6

~ 4

HJJ5 -‘[D"S”lMI.“’ ‘
A

51j“©i§E:\MlJJ:, J l_,_r:

J BEGINS nunnv. Mmumv 11 .
Jan. 11-17 25% off evervllune .
Jan. 18-24 30% oﬂ-' ‘.11
Jan 25-31 40% cl-17 V.
Feb. 1-9 1 569% oFl7!!!!!  L.

c:I_ls-rolvl cn=u::E|=:s Ixlcrr II\Ic:I_I_u::EI::I _ / ,
  , I A
MAKING ROOM FOR THE Java    ’
NEW smzme INVENTORY   i.

 

-9 %'r~”6»755’

 p RIvI“"IP
V; Wt INsii)E ‘
VA’): 

SPECIAL V..-\.{.I?.l\"I‘INl?.’S
DAY ISSUE. T112:
RING-rm: PHI wru.
Rl%'S1L='l\'1E€ l’(iB1l('.'A’£‘I()l\"
MARC:-r 4.

 

£’.’sift‘?_Ii.7I:Ji-I. ‘F .oi_C1€‘ OF W2*S.HlN<;'t‘t‘>N Arm Let. U :<:v:aas:'i‘Y Sim: 1897 C13 0N1’.

Rl1ii“T€‘}"3“l“

  

HM72‘l’H'l.\‘h‘I.l.%.£'l)t§

 

 PH1

 
 

N3“

I = ’ r‘-5-'«:  ..;.«.+-..-."WI.~'i’i)“i.*§‘3ii”‘ W
FEB l 2 2D02.PrN1<:>Ns 3
\7(/’&l.m-?. 5

SPORTS 6
S<j:H13r)t_ir.r: 6
24,-’? 2

‘v'<>L::5il; (LIV, No. 

ltx1M;zt'>N. \"rR<;t\n 24-I50

:\l0Nl)AY. l?'r.sr:r:.-sI<Y' 11, 2002

AooMMoN PURPOSE. As rushing freshmen, current seniors led discussion groups at Saturdays Something ofValue seminar.

Council.

Cedarholm.

FIIEPHUID

ASSOCIATE EDITOR

Sorority women will collectively tackle campus
issues of drugs, eating disorders, and sexual
activitiy after participating in this weekend’s
“Something of Value” conference by Panhellenic

Representatives from each of Washington and
Lee’s ﬁve sorority chapters gathered Saturday to
participate in risk-management sessions and
discussions to identify and develop plans of action
against risk—taking behaviors in a national
Panhellenic Council seminar.

“Something of Value...educate(s) sorority
women about risky behaviors, such as drinking and
drugs, and how those behaviors can negatively af-
fect a sorority,” said Panhellenic president Katie

The conference’s biggest impact “will be that
now all the women will realize that they are talking
about the same things,” Teresa Glassman, W&L
Panhellenic advisor and director of student activities
said. “They now know that they have a place to
come together and where they can go from here.”

Over 70 sorority leaders attended the
conference, which began with a mock trial. National
sorority representatives, chapter advisors and
national Panhellenic facilitators also attended.

Nancy Campbell, an attorney from Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania, led the mock trial along with W&L
Panhellenic officers. The trial, designed to reflect
W&L issues, covered an underage binge drinking/
hazing case. Audience members acted as a jury in
determining responsibility in an alcohol-related injury.

After the participants watched the trial and had
lunch with their respective national chapter advisors,

Sororities plan action
against risky behaviors

National program comes to W&L, challenges Greek women
BYKATIE_].HOWELL

they formed five breakout groups for intense
discussions about campus risk-taking behaviors.
~ In these groups, the women collectively identified
the four greatest risky behaviors in the W&L
community: eating disorders, alcoholism, drugs
(specifically cocaine) and sex-related issues,
including sexually—transmitted diseases and rape.

After identifying these issues, the women
then discussed plans of action to improve these
situations on campus.

National Panhellenic facilitator Gail Owen
was pleased with W&L’s productivity in
Saturday’s meeting.

“The answer is in your hands,” Owen said.

The national chapter and Panhellenic
representatives encouraged participants to
continue working together to make a
difference on the W&L campus. Panhellenic
officers and the national representatives
stayed afterward to discuss the plans of action
against these issues.‘

National facilitators said that most
campuses work for about six months to a year
to address their risky behaviors. Glassman
and the Panhellenic officers believe that
W&L sorority women can make a difference
as well.

“This program is something that we had seen
previously and heard talked about,” Glassman
said. “Each sorority had to approve the program
before national Panhellenic would even consider
coming here. I believe that shows we want to
make a difference.”

The participants appreciated the program as
well.

“It was an open, frank discussion,” one said.
“It was wonderful.”

Poverty program selects 29 W&L summer interns

.‘,~.-u~—:'n...

BY Pmzn QUACKENBUSH
snrr wmrrr

The Shepherd Program on Poverty and Human Capa-
bility has selected this year’s participants in its summer
program. Twenty—nine students from W&L willjoin a yet-
to-be-determined number of students from Berea, Spelman
and Morehouse Colleges to serve people suffering from
poverty in America and around the world.

The Shepherd A1liance’s participants will help allevi-
ate poverty through a variety of means, said - Harlan
Beckley, the program’s director.

“Students will be serving for eight weeks in agencies
that  work in areas of financing small business,
healthcare, social service, community organizing, law, edu-
cation, and so forth,” Beckley said.

Six of the W&L students will participate in the Amigos
de las Américas program, where they will travel to a Latin
American country and promote public health, education

 

and community involvement.

Past program participants strongly feel that spend-
ing time serving communities provides not only to those
that need help, but also give a sense of self—worth and

confidence.

“The Shepherd Program has shaped
my life,” senior Stacy McLoughlin
said. Others share similar sentiments.

“The classes and internship have
further focused much of my time and

_ academic coursework on issues of in-
equality and injustice - two wrongs in
our culture that I have tried to devote
much of my time and energy to un-
derstanding,” senior Claiborne Tay-

n ECL

lor said.

The students selected to participate in the program
were chosen for their potential to serve others and get
something out of it at the same time. Senior Pete Cook,

who assisted in the selection process, explained, “We
look for people who have demonstrated an interest in
social issues, who volunteer, or want to get more in-
volved in the community.”

V The program searches for stu-
dents enthusiastic about making
changes in the lives of others. “It is
a common misconception that the
Shepherd program only selects stu-
dents involved in service and with
strictly liberal beliefs,” Taylor said.
“On the contrary, we look for stu-
dents who want more out of their
college and educational experience
and who are ready to take this

AYLOR

plunge with open minds and enthusiasm.”

Beckley said he enjoys working with students excited
about assisting others. “The thrill of working with students
in the Shepherd Program stems from watching students

    

learning through combining rigorous classroom study with
learning through first—hand experience trying to alleviate
poverty,” Beckley said.

Cook also believes that students can learn more from
the program than from ordinary summer jobs. “Anyone
can go work in an ofﬁce for the summer, but this is an
opportunity to gain great experience, while helping others
at the same time,” he said.

It is expected that each student will gain much
through the program by visiting people in situations far
more dire than anything they have previously experi-
enced. Taylor hoped that students would be better able
to evaluate their own lives. “Living in a new or unfamil-
iar area offers students the chance to venture forth past
their comfort levels and get a taste of the real world,”
Taylor explained. Beckley had his own hopes for stu-
dents. “I expect this summer’s participants to learn more
about communities and people they have not encoun-
tered previously,” he said.

Alcohol speaker urges courage to care

Recovered alcoholic believes W&L students can /earn from her college experiences

Mr(;Frruwn/Iheking-tumPhz'
Hun~:’s1oS1sm1 CAROLYN. Cornelisonused
aneodotesandjol<estoexpr'e$hdideasabout
high-riskalcoholabuse.

BY Kim}. HOWELL
ASSOCIATE EDITOR

Washington and Lee University has
twice the national average of college stu-
dents with alcohol problems, said Carolyn
Comelison, who spoke at Lee Chapel last

' Tuesday.

Comelison, a national alcohol speaker,
shared personal ancedotes to express her
message, finding “The Courage to Care.”

Her program exposed the dangers of high-
risk drinking, and how to help other people
with this problem.

“Courage to Care” focused on help-
ing teammates or Greek brothers or sisters
with alcohol problems.

“The majority of us are in a situa-
tion where we can help people,”
Comelison said.

LIFE, the Panhellenic Council, the
Intrafratemity Council and the Office of
Health Education sponsored Comelison’s
speech. University Health Educator Janis
Kaufman saw Comelison speak to athletes

“I thought her presentation was ef-
fective because she combined humor with
important life stories,” sophomore Kara
Coen said. “Her discussion was sober-
ing.”

Cornelison was an athlete and so-
rority member as a college student, and
directed her talk toward these
groups. She challenged the audience to
help the members of their fraternities,
sororities and sports teams with alco-
hol problems.

“We need to tell people that we
care about when we are worried about

at the University of them,” she said.
Virginia and “The difficult part
thought her speech WHO KNEW I WASAN OLYMPIC ATHLETE starts when I
would benefit leave, and it will

W&L. Kaufman,
whose office pro-
vided the financial
backing, then encouraged the other spon-
sors to ensure attendance.

“(Cornelison’s) message is the
message we’re trying to get across in
the TIPS program,” Kaufman said. “I
think she gave the students a very im-
portant message about caring for each
other and not being afraid to speak up
when they are having a problem with
alcohol.”

TIPS is the alcohol intervention ‘

program required of student bartend-
ers.

Cornelison’s talk was light-
hearted, frequently drawing laughter
from the audience of approximately 200
people.

IN THIS SPORT-DRINKING GAMES?
CAROLYN CORNELISON

make you feel un-
comfortable. You
have made com-
mitments to be brothers and sisters,
and you must follow through with
that.”

Admiting that she was “an Olympic
athlete in drinking games” and that “you
would have really liked me here at W&L—
I was fun,” Comelison threaded the main
thoughts of her speech: that “courage is
not the absence of fear, courage is taking
action in the face of fear.”

Comelison used this message along
with personal stories of her own struggle
with alcoholism to motivate students to be-
gin caring for one another.

“We don’t want to lose people,” she
said. “(Alcohol abuse) is always a pre-
ventable tragedy.”

 

VM

BY SAM LAGRONB
snrr CORRESPONDENT

AVrrginiaMilitary Institute professorwasoonvicted
IastMondayoftwooountsofsexcrirnesinvo1ving aminor.
ARockbridge County CircuitCourtoonvictedPaul
G. Pierpaoli Jr., a history professor specializing in the
Korean War, with using a computer to solicit sex with a
minor and having carnal knowledge of a child, the
Associated Press reported. .
’ Authorities accused Pierpaoli of contacting a
14-year-old teen and his
21-year-old lover, Tm Campolito, over the Intemet
and meeting them for a tryst in a trailer near Goshen,
Commonwealth’s Attomey Gordon Saunders told AP.
The teen and Campolito were caught using a
stolen computer and a credit card number, Saunders
told AP. From their arrests, police traced Pierpaoli
and issued an arrest warrant for the professor in
September. Pierpaoli denied the charges, saying the
encounter did not involve sex with a minor.

pfessor involved in kid pornography

é

I-I115 PHOTO
Vl\’II’sCAivn*Us.”Ihetypi<‘x'1lrigorousacadernicwor1d ofV"1rginiaMilitary Institutewas disruptedwhenone
ofitseducatorsbemme pornography.

“It’s obvious that these people were hooking
up for the purpose of sex, and that is what oc-
curred,” Saunders told the Richmond
Times-Dispatch. Samples of Pierpaoli’s semen were
found at the scene of the trailer, Saunders said.

After six hours of testimony Circuit Judge George
Honts III convicted Pierpaoli of both charges. Pierpaoli
was released on bond and is now in Hilton Head S.C.
He will be sentenced on May 10, according to AP.

Pierpaoli is currently suspended without pay.
Chuck Steenburgh, a VMI spokesman, declined to
comment on any further administrative action by VIVII.

Pierpaoli began work at VMI in 1998 as the
executive assistant to Superintendent Josiah
Bunting HI. He was also a part—time history pro-
fessor. Pierpaoli earned a chair in the history de-
partment and taught full time, until he was charged.

“He was honestly...not impersonal but not neces-
sanlyapp'oat:lrable,”saidDarnellGnfﬁrtajurri<)r'forwlrorn
Pierpaoli was an academic advisor and professor “He
didr1’tseemlikeaguythatwoulddosorrrethinglikethat”

 

 

  

 

:7 -it"

...r_.
5 I
. .\.;r

 

Fasting to beneﬁt chanly for hungry

This Wednesday, Feb. 13, the Nabors Service
League is sponsoring a hunger fast in support of

hungry people worldwide. According to sophomore
Lessie Calhoun, the organizer of the fast, each person

who fasts will have sponsors who donate money to
support him or her.

Said Calhoun, “Almost 1()0 people participated
last year, and we raised more than a thousand dol-
lars.”

In light of last year’s success, Calhoun is even
more optimistic for this year. She said, “One hundred
people fasting, each with ten sponsors who donate
ﬁve dollars, will add up to ﬁve thousand dollars. This
[event] has the potential to be extraordinarily suc-
cessful if people get involved”

The fast is modeled after the charitable group
OXFAM’s annualfastheldinNovember.Thernoney
raised at W&L’s fast will be donated to OXFAM,
which partners with over 3,000 local organizations
around the world Said Calhoun, “By involving local
organizations, OXFAM ensures that the aid will be
best tailored to meet local needs.”

People interestedinsigning up forthefast should
come to the Coop on Monday or Tuesday. Sign-up
sheets will be outside. Calhoun stressed that those
who will be unable to fast on Wednesday can still
participate; they simply need to let Nabors know.

Prizes will be awarded to the fast participant who
raises the most money ﬁom sponsors.

Construction on track, further

expansion planned

University oﬁicials will seekthe Board of
Trustees’ approval to move forward with long-
planned construction, renovation and expansion
projects for art and music programs, athletics and
additional classroom and ofﬁce space.

Following action by the board, which is meeting
Feb. 7-9, University Architect Tom Contos and other
Washington and Lee University oﬂicials will meet
with municipal representatives to discuss the
Ur1iversity’s plans.

Meanwhile, construction and renovation work
is going well on the John W. Elrod University Com-
mons, the journalism department’s Reid Hall and
Doremus Gymnasium’s new ﬁtness center. "These
projects remain on schedule and on budget,” Contos
said.

“Most of the rock removal and blasting at the
Commons site is over. The worst is past,” he added.

    
   

 

 
 

1.:
a::r:n=rus - F.§R&§$I:) » rsatrarrecsre - Pasmrﬁas ~ name



“The crews just ﬁnished drilling the piers, which are
embedded in the rocks to support the Commons.
They’re now preparing to install the grade beams,
which will provide additional support for the struc-
ture.

“By spring, we’ll see the steel structure going
up,” Contos said. “Construction will move very
quickly after that. It will be exciting to see the Com-
mons becoming a reality.”

The $43 million Commons-Reid Hall—Doremus
project—the largest construction effort in W&L his-
tory—is a key part of the phased building program
the University began in the 1980s to bring W&L’s
academic, athletic, student housing and meeting fa-
cilities up to par with those at other topranked liberal
arts colleges nationally.

The smaller scale art—music facility and class-
room addition projects now under consideration will
largely complete the University’s phased improve-
ment efforts, marked by the construction of the
Lenfest Center for the Perfonning Arts, the science
building addition, intramural athletic facilities, the so
rority housing complex and the fraternity renaissance,
said Lawrence W. Broomall, W&L’s treasurer and
vice president for ﬁnance.

Having the best academic programs requires
providing the best in facilities, W&L Tnrstee Philip
W. Norwood, a 1969 alumnus and Charlotte, N.C.,
developer, said at last fall’s launching of W&L’s $225
million capitalcampaign

“Great things happen in great buildings,” he
said ‘Mediocrity is not part of Washington and 

The proposals going to the board, which has
previously reviewed them in its work on W&L’s mas-
ter plan and capital campaign, are:

—arnending the University’s master plan and,
concomitantly, seeking city approval to use the 1.1-
acre Mann property adjacent to the Lenfest Center
for a new art—music building;

—hiring an architectural ﬁrm to begin site and
schematic planning for the estimated $20-24 million
art—music building;

-pursuing preliminary design and construction
planning for an estimated $5-7 million classroom and
faculty ofﬁce addition next to the commerce school;

—examir1ing ﬁeld upgrades at the old baseball
ﬁeld and VV1lson Stadium to allow soccer and football
programs to frilly use those respective sites.

Art-MusicBuilding

StuderrttraﬁicirrduPontHallisamor1gthehighest
of any building on campus, with 40 percent of W&L’s
undergraduates involved in art and music activities, fac-
ultyleaders saidatlast fall’s campaign launching.

At the same time, students contend with a dearth
of music practice rooms, instead making due with
pianos crammed in hallways, and inadequate paint-
ing and sculpture studios, which lack ventilation,
proper lighting and are plagued by leaky roofs, noted
George R. Bent, an associate professor and chair of
the art department.

.5 rtfv  
A  {A313

 

DuPont Hall. built in 1954, furtha lacks adequate
wiringtohandlethegowinguseoftechnologyinrnusic
arrdgraplricartsprograrr‘s.Everrbasicdesl<topcorrrput—
ersovertaxduPont’scapabilit'xas,forcingmiltyaritlstu—
der1tstogoelsewherejusttoreademail,saidBenL

“Ifyou look atourarts facilities andthose at
good high schools, our facilities are inadequate and
technologically dated,” said Contos. “If we want to
compete nationally while providing our students with
a broad education, the arts must have better, more
visible facilities.”

The one-acre Mann property next to the Lenfest
Center was purchased by the University two years
ago. Though other locations have been reviewed,
the Mann site is viewed as best suited for a new art-
music facility, which rnayopeninFall2005.

“We thinkputling the arts together atone site is
thebest approach,” Contos said “Our ideal is to cre-
ate an arts village, where performance and studioarts
support each other and create a synergy. People ar-
riving for a concert at Lenfest could walk through an
(adjacent) art gallery or listen to students practicing.”

W&L already has retained the respected his-
toricpreservatior1ﬁnnofFran'erAssociatesinStauntor1
toadviseitontheadaptivere-useoftheoldtrain
station on the site.

"IheUniversityisplanningtodiscusswithcom-
munity members an appropriate way to incorporate
thetrainsta1ionintoourplanningandtoﬁndanap—
propriate use for it,” said Contos. “Demolition is not
an option we are considering.”

O&m0mAddition

Everexpanding space demand on the University
promptedtheBoardofTnrsteestoincludeinthecapi-
tal campaigrfs goals an addition near the commerce
schoolcontairrirrgrnoreserrrirrarandlectureclassroorrs,
as well as more oﬂice space for college faculty.

The University is considering an addition of up
to 20,000square—feet where the co—op snack bars
outdoor patio currently is located Since the co—op will
be moving to the University Oomrnons when it opens
in2003,thatpatioareawillbereplacedby alargerand
more picturesque courtyard drawing students and
faculty together from the Commons, the Wrlliarns
School, the University Bookstore and the Graham-
Leesdormitory. _

“Clearly, one of the University’s strategies in
planning for the proposed addition and a new, well-
landscaped courtyard istoﬁndbuildablespacewithin
the core of campus,” Contos said “At the same time,
we are very sensitive to both maintaining the historic
scale of buildings and the open views and green-
spaces that make Washington and Lee a national
architectural treasure.”

Athleticliieldlrnproverrrerrts

About $25 million in upgrades to athletic ﬁelth also
proverrertstoﬂreoldbaseballﬁeldwouldallowtmtam
rerrtlymrriserlfacilitytoberxurreasrrccastatiimrtwiﬁrthe
current soccer ﬁeld then available as a practice site

  
 

 

 110:2

 

aerate  
V k:ju"§:r:uvra.r’aitIs?' V

 

0iN.r Wt’ it  
_,  *

4-Contact Bimaer  ‘
 —~      .
       ".I‘hursda§__rl, Fab- '14-"V3230 - 9:016-iv
-  ,  *It.Fridag, Feb.‘ 3.5  1513?“.-"R aura-V, ,
 A _ -'.i<«e£ly..H;’an'is an Keyhadfd 

 v-v-vvvv---~-~«~---+ 
 Fee. 14, aurora

_:

,-.5 5 .3». -



     
    

 

8 p.m.—Theatre Series.
“Wild Oats” by James
McLure. Directed by Al Gor-

don. Johnson Theatre,
Lenfest Center.

8:30 p.m.—Java at the
GHQ. DJ Jonas. GHQ.

T\1esday,Feb. 12

12 p.m.—W&L Employ-
ees’ Christian Fellowship
Brown Bag Lunch. Room 108,
University Center.

7 p.m.—Lecture.
“Abraham Lincoln as the
First Black President?
Frederick Douglass on the

MONDAY. FEBRUARY 11. 2(KL2

Lincoln Presidency,” Dr.
Lucas Morel, assistant pro-
fessor of politics, W&L.
Northen Auditorium.

8 p.m.—Theatre Series.
“Wild Oats” by James
McLure. Directed by Al Gor-
don. Johnson Theatre,
Lenfest Center.

Wednesday, Feb.13

6:30 pm—I.eadership Semi-
nar Series. The Spirit of a
Woman. Room 205, Univer-
sity Center. Facilitated by
W.C. “Burr” Datz, director of
Leadership Development.

7 p.m.—Television and the
African American Experience:
Civil Rights and Beyond. Pro-
duced by the Museum of
Television and Radio. Part II:
Images of African-American
on Prime-Time Television.
Room 221, Williams School.

8 p.m.—-Lenfest Series.
Aquila Theatre Company pre-
sents “The Tempest.” Keller
Theatre, Lenfest Center.

Thursday, Feb. 14

4 p.m.—-Public
Seminar.“Galapagos:
Darwin’s Islands Today,” Pro-
fessor Emeritus Cleveland P.
Hickman. Room 114, Science
C e nter .
(sponsored by the biology
department) »

8 p.m.—-Lenfest Series.
Aquila Theatre Company pre-
sents ‘The Wrath of Achilles.”
Keller Theatre, Lenfest Center.

Fn'day,Feb.15

12p.m——Terrorism: An In-
terdisciplinary Perspective
Series. “Biological Terrorism,”
Gary Crocker, State Depart-
ment Analyst. Room A214,
Science Center.

FROM THE SHADOWS

FORMElCIADlRECI‘OR.Dr.R0b6It M.Gatessp0ke
in Lee Chapel Thurs, Feb. 7. Gates, the former
director of the CIA, addressed the factors leading
up to Sept. 1 l . He blamed the Clinton administra-

tion for ignoring CIA warnings about terrorist at-
tacks and denying it sufficient funds. Outside
agitators peppered Gates with personal at-
tacks disguised as questions about policy.

MBoFazRARAlRing-twnPhi

LSAT Super Prep at W&L
starts February 26

Ill

space is limited rt

Call Now to reserve your spot ll!
(Ask for course code LSCVZSD1).

Call or visit us; online today to enroll!

1-s-ttrrrsr

kaptestcom  

‘t_"£s%Tis§@t¢rw%rr%it¢f§te1M$e?tntté.&dt¥t§s$i¢at3bt£a$:.

  

 
       
 
  
   



Test Prep, Admissions  Guidance. For life.

 

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2002

Dining Services supplies
Soviet—style suppers

The Ring-tum Phi professes a healthy re-
spect for the Co-op. The Cooperational Facil-
ity of Glory, as we call it, is a beacon of hope
and food during cold Sunday evenings in the
ofﬁce.

But yesterday the Co-op became a patsy
for the dark designs of the Dining Services
Commissary, an outdated and controlling bu-
reaucracy reminiscent of the 70s USSR. The
DineServ ruthlessly enforces conformity in
times and places for eating.

This was driven home when an editor stopped
by Evans to pick up Sunday supper. Surprisingly
ﬁnding the meal unsatisfactory, he stopped by the
Co-op for a supplementary dinner. Imagine his
chagrin when told that his two dinners were too
close together“. he couldn’t use a meal plan be-
cause the DineServ decided his meals were too
close together.

What’s up with this? Should the High Com-
missars of DineServ allowed to tell us how
many meals we can eat in one day? If a stu-
dent pays for 10 meals a week, he should be
allowed to eat all of them on the same day, or
even at the same time.

Now, it’s arguable that the D—hall needs a
regular source of income. But that’s where
the freshmen, the university’s proles, come in.
They are DineServ’s financial fuel. Vifrth nearly
500 freshmen involuntarily taking 21 meals a
week, one would imagine that DineServ cof-
fers must be busting with the support of the
populace.

These revenues are not gong to toward
quotidian efforts. If so, upperclassmen would
be more often tempted to return to the Laetitia
Pate Evans, or the “Freshmen Feeding Trough,”
as it’s commonly known.

No, the money is being used for special

. events like Christmas Dinner and Wok Night.
It’s not for nothing that DineServ has snared
three Special Event awards in the last three
years, including the 2000 Grand Prize in Cater-
ing Special Events.

Perhaps DineServ Commisars should stop

- -chasing after regional culinary awards and in-

T stead focus on increasing student choice. We
want to eat when we want to.

UOTE OF THE WEEK:

“WEARING NOTHING BUT

LEATHER AND A GOOFY SMILE . . .”

—ANONYMOUS PHI EDITOR-IN-CHIEF IN
REFERENCE To 'I‘HE UNCONVENTIONAL
WEEKEND DRESS or AN ASST. EDITOR

‘r’r'.A$iaI.~ez‘=?«Gr:»=.-..in  l_3i.':'.r:sasa'rx P

Matthew B. McDermott
Katie J. Howell
Latrina Stokes
Imran Naeernullah
Brett T. Kirwan
AndrewLatimer
Matthew A. Cornsen
Catherine C. Guy
Jeremy S. Franklin
Dave Crowell

Alison M. Trinidad
Mary E. Guy

Meg Ferrara

J eb Brooks

Paul A. Seifert
Brian Castleberry
Emily Barker
Robert Floyd
William Litton
Peter L. Djalaliev

THE

Editor-in-chief
Associate Editor
Asst. News Editor
Asst. News Editor
Opinions Editor
Asst. Opinions Editor
W&Life Editors

Sports Editor

Asst. Sports Editor
Contributing Editor
Photo Editor
Photographers

Business Manager
Circulation Manager
Asst. Business Manager
Advertising Managers

Internet Editor

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editor-in-chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent. '

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following weeks edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent arid length. Letters and columns do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion of the Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address.‘ University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Wrginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Wrginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi. wlu.edu

TEE RNG-Tun: PHI

PIN ION S

BREITT. KIRWAN
OPINIONS E.on0R
EMAILK1RwANB@wLuE1J

9/ ll encouraged Ameria—hars

Although the Sept. 11 attacks
deepened the country’s slumping
economy, they did create a bumper
crop of anti—American invective from
the nattering class on the left. Anti-
Americanism has been in vogue
among the liberal elites on both coasts
since Vietnam, but America’s
reassertion of her power and moral
uprightness in the War on Terror has
created more opportunities to bemoan
the excesses and errors of our soci-
ety than ever before.

America’s critics can be broken
into three categories—-- the leftist Euro-
elites and their disciples in this coun-
try, celebrities and hangers-on who
deign to share their sage wisdom with
those outside the Hollywood cock-
tail party circuit and liberal joumal-
ists and commentators who make a
living in America—bashing.

Examples of the first have
abounded since al—Qaeda prisoners
have arrived at Guantanamo Bay.
Britain’s Daily Mail ran a picture of
the detainees on the frontpage under
the headline “Tortured.” Members
from a slew of European parliaments
have voiced disapproval of our han-
dling of the terrorists. An unidenti-
ﬁed Western European ambassador
told the International Herald Tribune
that our treatment of the captives,
“puts at stake the moral credibility of
the war.” But while we are cutting off
hair, the Taliban and the Saudis cut
off hands for stealing and stone to
death adulterers.

Joschka Fischer, the German For-
eign Minister and member of the Green
party, has been one of America’s larg-
est critics, accusing us of “making up
rules” for the prisoners and subtly
threatening that the anti-terror coali-
tion could hinge on the perceived in-
justices meted out in Cuba. Ifonly our
European so-called al-
lies would focus on
the real injustice dealt
to the victims of the,
attacks and not the
“perceived injustice”
of having only a six by eight foot cell.

Celebrities, who have a long his-
tory of being so sophisticated as to
be beyond patriotism, have not let
us down in this war. Most disgust-
ing in his rhetoric is Norman Mailer,
who labeled America’s new-found
patriotism as “going too far,” and
derided our national pride as an “ob-
scene infatuation.” Although many
lent their voices and talents to rais-
ing funds for the victims of the at-
tacks, others showed little forbear-
ance in criticizing the nation.

Jane Fonda, who began her
America-hating career 30 years ago
aiding the Viet Cong in Hanoi, told an
Atlanta area radio station “we must
try to understand the underlying

Letter to the Editor

RIGHT OF THEKBEJ
BREIT T. KIRWAN ‘O4

HANOI HoNEY: Jane Fonda, the original Arnerica-hater, sits with Viet Cong soldiers
near an anti-aircraft gun she used to attack American aircraft.

causes of terrorism.” She went on to
criticize our “saber rattling” and “calls
for vengeance.” Sorry Jane, but the
cause of terrorism is radical Islam, not
anything we did, not even our sup-
port of Israel. Moreover, a woman who
fought with the Viet Cong against
American servicemen is hardly quali-
ﬁed to deﬁne our war on terror as no
more than “saber rattling.”

America’s most vociferous group
of critics has been, by
far, the liberal joinnal—
ists employed by
magazines such as
The Nation and W1-
lage Voice to bash
the United States. One Barbara
Kingsolver. wrote in The San_Fran-_
cisco Chronicle, “The American ﬂag
stands for intimidation, censorship,
violence, bigotry, sexism, homopho-
bia, and shoving the Constitution
through a paper shredder. Who are
we calling terrorists here?”

In The Los Angeles Times, she
suggested that we lower our level of

‘energy consumption and build better

mass transit systems, concluding that,
with such measures, we could “get
by with a military budget the size of
Iceland’s.” Apparently, the terrorists
were unaware of the subway station
underneath the World Trade Center,
otherwise they would have directed
their planes elsewhere.

In The Nation, Katha Pollitt
wrote that she forbid her daughter
from ﬂying an American ﬂag in their
living room window because the ﬂag
represents “the violent anti-Arab
and anti—Muslim bigotry that has al-
ready resulted in murder, vandalism
and arson around the country and
harassment on New York City streets
and campuses.” She went on to
claim that our bombing campaign
failed to hurt the Taliban, but rather
only their victims, the people of Af-
ghanistan. I suppose their cheering
in the streets and the mullahs’ hasty
retreat had nothing to do with our
military campaign.

Other lowlights are Susan
Sontag’s riickriarriing of Pres. Bush as
“our ridiculous President,” Edward
Said chalking the attacks up to our
support of Israel and Frank Rich’s New
York Times piece “How to lose a war”
in which he spat, “special interests—
particularly high—rolling campaign
contributors and (the) noisiest theo-
crats of the right-— have veto power
over public safety, public health and
economic prudence in war, it turns out,
no less than in peacetime.”

Fortunately, it turns out that the
uniﬁcation of America is truly the sil-
ver lining in the attacks and America-
haters, although louder, have shown
to be even farther on the fringe and
more easily ignored.

PAGE 3?
Diversity isn’t found in
programs and quotas

“Why should we want to increase diversity?” This
is a question that I have heard many times in various
ways as I have gone through my education, from teach-
ers and students alike. For me, diversity has been a
great beneﬁt in shaping the person I am.

Coming from a military background, I have had the
opportunity to meet a multitude of people from many
different places with
many different ideas.
I could not imagine
surrounding myself
with a bunch of
people that come from a similar background as myself
and consider myself growing and expanding. And,
growth and expansion is what college should be about.

Diversity is also becoming more important in our
global economy, as countries other than the United
States are in control of an increasing percentage of the
world’s wealth. Being in an atmosphere in which diver-
sity is maintained and promoted gives one a greater
opportunity to go outside of his community and suc-
ceed, whether that be in business or just getting the
most out of a week tour of another country. The world
would be a boring place if everyone thought the same
way, and fewer problems would be solved if everyone
approached them in the same way. The United States
of America would never have been achieved if our
Founding Fathers thought the same way. In a genetic
sense, genetic diversity is even essential for the suc-
cess of a species.

Washington and Lee, like many of our country’s
top schools, is in a process of trying to promote diver-
sity at its campus. However, the mechanisms by which
such diversity programs are implemented often draw
criticisms. Perhaps the most famous consequence of a
diversity promotion program resulted in the Bakke
decision, which eliminated racial quotas as a basis for
promoting diversity at college campuses. So, how do
we promote diversity at our colleges? How do we make
these decisions while keeping fairness in rriind?

Unfortunately, I do not have any easy answers for
these questions, but I urge those of you who are say-
ing that W&L should make decisions solely based on
qualiﬁcations to think hard. There would be a signiﬁ-
cantly higher percentage of women at Washington and
Lee, if admissions decisions were made merely with
regard to credentials instead of a policy of accepting a
class that is 55% male and 45% female.

Another issue that comes to mind when one thinks
of is “connections.” As Ben Stein said spoke in Lee
Chapel, “most of your life will be detemiined by whom
you know.” At many of the country’s elite schools,
there are some students who gained admissions be-
cause of whom they knew or to whom they are related.
Is this a qualiﬁcations-based system?

Basically, many people would like to have diver-
sity, but have great trouble deciding on a mechanism
for attaining it. I do not think that any system, mecha-
nism, or policy will increase diversity at Washington
and Lee. All these systems and policies can do is in-
crease the number of people of different backgrounds
at our campus. True diversity in any community has to
come from the exchange of ideas between these differ-
ent populations. We, as a community, need to realize
the beneﬁts that diversity can bring to both our carn-
pus and our lives. Thus, I encourage you to talk to
someone of a different background, take a course on a
culture you are unacquainted with, or visit a place with
a different culture. I guarantee you that all of the people
involved will beneﬁt.

COMMON SENSE
ONATHAN WORTHAM ‘04

Junior defends Jersey as better than South

Dear Editor,

Last summer, I had the great privilege to live in New
Jersey. This was perhaps the most enjoyable three months
of my entire life. That having been said, you can imagine
my surprise when I glanced through the Phi last Monday
evening and noticed that the TALKback question of the
week was, “What do you hate most about New Jersey?”

In the section, ignorant W&L students were asked
what their beef was with NJ. One girl said that New Jersey
is the “armpit” of the United States, implying that NJ was
dirty/smeHy. Perhaps the areas that this person has seen
were indeed dirty (the northern section of the Jersey Tum-
pike comes to mind, Newark, Jersey City, etc. . .) however,
there is a lot more to New Jersey than meets the eye.

New Jersey is home to nineteen of America’s 250 Rich-
est Towns (Worth Magazine, June 2001). There are only
eight towns in the entirety of the South on that list, two in
Virginia, one in South Carolina, one in North Carolina, one
in Maryland, two in Kentucky, one in Georgia. The great
expanse of the state of Texas offers only ﬁve of the richest
250 towns in the country. Many of these nice towns lie

“I have prior
commitments.”
——Meredith Bailey, ‘O5

“Sure.”
——Christine Caldrone, ‘O5

along the Central and Northern shores of New Jersey in
close proximity to one another. This area, Momnouth
County, is arguably the nicest place to live in the country
(having close proximity to both New York City and the
beautiful beaches of North Central Jersey.)

Many people believe that New Jersey is uninhabit-
able due to pollution. New J ersey’s pollution is a problem,
but it is not as bad as some may think. On the Environ-
mental Defense Total Air Pollution Rankings
(www.Scorecard.org), New Jersey is a high 9”‘ on the list.
It does however trail southern states Louisiana (5) and
Georgia (8). Followed closely by Maryland (10), North
Carolina (12), Tennessee (13), and Alabama (14), all states
residing below the Mason-Dixon Line. Texas placed sec-
ond on that list.

I am also very quick to point out that New Jersey and
my own Commonwealth of Massachusetts rank 46"‘ and
47"‘ on the Total Animal Waste Pollution Ranking. The
state of Texas owns the title of “Most Total Animal Waste”
with 110,000,000 tons of waste per year. Don’t mess with
Texas? Too late.

Nice areas of New Jersey are plentiful; you simply
need to give the state more than a cursory drive through

“That’s what I have »
Patick Hastings for.”
—Ali Santoro, ‘05

“Only for you.”
--Lisa Miller, ‘05

to learn of them. However, most of the people reading this

article will never get to see the sparkling beaches of North —

Central Jersey (home of the second rated surf spot on the
East Coast- Manasquan Inlet), and will probably assume
that New Jersey deserves its “Garbage State” reputation.
That is actually probably a good thing- the fewer rednecks
pretending to be urban andtrendy in and around New
York, the better. I

In closing, do the Southerners at this school
have a right to badmouth New Jersey?
Fuhgettaboudit. The fact is that every redneck at
this school that wants to be successful in the finan-
cial world will be begging and pleading his boss for
a raise so that he canafford the beautiful scenery of I
North Central J ersey.

For those of you who don’t want to work in or visit
the New York area, have fun in the sticks and enjoy your
huntin’ and ﬁshin’ with the good ole boys. I’ll be laughing
it up while I get a dark, brown tan, surﬁng my days away
down the Jersey shore.

Sincerely,
Benjamin Jones ‘O3

“Only if you give me a
really good Valentine.”
--Erin Dougherty, ‘04

   

 

PAGE 4

      

“The international community
must address itself to solve without
delay the Arab—Israeli conﬂict,” said
King Abdullah II of Jordan at the
World Economic Forum held last week
in New York City. The forum, attended
by leaders from all over the world, af-
fords these leaders the opportunity
to discuss pressing issues in a more
open and friendly manner than if they
were in a UN session.

Everyone from billionaire George
Soros to Carter National Security Ad-
viser, Zbigniew Brzezinkski, spoke on
topics in what U2 singer, Bono, de-
scribed as “a very casual setting.”
While Bono was in fact mildly chas-
tising the forum by suggesting that
the leaders needed to actually act
upon their words after the conference,
he still made the important point that
issues were being debated that would
not otherwise be discussed in the
public arena.

Despite these obviously good
intentions of the forum, the fact is,
certain groups View a large gathering
of inﬂuential and generally wealthy
people suspiciously. They insist upon
protesting against the World Eco-
nomic Forum as an annual ritual; no
matter what is discussed, they have
something to say against it simply
because it exists. No matter that they
actually have no clue what goes on
outside of their neatly printed polem-
ics they hand out to passersby; they
simply must have a cause against
which to protest.

No, what is truly disturbing is not
the existence of these activists. They
have every right to their opinion,
whether or not the majority agrees
with it. Furthermore, they have every
right to stage a protest, no matter how
inane it is or how in-
tellectually weak
their argument is.
What is downright
alarming, however,
and blatantly outrageous, is their use
of violent tactics to accomplish their
“peaceful” objectives.

Consider the Feb. 4 New York
Times headline, “150 Protestors Ar-
rested at 2 Demonstrations Miles
Away From Meeting.” The Times, not
exactly a big supporter of the political
right, reports on the “chanting and
sometimes raucous demonstrators” in
the East Village and the Upper East
Side.” While the article points out that
the majority of protestors this year
were peaceful, it is the hard-core fringe
that got arrested-—and it is this fringe
that organizes the protests and pro-
vides the impetus for their snaky
cause.

These activists are a menace to
society. The reason the police were
arresting the demonstrators is be-
cause they were stopping traffic (put-
ting themselves and others in danger

RIGHT WING Reﬁtirsf
IMRAN NAEEMULLAH _‘05_

A 
Protesters need to knock it off

COURTESY PRWT. INDYMEIA. ORG

NUIS: WEF protesters continue to hurt small business in the host cities and help no one.

in the process), spilling red paint, and
smashing doors and windows. Police
Commissioner Raymond Kelly was
jeered at by the protestors, who urged
him to release the arrested activists,
who accused him of protecting the
rich by halting the rampant vandal-
ism. As a former resident of New
York’s Upper East Side, I wouldn’t
want to see people marching through
my neighborhood throwing things at
my windows and endangering my per-
sonal safety. I rriight
be against their
cause, but I am not
there at the WEF
and have no inﬂu-
ence over what goes on in there. Yet,
they would seek to endanger my safety
in their irrational exuberance.

One might call them professional
activists, for that is exactly what they
are. They are people who are too
lazy—or too untalented—to do any-
thing else. They could work at fast
food restaurants, but apparently, do-
ing so would subjugate them to cor-
porate “evil” and violate some bizarre
moral they hold. Perhaps this criticism
is unfair; perhaps I am being too harsh
on them. However, just as we Ameri-
cans are finally cracking down on for-
eign terrorists who hurt us, we must
now crack down on domestic terror-
ists.

While there is certainly terrorism
on the extremist right—tl1ink Timothy
McVeigh and the Oklahoma City
bombings—the extremist left is far
more dangerous because it has a prob-

lem with just about everything. And
it’s not afraid to do something fatally
dangerous to others about it.

Take, for example, this quote,
from consumerfreedomcom, by Bruce
Friedrich, the vegan campaign coor-
dinator for People for the Ethical
Treatment of Animals during the “Ani-
mal Rights 200l” conference: “...of
course we’re going to be blowing
things up and smashing windows. . .I
think it’s a great way to bring about
animal liberation. . .. I think it would
be great if all of the fast food outlets,
slaughterhouses, these laboratories,
and the banks that fund them ex-
ploded tomorrow. I think it’s perfectly
appropriate for people to take bricks
and toss them through the windows.
...Hallelujah to the people who are
willing to do it.”

The fact is, while they may
have a principled stand—despite
the fact that the co—founder of
Greenpeace USA, Patrick Moore,
calls them “scientific illiterates”—‘—
their methodology is no better than
that of Osama bin Laden and his
terrorist network, al-Qaeda.

Radical and reactionary groups
need to knock it off. Their cowardly
behavior will not intimidate us into
giving into their ridiculous de-
mands. Their wanton destruction of
our property is, believe it or not,
worse than eating a turkey for
Thanksgiving dinner. They should
stay away from venues like the
World Economic Forum, and, please,
stay away from my windows.

$$$$ Easy Money $$$$

I will pay $40 for your phone book
Call Lee Ramsey toll free at 866-577-7237

A etru.r'a< driver ruined something-
p.reeiou.e. Amber Ap—edae.a..
Friends now: Let !«’r-tends; ‘inrlwe 

 

-myaivuasuex«?)tamengaussau§«a

#1 Spring Break Vacations!

free!

1-800-234-7007

Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, & Florida.
Best Parties, Best Hotels, Best Prices!
Group Discounts, Group organizers travel
Space is limited! Hurry up & Book Now!

www.endlesssummertours.com

E-File Your Federal & State Returns

$9.95 for All at www.123fi|e.net

See web-site for additional credit.
(“bookmark" this ad for future reference)

#1 Spring Break
l/aca t‘/ons./

Cancun, Jamaica,
Bahamas, dl F/or/a’a.
Best‘ Part‘/es, Best‘ Ho te/s,
Best‘ Prices/

Group Drscoun ts, Group
organizers t‘rave/ free!
Space is //m/t‘ed/ Hurry up
at Book Now!
1-800-234-7007
www.endlesssummertours.com

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2002

oward of the Week

An irregular :l’eatu1'e of the Ring~tunr. Phi Opiiiietis section

Norman Mailer

    

COUll3SYWWW.Tl1EGRAPH.C0.U
MAILSTROM: Norman Mailer proved to be more afraid of
patiiotismthantenoiism whenheciitisized post-9/1 l ﬂag waving.

“What happened on September 1 l was horrific, but
this patriotic fever can go too far. America has an almost

a form of reportage that rriixes fact with fiction in the
retelling of events.

Mailer grew up in the Crown Heights neighborhood
of Brooklyn and has been manied six times. In 1960, he
was brieﬂy sent to a mental hospital after stabbing his
second wife. His supporters have said that his rough up-
bringing and war-time service have given him a “tough
guy” outlook and only make his comments about America’s
patriotism only a continuation of “his habit about asking
provocative questions about his native land.”

Whatever the reason, Mailer’s comments do not
exhibit a “provocative” streak, but rather are an example
of the all-too—typical criticisms of America and its newly
found unity. We hope that he ends in the same dustbin
of history that his fellow America—haters the Taliban and
al—Qaeda have found themselves.

obscene infatuation with itself. Has there ever been a .  =

big, powerfulcountry that is as patriotic as America?
And patriotic in the tinniest way, with so much ﬂag wav-
ing? You’d really think we were some poor little republic,
and that if one person lost his religion for one hour, the
whole thing would crumble. America is the real religion
in this country.

“The Right wing benefited so much from Septem-
ber 11 that, if I were still a conspiratorialist, I would be-
lieve they’d done it.”

These statements, recorded in a Feb. 6 interview
with Michael Sheldon of London’s Daily Telegraph, have
earned author Normal Mailer the Phi’s second Coward
of the Week.

Mailer first became famous in the 1948 with the re-
lease of a critically-acclaimed and commercially success-
ful, “The Naked and the Dead,” a novel based on his
experiences as an Army cook in the Philippines during
World War II. Other famous works of Mailer’s include
“The Executioner’s Song” and “The Armies of the Night.”
Mailer is also credited with pioneering “new journalism,”

 

(HJRFBY WVVW.}vNvK‘.(X)M
COURAGE: New York police and ﬁre men carry a tattered ﬂag
ﬁtom the World Trade Center atthe Olympic opening oeiemonies.

Write for The Ring—tum Phi
Washington and Lee’s Paper of Record

E-mail phi @wlu. edrr for more information

 

the one that got away...
Happy Valentine's Day, Mike

xoxo — (I)

        
     

gag $1 V}:   Wig g - V”. g gm v~ £_,»””'~*,-§
4.. 1' ' A ,--_ ~ ,
t“1§:’““‘ 52 -5.-esii. t  . .~"§l.7?~‘"2 wit it 5”“ at J -A 3 
at... “M "kw" §~.;z>~ ‘~\r:.r<~.MM H x. '  It a» x 9»./A 3. ‘...'£..*.  ‘tx»...»*‘ “‘¢A«:e:«€'.._
. 7» ‘WYQQWV

t3: 5*
 v  A
2.. 2.2. it: Wt .  ta... .. s

‘W

E
«ii
E’)

To”: =,.~ «i
GQVAE  Wilfj 

M   
DJ Jonas  
onday, February 11

    
   
     
  
       
 
 
 
 

K {».v.n.«?<-ta-.
)f4§O«ﬂ$O\9\ stem: sash.
_  a ,,,,.,;r

  

*0‘? lgﬂm

'5:
E‘ we '-*  » 
" ‘ fair. ..M\,, W

PAGE 5

‘EC.

BY JOHN F. ZINK
1972 STAFF WRITER

The Executive Committee, meeting Monday
night, heard arguments by committee members and
spectators for and against the proposal that Wash-
ington and Lee go coeducational in the future.
After the various opinions were voiced on the sub-
ject, a vote was taken endorsing coeducation, nine
to three. -

Steve Robinson, President of the Student Body,
stated that he was in favor of the move toward coedu-
cation. Robinson said that coeducation is essential
to maintain the high quality of education at Washing-
ton and Lee. One representative raised the question
of whether or not it was proper for the Executive Com-
mittee to make a statement concerning the subject of
coeducation before the matter comes up before the
entire student body in the form of a referendum dur-
ing the spring.

Robinson then asked for remarks from the audi-
ence. One student said that the objection raised
against coeducation on the basis that it would disrupt
the course structure was unfounded. He pointed out
that the courses are in a constant state of change re-
gardless of coeds or not. He also voiced the opinion
that a move towards coeducation would improve the
financial position of the university by making it a more
attractive recipient of government and private dona-
tions.

Objections to coeducation were raised by Mike
Brittin, sophomore representative. Brittin stated that
there were no immediate plans for the expansion of
campus facilities. He stated that the increase in stu-
dents would add too many students to an already over-
extended student body. Other objections were that
the admission of women would hurt the science
courses, make the Honor Code unenforceable, cause
the alumni to lose their identity with Washington and
Lee, and would cause W&L to lose an aspect of its
uniqueness.

Representative John McCarthy stated that the Ex-
ecutive Committee’s function was not to lay out a plan
for coeducation. He said “There are many ways to
implement the coeducational idea.” McCarthy also
stated, “The point now is to come out with a state-
ment; to get the student body behind this issue is the
only way to get it going.”

Glenn Azuma, agreeing with McCarthy, said,
“The Executive Committee must lead the stu-
dents.” ‘

Rick Gray, Executive Committee Secretary, stated
that the E.C. should act as an educational body; the
student body should know all of the facts and fig-
ures.

Lock Handley, Senior Law Representative,
said, “We should discuss it (coeducation) in
public in order to be fair to
those who hold the minor-
ity opinion.”

Several members of the au-
dience voiced support for co-
education. One student said
that “We are limiting ourselves
as a university.” He stated that
by going coeducational, the education we receive will
be complete. Another student stated that as it stands
now, the supposition is that is that the male/female
relationship is rather unimportant. He continued, “You
(Executive Committee) do have powers of suggestion
to the faculty and student body. This is a matter which
requires your attention.”

John McCarthy, urging a formal statement, said “We

‘A Beautiful Mind’ challenges perceptions,

Russell Crowe’s John Nash struggles with genius, mental instabilities in Howard’s visually attractive, we

HE RING-TUM PHI
W &LIEE

OTHER OBJECTIONS [TO COEDUCATTON]
WERE THAT THE ADMISSION OF wOMEN
WOULD HURT THE SCIENCE COURSES [AND]
MAKE THE HONOR CODE UNENFORCEABLE...

MATIIIEwC0URsEN&CATIImNEGUY
W&LIEEFDIIORS
EMAI;dTIsNw@\IIUE1I&aIYc@wInH1I

in ““"""\.‘?‘.W+‘\
my (

». ;~' ""3 g

COLRTESY or CALYX

AHH, THE GOOD 0L’ DAYS.
(Top) Signs like this one adorned the colonnade in 1973 when
students, faculty and trustees debated the admission of women to

W&L

(Above) In the 50s W&L gentlemen had to Search for dates at other
local colleges and universities such as Sweet Briar, Hollins and
Randolph-Macon.

(Left) Despite the less than convenient methods, everyone still
managed to have a ball. Partygoers enjoy live music at the 1937 Fancy
Dress Ball

COURTESY or Cour CHEER FOR WAS moron AND EE

should make it an important issue. We should either
_say that we are for it, or that we are against it.” With
that statement, Glenn Azuma, Vice-President of the

Executive Committee, made the motion that the Ex- ‘

ecutive Committee endorse the concept of coeduca-
tion at Washington and Lee. Be-
fore the vote could be taken,
however, Lock Handley asked if
he could give his reason for an
affirmative vote. Handley said
“Our society is changing, one
change is in the way men and
women look at each other; an
all male school does not fit into this change.” Handley
continued, “I would rather see this school fall ﬂat on
its face going in the right direction,-than for it to con-
tinue a type of ‘game preserve’ for male chauvinism.
We are avoiding our responsibility if we do not realize
the trend today.”

President Robinson then called for a vote on
the Azuma motion; the motion carried in favor of

coeducation nine to three. Robinson also stated
that at next week’s meeting there would be a similar
discussion of re-instituting required English
courses.

As one can see, there was a significant interest,
among the men of the Washington and Lee student
body, in opening the University to women as early
as 1972. In I/Tefall of the same year, the trustees
and students ofDartmouth College voted to become
a coeducational institution. However, Washington
and Lee waited anotherfourteen years until decid-
ing in favor of the university accepting women in
I986.—-Supplementary information provided by
Catherine C. Guy, W&Life editor.

From the archives: the Ring-
tum Phi, February 2, 1972

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2002

'~'<;

The guy next door:
Rats no more

BY SAMLAGRoNI#STAI«“~d1zREs=rNDHrr

Some time this week you’ll probably run into a breed
of cadet that hasn’t shown its face all year.
You can tell who they are by their unusually short hair;
haircuts that make the rest of us cadets look
like Art Garfunkel.

These guys are our fourth classmen.

They used to be rats, but now they’re full-ﬂedged
members of the corps of cadets. And for the next 5
months or so they’ll be jerks.

It’s true. During the ratline, most of the bald little
guys are meek and humble. There is a very heavy ham-
mer that drops on those who aren’t.

But things change once they push through the mud.
They get to grow their hair, wear black belts and
nametags instead of white. And they get the privilege
to walk around like normal human beings.

They also become arrogant.

And there is a reason for that. Over the weekend
they have undergone a rite of passage that has been
with VMI for as long as our longwinded alumni can
remember. It’s called Breakout.

Breakout, always capitalized so it’s not to be con-
fused with any kind of acne condition, is one of the
three big events during a VMI cadet’s life.

The other two are Ring Figure our junior year (that’s
where we get those massive rocks that get us mistaken
for Maﬁa dons and Super Bowl Champions, another
column for sure) and graduation, when we actually leave
promising never to return, and show up two years later
to buy spider logo P.J.’s. for our kids.

But Breakout is the first landmark. It’s a ceremony
that’S been through several evolutions. It’s now a team-
building, conﬁdence—building exercise that forges an
intense bond between classmates.

In the 50s it used to be an excuse for upperclassmen
to beat the living shoe polish out of rats with belts.

But we have grown a bit more civilized since then. When
my father was a rat, back in the wilds of the freewheeling,
freeloving 70s, they sealed the rats in Crozet Hall (that’s
where we eat). And they literally broke out of barricaded
doors and ran to Barracks pushing through crowds of up-
perclassmen to get to the fourth ﬂoor “breaking out” to the
status of upperclassmen.

Crowds of rats pushed up the exposed staircases
tussling with sophomores, juniors and seniors.

Legend has it that some poor kid once took an acci-
dental swan dive into our concrete courtyard.

My father did his part by distracting upperclassmen
holding rats back, while one of his buddies dumped a bucket
of poop on his head. We don’t do that anymore, as hilari-
ous as that is,.I mean a bucket of poop that’s awesome! (I
said poop, I know. This is a family riewspaperafter all, kids.)

A few years after my dad ran to the top floor the
practice was thought to be a little on the dangerous
side (and a messy cleanup) and was stopped.

Breakout was changed to a rush up a great big
muddy hill, not as dangerous as shoving matches on
stairs, but it has a throw back to the past.

It’s covered in cow pies.

The “Hill” as we reverently refer, is the culmination of a
week’s worth of physical activity. Marches, workouts and
lots of yelling, lots and lots of yelling. When I started this
column there were 400 or so rats outside my door scream-
ing as loud as they could in what we call a sweat party.

It’s not what it sounds like: a cocktail get-together in a
smokehouse. But freshman mainly doing as many push—ups
as they can while upperclassmen scream at them. They last
about 25 min. total. The rats had several this week. They’ve
had a bunch more since August. It’s like pledging on crack.

But Saturday afternoon, it all ended. We’re just wait-
ing for the next batch.

expectations

BY MICHEAL GEORGE
STAFF WRITER

Ron Howard’s ‘A Beautiful
Mind’ challenges the perceptions
and expectations of its audience
and tries to answer the age old and
oft—disputed question: “What is
reality?”

Based on the life of Nobel Prize
winning mathematician John Nash, ‘A
Beautiful Mind’ examines one man’s
struggle to ﬁnd meaning in the com-
plex mathematical systems of our
world and to overcome the madness
within himself.

I expect this ﬁlm will win the Os-
car for best picture of the year. It is
a complicated and visually rich
work, which explores the bound-
aries of human understanding. Al-
though the film may not be my per-
sonal favor-
ite, it cer-
tainly fulfills
many of the
criteria to win
an Academy
Award this
year

The film
follows Nash from his impressive stud-
ies at Princeton, where he developed
his groundbreaking Game Theory of
Economics, to his downward spiral
into paranoid schizophrenia and sub-
sequent detachment from reality.

(‘A BEAUTIFUL MIND’) IS A
COMPLICATED AND VISUALLY RICH
WORK, wHIcH EXPLORES THE
BOUNDARIES OF HUMAN
UNDERSTANDING.

Starring Russell Crowe and Jen-
nifer Connelly, the film is filled with
powerful emotionally driven per-
formances. Crowe and Connelly
certainly have done some of the
best work of their careers in this
ﬁlm.

Crowe con-
tinues to shine
as an actor as‘
well as to
dazzle his audi-
ences with his
i m p r e s s i v e
ability to take
any part and
mold it into his
own.

Connelly, as Nash’s faithful wife
Alicia, delivers one of the most
poignantly convincing perfor-
mances I have ever seen on screen.
Her quiet strength
and compassion
serve as an anchor
to Crowe’s harrow-
ing descent into
schizophrenia.

Along with
an excellent sup-
porting cast,
which includes such strong actors
as Ed Harris, Christopher Plummer,
and Judd Hirsch, Ron Howard’s ex-
pert direction adds to the tone and
beauty of the film. Already a great
storyteller, Howard’s slow and me-

HOWARD’S SLOW AND METHODICAL
DIRECTION BRINGS A REAL SENSE OF
DEPTH TO THE FILM. HE SEEMS TO
MOVE EVERYTHING IN SLOW

MOTION, IN ORDER TO PORTRAY. . a
.THE BEUATY OF MATHEMATICS.

thodical direction brings a real
sense of depth to the film. He seems
to move everything in slow motion,
in order to portray to the audience
the beauty of mathematics in na-
ture.

This can be
seen in numer-
ous depictions,
from patterns in
the stars to
complex reﬂec-
tions of light in
drinking
glass. Every
moment seems
to be an exami-
nation of the
beauty and complex design of na-
ture.

I’m not a math student, so cer-
tain aspects of the film went way
over my head. However, the basic
concepts were quite clear to me. I
don’t want to give too much away
to those of you who have not yet
seen it, but not everything in the
film is as real as it may appear at
first glance.

By questioning percep-
tions and expectations of real-
ity, ‘A Beautiful Mind’ reaffirms
a basic truth; that our reality
comes from those who love us,
and that the beauty of nature
pales in comparison to the
beauty of love. ’

CORTESY OF l»lP.l/WWW LTU

l/-paced film; prooves Oscar material

tenders.

Z53/BEAEllUl.MlND.llTM

'1' or Hrrpzllwww.STARPULSE.COM/MovIEslBEAUTIEUL_MIND,_A/

LIVING IN A WORLD ALL HIS owN: Russell Crowe
(left and below) as brilliant mathematician and
schizophrenic John Nash loses his touch with real-
ity and is helped back to life by his wife, played by
Jennifer Connelly (below). A Beautiful Mind ap-
pears to be one of this year’s leading Oscar con-

This film is a compas-
sionate and fascinating
examination of the
power and devastation
of mental illness, as
well as one man’s emo-
tional, physical, and
mental struggle with
it. A Beautiful Mind has
received rave reviews,
and is still playing in
movie theaters nation-
wide.

 

 

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2002

Generals stru

Mi3cFrRRARA/ITieRiug-mmPlii
IN THE PAINT: Freshman Ian McClure (22) drives down the
lane as sophomore Hamill Jones battles for position in W&L’s
6 1 -53 win over Mary Washington at the Warner Center.

HE RlNG—TUlv1 PHI

JEiaviYlizANi<iI~i
SYoRisFmoR
FMAr.'niANi<iNi@wiIirI1i

PORTS

PAGE 6

ggle to achieve ornaent-caliber play

With a spot in the ODAC Tournament
clinched, W&L looks to step up its intensity

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

Washington and Lee men’s basketball coach Jeff
Lafave, whose team has earned a trip to the Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference Tournament, wants his Generals
to reach a certain level of play heading into the Salem
Civic Center on Saturday.

This week, W&L (7-16, 4-13 ODAC) gave a mixed re-
sponse, defeating Mary Washington in a tough home
contest but falling to Eastern Mennonite on the road.

“We tell our guys we want to go into the tournament
with a purpose, with a reason to play,” Lafave said.
“This time of year, you’ve got two things you can do:
you can either pack it in when you’re struggling or
start playing like a toumament—type team with the ef-
fort and the energy.”

W&L brought those things to the Warner Center on
Thursday, knocking off Mary Washington by a 61-53 tally
in non-conference action.

The Generals led by as many as 12 in the first half,
but the Eagles hung around and clipped the lead to
28-23 at halftime. Mary Washington then used a 16-2
run to build a 46-39 lead with 10:14 remaining in the
contest.

But the Eagles managed just three points over the
next eight-plus minutes, and W&L responded by taking

    

MKIFHKRARA/Il|€Rlng-lllln Phi
BASELINE TRAP: Freshman Mike Stuart, who scored 17 points
on Thursday, looks for an open passing lane as the Eagles’
Cory Hairston and Ryan Kenna defend. Scott Hettermarm,
who led W&L with 19, looks on.

a 56-49 lead with 2:06 to play. Junior Scott HetterInann’s
three—point play with 1 :28 to go made it 59-51 and put the
game away.

Hetterrnann led the Generals with 19 points on 9-of-14
shooting from the ﬁeld, while freshman Mike Smart added

W&L drops pair of road ODAC contests

Generals S/lp to 7th in the Old Dominion Athletic Conference with losses at Eastern Mennonite, Randolph-Macon

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee women’s basketball team
entered last week with a chance to make a run at fifth place
in the Old Dominion Athletic Conference.

But the road wasn’t kind to the Generals (10-12, 7-10
ODAC), who slipped to seventh in the league standings
with losses at Eastern Mennonite and Randolph-Macon.

W&L traveled to Harrisonburg on Wednesday, and
the homestanding- Lady Royals completed the season
sweep with a 66-54 win.

Eastern Mennonite contained W&L seniors Jessica
Mentz and Megan Babst, the second and third—leading
scorers in the ODAC, by way of a 1-3-1 zone that routinely
collapsed on the Generals’ frontcourt.

“Mennonite’s game plan was a good one: they were
going to "make us beatthem from the outside,” W&L coach
Janet Hollack said. “They were going to let us shoot re-
gardless of whether we made them or not.”

But the Generals’ only consistent threat from the perim-
eter was senior Sarah Schmidt, who ﬁnished with a team-
high 14 points on 4-of-10 shooting from three-point range.

“She had to step up into a little bit of a void we were
having offensively,” Hollack said of Schmidt. “She’s al-
ways been a key part. She knows what her role is, she
accepts it and she does a good job with it.”

As a team, W&L shot just 29 percent from the floor
in the first half, and the Lady Royals turned a 14-12 lead
with 9:02 remaining into a 35-18 halftime advantage.
The Generals would cut the lead to eight on several
occasions in the second half, but could not come any
closer.

Eastern Mennonite’s frontcourt led the way, as Jenny
Cline scored a career-high 21 points and Emily Misak
added 17 points and 10 rebounds. Babst had 10 points
and 18 rebounds for W&L, while Mentz contributed eight
points and 14 boards.

No. 1 OPTION: Senior Jessica Mentz, shown here guarding Roanoke’s Katrina Vlrrlliams on Feb. 1 at the Warner Center, scored
28 points and grabbed 17 rebounds in Washington and Lee’s 74-59 loss to Randolph-Macon on Saturday.

The Generals visited Randolph-Macon on Saturday,
with the Yellow Jackets pulling out a 74-59 win. This time
W&L reestablished their inside game, but couldn’t get
anything going from the backcourt.

Mentz led all players with 28 points and 17 rebounds,
and Babst added 21 and 13, respectively. No one else
scored more than two points for the Generals.

Randolph-Macon led 37-24 at halftime and had a 21-point
advantage at 49-28 early in the second half. A 15-2 W&L run
got the Generals back in the game, but the resulting eight-point
margin was the smallest Yellow Jacket lead after halftime.

W&L closes the regular season with three ﬁnal ODAC
contests this week: Emory & Henry and Virginia Wesleyan
at home and Hollins on the road. The Generals beat all
three of those teams the first time around.

“Once you beat a team, you should have conﬁdence
about that, and right now we need conﬁdence,” Hollack
said. “Beating the teams already has kind of established
in our mindset that we can do it again.

“So we’re looking forward to the challenge,” she added.
“It’s the time of the year where you’ve got to step up or
move aside.” A

Men’s tennis opens with home loss to Mocs

Division I Tennessee-Chattanooga defeats the Generals at Duchossois

YGUY/Iliein-Phi‘
IN SERVICE: Sophomore Austin Kim and W&L lost to
Tennessee-Chattanooga 6-1 on Saturday.

BY DIYA VOHRA
SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s
tennis team played their ﬁrst dual
match of the season against Tennes-
see-Chattanooga on Saturday, as the
Division I Mocs handed the Generals
a 6-1 loss at the Duchossois Tennis
Center.

The day started off with three
doubles matches.

In the No. 1 doubles position, se-
niors Rob Moynihan and Rhys James
were defeated 8-3 by the Mocs’ Ja-
son Ontog and Fabian Bechera. Both
players held up well against the pow-
erful serves of their opponents.

Sophomores Graham Nix and Aus-
tin Kim fell to Thomas Knizat and
John Hangstefer at No. 2 doubles by
a ﬁnal score of 8-4. Although Kim and
Nix worked well as a team, the strong
serve—and-volley game played by
their rivals led to their defeat.

Senior Zac Vuncannon and sopho-
more K.C. Schaeffer fell 8-3 to James
Dickerson and Kyle True in the ﬁnal
doubles match.

All three doubles teams had difﬁ-
culty returning the powerful serves
of their opponents.

“The ﬁrst-serve percentage was
low and we were really struggling with
the returns of serves,” W&L coach
David Detwiler said.

The singles matches were charac-
terized by a lot more noise, excitement
and energy. Freshman Paul McClure
gave Ontog a hard and frustrating
match before ﬁnally losing 6-4, 6-2 in
straight sets at No. 1 singles.

Up against an extremely powerful
server and his previous doubles op-
ponent, Kim fell to Hangstefer 6-4, 6-
1 at the second slot. James didn’t give
up without a ﬁght at No. 3, falling 6-4,
7-6 (1) to Knizat.

At the fourth spot, Nix dropped a
6-1, 6-3 decision to Bechera, while

Moynihan took Dickerson to
tiebreakers in both sets in a 7-6 (4), 7-
6 (1) defeat.

The success of the afternoon was
Schaeffer, who defeated his Tennes-
see-Chattanooga opponent in three
long sets. After a disappointing ﬁrst
set and previously losing to his op-
ponent in the doubles, Schaeffer went
on to beat True 4-6, 6- 1 , 6-2.

Detwiler, in his second season as
W&L coach, looked upon this match
as good practice for the team and a
good indicator of where their weak-
est points lie.

“Overall, we played OK, this be-
ing our first match,” he said. “It has
been good experience to play a tough
team, and this gives them reason to
work hard at practice.”

Tennessee-Chattanooga pro-
ceeded to hand VMI a 7-0 loss in
Southern Conference competition.
The Keydets will host the Generals at
3 p.m. on Wednesday.

Write for the The Fling-tum Phi... cover W&L spring sports.

Contact Jeremy Franklin at franklinj @w1u.edu or X4060.

17. Sophomore Michael Denbow recorded a career-best
nine assists.

“(Scott) was a little bit hesitant down the stretch, but I
just asked him to be more like himself —- take the ball to
the hole and play aggressively — and he did that,” Lafave
said. “Michael (Stuart) stepped up for us and started to
hit some perimeter shots.

' “Michael (Denbow) knows his role. He’s settling in
here, and he’s setting people up.”

W&L was unable to carry that momentum to
Harrisonburg on Saturday, as Eastern Mennonite led for
all but the ﬁrst 19 seconds of an 86-68 win.

The Generals shot just 36 percent from the ﬂoor, in-
cluding 24 percent in the first half. In a very physical con-
test, the Royals hit 3l-of-39 free throws, and W&L had
three players foul out.

“We didn’t come ready to play today,” Lafave said.
“Eastem Mennonite’s not going anywhere, but they played
like they were, and we played like we weren’t.”

Junior John Warren led the Generals with 14 points, while
Stuart added 13. Denbow and freshman Patrick Neuman set
career highs in points with nine and eight respectively, and
sophomore Hamill Jones ﬁnished with nine.

W&L may have to play the remainder of the season
without Hettermarm, who injured his right ankle in the
ﬁrst half against the Royals. The junior leads the Generals
in points and rebounds on the season-with 10.7 and 6.4

per game.
Bridgewater and W&L conclude the regular season

when they come to the Warner Center for an 8 p.m. con-

test on Tuesday.

Track teams ‘Frolic’
toward ODAC meet

BY DAVE CRowi:i.L
ASSISTANT SPORTS rsnrmr

NEWPORT NEWS——The Washington and Lee
men’s and women’s track teams competed in the Chris-
topher Newport Winter Frolic on Friday and Saturday.

The individual-only event was also the ﬁnal tune-
up before the Old Dominion Athletic Conference In-
door Championships at Lynchburg on Feb. 23.

Junior Chris Sullivan led the men’s squad with a
sixth-place ﬁnish among Division III runners in the 60-
meter dash, clocking in at 7.36 seconds.

“Chris had a good meet, heading into the conference
championships,” men’s coach Norris Aldridge said. “He
reached the ﬁnals and ran a personal best this season.

“He didn’t1ong-jump as well as he would have liked, but
he’s been bothered with some shin problems.”

very well in distance events, believing that Bell is the ﬁrst
freshman to break nine minutes in the 3,000-meter rim.

On the women’s side, the Generals were led by jun-
ior Burke Duncan, who captured the championship of
the 5-kilometer run with a time of 18:51.20.

“I felt it was a strong performance and it gives me
some conﬁdence heading into the championships,”
Duncan said. “It’s good to see all my hard work pay off.”

The men’s and women’s squads now enjoy a couple
of weeks of rest and preparation in order to get ready
for the ODAC Championships.

Aldridge expects good performances from his team, es-
pecia1lyf1'omjtmiorMatRopom(shotput), Bellandsullivan.
Unfortunately, the men will be without senior captain Mike
Hegg, a key component of scoring and leadership.

“I expect us to compete for third place, with Lynchburg
and Bridgewater tough to overtake,” Aldridge said.

For Duncan, however, the outcome will be up in the air.

“We have a small squad, but everyone gave good
performances on Saturday,” she said. “I guess any-
thing can happen on Feb. 23.”

W&L SCHEDULEZ FEB. 12-MARCH 4

Tuesday, Feb. 12 Saturdav. F9b- 23

women’s Basketball Indoor Track

Emory & Henry at W&L, 6 p.m. W&L at ODAC Championships
Ilen’s Basketball Baseball

Bridgewater at W&L, 8 p.m. Muhlenberg at W&L (DH), 12 p.m.
Wednesday, Feb. 13 Ilsn’s Lacrosse

Men's Tennis Bates at W&L, 1:30 p:m.
W&L at VMI, 3 p.m.
February 24-26
Thursday, Feb. 14 con
Hen’! Tennlt W&L at Pine Needles invitational

Emory & Henry at W&L, 4 p.m.
women’s Basketball
Virginia Wesleyan at W&L, 6 pm.

Sunday, Feb. 24
Baseball
Muhlenberg at W&L, 12 p.m.

SINWGV. 795- 15 Wednesday, Feb. 27
“°"’‘ 3“'‘°“’‘“' - Ilen’s Lacrosse

W&L at ODAC T°Uma"l9m- TBA Pieilfer at W&L, 3:30 p.m.
Wrestling 3,3,5,"

W&L at Centennial Conference

W&L at Shenandoah, 4 pm.
women’s Lacrosse
Sweet Briar at W&L, 4 p.m.
Thursday, Feb. 28

Men's Tennis

W&L at Radlord, 3:30 p.m.

Championships, 10 a.m.
Women's Basketball
W&L at Hollins, 2 p.m.

Monday, Feb. 18

Baseball
W&L at Oglethorpe, 3:30 pm. March 1_2
Wrestling
Tuesday Feb. 19 . . . . .
Baseball NCAA Dwision Ill Championships
- W&L at Emory, 2 p.m.
February 21-23 :'s";::";’ ""°" 2
Men's Swimming
W&L at Grove City Invitational Ema : :°my 3‘ W&L (DH)'

women’s Lacrosse
W&L at St. Mary’s (Md.), 12 p.m.
Men's Lacrosse

Thursday, Feb. 21
women’s Basketball

W&L at ODAC Tournament. TBA _

Baseba"  al   p.m.
W&L at lethorpe, 3:30 .m. .

' . A 09 p Sunday, Ilarch 3

F,bm,,y 2244 Baseball .

women-3 swimming Merchant Marine Academy at
war at ODAClAtlantic States W&L lDHl- 12 Pm-

 

Aldridge also noted that freshman Wes Bell competed

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2002

      

PAGE 7

Generals look to break into upper echelon of ODAC

BY DAVE CROWELL
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee baseball
team made a huge leap last season,
thriving on a fresh influx of youth and
ﬁnishing with a school-record 23 wins.

The school record and impressive
performances, however, failed to yield
any conference glory, as the Generals
ﬁnished in fifth place in Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference play with a
record of 9-7. This left coach Jeff
Stickley’s team out in the cold, watch-
ing the four-team ODAC Tournament
from the bleachers.

The goal this year, therefore, is
simple: reach the tournament.

(ULRIPSYOF 
VETERAN SKIPPER: Jeff Stickley has
coached Washington and Lee’s baseball
team for 15 seasons.

“We need to get a few more con-
ference wins,” said Stickley, who is
entering his 16th season as head
coach. “Once you get into the tour-
nament, anything can happen with
the double-elimination format.”

Junior Michael Hanson, one of three
team captains this season, agrees with
Stickley and believes the Generals’
pitching staff, which led the ODAC in
most statistical categories last season,
is strong enough to make the difference
should W&L reach the postseason.

Hanson returns to the diamond
after a highly successful 2001 cam-
paign, where he batted .379 and led
the Generals in doubles, hits, runs,
total bases, home runs and slugging
percentage. In addition, Hanson
pitched in four games for W&L, go-
ing 2-0 with a 1.65 ERA.

But Hanson won’t need to shoul-
der the load on his own. Senior Matt
Kozora, returning at third base after
batting .398 last season, and junior
outfielder Bobby Littlehale round out
the triumvirate of captains. Senior
catcher Todd Gosselink and junior
first baseman Brian Gladysz also re-
turn after starting a majority of the
games last season.

“We all have had experience from
the first game freshman year, so I
honestly believe there are five or six
genuine leaders on this team,”
Hanson said.

The return of Littlehale to the out-
ﬁeld after he missed a majority of last
season due to injury also bodes well
for the Generals. He batted .391 over
the first six games last season.

ANOTHER ONE HoME: Junior Brian Gladysz is congratulated

a1IRIrsYoElNroRMAnoN

season. The Generals ﬁnished ﬁfth in the Old Dominion

by teammates after scoring a run in a W&L home game last Athletic Conference with a 9-7 record, 23-8 overall.

“Getting Bobby back will be a real
boost to the team,” Stickley said. “He
is a fine ballplayer.”

The destiny of this squad, how-
ever, lies in the hands of its young
pitching staff. The Generals return
Hanson and a trio of talented sopho-
more pitchers, but will miss the tal-
ents of 2001 graduate David Sigler.

“The biggest problem this season
will be replacing his innings on the
mound,” Stickley said of Sigler. “He was

Coming March 4 to the sports pages of

THE RING-TUM PHI...

Spring sports previews continue with golf and women’s tennis.
Plus continued coverage of W&L winter and spring sports.

Questions, comments, or suggestions? Contact Jeremy Franklin at franklinj@wlu.edu or x 4060.

-or 1-3’i'?~~KiD5-3! 3

‘Fire £1? national ma ienrrei fefétr ‘ '

  lltil IIIIIIIII min I Iziiimn IIIIIIIII.

iihay iheip =£azamuraity‘ grasps organise resaxurvrzaesi and ‘tight to kevep lcﬁﬁ 3W3? Wm
drag-5. {‘orIt;ac.~t.[a mrarnaniry caalmon anti "find out what yazur egaseupi ma ﬁe.-

wwwmezlpyocs t-**<;ommunEt:y.ovrg

.'!’i'.HJ GET MGSRE WI-ISM ‘((323 GS"? ‘?E‘ﬂ£‘£€T§§E‘R

Sesriicwus

IDES:(au»ntS

  la’Vié‘v’l!!.’.C{}Lii’iCillii'El'i£fel.CCii"fi
t—50t3»f£CUNC.lL

a great leader and whenever we had a
tough game, we gave him the ball. The
key will be replacing that void.”

Stickley hopes to account for the
loss with consistent efforts from
sophomores Peter Dean, Michael
Wert and Dan Kagey. All three gained
significant experience last season,
whether starting games or coming out
of the bullpen.

Dean ﬁnished the season with a
perfect 6-0 record and a 3. 10 ERA, but

the southpaw admits he still has a lot
to prove after last season.

“The record looks great, but I know
that there is a lot I can improve on,”
he said. “I know that this yearl will be
asked to pitch in more important
games against better opponents.

“Although that 6-0 looks great on
paper, I, and the guys on the team,
know that I didn’t pitch against the
best of competition.”

Wert also pitched well last season,

ﬁnishing with a 5-1 record and 3.12
ERA. Kagey ﬁnished with a deceiv-
ing 4-5 record when you consider his
two shutouts and low 3.48 ERA.
Regardless of last year’s individual

‘ records, the sophomores now readily

understand their goal this season.

“I am much more mature as a
pitcher now then I was last year,”
Dean said. “I know what is expected
of me: whether I’m coming on in re-
lief or starting, it doesn’t matter. I
know how to prepare myself for ei-
ther situation.”

The class rivalry should fuel some
ﬁne performances, as Dean admits that
“we keep each other at the top of our
games. I’m just trying to keep up with
the others.”

The baseball programs at
Bridgewater and Virginia Wesleyan
represent obstacles to be overtaken if
the team hopes to reach the upper ech-
elon of the ODAC. Hanson, however,
has no qualms about these challenges.

“We have challenged Bridgewater
and Virginia Wesleyan every year,”
Hanson said. “We are 2-3 against
Wesleyan and 1-3 against Bridgewater
in my two years, but I believe we’ll win
some games against the top teams with
our pitching staff this year.”

For now, however, the Generals will
have Georgia on their minds, as they
travel to play Oglethorpe twice and
Emory over the Washington Holiday.

“We’re not worrying about April
yet,” Hanson said. “Our focus needs
to be on the games ahead in Atlanta,
and then we can shift our attention to
the early conference games.”

W&L splits home triangular

BY DAVE CROWELL
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee wrestling
team underwent their ﬁnal tune-up be-
fore next weekend’s Centennial Con-
ference Tournament, hosting the W&L
Triangular on Saturday afternoon.

The Generals defeated Albright
College 37-15 before dropping a tough
24-16 decision to conference foe
Johns Hopkins.

Seniors Ivan Zdanov and Ezra
Morse led the Generals, with each

‘sweeping their two friatches on the day. '

Zdanov, wrestling in the 174-
pound class, pinned Albright’s Todd
Alscher at 3:57, then followed up by
defeating the Blue Jays’ Mike
Halchak 8-2.

Morse participated in his third

competition since returning from
an ankle injury, looking like he
hasn’t missed a beat at 197
pounds.
_ The senior captain defeated Ryan
Scarduzio of Albright 12-3, then ran
his season record to 13-0 by hand-
ing Joe Selba of Hopkins a 10-2 de-
feat.

Coach Gary Franke was pleased
with the effort from his top wrestlers,
especially as each prepares to wrestle
for a conference title and the oppor-
tunity to travel to the NCAA Division
III Championships.

“I think Ivan will receive a No. 1
seed next weekend and be in a good
position to wrestle for the crown,”
Franke said. “Ezra has been perform-
ing well, but he’s got some tough chal-
lenges in his way.”

The Generals got a little bit of help in
disposing of Albright, as the Lions were

MARYGUY/IheRing- Phi

GENERALS CAPTAIN: Senior Ezra Morse wrestles in Saturday’s W&L Triangular. The
197—pounder defeated Albright’s Ryan Scarduzio and Johns Hopkins’ Joe Selba.

forced to forfeit four matches. Senior
Ben Segal, sophomores Corey Little and
Joe Mueller and freshman Brian Avello
each received a free victory.

The clash between the Generals
and the Blue Jays, however, proved
to be a bit more exciting. Despite win-
ning ﬁve key matches, the Generals
fell victim to inexperience.

“Usually, when each team wins
ﬁve matches in a dual meet, you won’t
come out as the loser,” Franke said.
“Today, though, we suffered from
some inexperience, and the forfeit (at
133 pounds) really hurt us.

“Hopkins knew if they kept close
with us, they’d have an opportunity
to win. They performed very well.”

Although W&L fell to a conference
opponent, the matches provided a num-
ber of bright spots for the Generals.

Little came from behind with a key
reversal in the ﬁnal minute in order to

seize an 8-5 victory over Reno
Reitmayr. Avello then used his supe-
rior quickness in order to climb out of
an 8-0 hole and proceed to defeat Glen
Taylor, 16-14.

Mueller, the defending Centennial
Conference champion at 184 pounds,
wrestled a close match and grabbed a
2-1 victory.

Franke looks optimistically at next
week’s competition, but realizes he
must get big performances out of his
“big three”: Morse, Mueller and
Zdanov.

“We have one week to prepare for
conference, so we’ll work very har ,”
the coach said. “We know we need big
points from our top guys since we have
some voids at certain weight classes.”

W&L ﬁnishes its 2001-02 team
season in the Centennial Conference
Tournament on Saturday morning at
Ursinus College.

8722.

WANTED: Summer Scholars Counselors
June 26-July 27, 2002

Are you looking for a-great chance to be a mentor and to
experience working with high school students while staying
at W&L for the month of July? The Washington and Lee
Summer Scholars Program is an exciting" four week academic
program for approximately 150 rising high school seniors.
We are looking for responsible students to help guide par-
ticipants and to plan extracurricular activities such as tal-
ent shows, lip syncs, weekend hikes, trips to Goshen and more.

For further information and to obtain applications, please
contact Jennifer Lotts, Summer Scholars, Hill House at 463-

The deadline for turning in applications is February 27, 2002.

  

PAGE 8

S

BY J EREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

Very few teams would be disappointed with a one-loss
campaign that landed them No. 3 in a ﬁnal poll. Even fewer
would hope to improve upon that performance after a
coaching change and the loss of ﬁve All—Americans.

But don’t call the Washington and Lee men’s lacrosse
team overconfident. Just know that they plan on ﬁnishing
what they’ve started.

“The players feel like there’s some unﬁnished busi-
ness from last year,” said Mike Cerino, who takes over for
12-year coach Jim Stagnitta, now at Rutgers. “We realize
that the story‘s still the same, but a lot of the characters in
the story have changed, and we have to accept that.

“There’s a different head coach, we’re doing things a little
bit different, there’s a lot of different players on the ﬁeld.”

Attackman Matt Dugan, midﬁelders Pope Hackney and
Bernie Norton, defenseman Pete Iwancio and goalie Wes
Hays — all All—Americans in one or more polls — are gone
from the squad that ﬁnished 14-1 in 2001, but failed to
secure the Old Dominion Athletic Conference title and a
bid to the NCAA Tournament.

Those are tough losses to take, to be sure, but the Gen-
erals have plenty of talent remaining. Junior midﬁelder Torn
Melanson, who joins seniors Andrew Barnett and David
Skeen as the team’s captains, says that the departed play-
ers’ leadership is the most important aspect to replace.

“This team has changed a lot since last year, and unity
is the key to our season,” Melanson said. “The leaders of
the team, which consist of more than just the captains or
seniors, must keep the unity of the team. Our team has
endless potential if we play as a team and not just as a
group of individuals.” '

With the loss of 75 goals split between Dugan and
Hackney, Melanson’s midﬁeld will have to assume more
of a scoring role in 2002, as Cerino anticipates “a slight
change” in strategy. Senior John Moore, sophomores Mark

111-. f<l\'-(:--'E‘l xi l’:§l

PORTS
&L has ‘unfinished business’ in

 

(X)lJl(ll~SY(IFSP(RlSlNR]<MA1l()N

IN THE CIRCLE: Junior co—captain Tom Melanson won 73.5 percent of his faceoffs in Washington and Lee’s 2001 campaign.

McLewee and Mike McNamara and freshmen Gavin
Molinelli and Mike Baracco are among those who the ﬁrst-
year coach expects to contribute more on the offensive
end of the ﬁeld.

“It’s obviously hard to lose so many great offensive play-
ers, but we’re just as talented, if not more, than we were last
year,” said Barnett, who was third on W&L with 29 goals and
48 points last year. “We still have the scoring power and
great offensive players. It just may take time with some guys

Generals lok to buil un r

BY JEREMY FRANKl.lN
SPORTS EDITOR

Although 2001 was the most suc-
cessful season in 13 years of Wash-
ington and Lee women’s lacrosse, this
year’s Generals dont want to talk
about it.

Instead, they're focusing on win-
ning another Old Dominion Athletic
Conference title and making the first
back-to-back NCAA Tournament ap-
pearances in school history.

“The hardest part about this year
is going to be moving forward and
not talking about last year,” sopho-
more rnidﬁelder Kelly Taffe said. “We
were undefeated in the ODAC last
year, so everyone is going to be out
to get us. We have to remember to
win the small games in order to get to
the big ones."

There are plenty of big contests
on W&L’s schedule in 2002, includ-
ing several heated rivalry games
within the ODAC. Outside of confer-
ence competition, the Generals play
teams such as Franklin and Marshall,
Denison and Mary Washington,
which knocked W&L out of the
NCAA Division III Tournament last
season.

“Hopefully, a tougher schedule just
makes you a better team,” said Jan
Hathorn, who has coached the pro-
gram since its 1988 inception. “We need
to press ourselves and push ourselves
to the next level by playing teams that
are going to do that for us.”

W&L returns its defense virtually
intact from a team that was 15-4 last
year, 8-0 in the ODAC. Senior Eloise
Priest was an All-America selection

    

oomEsY0F1NR)RMAnoN

MIDFIELD POWER: Sophomores Lee Wheeler (14) and Kelly Taffe (4) and senior
Julie Carskadon all return to the Washington and Lee midﬁeld this season.

after helping hold opponents to just
6.16 goals per game.

“Our defensive unit is just that -
a unit of hard-working girls that play
really well together,” Priest said. “Our
entire starting defense is returning
this year, which will make us even
stronger as a team. We really feel in
sync with one another out there al-
ready.”

The Generals will also beneﬁt from
the return of sophomore goalie Joanna
Perini, who had a 6.05 goals against
average and a .633 save percentage
in her freshman campaign.

“Jo is an incredible player in the
goal,” Priest said. “She has worked
really hard on her clears and skills,
and it has paid off. Our defense is re-
ally looking solid, especially with her
anchoring us from the goal.”

Hathorn also expects the midﬁeld,
where she says “there is more speed than
we’ve ever had before,” to be one of the
Generals’ strongest aspects this year.

“When you have hard-working
girls who have decent or above—aver-
age speed, you tend to run down more
balls and have the ball more often,”
Hathorn said. “If you have a midﬁeld
with the kind of experience ours has,
you tend to be a pretty solid team
because we can transition the ball one
way or another.”

On offense, W&L must replace their
leading scorer from a season ago, Liz
Borges. But the Generals return three
30-goal scorers from 2001 ——-Taﬂfe, jun-
ior Leslie Bogart and sophomore Lee
Wheeler —— and two more who scored
20 in seniors Emily Owens and
Courtenay Fisher, who serve along
with Priest as the team’s captains.

With that kind of depth coming
back, Wheeler doesn’t believe there
is pressure on any one General to carry
the offensive load.

“The loss of Liz Borges is signiﬁ-
cant, but the offense as a whole be-
came stronger with every game we

getting to know their new roles and new offense.”

Meanwhile, the Generals’ defense was the best in Divi-
sion III a season ago, and senior Eric Kontargyris and
juniors Matt Conners and Greg Hendler return to anchor a
unit that gave up just 4.87 goals a game. More playing
time is in the works for guys like junior Noah Weber and
sophomore Kenny Rasamny, and sophomore Ansel Sand-
ers will take over for Hays minding the net.

“Obviously, the goalie is where everything starts,”

ong 2001

played last year,” Wheeler said. “We
will also beneﬁt from a strong fresh-
man class who will improve the depth
of our team.”

For Hathom, the seven freshmen
on the W&L roster are an x-factor.
Whether or not they contribute im-
mediately, though, the coach looks at
the prospects of having them in her
program for four seasons.

“There isn’t a freshman out there
that isn’t going to add (to our team),’’
she said. ‘”They’re not valuable to us in
a sense that we know exactly what they
can offer us yet, but we do have some
sense of their potential, and we’re fmd—
ing them to be quite valuable to us.”

Last season’s success has already
made itself apparent in 2002, as the
veteran coach has noticed a favorable
trend in preseason practice.

“We have started out at a faster,
higher level this year,” Hathom said.
“Compared to last year at this time of
year, we’re ahead of the game because
the level of skill is better, and pretty much
everybody out there played for us or is
going to be able to play for us.”

W&L’s ultimate goal is a return trip to
the NCAA Tournament, but right now
they’re concentrating on winning the
games they need to in order to get there.

“Making it to NCAA again would
be amazing,” Perini said. “I think
we’ ve all been dreaming about it since
we went last year. But right now we
have to focus on the season and take
it one game at a time.

“We are a team with a lot of poten-
tial, and I really think that we can do
great things this year. I expect that we
will play our hearts out every game
and see where that takes us.”

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11,2002 1

Cerino said. “Ansel Sanders is certainly showing he can
compete at this level, but he still has to gain experience in
the big games. We’ll go as far as Ansel can take us this
season.”

W&L will play a ﬁrst-class schedule in 2002, as fellow
Division III stalwarts Washington, Gettysburg and
Franklin and Marshall face the Generals in March. Divi-
sion II Limestone, where Cerino and new W&L assistant
Ricky Matthews — then one of Cerino’s players — won a
national title in 2000, comes calling in May.

In the ODAC, Roanoke and defending champion
Hampden-Sydney have also garnered national attention.

“(For us) the month of March is almost like the month
of May for playoff opportunities,” Cerino said. ‘‘We’ 11 have
a real good idea of how we can compete and where we’re
going to stand nationally, and we’ll be battle-hard head-
ing into the ODAC.

“At the same time, it’s not the kind of season where
one loss or one stumble can knock you out,” he added.
“There are a lot of opportunities to compete, including
staying alive until the ODAC Tournament. So this should
be an interesting journey for a team that’s evolving.”

Tough schedule aside, Melanson and his teammates
are anxious to start the season, which begins Feb. 23 at
home against Bates.

“Our team is ﬁred up for all of our games,” he said. “At
this point of the season, the whole team is looking for-
ward to getting on the ﬁeld and proving what we can do.
Ultimately, we want the national championship. To expect
anything less would be cheating ourselves of a great op-
portunity.”

Conners concurs with Melanson’s opinion.

“It is going to take a little bit of time to make the transi-
tion from last year’s team to this one, but we do have a lot
of returning talent,” the defenseman said. “I look for our
team to receive a bid to the NCAA Tournament, and then
we’ 11 see what happens from there. We have the talent and
the coaching staff to do it, it’s up to us to get it done.”

Celica-«
The, Inside  tory  

{Rn Ilia cmtsirle, it"s. a-asy to see that: -Crslica is rac:<:*--tra-1:3:
§.ns;;JE:eel. Eiut -the real excitement is on the EasEde....under the
hrmd. Take the Cxaiicza ti’?-S-.....T<)}vtsta wa2§aa:l’witl1'Yarr:aha to
build a. 38% HF’ eragizna re«ili.nac:i at F360 R?M....e~quippe::l it
with ‘Variable Valve Tinting w'*El.—h iIn2:aEliganm“:...a f;i)I’3};.3E.f§,tZ*.f
that constantly monitors  retunea your engine far maxi-
mum ;:»erformarw:e;..a” cam with two: sets of iobes to ;:m;:av’ir.le
two ranges at ‘waive lift and daratiar: for more usa‘l;Ea horse-
power. ’§°h«:~ra~’s direct ignition far greater rallagbilim...
irédium-tipped spam plugs for reduced mairzta-naace...a

stainless steel exhaust n1anife§u:i...a \W.il1*3r~¢:€)£i1il*E?£l oil cooler.
and mated with T(2r1m:a."s  electronically-controlled
£l.£..rE£:Ii'1”t2ltliZ‘ “”$pmtshi‘Et",. you gar tra.nsmis$§ora shift switches
cm the steer‘-ing Wlt(§€.?;E..,}li5l‘ lilze Farrmsia E race cars. Sweet.

 “"“""'3°“"V°“‘*‘*‘i°"‘

I)r‘iv.ii1g as new Toyota is easier than ever -~

became new your foyeta dealer has a special callega graduate
ﬁnancing 'pregram’available that Toyota Financial Services; .
. ’ that offers it lot of 3f’&atsadvar1:i3%€:s. A V  

So as you're within 4 maths ::xfgradua£io;a.... me; ya; graatzazefa
within the past two 3raars_....Sae yaur ‘lama dpesalerlair da$aEls..- 

 

ODAC, NCAA s

 

«9 53-755?

  

   
 
 

.iAiw»'e G. l_E“t'E§1. we.-: i_.ir5a'i.e.rr‘r

     

  

 

 

 

R3551  '-(:3. a M 1  our-rvrea:3i“rv
V’ M (1   '   Trir l“'F‘D'F“{’l1’\’("IIr r 181)? flltkitx“ 1 \" P}l1\§’I11Ft3L‘ 1 1   1 111‘ 1"‘    l‘i-  
w I‘ .1V1l‘~lbl>F-)1: M a . ._;i.iA_R rirznnz INDEX
;’\iAl’Pll.(_)l~’1~1lA‘1l1. (13 Prior. 3 O I “J G
»  .,=,,.,- N , T "N r , 7 .1 v   7 .. PIN <j.i  3
,   WASHll\i(:TOl\ AM) LEE Ul\ilVERSlTl   -
ARO1_,’,NI)'l"l'llT. i<':oi:< ‘ii--i‘ \1\v &L£l‘l: 13
\ )
i\l(‘r\J( )l.‘\ )(xl_.1l1'1.l‘i Sp(’)R'r‘g 
i . .
IOHN Q <I)P.«\(;r; 5 - /7 , ._ .  -
V ~ ~  S 
G'l?‘.()R.(}l?‘ i'<i*z\*i:=I,\\~'*s 1 \\ Fig} R home 13>
\1\1"1A$l’El>J(}'l"<‘)N1S 24/ -/ ~«
ﬁr i.ATi=:sT 1411.711
1  \5'i‘i;.i':i.:;1;(.'lV,;\7r,=.Xxl l.E}£lN{{I'(ii\‘, 1»-"1§R(‘»l.’\'§.»‘.2~"é'«i5l1l 1‘10ND-"\"r}111-11'-E-34,30113
it 1 '
ON THE MOVE -
ld V l 1
. Wor tra e er 331' fgmpg
‘ 8 ; 5 O
' to address &L  lO1lI1 6
Jack Wheeler passes through Lexington g
I‘ . al d _ _ ak - BY PETER QUACKENBUSH The deer cut itself while pass-
BY ANDREW LATIMER eaheh 1111 ehlehelhlhg She el STAFFWI EF ing through the glass; blood and
1’ ASS[S"[",\N'fQp]]\I[QNS}3D]'IOR that would be S;)1met1nng”d1fferem shards covered the floor under the
then our helm guests‘ _ _ A small wild deer, en'o in a .window. Blood stains circled the
Accomplished world traveler Wheeler 55 began his hfe as A J y e
A . . .’ ’ ’ . quiet campus, lept through a win- carpeted areas of the room and
P°1111eal Sage ahd deetel 01 Ph1' ah advehhllel at l6 when he 10111" dow into Fairf L n e on the] t spotted small sections of the car-
losophy Jack Wheeler will discuss neyed alone to South America and Saturday of ti: vigshezngmn hoe: pet
f his- extensive -dual careers in ex— the Amazon jungle, where he was day. Moore asked University Security
Plelaheh and lhlelhahehal 11113115 adopter: by 11 thee of headtlllll(;llelS' Psychology Professor Julie to provide a means of escape, but the
Tuesday hlghl 111 Lee Chapel at Relhal ably’ hls parents a few Woodzicka rid 'unior Micha l deer would not cooperate.
1 eh 7130 P'1h° qualms wlth the expedltlell’ al' Morrow wer:wall<ing by the Un‘i- “Security came and opened the
His hour—long speech, entitled though Wheeler admits that “to versity Center ‘1 0 o r S .. .
F “AnAdventurous Life,”willhardly thisday(my mother) still hasn’tﬁg- at 1 pm_ on Sat_ rTWASAMAZ[NG_(1HEDPER Woodzicka Said’
have time to scratch the surface of ured out how I talked her into that.” urday when “but the deer
his numerous exploits, which in- Even as Wheeler became . . ENIERED)lllR0llGHASlNGIl3PANEOFGLASS... -
at 1 d j  180 _ d r t, _ ,d th b It b they noticed ( jumped out the
c u evisitmg countries, evis- more ac iveinsi e e e way y the deer‘ mEN)rrrEDEr,]W1\/1PEDOUTmESrDEWH\rD0W side window...
ing the basis of‘ what would be- the early ‘80s, his hfe did not slow “Once it JUUEWOODZICKA It Survived
5 come the Reagan Doctrine to dis- down. In 1995 he armwrestled fu- Climbed onto a leap of two
mantle Soviet Russia, ﬁghting in ture Russian President Vladimir . . -
. . . . . the patio in stories onto a
e  g1lehllawaIS’huhhhghlah'eae Putlhlh e Capltel Hlllpub‘ front of Fairfax, it became disori- sidewalk and then disappeared.
lhg_ hgellh Vlethalh by hlhlselfelld At tllheewheelel S feels even ented and could not figure out how White-tailed deer, common to
‘ helhg the hlst person to skydlve seem uhbelleyahle 1? hlmse_lf' to get down,” Morrow said. Rockbridge County, often are seen on
dl1ee‘l)l\%'hh1h:’i1he N°llh_PEle' the “gehtlehlhesbllds lllie l”m leadlhg “So I guess the next logical path the fringes of campus.
e S heme hllg the a 0“ some 0 y e Se‘ t d t ' thr th ' — Assistant D' tor of Securit
C nationally known, the Contact Whilemuchofthespeechwill dciikferwas Olump ough ewm SteVeTom1inS0n1sr:iCd in all the year:
Svlillhlhlltee was eaggl 1: hllhg fzetﬁs eh ;:1e1‘1;_ieS1te:lhe eeglheés Morrow did not believe his own he has worked for the university, no
ee er to campus. ai senior o ewor , ee er so wi a - tf L - {her wild an- r h e r entered
. 1‘ committee president Samuel dress current events and offer his eyesie HS- - ~ _ O - « - mm as V6 a
_ , After it jumped through the win building.
Langholz, “Wheeler was chosen perspectives on world affairs. As dow, I was not sure that it actually ..Need1eSSto Saxrwas Surprised’
1 because we thought he looked like a political commentator, regular happened until Professor rwoodzicka amazed, and abit Shaken,» Woodzicka
a fascinating individual. When he contributor to magazines and conﬁrmed that She Saw it as wem. he Said
* was presented by one of our com- online news sites and president by    I M   Said‘ “I kept thinking .wow’ what if
lhleee lhemhels’ e1/erybeey Wis efthe Fleedenl Research leeundae I’HOIOBYM\Ri GLW'/ 772cRi‘qe-1i1znP1zi' “It was amazing—it went someone had been in the lounge—it
V 11111001 1111.0» C3111111S be 101 1031- 11011: VV1100101 13 111 1110 1111111113 P0‘ . VICTORY: W&L senior David Skeen handles a pass during the game against Pfeiffer through a sir-rg1c pane of glass,” would have made a boring meeting a
_ B11111w35 for 1e31, 3-1111 50 we at \X/ilson Field. For more sports, see page 6. Woodzicka Said, lot more in[eresting_”’
Y decided that he would be an edu— see EXPLORER) page 2 I
0 0 0 ‘
v   University Scholars increase ranks by 17
r 2002 SCHOLARS   
' Professor Peterson looked for “intelligence, Out of the 33 students who applied for the program,
Katie Abplanalp Washington and Lee’s University Scholars pro- originality, a broad view of the world and a willing— 17 were accepted.
r u RamsayArchie gram inducted 17 new members from the freshmen and ness to exchange ideas.” “We had an orientation for the new schol-
Wesley Bell sophomores. Eligible candidates had a 3.5 GPA and 'a “Of course, it’s always difficult topick new scho1— ars Wednesday night,” Cooper said. “I’m very
. Kim Bulka faculty member willing to write them a recommenda— ars,” said University Scholar Presi- pleased with the group —— it seems energetic
)3 Bethany Catron tion letter. dent Ashley Hodgson, an interviewer. and enthusiastic.”
Peter Djalaliev “I was happy with the selection process,” Greg Coo- “There are always disagreements New scholars have already begun work on designing
Christopher Gaiteri per, head of the University Scholars program, said. “It had about who should be admitted. In the new classes or Saturday enrichment programs in local
it Benjamin Hicks an enthusiastic tumout.” end, it’s really abig compromise.” schools.
Kate Houren Cooper replaces Spanish Professor John “Irememberwhatitfeltlike,andl Seven of the new scholars are men, 10 women.
Tiffany Jenkins Lambeth, who completed his four-year term in 2001- know (candidates) are nervous,” jun- Three students are international. One is an upper-
Leila Kia 2002. ior Mary Carol Mazza said. “I know classmen. 1
Erik Kiewiet De Jonge Fourteen current University Scholars and 14 (interviewers are unhappy and hesi— Interviews were set up by Hodgson and sopho-
Robyn Konkel professors volunteered‘ to interview prospectives HODGSON tant to out people.” more Matthew McDermott, University Scholars advi-
Susan Somers in three—hour slots. “I enjoyed the interview but sory board chair.
Victoria Stanham Each candidate university scholar was interviewed for thought the interviewers were intimidating at first,” said University Scholars take advanced seminars and com-
Jacob Stoehr 40 minutes by separate faculty and student panels. The freshman Katie Wall. V plete a senior thesis. W&L faculty founded the interdisci-
two panels then met afterward to discuss candidates and J “I didn’t ﬁnd the faculty as intimidating as th plinary program in 1984 to provide challenge for well-pre-
to nominate one to three of them. students,” Wall said.

pared students.

e ics team ties or |rst p ace A—bomb classhasblast1nD.C.
W&L ’[h'   ' ' °
, , . . . . . . . of the play as part of his ﬁnal project.
Remarkably similar scores raise eyebrows as University team ties with Marymount in final round 11°“ 51*” “‘’°‘‘“ , The following day students attended a
Nine past and present members of symposium in the Baird Auditorium of the
BY IMRAN N AEEMULL AH that there was “point fixing,” just that it all fore proceeding to the final round against Chcnusu-y Professor Frank settles Nuclear National Museum of Natural History, a
ASSISTANTNEWSFDUOR seemed a lmle “amazing,” . Ma1'}1II10unt..In fact, W&L performedlsowell Age class attended the award-winning play Smithsonian Institute.
b . ‘ Marymount coaches Robert Draghi and that it received a “bye” to the semi—finals Copenhagen on Fri_ and the next day’s sym— Undersecretary of the Department of
r _ _ _ Jason King did not return phone calls seek- after just two rounds, a feat also achieved posium, Energy Robert Card and Danish Ambassa-
_ 011 111° °°1111°f’e15131 15511_e of ‘‘C1‘’11 ing comment about whether they thought by Marymount, which Cooper said gave the Seven current students of Settle’s dorU1rikFederspiel opened the symposium.
K 1411315111115 31111 N311°11_31 Se°“1'11Ya” W3511‘ there was any point ﬁxing. team more time to prepare for fllrthef Q1165‘ CI-lEM195/UNIV 202 class joined two former Students also heard from eight other
11151011 and Lee,5 Ethles Bowl team lhelh‘ The statewide Coordinator for the Ethics ti0nS- students and Spanish Professor Cecile West— speakers, who addressed past and contem-
A bers 131101‘/ed them- BOWl competition, David Schwartz, also did Unlike many 911161‘ teams, which selected Settle to attend a production of Michael porary issues in physics,
Selves wlhhels' Al 11011€SP011<110 311 6-111311 111Cl1111Y- 0110 3111110111 10 P1050111 1110 C350 31111 a11SW€1 Frayn’s Copenhagen at Washington, D.C.’s Bohr’s grandson and Heisenberg’s son
1113 Fee 18_ 10111113‘ W&L’s team members praised their com- all questions, members of W&L’s team par- Kennedy Center. . gave personal accounts of their famous rela-
1he111 held 111 R1eh' petition. “While it may have been a little diS- ticipated equally. Copenhagen explores the signiﬁcance tives, remarking on the degree to which their
m°“<1g W&_L 5 ‘Cam appointing to tie, Marymount was a great team. Arnold opened every case by stating the of a 1941 meeting between Neils Bohr and relations differed from their dramatic portrayal.
:1/Sast Vletegleus etzel 31111 W0 P0110111100 10311)’ W0111111‘101 1110 P105‘ 10311115 P05111011 31111 1310501111118 0P011111g 16- Weiner Heisenberg, giants of quantum phys- The conference also afforded the op-
_ ealhs _ lelh 0 er Sure Of a Case We had IICVCI 86611 [b6f01€la” 11131115 131311111 W0111<1 Sa1’01ag0 1110 0PP05111g ics, in the epon mous Nazi-occupied city. portunit to hear Richard Rhodes, author of
. pllvale Yllglhla eel‘ P6162 Said» View P6102 W0111d S1316 1116 16311115 1113101 SeniorMic:hTolman, who took Settle’s the clas)s’s textbook, The Making of the
1 ‘P 1\‘:'Ige5» 1111111131eC1:Y11{'111g Perez further praised the overall nature points. McDerrnott would recap the argument class 1asr year, per-fcrrncd a substantial part Atgmic Bomb,
31Y111°1111 ° ege of the conference, saying, “[Despite the] ri- and give closing statements.
P1111112 101 f1151P13°e- valry between schools, everyone was re- “Several judges complimented the team
1' The 111311115 1113111‘ ally enthusiastic, on its conciseness and
hers, seniors Justin Arnold, Alicia Brandt and we or ‘to V V S df C00 er sard_
A alllld Iijiltlgyn Perez, and sopflfiomotre Mat— know a lotgof Stu_ CO0PERDFSCRlBEl)lElllEAM’SlvlEMBPRSAS peerrhe reafnas coach
t ew c ermott, put in an e ortt at team dents from the rs » “W PU1-INA also aru-rbured overall
4 cCoordinatc1>lr:nd associate professor Greg other Schools» GREAT’ SAYMleIAA:G1:;fY eAmAm success to the team
ooper ca e “amazing, tru y amazing” in a The teams ' members’ hardwurkaud
. press release from the W&L news office. were pulled ran_ GR1;r;C00pE;r commended them for
1 , Cooper described the team’s members as domly out of a hat giving up part of their
“g1e31’” 53y111g they “w°11‘e‘1 11313 31111 P111111 to go into either the “west” bracket or the February Break to attend the competition.
v9 310113 g111e1111g 3331” “east” bracket, although those designations “They worked hard, and it paid of ,”
Some» 11°We"e1’ ‘l11°511°11e‘1 W113’ the had nothing to do with the schools’ geo- Cooper said.
A number of points the W&L team scored graphic1ocauons_ when askbd about future plans, coo-
P (115101 3 P°5511’1e _150)“’35 the 53111e 35 11111 During the first four rounds of the com- per said he would like to see the competi-
111111111e1 of P011115 5°°1e‘1 by 111° petition, the schools vied for top place in their tion hosted by W&L next year, although no
1 Pu M31Y111°11111 ‘131°g311°11- _ _ _ individual brackets, and then the winners of formal steps have been taken to do so yet.
.A5 COOP“ P111 11 111 311 1111°1V1°W9 the two brackets were pitted against each “The competition has in the past been
A “Given the number of scores possible be- other in the final round. hosted by the University of Richmond,
‘Ween Z310 31111 150’ 11 11151 5e‘11115 5° 1111‘ The result of this setup was that W&L Marymount College and Randolph-Macon
’_ P10133010 11131 1113 1W0 1031115 5501133 the first went against Roanoke College, then Woman's College,” Cooper said.
531119 111111111111 °1 P011115-11 against Hollins College, beat Roanoke again “None of those schools are in the west-
COOP“ W35 53161111 1° P111111 0111’ 110W‘ in the third round, then trounced Randolph— em half of Virginia, and it would be nice to _
yr °Ve1= 11131 113 11111 11°‘ 11e°e553111Y 1’e11°V3 Macon Woman’s College in the fourth be- see a competition hosted (in this half).’’ INRJGRAPHIC BYKATIEHOWPIL/71|€R1"8'1“'"P11.011l11’11C10U1111SY1‘1i1110N11ARC111"13
 
/1

 

    

PAGE 2

MONDAY. MARCH 4, 2002

EXPLORER, from page 2

sition of possessing both expert
analysis and firsthand experience.
“But I can guarantee it (the
speech) won’t be politically correct,”
quipped Wheeler.
According to Contact Publicity
Vice Chair Dustin Olson, Wheeler’s
visit has raised the attention of local

media as well, almost as much as
former Polish President Lech Walesa’s
talk last October.

Similarly high interest has been
felt on campus. “I have been surprised
by the excitement I’ve heard on cam-
pus,” noted Langholz. “Not many
people have heard the name Jack

Wheeler, but when you read about the
remarkable life that he has lived and
the adventures that he has under-
taken, I have heard a lot of people talk-
ing about attending.”

Following the speech Walker

will attend a reception in the Alumni ,

Center.

 

E-mail news briefs

 

Legal ethics talk explores trial narratives

The Washington and Lee University Legal Ethics Insti-
tute will feature keynote speaker Steven Lubet Friday, March
1 at4:30 p.m. in Classroom B of Lewis Hall. He will lecture on
“Trial Narratives: Ethical Imagination or Imaginary Ethics?”

Steven Lubet is a professor of law at Northwestern Uni-
versity. As director of the law school’s program on Advo-
cacy and Professionalism,‘ he teaches courses on legal eth-
ics, trial advocacy, pretrial litigation and negotiation. In addi-
tion to over 50 books and articles on legal ethics and litiga-
tion, he has published widely in the areas of international
criminal law and dispute resolution.

Lubet is the author of Modern Trial Advocacy (2nd ed.,
1997), which also has been published in Canadian and Israeli
editions and has been adopted by over 60 United States law
schools. He also is co-author of Judicial Conduct and Eth-
ics (1990), which has been called the nation’s leading author-
ity on the subject judicial ethics. He has consulted with judi-
cial conduct organizations in Illinois, Washington, Florida,
Pennsylvania, VV1sconsin and Minnesota.

W&L profs. interview NYT columnist

Journalism and mass communications professors Brian
Richardson and Edwin Yoder sat down with E.J. Dionne Jr.,
a columnist for The Washington Post, on Feb. 27 to dis-
cuss journalism, politics, and more. The interview took place
in the department’s temporary studios in Mod Hall. Dionne,
a political analyst who regularly appears on numerous tele-
vision news programs and National Public Radio, was on
campus as part of the by the Fishback Visiting Writers Lec-
ture series. '

Dionne spent 14 years with The New York Times, re-
porting on local, state, national and international politics
and government. His reporting career includes stints in
Paris, Rome and Beirut. In 1990, Dionne joined The Wash-
ington Post as a reporter, covering national politics. He
began his op-ed column in 1993.

W&L German class produces ‘Der Talisman’

German students at W&L will be producing Johann
Nestroy’s play, “Der Talisman,” on Thursday and Friday,
Mar. 6-7, in Keller Theater. The play, which will be entirely
in German, begins at 8:00PM. However, an English synop-
sis will be provided at the door. Tickets are free and the
audience is encourage to come early in order to ensure
that they get good seats.

    

a°-“°

   

*6:
The Foundation for the Defense of Democracies presents:

“Defending Democracy, Defeating Terrorism”

 

7:30 p.m——First Annual H. Parker
Willis Lecture in Economic Policy. Dr.
Roger W. Ferguson, Jr., Vice Chair-
man, Board of Governors of the Fed-
eral Reserve System. Lee Chapel.

8:30 p.m.——Java at the GHQ. Guy
Smiley Blues Exchange. GHQ.

Tuesday, Mar. 5

12 p.m.—Poetry Reading. Irish
poet Mary O’Malley. Room 1 14, Uni-
versity Center. Attendees may charge
their dining hall lunches to the
Women’s Studies Program.

12 p.m.—All-Campus Blood Drive.
Doremus Gym. Faculty and staff are
put on a fast track.

5 p.m.—Glasgow. Endowment
Reading. Mary O’Malley, poetry.
Northen Auditorium.

7:30 p.m.—Contact Lecture. “An
Adventurous Life,” Jack Wheeler, ad-
venturer, explorer, philosopher. Lee
Chapel.

Wednesday, Mar. 6

6:30 p.m.—Leadership Seminar Se-
ries. Leading with Others: Conﬂict
Resolution. Room 205, University Cen-
ter. Facilitated by W.C. “Burr” Datz,
director of Leadership Development.

7 p.m.—-Outing Club Event. Chris
Carnuto, ass’t English prof., W&L and
author. Outing Club House.

7:30 p.m.—Outing Club Event. Bike
Workshop. Outing Club House.

8 p.m.—Alcoholics Anonymous

Meeting. Fairfax Lounge (when W&L
is in session). All W&L students, fac-
ulty/staff and the Lexington commu-
nity are welcome. Coffee is provided.

5 p.m.—Lect11re. “Liberal Judaism
in America: Reforming the Reforms,”
Marc Raphael, professor, College of
William and Mary. DuPont Hall.

Thursday, Mar. 7

7 p.m.—Echoes of the Past &
Voices of Hope: Maxine Maxwell in
Powerful One Acts Celebrating Afri-
can-American Women. Lee Chapel.

Friday, Mar. 8

4:30 p.m.——Medical Ethics Institute.
Public lecture: “Using Genetics to
Make Better People: Preventing Dis-
ease and Enhancing Normal Func-
tion,” Room A1 14, Science Center.

4:30 p.m.——Film Society. “Bam-
boozled” (USA, 2000). Directed by
Spike Lee. Troubadour Cinema.

The Foundation for the Defense of Democracies is seeking
qualified undergraduate applicants to participate in a
fellowshiplprogram entitled “Defending Democracy,
Defeating Terrorism”.

The fellowship program will commence August 3-21 in Tel
Aviv and will allow participants to interact with academics,
diplomats and military officials from India, Israel, Jordan,

Turkey, and the United States. FDD fellows will be
provided with all room, board, and travel expenses.

FDD is a non—profit, non-partisan and non—ideological think
thank that promotes informed debate about politics and
positions that will most effectively abolish international
terrorism.

Questions? email to fellows@defendddemocracy.org L

For additional details and application visit:
www.defenddemocracy.org

TOYOTA

  BHCEI-'7
The Inside Story

On the outside.

E:t~*’:~a easy to see that Celica. is rar:e~»tr-ack.

Enspireri. Eat the seat vexcitenient 3:22 or: the ‘ms%»de...L:nr.‘3er the
he-r:rci. Ta lie the Celica QT-S...’¥’ograata war§<.eu:i with Ya.nia:E1a to
lauilri a ran: eat‘? eng‘ine rer:l?lir§ecl at ?3é'H}_R§3M...eq,uippe<£ it
with \£a.riab§a- Vailve Timing with EmaIligenee...a commuter
rm: <::onatanrty rn»¢::n§tt2r‘$ and zetu-ties “year: engirre ier maxi-
mum ;3e.rft:i'mian:;é:e...a ::am with two sets of laixzs to provide

two ranges of val

owar. "'l‘l1are’s

 lift. and c§:.rra§Eor: for more usable hoarse-
direct ignition for greater reﬁialiility...

ir¥i—di»u.m-tipped sparlk plugs. for .r>ed'uceci maEn'ter:.rmce....a.
sta§.nl?e—as steel exliaursi mariifti-l(i....2t waier«<:ooled oii cooler.

Arm! mated with

Teyotais 4-speed electm.nicaiEy-controlled

eutr;:«rr1zrt.i<: “Se:orr.:sh.ift’“‘, you get j!IfEkt¥§éﬁ’i§t§S—i-63:1 s‘hif:ew:it;ehee
on the steering wh%3...L3’i.r_~et. like: Fom";uila~; 1 race cars. Sweet.

I

www.gettoyota.com

  oat-lag  -Mae its easier? rtmi mi 9- 

 new {rear ioyeta stealer has a ::;g:ee:z»::iE;zl Cfs:3§3é£f_§§;?s% g:aa:§aate:
financing program availaialie rim Tayrzta fériaraeial Services;
that offers a lot of ye-.;-’r'r ar:§var:isui§§-ea.

Se if ;yt.32Lr"r:3 wirhirr at meeting of gr:a::lt.r.sit:ia:ir1...  ‘it iﬁiitl grgzriiiiitrai 
xarltiiein the past twn— yea:$...See yorar liijgtiita rizealer for =t:let§rE'§s. 7'

 

 

MONDAY, MARCH 4, 2002



Cadavers’ campaigns
are cancerous to campus

Sure the dead are unattractive and smelly, but
at least they’re quiet. Unless you attend Washing-
ton and Lee, that is, where the Cadavers regularly
spraypaint or leaﬂet the campus with their logo.

The Cadavers, for those who haven’t over-
heard the whispers of temrinally ambitious fresh-
men, are W&L’s homegrown secret society.
Though less august than Ya1e’s Skulls and Bones
or UVA’s Seven Society, it supposedly holds the
keys to the kingdom of inﬁnite pelf.

Do Cadavers come from the Big Five fra-
ternities? Do they recruit pre-med students?
Do they receive one million dollars upon gradu-

~ ation? Do you really care? What matters is that
on a serni-regular basis a very attractive cam-
pus (a National Historic Landmark) is vandal-
ized. Construction signs are spraypainted, walls
are marked up and leaﬂets are entangled in
trees, where they add a touch of (offensively
neon) color. Even SUV’s in the parking garage
are not exempt from amoonlight markering.

We would be the last to deny the Cadavers’
long legacy of service to the university. Besides
an untold number of individual behests and schol-
arships, there is a tastefully decorated study room

‘ on one of Leybtn'n’s lower levels (tasteful for
the library, anyway). And, lest we forget, with-
out funding from the Cadavers, we would have
no footbridge and students would have to schlep
through a densely wooded hill to attend tailgates.

But being a big spender doesn’t give them
carte blanche to deface the campus. After all,
we don’t see Ernest Williams II, Sophie
Newcomb, or Gerry Lenfest burning their ini-
tials on the front lawn or spraypainting stock
quotes on Lee Chapel. The worst damage these
high-rollers would inﬂict on the campus is pay-
ing for, say, an ugly stone circle between the
Colonnade and the Co-op.

If the Cadavers care about the campus,
why do they deface it? Tradition isn’t a good

‘ enough answer. Single-sex education, the As-
similation Committee and minstrel shows were
once traditional too.

Yearbooks of yore listed members of the

Cadaver Society; now, the membership is ..

shrouded in secrecy. Perhaps association with
it was not always something to be ashamed of.

UOTE OF THE WEEK:

“SHE’s ON HIM LIKE
WHITE ON RICE.”
—-—ANONYMOUS PHI EDITOR-IN-CHIEF

IN REFERENCE TO DEWY-EYED
SOPHOMORE GIRL

Editor-in—chief MatthewB.McDem1ott
Associate Editor Katie J. Howell
Asst. News Editor Latrina Stokes
Asst. News Editor ImranNaeemullah
Opinions Editor Brett T. Kirwan
Asst. Opinions Editor Andrew Latimer
W&Life Editors MatthewA. Coursen
Catherine C. Guy
Jeremy S. Franklin
Dave Crowell
Alison M. 'lrinidad
MaryE-Guy
Meg Ferrara
J eb Brooks
Paul A. Seifert
Brian Castleberry
Emily Barker
William Litton
Peter L. Djalaliev

Sports Editor

Asst. Sports Editor
Contributing Editor
Photo Editor
Photographers

Business Manager
Circulation Manager
Asst. Business Manager
Advertising Managers
‘Internet Editor

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editor-in-chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu ‘or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion of the "Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi. wlu. edu

THE RlN('3-~’Il‘lE:.\'l PHI

BRETT T. KIRWAN
OPlNIOl\lS EDIIOR
EMA11; Km:/ANB@wwE)U

Monologues are malarkey

This past Friday and Saturday,
“The Vagina Monologues” were per-
formed at Washington and Lee. The
proceeds from the performance ben-
eﬁted Project Horizon, a Rockbridge
County support organization for bat-
tered women. Although the end was
honorable, the means, the perfor-
mance of “The Vagina Monologues,”
were, at best, a poor decision, at
worst, a calculated attempt to infect
our campus with victimization ferni-
nism.

The Monologues are a perfor-
mance based on hundreds of inter-
views of women of all ages by the
author, Eve Ensler. She has written a
collection of speeches that, although
cheered by feminists far and wide as
a liberating examination of the oppres-
sion and demonization of the female
genitalia, are little more than a disturb-
ing celebration of female victimization
and vulgar exhibitionism.

Each of the thirteen monologues
is based, more or less, on the same
tired feminist theme: women have
been unable to discover their “true”
selves due to the oppression and mis-
understanding of men and, thank God
for Eve, they now are at peace with
and indeed celebrate their, ahem,
plumbing.

The production opens with a brief
monologue entitled “Hair.” This terri-
bly too descriptive piece teHs the sad
tale of a wife held hostage by a hus-
band who demands that she be clean-
shaven. Driven mad by his request, she
eventually takes to therapy and mar-
riage counseling. Needless to say, the
therapist had no sympathy for her,
and, of course, her husband takes up
with another partner. Relief for this
long—suffering housewife who wanted
no more than simple monogarny and
was driven mad by a heartless, insen-
sitive, unfaithful husband, was found
in an interview with the vulvacentric
Eve Ensler.

In another, entitled “The Flood,”
a story is told of a 72-year-old who
has never “seen” her vagina. As a
young adult, she had been trauma-

tized by ‘a falling out during aldate. Of "

course, her male companion was to
blame for her years of
pain and her experi-
ence, until Eve
Ensler’s liberating
feminist encounter
with her genitalia caused her to shed
tears of joy at the gift she found. In
truth, one wonders how this lady lived
for sixty or more years totally para-
lyzed by one bad memory.

In a third, the story is told of a
young girl who was raped at a young
age and suffered numerous other va-
gina-related tragedies throughout her
young life, but was set free by a not-
completely-consensual sexual en-
counter with a much older woman.
That’s right, according to “The Va-
gina Monologues,” lesbian rape is
cathartic and a useful form of therapy
for abused children.

Letter to the Editor

Alumnus defends Mailer’s courage

Dear Editor,

I hate Norman Mailer as much as the next guy, but the
“Coward of the Week” article was a bit too ﬂimsy to swallow.
First of all, while I don’t totally agree with Mailer’s comments,
it is true that there is an awful lot of reckless ﬂag waving. In
many cases, the so-called patriotism borders on jingoism.
The red, white, and blue back-patting is probably a major
contributor to what makes the U.S. a target.

Secondly, I don’t think the term “coward” really ﬁts,
since it takes some nerve to say what Mailer said. Even if
you don’t agree, “moron,” or “idiot” or “un-American

RIGHT or THE AISLE
BRETT  KIRWAN «Q4. graphic descriptions


.e

COURTESY l¥lJW7.l0}’,I>l~lRI.-lRD.l‘DU

BAD GIRL: Eve Ensler has taken a crude, crass feminist crusade around the country.

What’s even more disturbing
about this festival of “woe is me” femi-
nism is the unnecessarily graphic and
ﬂat-out pornographic manner in which
it is presented. The Monologues are
designed to be a sort of encounter
experience with the audience. The
women in attendance are meant to
come away from a performance of the
Monologues feeling uplifted, liber-

ated anifjoyfttiﬁt theiriiiewly: discov’-’*

ered favorite body part.
As such, each
monologue is full of

of everything from

masturbation to men-
struation. An audience member
quickly ﬁnds himself squirming as the
most private details of a woman are
recklessly paraded about. Each builds
upon the previous one’s level of
shock to arrive at a crescendo of the
audience gleefully shouting a particu-
larly offensive four-letter nickname for
the female genitalia. For example, one
Vagina Monologues—sponsored gath-
ering in Madison Square Garden was
marked by Glenn Close dropping to
her knees on stage and screaming the
word. Such pandering to a lady’s
baser instincts serves not to free them
from male oppression, but rather to

encourage a middle school locker
room type of sexual understanding.
A shameful side effect of the lan-
guage the Monologues employ is
than any discussion of them must also
employ similar crude and inappropri-
ate language. This coarsening of the
culture can only lead to a poorer ap-
preciation for the true value of femi-

ninity and rather than achieve the goal '
i‘ ’ of liberatiowat which the Monologues

aim, ‘will only beget further rnisunder—
standing.

Most disturbingly though, is that
the Vagina Monologues have, since
their creation, been used as a tool to
turn Valentine’s Day, the only holiday
wholly dedicated to true romance be-
tween a man and a woman, into an
occasion to lambaste men and focus
on violence against women. V—day, or
Violence Day, is a political concoction
of violent feminists and has turned a

I beautiful holiday into a crass political

examination of the already decided-
upon guilt of men as abusers and ex-
ploiters.

Washington and Lee, although
more than correct in supporting a very
valuable charity, would do well to
shielditself from this particularly odi-
ous type of male-bashing, female-vic-
tirnizing radical feminism.

Lastly, the author writes “Mailer is also credited with
pioneering “new journalism,” a form of reportage that mixes

fact with ﬁction in the retelling of events.” New J ouma1—
ism was called such because of its method of telling the

Journalism.

Activity of the Week” would ﬁt better than “coward.” If

the point of the column is simply to lash out at someone,

perhaps the title should be changed.

Sincerely,
Greg Chow ‘98 J

TALKBACK31N  IQH.  RE 

“Only the ones from

Rockbridge County.”
--Heather Knorr, ‘03

‘‘I’ve always been

afraid of townies.”
——Ken Jackman, ‘02

“Those slack-j awed
yokels never scared me.”

story, incorporating more of the author’s point of View
than traditional journalism (the ﬁction angle is tertiary at
best- an optional device, not a doctrine). I only make men-
tion of this because it is not Mailer who is credited with
pioneering this, though he was a new journalist. The most
widely recognized leader of this movement is W&L grad
Tom Wolfe. He wrote a book on it. It’s called “New Jour-
nalism.” These are things that should be checked before
going to print. Otherwise you’re just practicing Crummy

  

PAGE 3

FBI answers to
racist organization

As America uses its military power to ﬁsh out reli-
gious extremist groups worlds away in the Middle East,
it is allowing extremist groups here at home to dictate
politics and FBI policy. A bit confusing, isn’t it?

Wednesday’s Washington Post reported a bizarre
development to a string of violent attacks on Univer-
sity of Virginia students in Charlottesville. It appears
that thisydevelopment has also come to the attention of
the European-American Unity and Rights Organization.

To explain a little better, the EURO is found on the
web at www.whitecivilrights.com. It is an organization
headed by David Duke, former Ku Klux Klan leader.

So why is this case of interest to a white supremacy
group masquerading behind an important sounding
name? Because the victims of these crimes are mostly
college-age Whites. Some are Asian, but the EURO’s
newsletter fails to
mention this, as it
does not seem the
rights of Asian-
Americans are of
any interest to them. Three of the suspects in the case
are high school age African-Americans, who stated
they chose their targets because they looked different.
Hence, we can now understand why a group of this
nature would be upset by this news.

After EURO made a formal complaint, the FBI be-
gan monitoring the Charlottesville police department’s
investigation of the case.

Now we have encountered what is really trouble-
some about this incident. Why is a complaint from a
group headed by a self-proclaimed former leader of the
KKK dictating FBI policy?

As the Post reports, this is the only formal com-
plaint by any political group (and I use that term loosely
here) on the matter. The police have received other com-
plaints by those both inside and outside the community.

However, a Post quote reveals that, “They (city
ofﬁcials) say the people who have called or written e-
mails criticizing the city’s handling of the case often
used vulgar language and do not understand the law
or the nature of what happened, much less the city’s
torn emotions.”

So what is the debate here? The Post article re-
veals that EURO and its close—rninded followers wish
for these youths to be charged with a hate crime.

However, no where has it been revealed by any
reports that these teens ever said race had anything to
do with these attacks. Looking different can mean more
than skin color.

The teens’ pastor and former Charlottesville mayor,
Alvin Edwards, has three of the student suspects in his
congregation at Mount Zion Baptist Church. Edwards
stated that class, not race, lies at the root of the assaults.
Edwards went on to say, “Many local teenagers, par-

................................................................................. ..

LEEI OF CENTER
NICK RAMSEY ‘O3

 

ticularly African-Americans, resent the university be-

cause they consider it largely inaccessible to them.”

Edwards also doubts whether race was involved
because two students who were questioned by
Charlottesville police and released without charges, are
white girls.

How then, can race be an issue when whites are
involved? The Post also spoke to many of the sus-
pects’ friends at Charlottesville High,_ which is nearly
fifty-percent white and fifty-percent black.
Students there do not support the actions of their peers,
but do not believe them to be racists. -

Meanwhile, current mayor Blake Caravati wants to
work together with the University, calling this a “teach-
able moment.”

Can we as Washington and Lee students can relate
to this situation in some ways? Are we not, collectively,
a student body that is predominately wealthier than the
local population around us? Does our University not
seem inaccessible to those outside it in the community?

This is not the time to cry for hate crime prosecu-
tion, but to reexamine, not only in Charlottesville, but
also here how town and gown relations do work, as
compared to how they should work.

Moreover, it is despicable that the FBI is wasting its
energy on a racist group’s complaint at a time when every
resource should be employed towards national security.

America is too busy at the moment to be so
wasteful. To me this seems like a lesson in class differ-
ence, an issue often ignored at home. I do not claim to
have the answer, but it is easy to sit on a pile of bank
notes and investments at the height of the academic
peak and become cold to those at the bottom.

Should not our education teach us to be more car-
ing individuals, as well as intelligent? This is not'to say
that everyone with some money in college deserves to
be attacked as they walk down the street.

However, we should hope that our system has a
more rational and intelligent way of dealing this and
other similar situations than turning to the European-
American Unity and Rights Organization for answers.

--Tallie Jamison, ‘O5

 

“There is no reason
to be afraid.”
—-Mike Young, Dir. of Security

“Yes, they’re sketchy.”
-—Adrienne Fleurke, ‘O5

 

    

PAGE 4

Ol3ll\lfONS

This Nashville based group offers funk-flavored groove jazz
Patrick Dolan — alto sax, flute
Jon Grant - bass, synths & loops
Graham Spice - guitars, keyboard, trumpet, vocals, » -
Chris West - any & all saxes, alto flute, funkyaphone, guitar, keyboard

  Java @ the GHQ

Monday March 4
E 8:30-m_idnight
As ever, our individually made hot chocolate and specialty coffee
drinks will be available.

cocoonso00oooooooooooooooooooooqooonoocoonno0onnonoooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
0coconocoooncoooooooooooooooooooooooooooooocoooooooooooocooon0cocooooooooooooooooooooooooo

- _l\.i19r\:19tra\.ltRgi.:i.&2

Daschle obstructs, risks lives

Sen. Tom Daschle, Democrat of South Dakota and Senate
Majority Leader, has fulﬁlled citizens’ fears that government is
inefﬁcient, wasteful and‘ fails to act in lines with its citizens’
desires.

He operates on an obstructionist policy that is party—cen-
tered. He supports useless programs— or at the very least,

programs that could be better structured—— at the expense of the I

taxpayers. Worst of all, he is out of touch with the realities of
daily life as a non—Wasl1ington élite. He is, in essence, the epitome
of an aging politician who in his selﬁsh desire to advance his
career is playing the partisan.

Not that Sen. Daschle has any real need to be a parti-
san, mind you. President Bush is widely acknowledged as
a much more non-partisan leader than Bill Clinton ever
was. The issues that have dominated Congress in the
past few months—— terrorism and its ilk —are issues that

' concern every single citizen of this country, regardless of

his political orientation.

However, Sen. Daschle and his Democratic colleagues
in the Senate, especially Sen. Pat Leahy of Vermont and
Sen. Ted Kennedy of Massachusetts, have made it their
mission to obstruct any legislation proposed by Presi-
dent Bush and his fellow Republicans. Of course, this is
not an entirely unnatural thing to do; thereexist political
parties for a reason. However, what Daschle Democrats
fail to realize is that when the lives of Americans are at
stake, the government must do something constructive in
order to protect them.

What has Sen. Daschle done, you ask? Consider the whole
terrorism issue. Admittedly, up until recently, the government has
been remarkably uniﬁed in ﬁghting the war on terrorism However,
the Democrats’ strategy appears to be agreeing with the president
on foreign policy and blocking his every move on domestic affairs
in an attempt to win voter support in the upcoming elections this

-year. Witness the recent debacle over how to handle the Enron

alfarr.

Yet now, even the war on terrorism is under attack by Daschle
and company. They have begun to reveal their true colors, those
of people whose lives are unaffected by and unconcerned with

I the lives of theAmeri- ____?__%_
canpublic. RlGHT—WlNG RESPONSE
Sen. Daschle re— ,
cently commented  
upon our expansion of

the war into the Philippines by saying that unless bin Laden is
captured,thewarwillbeafailure. Oh, really? So then destroying
the oppressive Taliban regime and liberating the Afghan people
was nothing signiﬁcant? Sending a message to the entire world
that America means business means nothing?

Come on, let’s be real here and face the reality: in the
absence of anything really substantial to offer, the Demo-
crats have resorted to harming the American public under
the guise of offering constructive criticism to Republicans,
proving that they really are unconcerned with the daily lives
of most Americans.

Now take a look at the Enron scandal. Here you have the
tale of a seemingly healthy company with thousands of em-

  

rouzriasi mruwg/. , 1/
LEFTY: Sert Daschle is the most pardsan man in \X/ashingtorr

ployees going bust overnight, and in the process, raising irn—
portant questions over business ethics and shady accounting
practices. The real tragedy here is the people whose retirement
accounts suddenly vanished, leaving them without funds for
their futures.

However, this has less to do with corporate rnisdoing
than one would think. After all, if one has a substantial sum of
money invested somewhere, whether it’s a corporate 401(k)
plan, stocks, mutual funds, or what have you, one should
know exactly what’s happening with it. Companies are required
to tell their employees how their 401 (k) money is invested; the
employees, regardless of what Enron told them, should not
have put all their eggs in one basket.

Where was government then, making sure that citizens
knew their rights? Since then, though, Republicans have not
taken advantage of these people’s misery and misfortune to
serve their own selﬁsh political ends. If Sen. Daschle and his
cohorts really cared about me American people, they would
be questioning more than just the Enron scandal. What about
partnerships that suddenly go bust when one partner makes
off with the money? What about small businesses that go
broke and leave employees jobless and penniless?

There are so many issues out there deserving of the
govemment’s attention in one way or another, yet instead of
focusing on the big picture, Daschle Democrats are playing
the obstructionist and concentrating on Enron.

It appears that despite what Sen. Daschle and his colleagues
want Americans to believe, the big picture they envision is
disparaging the Republican Party to serve their own needs. This
is the kind of government that people rightfully dislike and mis-
trust. Sen. Daschle and company would do well to learn the
lesson of Richard Nixon, a Republican who was an outstanding
statesman otherwise but who put his party before country, and
in the process, destroyed his own political career. Wake up,
Tommy boy.

 

4 V, vﬁri

 

PAGE 5

MATIllEVi’COURSl3\l&CATllEIRll\IE Gur
W&IiEEEDnoRs
EMAIL (DURSEl\lV1@Vllll~])U&GllYC@WU).El)lI

Tl-i'i:E. fRliNt}-’l"lFit.~i Pm
     W &LiEE 

‘John Q’ entertains but fails to impress

BY MICHEAL GEORGE
STAFF WRITER

Nick Cassavetes’ John Q kept my in-
terest for the two hours I spent in the
theatre, but it is not the best picture I
have seen this year. John Q, starring
Denzel Washington, is the story of a
hard working family man forced to re-
sort to desperate measures in order to
save his own son’s life.

With a stellar cast and unique
premise, I expected this film to be both
emotionally gripping and entertaining.
Unfortunately, many of the actors were
misused, and much of the film seemed
unrealistic.

Washington plays John Q. Archibald,
a down—on—his luck steel worker trying
to deal with the problems of a slumping
economy. After collapsing at a baseball
game, Archibald’s son Mike is rushed
to a nearby hospital. Archibald learns
that Mike desperately needs a new heart
to survive, but that his medical insur-
ance does not cover such a costly sur-
gery.

Archibald tries frantically to raise the
money for the surgery, but both the gov-
ernment and the company for which he
works are unwilling to help.

When Archibald learns that his son
is going to be released from the hospi-
tal.without the necessary treatment, he
takes the law into his own hands and
holds the entire emergency room hos-
tage.

I have to admit that this film was en-
tertaining. Denzel Washington,'as al-
ways, delivered a strong performance
as John Q., passionately portraying a

* loving and devoted father. I felt a real

sense of empathy with his character and
enjoyed his performance.

However, many of the other actors
were either misused or not used
enough.

Ray Liotta, James Woods, Eddie Grif-
fin and Robert Duvall all had small roles
in the film, but their acting prowess was
seldom seen. Cassavetes seemed to ab-
breviate their performances, thus
squashing my anticipation of a more-
well rounded cast.

Kimberly Elise, who played John’s
wife, didia poor job of convincing me
of anything. She either cried or yelled
in all of her scenes, often both over-
acting and overreacting simulta-
neously.

Although this film kept me awake, it
was simply not realistic. People em-
braced John Q’s cause far too easily, and
by the end of the movie everyone de-
clared him the hero. W

The picture became a divisive story of
“us vs. them.” With an interesting idea,
Cassavetes attacks governmental bureau-
cracy, the health care system and the in-
surance industry, but does not provide
equal treatment for every issue he
broaches.

Cassavetes uses John Q. Archibald
to identify with the common man, but
his presentation is not deep or pro-
found enough to give real solutions to
the major problems facing this country
today.

iezirt ion
‘a‘t‘.¥’§;‘

.?{i

PHO'l'(B CO‘./'R’l$Y OF \X’\W'.Ii\l[)B.COM

Above: Denzel \X/ashington’s
characterjohn  Archiblad rushes to
his son’s aid at his little league game.

Left: A contemplative john Q.
during his seizure of the hospital
that refuses to treat his terminally ill
son for insurance reasons.

In ‘John Q’, Denzel Washington
delivers a passionate performance as a
desperate father at odds with both
his conscience and the insurance
company that refuses to pay for his
son’s necessary heart transplant.

Though W/ashington peforms quite V
well, the other actors were underused
and the story line was often unrealistic.

 

Write for Life

email: phi @wlu.edu,
c0ursenm@wlu, or
guyc@wlu. edu

MONDAY, MARCH 4, 2002

  

Stop the stares

BY SAr»iIAGRoNE/STAH: Q 

The guy next door:

Once upon a not-so—1ong-ago time, I had a vision of a
new era of understanding between Washington and Lee and
Virginia Military Institute people.

My idea goes like this:

Once a better dialogue was opened between the two .

schools, Generals and Keydets alike would read the
newspaper, rub their eyes (like they’ve just woken up from
a long, nightmarish sleep) and ﬁnally understand each
other.

They would drop whatever they were doing —
laundry, studying, playing beer pong, shining shoes,
training to kill — and run with open arms to their neighbors
and embrace them. They
would apologize for all the OCCASIONALLY A W&L

years of hurt and PERSON WOULD WALK
misunderstanding. AND DO A DOUBLE

Then both student
bodies would join hands TAKEGREEHNGME

in a circle and sing “We WITHAFACE CUSTOM
Are the World,” to an TAILORED FORTHE

amazing laser light show PHRASE ‘WHAT ARE YOU

and surprise guest DOINGHERE?»
appearances by John

“Uncle Jesse” Stamos and Peter “Do You Feel How I
Feel” Frampton from above in a bright, yellow
helicopter.

I still think we have a way to go.

So here’s the situation: I needed to get some books from
Leyburn to work on a research paper for class. (My professor
was one of the ﬁrst people to nail Stephen Ambrose for citation
errors, so I wanted to be careful about my sources — to, like,
a power of 17).

One of the answers was a quick trip next door to Leybum
for additional materials.

So I threw on my VMI equivalent of business causal
(which is like wearing a suit made out of that that itchy
blanket at your grandma’s house no one likes to take a
nap with) and strolled on over.

When I walked in the door I caught icy stares —
stares that would make an active volcano think for a
very long time whether the whole eruption thing was
worth it. ‘

There was an air of distaste in the building. It was
like I was a giant cockroach that had undergone enough
genetic experimentation to ﬁgure out the push-pull signs
on the front door, not to mention how to ask for a library
card.

Each step to the reference section was more
uncomfortable. I think I might have turned around and left,
had I not seen a W&L friend, who was lcind enough to show
me around the library.

But soon, class called my friend away. And I was
again on my own.

The card catalog told me I needed to travel to the
fourth ﬂoor, which was the basement (someone has to tell
me how that works).

I stepped in the elevator, heading down. The older
gentleman (you know who you are) who was in the car with
me was obviously nervous.

He eased over to the other side of the car, keeping at
least one eye on me the entire time. He breathed a sigh of
relief when I got off the elevator.

When I started to browse the stacks, occasionally a
W&L person would walk and do a double take, greeting
me with a face custom tailored for the phrase “What are
you doing here?” I

All of this put me on the edge. I was defensive.

By the time I reached the counter to check out the
books, I was peering over my shoulder. If someone
screened the security cameras later, I would’ve looked
like I was playing a bit-role in an episode of Mission:
Impossible, keeping an eye out for East Germans with
guns.

I grabbed my books and beat feet back to my side of
24450. Once I stepped in between the fading stucco
buildings, I felt safe, and that bothered me.

It wasn’t like I was Nixon in China or anything. These
were kids my age — some younger— in the same zip code and
mostly in pursuit of the same thing as me: a degree.

I’ll try to give it another shot when I drop my books off,
see if I can bridge the gap enough to give Frampton’s booking
agent a call and to talk to the helicopter people.

Reach Sam LaGrone at lagronesr@mail.vmi.edu.

#1 Spring Break
Vacations!

Cancun, Jamaica,
Bahamas & Florida.
Best Parties, Best
Hotels, Best Prices!
Group Discounts,
Group organizers travel
free!

Space is limited! Hurry
up & Book Now!
1-800-234-7007

TREK Y3
Mountain Bike
Like New!!!
$600

463-2327
. ask for Peggy

merm: sew

uaea_ueaiui«"'a§i.ih'ihanvv":

36.125

  

 

THE Rl'NG~Tlfhl PI-It

MONDAY, MARCH 4, 2002

PORTS

jE1EvlYFRAl\1KIlN
SPORTS EDITOR
EIirAiI;I«RANi<IIr\I@wIIirDU

W&L opens with NCAA hopes

Generals look to continue
success in region, take
next step at national level

BY DIYA VOHRA
SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee women’s
tennis team boasts several top-qual-
ity players, both returning upperclass-
men as well as freshmen.

The Generals placed sixth in last
year’s NCAA Division IH Tournament
after sweeping clean the Old Dornin-
ion Athletic Conference and the
regionals while dropping just one
singles match and no doubles
matches.

W&L is also hosting the Fab Five
Tournament from March 28-April 1,
which will bring together six of the top
seven Division III teamsin Lexington:

Williams, Trinity, Emory, Pimona Pitzer .

and Gustavus Adolphus, along with
the No. 6 Generals.

The season begins with a match
against ODAC opponent Hollins on‘
Wednesday, and players started their
challenge matches last week. Seeding
is in the works for six singles slots
and three doubles teams.

The team practices every weekday,
making full use of the Duchossois
Tennis Center, which they share with
the men’s team.

In her 14th year as head coach,
Cinda Rankin is very optimistic about
the team’s potential this year.

“We have lots of experience from
last year, everyone is playing ex-
tremely well in the challenge
matches and we’re going to do ‘bet-
ter at the nationals this year,” Rankin
said.

Along with Rankin, the team also
has the support of assistant coach
Justin Clark, in his second season
with the team, and student coach, jun-
ior Chase Bice.

Captain Sallie Gray Strang, a se-
nior, expects the team to be very
strong this year. She believes that if

the team makes it to the nationals, they
have a great chance to ﬁnish well.

“In my opinion, our team is just as
strong or stronger than in 2000, when
we ﬁnished third,” Strang said.

Everyone is full of compliments
about the freshmen. Three of them
-— Lindsay Hagerman, Elizabeth
McCracken and Marie Trimble —
saw significant playing time in the
fall season.

“In general, the freshmen have
brought a lot to the team,” Strang said.
“They all work very hard and push the
rest of the team to do our best.”

Coach Rankin is also appreciative
of the strong freshman players the
team has recruited this year, espe-
cially with juniors Brandi Jane
Wedgeworth and Alyson Brice
abroad for the spring season. One of
the ﬁrst-year players was the No. 1
seed in W&L’s three fall dual
matches, all 9-0 wins.

“Freshman Lindsay Hagerman is a
very strong player,” said Rankin, who
also praises junior Erika Proko, who

ﬁnished seventh at the Rolex Cham-
pionships in October.

“Erika played extremely well at
the nationals last year,” the coach
said. “She made it to the top eight
in the nation, and I think she is go-
ing to show the same results this
year.”

Co—captain and senior Melissa
Hatley also returns to the team, where
she joins Proko on a doubles team
that ﬁnished third at the Rolex tour-
nament.

“Hatley is mentally tough, has lots
of experience and is a very solid
player,” Rankin said. “She played No.
1 singles last spring and has twice
been anAll-American.”

» Student coach Bice is looking for
a strong showing this year.

‘‘All the freshmen are quality ten-
nis players,” he said. “They work hard
everyday, and this can only help im-
prove the team.

“Melissa and Sallie provide strong
work ethics and senior leadership to
the team,” he added.

Generals tee off 2002 spring season

W&L golf team looks to unseat Guilford as ODAC champion, enter the NCAA Division III race

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

Lost somewhere in the mix of talk
about the lacrosse and tennis teams
this spring is another Washington and
Lee sports squad that wants to make
noise on the national level.

That would be the Generals’ golf
team, which has quickly worked its
way back into the NCAA picture. Af-
ter a successful fall season, in which
W&L ﬁnished with a 301.7 stroke av-
erage in a four—man scoring system,
the Generals received Top 25 rankings
in several Division III polls.

“We want the recognition,” said
head coach Gavin Colliton, in his third
season with the team. “I.don’t think it
adds any pressure to us. It should
make them feel good, and show them
that they’re on the way.

“If you can get into the Top 25,
that means you’ve got to keep chang-
ing your goals, and our goal is to be
at No. 1,” he added. “That goal really
hasn’t changed.”

Junior Chip Campbell was a large
part of the Generals’ fall success,

 

shooting an average of 73.5 in W&L’s
three fall tournaments. Senior co-cap-
tain Kyle Ulep was close behind, av-
eraging a 74 round.

Freshman Ged Johnson averaged
a 77—stroke round in the fall, and jun-
ior Chuck Green
was a shade above
that.
those four were the
top Generals in the
fall, Colliton be-
lieves that W&L
can also draw
upon its depth.

“We have nine
guys that can all
score well,” he said. “The level

CAMPBELL

S amongst themselves of talent is pretty

close, but we still have a clear-cut No.
1 guy. Kyle and Chip have proven
they can go low and stay low. We have
a pretty balanced team.”

W&L got off to a rough start for
the spring at the Pine Needles Invita-
tional in Southern Pines, N.C., on
Monday and Tuesday. The Generals
shot a 309-319 to finish 20th of 24
teams, 47 strokes behind Old Domin-

Although.

ion Athletic Conference favorite
Guilford (which ﬁnished second) and
12 behind Roanoke, another ODAC
opponent.

Although the play of freshman
Carlos Spaht, who led W&L with a
74-78, showed promise, Colliton real-
izes that the Generals have to get bet-
ter, and do that quickly.

“If you’re scoring in the 80s or high
705 on a good day, on a good course,
you’re not playing the level you
should play,” he said. “We should be
better than that,
and we’re going to
have to get better.
We can’t shoot
too many more
rounds like that.
We have to ﬁnish
the year .(shoot-
ing) under 300 to
have a chance to
do some other things.”

The Generals begin ODAC com-
petition today at Hampden-Sydney,
and they’ll play in three more confer-
ence events —— including the W&L
Invitational at the Lexington Golf and

CoLLIToN

 

Country Club on March 21 — before
the ODAC Championships in
Fincastle, Va., on April 22-23.

Colliton says W&L is also looking
forward to the Ferrum Invitational in
Smith Mountain Lake, Va., next Mon-
day and Tuesday and the Emory In-
vitational in Stone Mountain, Ga., on
April 13-14.

Guilford remains the team to beat
in the ODAC, but the Generals proved
that they can compete with the Quak-
ers in the fall. Led by Ulep’s 70-71 and
Carnpbell’s 71-73, W&L ﬁnished a
stroke ahead of Guilford at the Greens-
boro Aubrey Apple Invitational on
Oct. 6-7.

The coach believes his team is ca-
pable of returning to that form, and
he won’t shy away from keeping am-
bitions high for his Generals.

“For us to reach our goals of what
we want to do — win the ODAC
Championship, get to the NCAA Tour-
nament, win the NCAAs —~ that’s
what we talk about,” Colliton said.
“We want to be the next men’s na-
tional championship team from
W& .” 1

PAGE 6

more

I1vuv£EDLAT1a CONTRIBUTOR: Freshman Lindsay Hagerman served as the Generals’
No. 1 seed during their 3-0 dual match run in the fall.

Track earns head
for the great ou doors

Generals ﬁnish 5th at ODAC Indoor Championships

BY DAVE CROWELL
ASSISTANT sI>oRTs EDITOR

The Washington and Lee men’s
and women’s track teams ﬁnished
the indoor season by competing in
the Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence Indoor Championships on Feb.
23 at Lynchburg College.

The men’s team took finished
fifth out of ﬁve teams with 42 points,
while the women’s team also took
ﬁfth with 17 points.

Junior Chris Sullivan led the men’s
team with second—place ﬁnishes in
the 55-meter dash (6.64 seconds) and
the long jump
(6.72 meters).
Sullivan ﬁnished
fourth in the
long jump at last
season’s indoor
championships.

“I felt really

WASHINGTON AND ‘LEE ATHLETICS SCHEDULES MARCH 5-18

Wednesday, March 6

Saturday, March 9

Tuesday, March 12

Saturday, March 16

Men’s Lacrosse

Mews Tennis svagfzfﬂlampden-Sydney (DH) hanijlallifiishington at W&L 3 p in Men’s Tennis W&L  Frfnglm 8;-, hﬁjarﬁhggl
W&L at Hampdewsydney’ 3 pm 12 pm Bridgewaterat W&L, 10 a.m. (3 °Y°3 9 9 ). - Pm-
womenis Tennis Women’s Lacrosse Wednesday, March13 Sa"5b“’V state 3‘ W&L: 2 P~"‘- Sunday March 17
W&L at Hollins 330 m Guilford at W&L, 12 p.m. Women’s Lacrosse Women’s Lacrosse womenjs Tennis
' ' p‘ ' Men’s Lacrosse Nazareth at W&L, 4 p.m. M w&|_ at Franklin 3. Marshau, ,

Gettysburg at W&L, 1:30 p.m. 11 am G”'”°'d ‘ft  10 am‘
Thursday’ March 7 Friday, March 15 Baseball W&L at Virginia Tech, 1 p.m.
Baseball March 11-12 women’s Tennis 3359133"

Golf Bridgewater at W&L, 3:30 p.m. Ra”d°'Ph'Ma°°” 3‘ W&L (DH): West Virginia Tech at W&L (DH).
Villa Julie at W&L, 3 p.m. W&L at Ferrum Invitational Emory & Henry at W&L, 6 p.m. 12 pm. 12 p.m.

good about my
performances,”
Sullivan said. “I had been having
trouble with my long jump all sea-
son and ﬁnally got over 22 feet to
take second.

“I knew that I should also be able
to take second in the 55, and I ended
up running a personal best.”

Junior Mat Ropoza added a first-
place ﬁnish in the shot put, tossing
13.51 meters. Freshman Wes Bell
made an impressive mark, placing
first in the 1,600 meters (4:27.80).

’ Coach Norris Aldridge also noted
that Bell could have placed in the
3,200-meter event, but was held out.

The ﬁfth-place ﬁnish seems dis-
appointing, but the 32-year coach
felt the team performed well, consid-
ering injuries to senior captain Mike
Hegg and freshmen Reid Childers
and Brian Krupczak.

“I think realistically we could’ve
ﬁnished third,” Aldridge said. “We
had some injuries to key personnel.
Mike would’ve ﬁnished no worse
than second in the hurdles. We per-
formed to the best of our abilities.”

SULLIVAN

FROM STAFF REPORTS

The Washington and Lee
men’s tennis team improved to 2-
1 against Division I competition
this season with a 4-1 win over
Radford University at home on
Thursday.

The Generals (3-1) won three
of the four singles matches that

were completed, along with two ~

of three doubles matches
against the Radford Highland-
ers.

Freshman Paul-McClure de-
feated Radford’s Robel
Menginsteab 7-5, 6-0 at No. 1
singles. Joakim Arhammar pulled
out a 7-6, 6-3 win over Washington
and Lee University sophomore
Austin Kim at No. 3.

 

On the women’s side, junior
Burke Duncan led the squad with a
third-place ﬁnish in the 1,600-meter
run, ﬁnishing in 5 :44.10.

“Burke ran her season-best at
the tournament, but was still not
satisfied with her run,” coach John
Tucker said. “She qualiﬁed for na-
tionals in cross country and missed
a chance to qualify in track by a
tenth of a second last season. She
understands what it takes to reach
that level.”

Freshman Liz Crawford and
sophomore Angel Daniels also tied
for fifth in the high jump (1.37
meters). ‘

Tucker admitted that the team
was not happy with a fifth-place
ﬁnish, but also commended the ef-
forts of his runners and their con-
tinued improvement throughout
the winter.

“I feel we reached our goals, de-
spite the ﬁnish,” he said. “We had a
lot of runners who ran personal best
at the conference championships.
You can’t ask for more from an ath-
lete than their best effort, and that’s
what they’ve given.”

Tucker promises that the team
will become much stronger in the
outdoor season, when seniors Sa-
rah Schmidt and Megan Babst re-
turn from the basketball court.

Schmidt is the three-time con-

ference champion in the javelin,

while Babst won the conference
title injthe high jump last year.
Tucker also expects her to run
some sprints this year.

The additional athletes may not
help to overcome conference foes
with deep rosters‘, but the 14-year
coach believes the Generals can
achieve some simple goals.

“We have some challenges ahead
of us, but our kids will keep working
hard and improving,” Tucker said.

The track program returns to ac-
tion on March 16, when they begin
the outdoor season by hosting the
Washington and Lee Invitational.

Men’s tennis tops
Division I Radford

No. 4 Graham Nix, also a
sophomore, defeated the High-
landers’ Khalid Lhamidi by a 7-
5, 6-3 score. Senior Rob
Moynihan won his match with
Rachid Lamrissi 6-0, 6-1 at No. 5
singles.

Senior Rhys James and
sophomore K.C. Schaefer did
not complete their singles
matches at No. 2 and No. 6, re-
spectively.

In doubles

defeated James and Moynihan, 8-

0. But Kim and Nix teamed to top 

Lhamidi and Lamrissi at the No. 2
slot, and Schaefer and McClure
beat Menginsteab and Dominic
Souer at No. 3 to claim the point for
W&L.

 

competition, _
Arhammar and Bartlo Oosthuizen ;

5

$-

V

V’

V

C-

    

MONDAY, MARCH 4,2002



Shoremen survive late W&L storm

SCANNING THE POSSIBILITIES: Senior Andrew Barnett works
the ball around while pursued by Washington’s Austin

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
. SPORTS EDITOR

Despite holding Washington Col-
lege to one goal in the second half and
outshooting the Shoremen 43-23 for
the game, the Washington and Lee
men’s lacrosse team couldn’t over-
come a 5-1 first quarter deﬁcit, falling

9-8 on Saturday at the W&L Turf Field.

The game was moved from Wilson
Field due to bad weather conditions,
and the teams played under pouring
rains for most of the contest.

Tenth—ranked Washington (2-O)
avenged a 4-2 defeat from a season
ago in part due to winning 14 of 19

BY DAVE CROWELL
.\SSlSTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee women’s
lacrosse opened season play with an
impressive 23-5 win over Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference foe Sweet
Briar, but had the tables turned in a 9-5
defeat at St. Mary’s, Md., on Saturday.

The Generals opened up a quick 5-
0 lead within the first four minutes of
the contest on Wednesday before
Sweet Briar responded with a goal
with 25:57 to play. After this point,
W&L responded with eight unan-
swered goals and a 10-1 run to seize a
15-2 halftime lead.

The Vixens proved unable to crack
past W&L’s solid midfield unit,
strengthened by the play of sopho-
mores Lee Wheeler (four goals, three
assists) and Kelly Taffe (five goals,
two assists) and senior captain
Courtenay Fisher.

“I thought Lee played very well
and Kelly gave an extremely strong
performance,” coach Jan Hathorn
said after the game. “But really our
entire offensive unit was terriﬁc.”

The large first half lead allowed the
Generals to give experience to some
underclassmen, as freshman attacker
Natalya Hoobchaak and freshman
midﬁelder Erin Rathbone added two
goals apiece.

Hathom was very pleased with her
team’s performance, noting a high in-
tensity level despite blustering winds
and cold weather.

faceoffs and the efforts of freshman
goalie Alex Pirani, who made 15 saves.

“Keys to games at this level are
faceoffs and goaltending, and we had
some trouble early in the game with
those areas,” W&L coach Mike
Cerino said. “I don’t know if we ever
really got up to speed with where we
needed to be in there.”

The Shoremen built up a four-goal
lead in the first 15 minutes, as Craig
Rentch and Stephen Berger had two
goals apiece and Eric Kuehn had one.

The Generals cut the lead to 5-3 at
the 9:31 mark of the second period
on goals by sophomores Matt Fink
and Mark McLewee, and the teams

DIRECTING THE OFFENSE: Senior co—captain Courtenay Fisher
looks for an open teammate during Washington and Lee’s

“I was very glad that we came out
focused as a group. The work they’ve
put in during the offseason deﬁnitely
showed on the ﬁeld,” she said.

Saturday afternoon saw a complete
reversal of fortune, as the Seahawks
of St. Mary’s built a 5-1 early lead be-
hind three goals from Carol Schmoeller.

“We had opportunities to score
early, but we didn’t take advantage of
them,” Hathom said. “They capital-
ized like a good team will.”

traded scores for the rest of the quar-
ter, with Washington assuming an 8-
5 halftime lead.

After a scoreless third period,
sophomore Mike McNamara pulled
W&L to within 8-6, but Kuehn’s tally
at 7:55 pushed the lead back to three
and proved to be the game-winner.

McNamara scored again at 3:22,
and sophomore Dustin Martin made
it 9-8 at 1:05. Junior Tom Melanson
won the ensuing faceoff, but Pirani
stopped Martin’s shot in the ﬁnal sec-
onds to preserve the victory.

Despite the loss, Cerino was pleased
with several factors of his team’s per-
formance, particularly the defensive

,Women win home opener, fall on road

The Generals cut the deficit to 5-3
with goals from Wheeler and senior
attacker Emily Owens. St. Mary’s,
however, scored two goals to seize a
7-3 lead with under 16 minutes to play,
then ﬁnished the Generals’ hopes with
two goals in a three-minute span late
in the second half.

Sophomore goalkeeper Joanna
Perini recorded 13 saves in the defeat.

“We were under a lot of pressure
against a high-caliber team and we

. ' - VI" ' ~ >CM”?l§€‘.ﬁl$-if) * I?A(;'§F§.§ '* .l‘«i!.?I*iE‘i?-it"? * E.”i¥€iJl,§«S.r5r..l\*’ES
. ‘.9 WW? Wﬁﬁfili’-%{§‘lT)%*l STREET * LmiIPi’>(:’r’l’ﬂ?"§ * 

Mm GLY/Yhc Ring-rum P'
Sanders in the Shoremen’s 9-8 win over Washington and Lee
at the \X/&L Turf Field. Barnett recorded one assist.

23-5 win over Sweet Briar at the Liberty Hall Fields on
Wednesday’. Fisher scored a goal in the rout.

No. 10 Washington College holds off No. 5 Generals’ 4th quarter charge for a 9-8 win Saturday at icy W&L Turf Field

effort in the ﬁnal two quarters.

“Eric Kontargyris, Greg Hendler,
Kenny Rasamny — those three
defensemen did a great job of leading
a mixed group of defense, as far as
the middies were coming back, and
keeping us in this,” Cerino said. “We

’ picked up and gained control of the

game, and slowly but surely battled
our way into taking the last shot.”

W&L entered Saturday’s contest
fresh off a pair of home wins: Wednes-
day against Division II Pfeiffer and
Saturday against Bates.

Fink led the way for the Generals
against Pfeiffer, netting three goals
and an assist in the first period of an
1 1-5 win. Senior John Moore added a
pair of goals for W&L, which outshot
the Falcons 50-19.

The Generals had even less of a
problem the previous Saturday
against Bates, winning a by a 10-2
margin. Senior Andrew Barnett led
W&L with three goals, while Moore
and Martin had two apiece.

Cerino praises the ‘offensive efforts
of the sophomores, who he didn’t ex-
pect to be making such major contri-
butions at this point of the year.

“For sophomores, they’re stepping
up pretty early in the season,” he said.
“I really look for more growth out of
these guys as the year goes on.”

The Generals must rebound
quickly from the Washington loss, as
No. 2 Gettysburg visits at 1:30 p.m.
on Saturday.

“We won’t be sitting around read-
ing our press clippings,” Cerino said.
“We’ll be excited about an opportunity
to compete against Gettysburg. It’s a
team that we have a great rivalry with,
and we’re looking forward to a battle.”

MARY GUY/T7ICRlI1g-[Um Phi"

struggled,” Hathom said. “By the sec-
ond half we started to play our game,
but their lead was too big to overcome.”

The Generals return to action when
they host conference opponent
Guilford at 12 p.m. on Saturday, attempt-
ing to learn from Saturday’s loss.

“It’s only a defeat if you don’t learn
something from it,” Hathom said. “We
learned where we are as a team. We’ll
take something from it and then put it
behind us.”

  

  

Pt\GE.7

W&» 85D    

 THE PITCH: Sophomore Peter Dean fires to home plate in W&L’s 6-5 win
over Emory & Henry in Game 1 of Sunday’s doubleheader.

Baseball opens ODAC with Emory & Henry double dip

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

Through just eight games, the
Washington and Lee baseball team
has endured a season’s worth of
ups and downs. '

The Generals are 4-4 after split-
ting an Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference doubleheader with Emory &
Henry at Cap’n Dick Smith Field on
Sunday. They’ve already had games
with dominant pitching, including a
no—hitter by sophomore Dan Kagey
against Muhlenberg on Feb. 23, but
also contests where they’ve
struggled to manufacture runs.

The Sunday doubleheader in-
cluded bothelements, as the Gener-
als came from behind for a 6-5 win in
the first game but dropped a 4-3 de-
cision in Game 2.

“We played OK,” W&L coach Jeff
Stickley said. “We played with fire
both games —— won the first one and
got burned in the second one. We’ve
just got to score some more runs.”

The Wasps (2-3, 1-1 ODAC) put
two runs on the board in each of the
first two innings of Game 1, as
sophomore Mike Wert gave up four
earned runs on seven hits in 1 2/3
innings. That raised Wert’s ERA to
11.77 on the season.

“Michael’s just off to a slow start,
and he’s going to be OK,” Stickley
said. “He’s a tough kid, and he’ll get
better.”

Sophomore Peter Dean pitched
the ﬁnal 5 1/3 innings, giving up one
run and striking out six.

W&L trailed 5-3 heading into the
bottom of the ﬁfth, when sophomore
right ﬁelder Bryan Mulhem led off
the inning with a home run. That score
would hold until the bottom of the
seventh, the last chance for the Gen-
erals to erase the Wasps’ 5-4 lead.

Senior third baseman Matt
Kozora led off with a homer. Emory
& Henry junior Broz Wilmoth came
on in relief, but walked junior ﬁrst
baseman Brian Gladysz and gave up

the game—winning RBI triple to se-
nior catcher Todd Gosselink.

“That was a great job of hanging V

there and scoring at the end,”

Stickley said. “The ﬁrst game we kept ’

scoring with them, so that was the
difference. But you can’t just manu-
facture a run or two in the last in-
ning of the game all the time.”

Kagey started the second game
for W&L, throwing six innings while
giving up four runs — two of which
were earned — walking three and
striking out eight. Wilmoth returned
to the mound for the Wasps, giving
up three runs and striking out ﬁve
in seven innings of work.

“We know Peter and Dan are
good, solid pitchers, so it really

doesn’t surprise you when they I
throw well,” Stickley said. “Both of ;

them did good enough jobs to give
us a chance to win.”

Mulhem doubled and eventually .

scored as part of a three-run ﬁrst in-
ning that gave the Generals a 3-2 lead.

The score remained there until
the top half of the sixth, when Emory

& Henry third baseman Rob Spen- g

cer took a Kagey pitch over the wall
in left ﬁeld for a two-run home run.
That proved to be the difference in
the game. ‘

The twin bill with the Wasps pro-

vided the ﬁrst action for W&L in a
week, as a Wednesday game at
Shenandoah was postponed due to
inclement weather.

W&L steps out of the ODAC
this week with home games Mon-
day against Merchant Marine Acad-
emy and Thursday against Villa Julie.
The Generals return to conference
play with a Saturday doubleheader
at Hampden—Sydney.

“We’re not going to do anything
any different much,” Stickley said
of the non-conference games. “You
try to get your other pitchers work
who didn’t throw in the conference
games, and maybe try out a posi-
tion change for a guy.”

Both home games start at 3 p.m.

Interested in covering Washington and Lee I
spring sports for The Ring-tum Phi?

Opportunities are available to cover baseball, lacrosse and
tennis. NO experience is required.

Contact Jeremy Franklin at x4060 or trank|inj@w|u.edu.

Serious

   l}‘E.3 -aunts

w.eor..meiitrat:el.com
I-890-2COUNClL

l\lIRY (}I'Y/ 7715- Ring—rum Phi

 

  

MONDAY, MARCH 4, 2002

 PORTS

JEREYYFRANKIIN
SPORTS EDITOR


PAGE 8

&L careers end for 5 women’s hoopsters

Mentz named ODAC’s top player, Babst to 2nd Team

Generals continue climb
upward in 2001-02 season

BY JEREMY FRANKIIN
SPORTS EDITOR

For the Washington and Lee
women’s basketball team, the results
of the 2001-02 season brought mixed
emotions. *

The Generals ﬁnished 12-14, in-
cluding a 9-11 mark that was good
enough for sixth in the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference. W&L ﬁnished
the year with a 75-58 loss to Emory &
Henry in the ﬁrst round of the ODAC
Tournament on Feb. 21 in Salem.

“We had a lot of chemistry this
year as a team, and we worked very
well together,” said senior forward
Jessica Mentz, whose team was 8-16
a season ago. “Our greatly improved
record reﬂects a lot of hard work and
dedication from everyone on the
team. This past year was a great ex-
perience.”

Second-year head coach Janet
Hollack was pleased with her team’s
improvement, but felt that W&L had
the potential to do a little bit more.

“We really made some headway
this year, but I would have preferred
to end with results above .500,”
Hollack said. “We deﬁnitely had some
highlights that I don’t want to be
swept under the rug by the fact that
we didn’t reach that goal.”

    

FILE

TURN ON A DIME: Freshman Bethany Dannelly set a new \X/ashington and Lee
record by dishing out 152 assists in the 2001-02 season.

Regrouping for next season must
start now for the Generals, as ﬁve se-
niors who accounted for more than 46
of W&L’s 58 points and 27 of 39 re-
bounds per game will graduate in June.

In addition to All-ODAC selec-
tions Mentz (20 points, 11.8 re-
bounds) and Megan Babst (19, 10.1),
guards Sarah Schmidt, Carter Tho-
mas and Alison Kudlacik will depart.
While Mentz and Babst were the go-
to options inside, Schmidt developed
into a reliable three—point threat, hit-
ting 40.6 percent of her shots from
the perimeter.

“With post players like Megan
and Jess, people like to sit back in a

HIEPHOI

 

WASPS GET STUNG: Sophomore Michael Denbow works against Emory & Henry
guard Paul Russo in one of the Generals’ more memorable games of the 2001-02
season. W&L won, 62-60, on Ian McClui:e’s shot in the game’s ﬁnal second.

Generals grapp

BY DAVE CROWELL
.\SSlSTANT SPORTS EDITOR

A wrestling team will usually face
problems when a top competitor misses
a portion of the season on the injury
list, or when the team ﬁghts, each and
every match, to grab a victory despite
losing points due to forfeits.

Many teams would buckle under
these problems, preferring to call it
quits and wait for the next season. The
Washington and Lee wrestling team,
however, refused to collapse. A sixth-
place Centennial Conference ﬁnish out
of six teams hides the true effort this
team channeled into each day of the
season.

“It would be a lie if I said we didn’t
have a disappointed season, but
there were bright spots,” said 125-
pound senior Ben Segal, a four—year
letter winner. “Ivan (Zdanov) and
Ezra (Morse) did very well. They only
lost matches by one point in the con-
ference tournament. It was very
tough to watch, almost heartbreak-
ing."

Zdanov provided a major reason
why the Generals competed in nearly
every match, picking up the leader-
ship role after Morse went down with
an ankle injury during Christmas va-
cation.

The senior also placed highest for
W&L at the Centennial tournament,
held on Feb. 16 at Ursinus College,
taking a second—place ﬁnish. Zdanov,
who primarily competed in the 174-
pound class, ﬁnished his season with
a 20-7 record. - »

Senior 197-pounder Morse and
sophomore 184-pounder Joe Mueller
followed Zdanov with third-place ﬁn-
ishes. Mueller, who won the confer-
ence title at 184 last season, re-

zone, so we need more outside
shooting,” Schmidt said. “I just de-
cided to stop passing up shots that I
knew I could hit.”

W&L does return two starters,
both freshmen: point guard Bethany
Darmelly and forward Emily Barker.
Darmelly broke Thomas’ school record
with 152 assists, while Barker averaged
6.2 points and 3.0 rebounds a contest.

A pair of key reserves also return,
as junior Elizabeth Igo and Heather

‘ Coleman, both guards, played in all

but a handful of W&L’s games this
year. Junior Austin Calhoun, who
joined the team this season, should
see more minutes next year.

“Role players are necessary,”
Hollack said. “I think that’s what
you’ll see in a lot of the teams that
have done well in the ODAC: they
have more role players than the other
teams do.” 1

But the Generals still must replace
the vast majority of their scoring, and
they’ll look to do so with the incom-
ing recruiting class.

“Absolutely, we need post,”
Hollack said. “It’s going to take build-
ing a program with plenty of people
who are willing to not always be in the
limelight. Depth is going to be key in
order to gain some more recognition.

“Getting the inside-outside game is
also something that I’d like to do,” she
added. “We made great strides this year,
and I’m looking forward to next season.”

For now, W&L will say goodbye
to the senior class, who ﬁnished their
careers 46-55 overall, including a 36-
44 mark in the conference and the
Generals’ only win in the ODAC Tour-
nament, a ﬁrst—round victory over Vir-
ginia Wesleyan in 1999.

“All in all, it’s been an amazing year
with great individual achievements,
but we all feel like we could have done
better as a team,” Schmidt said. “But
this team has come together through
a lot of adversity.

“I’ve never been a part of any
group that was so dedicated to each
other and making the most of each
moment we have together. It has been
an amazing journey.”

BY JEREMY FRANKIIN
SPORTS EDITOR

Senior forward Jessica Mentz
capped off a great career this year by
winning the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference Player of the Year award,
as voted on by the league’s coaches.

Mentz received the designation
after leading the Washington and Lee
women’s basketball team with
20 points and 11.8 rebounds
per game. She hit 49.7 percent
from the ﬁeld and 73 .9 percent
from the free throw line‘.

“I feel pretty good about
my season personally,” Mentz
said. “I feel as though I have
come a long way since I started
playing basketball here, and
hopefully I am a better player.”

For W &L coach Janet Hollack,
whose Generals were 12-14 this year
— 9-11 in the ODAC — Mentz’s big-
gest contributions to the team won’t
show up in any box score.

“She brought everything everyday,
and that’s what made her so special,”
Hollack said. “You could always count
on her, day in and day out. It’s good to
see people that work hard actually reap
the beneﬁts of that work. She’s a prime
example of what can happen if you do
have that kind of a work ethic.”

Mentz’s teammate and classmate,
Megan Babst, was named to the All-

 

MENTZ

ODAC Second Team. Babst averaged
19.0 points and 10.] boards per game
and blocked 56 shots.

The frontcourt tandem served as
the primary options for the W&L of-
fense, accounting for two-thirds of the
Generals’ scoring.

“You can’t say enough about
both of them. They’ve done out-
standing things in their careers,”
Hollack said. “When we
needed them to step up their
. game, they always answered

' I the call.”

Mentz wants her intan-
gibles to be remembered, not
her 20 school records or
sixth-best career scoring to-
tal in Virginia Division III his-
tory.

“Hopefully, I brought a .

good work ethic and leadership to this
team,” she said. “I do my best to give
100 percent effort at all times, and I
think that kind of attitude is conta-
gious.”

The forward also believes that she
and her classmates have done a lot to
advance W&L women’s hoops.

“The ﬁve seniors on this team have
done a lot to solidify the basketball pro-
gram here,” Mentz said. “Our dedica-
tion says a lot for where this program is
going. Hopefully, we have established
a good base, and the team will continue
to improve in the upcoming years.”

en’s basketball begins to work back up ODAC ladder

Generals achieve goal of getting to conference tournament, look to continue improvement in 2002-03

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

On the surface, the 2001-02 sea-
son wasn’t a great one for the Wash-
ington and Lee men’s basketball team.

Mired by injuries, the Generals ﬁn-
ished the year 7-18, 4-14 in the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference. But
ask anyone involved with W&L
hoops about this year, and you won’t
get a negative response.

“(This season) wasn’t a disap-
pointment by any stretch,” said
sophomore point guard and co-cap-
tain Michael Denbow. “We felt we
could have won at leastidouble fig-
ures, but we had a completely new
team, a new feel, and it only served
to make great building blocks for the
future.”

Four freshmen, guards Ian
McClure and Mike Stuart and for-

le injuries, foes .

 

FIIEIHOIO

CENTENNIAL RUNNER—UP: Senior Ivan Zdanov fell to Andy Chencharik of Western
Maryland in the finals of the 174-pound ﬂight of the Centennial Conference
Championships. Chencharik’s team won the competition, held Feb. 16 at Ursinus.

bounded to win two consolation
matches.

The conference tournament
capped a season that saw the Gener-
als ﬁnish with a 3-7 dual record, a
fourth-place ﬁnish (out of 11 teams)
at the Scranton Invitational and a
third-place ﬁnish (out of nine teams)
at the Newport News Apprentice In-
vitational.

Coach Gary Franke agreed that the
team failed to meet the goals set at
the beginning of the season, but felt
other factors affected certain meets.

“The injuries to Ezra and Ben hurt
our dual meet record, as we may have
won a few more with everyone in the
lineup,” said the 29-year coach said,

.who also praised the efforts of his

three seniors.

“They are all four—year letter win-
ners who have improved every year,”
Franke said. “We will miss those
guys, as the team followed their lead-
ership.” ‘

With a focus on individual perfor-
mances, however, most spectators

forget the role a coach plays in mold-
ing a team’s attitude toward competi-
tion. Segal described the importance
of Franke in beneﬁting his college
career.

“Coach Franke is unique. Many
coaches are very intense and can be
jerks. They’re not nice or understand-
ing,” he said. “Coach Franke is genu-
inely a nice guy, but will still ﬁght for
you in the ring. He respects all of his
wrestlers.”

W&L will return next season with
a lot of promise, as Franke hopes jun-
iors Alex Poor and John Polena,
sophomore Corey Little and fresh-
man Brian Avello will ﬁll the leader-
ship void left by the three departing
seniors.

Segal also believes" Avello and
Mueller should step up.

“Mueller has proved himself
and been to the national tourna-
merit,” Segal said. “Avello has
the talent, conditioning, skills
and attitude. Hejust needs expe-
rience.”

wards Mark Franceski and Patrick
Neuman, saw significant minutes
for the Generals. Guards Holton
Freeman and Wes McAdams may
have been in the regular rotation,
but injuries shortened their sea-
sons.

Stuart, who ﬁnished second on the
team with 9.4 points per game, believes
that this group from the Class of 2005
has the chance to push W&L toward
the top of the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference.

“We were recruited as the class
that was going to rebuild the pro-
gram,” Stuart said. “We have a great
relationship, and none of us are ex-
pected to stop playing. We’re all very
competitive.”

Jeff Lafave, who completed his
third year as head coach of the Gen-
erals with a loss in the ODAC Tour-
nament to regular-season champion

Randolph-Macon, believes that play-
ing time for the freshmen will pay divi-
dends for the rest of their careers.

“Hopefully, during the next three
years, you’ll see them grow quicker
than they would if they didn’t play as
much as freshmen,” Lafave said.
“They understand what it’s going to
take, but they’ve gotten valuable ex-
perience.”

The freshmen weren’t the only
Generals to affect the outcome of this
season. Junior forward Scott
Hetterrnann returned to lead W&L in
scoring and rebounding, despite play-
ing on less—than—healthy ankles.

Juniors Touissant Crawford and
John Warren were reliable threats from
the perimeter. Meanwhile, sophomore
forward Hamill Jones, Denbow’s co-
captain, hit 48.6 percent from the ﬂoor.

Seems like something’s missing?
Try seniors, which W&L had none of

this year. That means everyone should
return for the 2002-03 campaign.

“We should, without a doubt, try
to win 12-15 games, and go at least
.500 in the conference,” said Denbow,
whose coach is hesitant about quan-
tifying what would be a successful
season.

“When you’ve got a young group,
you have to set realistic goals,”
Lafave said. “You don’t want to set
any kind of wins-and-losses lirnita—
tions and expectations. Taking the
next step in the (ODAC) Tournament
would be a nice goal for our guys.”

For one of the freshmen, the Gen-
erals are already on the way up the
ladder in one of NCAA Division HI’s
toughest basketball leagues.

“We’ve shown that we can play
with every team,” Stuart said. “We’re

. going to build on this. You’ve got to

keep moving up in the ODAC.”

W&L women win ODAC swimming title

Men conclude season at Grove City, will send Hitter to NCAA Division III meet

BY MICHAEL LEE
SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee swimming teams ﬁnished
the 2001-02 season over Washington Holiday with a pair
of meets. The women won the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference Championships in Radford, while the men
placed fourth in the Grove City Invitational in Pennsyl-
Vania.

The women swam to a decisive victory at the ODAC
meet, winning every relay at the meet in addition to some
stellar individual performances. ‘

Leading the team was junior Blair Huffman, who was
named the Atlantic States Swimmer of the Meet, with
wins in the 200 and 400 individual medley, and the 200
butterﬂy. She set conference, meet and school records
in the 400 IM with a time of 4:43.62, which qualiﬁed as an
NCAA “B” cut time.

Great swims were bad all around at the meet. Sopho-
more Mandi Kimble took third in the 200 freestyle and 100
backstroke and second in the 200 backstroke. Freshman
Laura Westennan placed fourth in the 200 HVI and ﬁfth in
the 200 freestyle, and classmate Eleanor Wrlliarns took
third in the 200 backstroke and second in the 100 back-
stroke.

Senior Maggie Fagan made three lifetime bests in her
last meet as a General, and senior Laura Ingoldsby made
a lifetime best in the 500 freestyle, also taking second in
the grueling 1,650 freestyle. SeniorAnne Lachiewicz also
ﬁnished out her W&L career with best times in the 500
and 200 freestyle.

Coach Kiki Moore was very pleased with the season
as a whole, as her team ﬁnished with an 8-5 record.

“We had a great season,” Moore said. “It was a
team that really stuck together and helped each other

    

out when they needed it. They got along well and
worked very hard in practice —- they were easily moti-
vated.” 1

The men, meanwhile, were busy at Grove City. Sopho-
more Eric Ritter continued to dominate the backstroke
for W&L, shattering personal and school records in the
200 version of the event by nearly two
seconds. .

Ritter’s time of 1:51.91 was good

enough for an NCAA “A” cut,
guaranteeing him a trip to Miami
of Ohio on March 21-23 for the Di-
vision III Nationals. His time in the
100 backstroke was also good
enough for a win at Grove City.
, Junior Patrick Frankfort won the
1,000 and 500 freestyle, with NCAA “B” cut times, but
coach Andrew Pulsifer was pessimistic about his
chances to go to nationals.

“Patrick has made ‘B’ cuts in two of his three years
here that don’t quite make it to nationals, but he keeps
making lifetime bests,” Pulsifer said. .

Freshman Chris Colby took third in the 200 butter-
ﬂy, while sophomore Drew Catanese finished fourth
in the 100 butterﬂy. The men’s only senior, Rick Black,
swam his season bests in the 200, 100 and 50 freestyle
events. -

Pulsifer was quite happy with how the season turned
out. The Generals ended the year 5-4 in dual competition.

“I thought we raced quite well throughout the dual
meet season,” Pulsifer said. “We lost a couple of close
meets, primarily due to numbers. The swimmers grew as
expected this year — they were consistent and solid all
season, making personal progressions at every meet. All

RITTER

' but one swimmer hit a best time at Grove City.”

Follow W&L spring sports in the Phi.

Pick up a copy everyMonday or visit phi.w|u.edu.

 

 

' H

.V _  V A _  1 LE 2.,’-N‘:”vI‘.'$; ‘N
V‘ \ 4   l V m 2 p 2 t I g V ,3  xgtrl Mt .PI;”y\\;‘}4}_§’;.{f){'_? ~., :, Q 5-,: fly -.1; f3‘OG;‘*\~ PH:
V,/V),  HELLEN (1) PAGE; 5  A ’N  v(‘T _) T     i 3  (")p1?\5]()\]c, '7,
 Ow;-:i.t (';.»\z£ij—Z.\i Ar ’E‘Hl'i / l 5  A  ’  _ '_ . _ / 1' ‘ ' ' ‘ T " " “
 "l‘H.~\’l‘ i..»\.t.,'=r~;<,:i—ie‘.i;> .\ - i I Hi 5 L I  R 1 IL I J * \X7&:i..ll‘* 1-1:’. 5
. Titit )L SXLVI.) Si»i'll’S ’ SPORTS '7
l3;\sF.B.M'..1’.. ¢‘P:\(}-ll‘. 8 - \ . = T ,  7
\' \Xl‘&.l.. .\‘$L’F.F.l—‘S j ('jE;\I_" :\0Thb T
HA..~.ti>1’rt-ax-fS‘xrNF.v 24/ V’, 2 ‘
t)Fil Tm: a‘>i.m-.>.\r13 ’ ‘
« 7 . , 7 -
\.‘':7»:.a»rr.:z=:tIl\’,No. Xlill A  i'.;<-‘.s.:\.'-1.’;-rm, ‘t’;r\t;t>.i~. 2445:} . MO?\ll>;‘i'r’, ;\'l.-'il«‘.t'Tl~E ll, 2élt)2
‘C ‘tr 't5 W&Ld t f ‘d
' BY MATTHEW MC15ERMOTr Acting President Laurent Boetsch both Boetsch and Dean of the Law “I am no longer a candidate in the The Search and Screen Commit- rnittee, consisting of two non-voting
EDITOR_N_CH1EF announced the number of ﬁnalists at School David Partlett strong candi— presidential search,” Boetsch said. “It tee had received approximately 150 faculty and 15 of the Board’s 25 mem-
* ‘ Monday’s faculty meeting. He also re— dates for the position. has been a special privilege for me to nominations by its January 1 dead— bers.

  

 

 

JAMES G. Larwm L.lt;u’;;il:';~y

 

The Search and Screening Com-
mittee has nominated ﬁve ﬁnalists to
ﬁll the vacant position of university

T president. All have taught college

, classes, at least one is female and none

‘ work at Washington and Lee, said

Search and Screening Committee Chair

A Harlan Beckley.

vealed that none of the ﬁnalists were
W&L faculty or administrators.

“The committee has concluded
that the University’s best interests
will be served best by leadership
from the outside,” Boetsch said,

Though nominees’ names are
withheld, student opinion considered

“I was privileged to be inter-
viewed for the presidency,” said
Partlett. “I look forward to working
with a new president who will con-
tinue the tradition of superb leaders
of this great university.”

Partlett came to W&L Law School
from Vanderbilt in 2000.

serve in the capacity of acting president”

Boetsch, an alumnus, joined W&L
in 1976 and was named dean of the col-
lege and academic vice president in 1996.

The Board of Trustees ap-
pointed Boetsch acting president in
August 2001, a position he will oc-

line.

“Every candidate has had experi-
ence teaching and in administration,” said
Beckley. “Each strongly personiﬁes the
published presidential attributes.”

Each of the comnrittee’s ﬁve nomi-
nees must now be considered by the
Board of Trustee’s Nominating Com-

Phi Delta Theta
disassociates 6

Comatose pledge admitted to emergency room

FROM STAFF REPORTS

A Phi Delta Theta pledge in the hospital for alcohol
poisioning lead to the disassociation of six brothers.

Following the pledge’s admission to the hospital, Phi
Delt ofﬁcers drove to Interfratemity Advisor Burr Datz’s house
to discuss the issue. For about twenty minutes, Datz said,
they discussed the concept of responsibility.

“My impression wasn’t that any-
one was being forced to drink,” Datz
said. “It was more like no one inter-
vened in the middle of the situation.”

During the meeting, Datz said,

‘ “We just talked about whether every-
one was acting in their fratemity’s
best interests and in the best interest
of the student who had to be hospi-
talized.”

According to Datz, the fraternity ofﬁcers then ap-
proached six Phi Delt members and discussed the situa-
tion with them. The members agreed to deactivate from
the fraternity.

The Phi was unable to reach Phi Delt president
Doug Aldridge for comment.

Six students are annually sent to the hospital
for alcohol poisoning or an alcohol related injury,
said Dr. Jane Horton, Health Center director. Two
undergraduates so far have been treated there this
term.

“This is the first time this year that a student
has been referred just for intoxication,” Horton said.

In the past students have been emitted into the inten-

    

ATZ

cupy until June 30.

FOOD FOR THOUGHT

BY MATTHEW McDBRMOTr
EDlTOR—lN—CHIEF

Honor Scholars came to campus
last week with little to lose and four
years of tuition, room and board to
gain.

The 104 candidates compete
over three days for George Wash-
ington Honor Scholarships, which
make W&L nearly free.
These candidates were
chosen from the 840
honor scholar appli-
cants, 100 more than last
year.

“This year’s group is
the strongest we’ve ever
had,” said Admissions
Counselor Kristen
Binette, who headed the program.
“Half of them are valedictorians or
salutatorians, nearly every person
is in student government or edits
the paper, or is a captain of a var-
sity team.”

The group also tests well, with
an average SAT score of 1480 and
ACT of 33.

up are selected based on their over-

 

BINETTE

“(Candidates) who get invited I

sive care unit for rehabilitation.

Worst case scenarios have involved intubation, where

   

FRUITS OF THEIR LABOR. This term’s LipSync netted food for three area food kitchens. One of

M" ur-

all application, including test
scores, high school record, recom-

The Nominating Committee will
conduct further interviews, and rec-
ommend a candidate to the full
Board by early April. The board will
then select W&L’s twenty-third
president.

“And then everyone will be
informed at the same time,”
Beckley said.

High schoolers
contend for cash

104 candidates inten/iew for full tutiﬁon honor scholarships

plicant body, the key to winning
an honor scholarship is impress-
ing faculty and student panels.

“We look for raw intelligence and
favor students with unusual back-
grounds,” said History Professor Holt
Merchant, who has interviewed since
the program began 30 years ago.

“Everyone has been student
council president or helped out in a
soup kitchen,” Merchant
said. “We look for people
who have done unusual
things.”

In an interview, Mer-
chant said, faculty look
for students who have
“opinions without being
opinionated,” and are able
to talk logically about
their political, religious,
and intellectual beliefs.

After their 1 1 interviews, the fac-
ulty panels gives three “ones,” four
“twos,” and four “threes.” The stu-
dent panels have a similar scoring
system.‘

Candidates with the highest av-
erage get full rides. Other students
are eligible for other grants or
awards.

“With a few exceptions, all of the
ﬁnalists here this week will receive

a tube has been inserted down a student’s throat to fore-
stall airway closing. This has not occurred for four years,
Horton said.

“Nurses admit students to the emergency room
when they don’t feel comfortable monitoring them
in the Health Center,” Horton
said. At Stonewall Jackson’s
emergency room, heart and oxy-
gen monitors are placed on stu-
dents, who are given IV ﬂuids and
tested for injuries.

Emergency room costs are not
covered by the university.

“From talking with Burr, I think
the Phi Delts handled this matter in
a responsible matter,” Dean of Stu-
dents David Howison said.

Dean of Freshmen Dawn Watkins was not informed
about the freshman pledge’s medical problem.

“I don’t know whether (students) are in the hospital
or the health center,” Watkins said.

“Still, students admitted to the health center have to
undergo alcohol education,” she said.

HOWISON

  W&L i—shares liable for fed

BY PETER DJALALIEV
INTEIWET EDITOR

College campuses have been relatively untouched by copy-
right violation investigations. This may not be true for long.

In December 2001 government agents raided com-
puter sites and conﬁscated hard drives at, among others,
MIT, UCLA, Duke and Purdue. There they found thou-
sands of shared music, video and software ﬁles, the vol-

, untary sharing of which violates copyright law.

A number of students are under investigation and
“probably a few” will soon face criminal charges, said Allan
J. Doody, special agent of U.S. Customs’ Baltimore ofﬁce.

These students are suspected to belong to the
Internet piracy group DrinkOrDie. Founded in 1994 in Mos-
cow, the group became notorious for releasing a pirated

 

them requested cash, and got one third of the total take. The other two, however, requested
food, seen above. W&L students oversee the movement of supplies, which will benefit the
needy in Rockbridge County. LipSync, a time honored tradition, allows pledges to humiliate
themselves for a worthy cause; this year a bachelor auction followed the event.

mendations, extracurricular record,

as well as the essay,” Admissions

Counselor Alexis_Yee—Garcia said.
With such a distinguished ap-

one half tuition (grants),” Y e e -
Garcia said.

see SCHOLARS, page 2

MSA, NAACP host forum on black reparations

FROM STAFF REPPRTS

The federal govemment’s debt to the
descendants of former slaves will be dis-
cussed at a Washington and Lee confer-
ence “Black Reparations: Recompense or
Retribution” on Wednesday from 7 to 9:30
in Leybum Library’s N orthen Auditorium.

Guest participants include Musaemura
Zimunya, a poet from the University of Zim-
babwe, Ronald Walters, director of the Af-

'rican-American Leadership Institute at the

University of Maryland, N ikitah Okembe-
RA Imani, assistant professor of critical
sociology at James Madison University,

and J immy Robinson, Roanoke attorney
and winner of the Thurgood Marshall Hu-
manitarian Award.

Walters is the most widely known of
the group, having appeared on CNN
Crossﬁre, CBS News Nightline, NBC To-
day Show, C—Span and the Jim Lehrer News
Hour.

“The symposium is essentially the
beginning of a series of critical issues dis-
cussions,” said senior Justin Arnold, who
brainstormed the conference.

“As different student organizations
began planning programs for this academic
year, one idea that ﬂoated around was hav-

ing a series of campus discussions that
centered around various sociopolitical is-
sues.”

Arnold’s idea for a conference was
inspired by a treatment of the subject in
the publication Black Issues in Higher
Education.

“Justin was really the one behind this
program,” said Minority Student Associa-
tion Toussaint Crawford.

Arnold sees the conference’s focus
as much on academics as politics.

“We wanted to begin with an issue
that would be interesting, yet challenging,
and one that would perhaps expose our

community to something new,” Arnold
said. “College is the place where we begin
to formulate and challenge our belief sys-
tems by being exposed to various perspec-
tives with which we are unfamiliar.” .

Politics Professor Lucas Morel’s Black
American Politics class will participate in
the discussion. .

The W&L chapter of the NAACP and
the Minority Student Associate are spon-
soring the symposium, which is funded by
the departments of sociology, politics and
economics. The Ofﬁce of Minority Affairs,
headed by Associate Dean of Students
Courtney Penn, also contributed.

 
   

PHUJU BY Mun’ GUY/Ring—tz1mP/11'

-copy of Microsoft Vtfrndows 95 two weeks before the origi-

nal version came out. One of the two suspected ringlead-
ers of the group has recently pled guilty to one felony
count of conspiracy to commit copyright infringement.
He awaits a sentence in the next weeks. The otherring—

leader is still under investigation.

It is not surprising that the government
soon may charge students with copyright
infringement on their personal computers.
Unexpected, however, is its raids on college campuses and
seizure of computers. Considering that Washington and Lee’s
University Computing department has had to limit the Internet
bandwidth used for peer—to-peer ﬁle sharing software, W&L
students might potentially face similar problems.

University Computing has already been contacted
by the Recording Industry Association of America, the

_l_\lBws ANAL_Ys1s

eral prosecution

Motion Picture Association of America and a ﬁrm repre-
senting Adobe Systems, Inc., about students distributing
(sharing with or without intention) copyrighted products.

University Computing has not been surveilling stu-
dent accounts. From complainants, however, the depart-
ment receives the network address of the computer from
which ﬁles are being shared, and the date when the shar-
ing took place.

So far, the University Computing has been only de-
termining theidentity behind the network address and to
sent him a written notification that he should stop sharing
those ﬁles. They do not reveal the identities of the users
violating the copyright.

Now, however, government agents have started raiding
campuses, and W&L users cannot feel as secure anymore.

“We are not going to enforce the law ourselves, but if
ordered by court, we would have no other choice but to

‘ reveal who stands behind those network

*—”~" addresses,” said John Stuckey, director of
University Computing.

Students using peer-to-peer sharing
software, such as Morpheus, violate the copyright of a
work by sharing, and also by downloading it to their own
computer. This makes an unauthorized reproduction of
the work. Downloading songs is thus acrime and some

see FILE-SHARING‘, page 2

Beckley awarded

VA legislature honors religion professor

BY IMRAN NAEEMULLAH
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR

After almost 30 years of teaching at Washington
and Lee, Religion Professor Harlan R. Beckley was one
of 11 professors statewide honored with the Virginia
Legislature’s Faculty Award.

The award is annually given to
professors for commitment to class-
room instruction, scholarship and par-
ticularly service to the community.

Community service played the
largest part in his winning of the
award, Beckley said.

Beckley founded the W&L
Shepherd Poverty Program at W&L,
and works with the Bonner Leaders program and Nabors
Service League.

“(The award) represents even more recognition
for what we’ve done to create and develop the Shep-
herd program,” Beckley said. “Students have helped
to make the program what it is.” I

Chemistry Professor Frank Settle andArt History Pro-
fessor Pamela Simpson are past winners of the FacultyAward

Faculty are nominated by their university. Nomi-
nees are then selected by a committee appointed by
the State Council on Higher Education.

BECKLEY

 

 

  

PAGE 2

 

N 'l}A;Ri\;<;n;tri’s-ii

SCHOLARSZ Expensive event deemed worth the price

from page 1

Student interviews tended to be more un-
orthodox.

Some scholars had to answer questions with
the sugar chicks Peeps in their mouths, to test
their ability to handle unexpected situations with
equanitiniity.

“We had our guys draw their states on
the chalkboard and answer questions about
the population density,” senior Mike
Reynolds said.

Though the interviews are the
competition’s centerpiece, the university also
sponsors open houses, an activities fair and

meals with upperclassmen.

The competition is expensive. For instance,
competitors’ airfare alone costs about $40,000,
Yee-Garcia said, outside of airport shuttles and
gas reiumbursement.

“It’s worth it because these (candidates)
are dynamic,” Binnette said. “They have self
conﬁdence and academic curiostiy.”

“It’s incredibly tiring, but I really enj oiy do-
ing.it,” Merchant said.

“It contributes to the welfare and groth of
W&L. As a teacher I have an interest in getting
the best students possible.”

FlLE—SHARlNGI Feds may be coming to W&L with a warrant

from page 1

what a risk itself. If matter
comes to court, the explanation
“Everybody does it, why can’t
I do it?” would not be valid le-
gal reasoning. However, stu-
dents can protect themselves
by not sharing their ﬁles. Ev-
ery peer-to-peer software sys-
tem has some way of prevent-
ing sharing the user’s files.
Well, this violates the whole
idea of having peer-to-peer
sharing software systems be-
cause.if nobody shares their

ﬁles, there would be no shared
ﬁles. However, this would not
be a valid legal reasoning in
court either. So, it is really a
matter or personal decision
whether to take the risk or not.
Now that there is a precedence
of government officials going
through college campuses,
the risk users are taking is a
little higher, especially for
those that have already re-

As I already said, all shar-
ing software has some way to
prevent sharing (without pre-
venting downloading). Any-
body in W&L who wants to
stop sharing files from his
computer, but does not know
how to do it, can contact the
University Computing
HelpDesk (x4357) and ask for
assistance. Or he could take
risk and hope that nobody is

 

2
W /3

7:30 p.m.—Lecture. “Inventing Guilt and In-
nocence in the Early Witch Trials,” Prof. Rich-
ard Kieckhefer, Northwestern University.
N orthen Auditorium.

8:30 p.m.—Java at the GHQ features Recov-
ering Alice. GHQ.

'Ilresday,Mar.5

7:30 p.m.——Lecture. “Conquering Love: the
Bride of God as Knight Errant,” Prof. Barbara
Newman, Northwestern University. Northen Au-
ditorium.

8 p.m.—Lenfest Series. Gateway/Cand1e-
wood International presents “How to Succeed
in Business Wlth0Ut Really Trying.” Keller The-
atre, Lenfest Center.

ceived written notiﬁcations to going to knock on his door with
stop sharing ﬁles. . a court order.
WednesdVay,Mai-.6

6:30 p.m.—Leadership Seminar Series. Lead-
ing with Intelligence and Knowledge. Room 205,
University Center. Facilitated by WC. “Burr”
Datz, director of Leadership Development.

7 p.m.—A Critical Issues Debate. “Black Repara-
tions: Recompense or Ret1ibut:ion.”Aroundtable dis-
cussion format covering the various philosophical,
sociological, economic and legal approaches to black
reparations. Northen Auditorium, Leybum library.

8 p.m—Aleoholics Anonymous Meeting. Fairfax
Lounge. All W&L students, faculty/staff and the Lex-
ington community are welcorrie. Coffee is provided

'Il1ursday,Mar.7

7 pm.—WinterwPoli1ics Filmfest. “Blade Run-
nei” (US, 1982). DirectedbyRidley Scott Room 221,
Williams School. —

Eida3gMan8

2 p.m.——Terroiism: An Interdisciplinary Per-
spective Series. “Terrorism & American Foreign
Policy,” Paul Pillar, Washington policymaker.
Room A214, Science Center.

4:30 p.m—33rd Institute on the Ethics of Jounial-
ism. “WhatAre Jomnalists For‘.7”Wrl1iam Raspbeny.
Room 327, Williams School. Open to the Public.

MONDAY. MARCH 11. 2002

GOING FOR THE BRONZE

 

Dean Howison to retire

David L. Howison, Washington and
Lee University’s Dean of Students, has an-
nounced his intention to retire after the

_ 2002-03 academic year. »

Howison joined W&L as dean of stu-
dents in 1990 after 22 years at St. Lawrence
University in Canton, N .Y., where he served
as dean of student affairs, director of the
school’s Noble University Center and as
an assistant dean of students.

In a recent letter to his staff, Howison
said he wanted to retire at a time that was
suitable for the University, while also ac-
commodating the retirement dreams he
shares with his wife, Chris.

“As I considered the timing of my re-
tirement, I wanted to balance my personal
needs with what would be best for the Uni-
versity. The end of the 2003 academic year
is the right time,” said Howison. “This will
allow the new president to select a new dean
of students and, if all goes well, I’ll have a
month or two overlap with the new dean to
facilitate the transition. .

W&L acting President Laurent Boetsch ex-
pressed best wishes to Howison, adding that his
career has been a great asset to the University.

“I am enormously grateful for the won-
derful work that David has done here at W&L
in a position that is arguably the most diffi-
cult on this or any campus,” said Boetsch.

On a personal note in his letter, Howison
told his colleagues that, 20 years ago, “I prom-
ised myself if I was still on my feet at 60 land
had my wits about me, I would have the good
sense to move on to the next stage of my life.
Well, I’m 60 now and it’s time to move on.

“I want to play golf. I want to work on

‘my chess game and play in some touma-

ments. I want to get involved with the
Rockbridge Area Recreational Organization
and help with the youth recreation program
in Lexington,” he noted. “And, if my body
holds up, I want to win the national champi-
onship in the 800-meters run before I’m 90.”
As dean of students, Howison brought
his academic background in higher educa-
tion, outdoor recreation and counseling into
his work both as an administrator and as a
personal friend to many students. He is
known for his “auxiliary office” that he often
sets up outside the University snack bar.

Alumnus wins an award

For their outstanding efforts to educate and
enlighten through art, Dudley Cocke Jr. (W &L
’68) and Rick Lowe have been jointly awarded
the 8th Annual Heinz Award for Arts and Hu-
manities. Cocke has helped bring to life aregional
theater that celebrates the culture and voices of
people living in the Appalachian Mountains,
while Lowe has brought public art to beleaguered
parts of Houston’s urban landscape.

 



 

 

A .
meetavedframihe c’enIerwherestwlw1;sad!u::s<with
vmaarianundwaaa drunk drivertwlrtaerﬁte.

Frﬁerm Don‘: Let Friends

 

The Foundation for the Defense of Democracies presents:

“Defending Democracy, Defeating Terrorism”

terrorism.

 

-c»v<awllB'I3JIﬁnv*\I(:r¢-.|1.1v:|.w..n.\ Irv‘ .. - ..

The Foundation for the Defense of Democracies is seeking
qualified undergraduate applicants to participate in a
fellowship program entitled “Defending Democracy,
Defeating Terrorism”.

The fellowship program will commence August 3-21 in Tel
Aviv and will allow participants to interact with academics,
diplomats and military officials from India, Israel, Jordan,
Turkey, and the United States. FDD fellows will be
provided with all room, board, and travel expenses.

FDD is a non—profit, non-partisan and non—ideologica1 think
thank that promotes informed debate about politics and
positions that will most effectively abolish international

Questions? email to fellows@defendddemocracy.org

For additional details and application visit:
www.defenddemocracy.org

'3-H;

 

A

1*

. -.z-.rr- x ->1-r.~.«.:\~».—_!

 

MONDAY, MARCH 11, 2002

.-. ».. 1.2:.» sr3a‘.*-1Hro€z,v£w€'§-:u¢2Irx::\rnuc:v&.-rs-<~\;2- -..-_c:-. ”':'!Iur:7.°.I:’.‘.-_;‘lIa _'.-v.ac..~. aL-'K':f' -W-..~n-.-_ .-.- um-xv -.;.»-.-

.. -3.... .;—. ‘.21-_.-.;.

 RrNG-'r'tN:l°i«ii

TAFF EDITORIAL

It is not acceptable to ask
your FD date on Mar. 21

The Phi admittedly does present a chill-
ingly androgynous face, devoid of sex, age or
national origin. The distillation of objective truth,
a brew this paper dolls out weekly, does not
permit these foreign substances.

However, one of the purposes of the staff
editorial (besides dispensing enlightenment and
speaking truth to power) is to occasionally drop
the mask and let the human face show through.

Fancy Dress is one of those occasions.

Because of W&L’s charmingly old-fash-
ioned/ridiculously out-dated social mechanics,
it is the gentleman’s responsibility to secure a
date. Some men take this for granted, and, as a
result, our women languish. ,

We have a patriotic duty to ask W&L girls,
since imports tend to dilute our exclusivity.

With the best possible will, and acknowl-
edging exceptions, most of those schools’
women’s families do not have the net worth of
their W&L counterparts. How are we to con-
tinue concentrating this country’s wealth into

fewer and fewer hands if

We have a patriotic we date the help?
Also, think of the poor,
duty to ask W&L unasked W&L girls (mostly

girls, since imports
tend to dilute our
exclusivity.

C-school majors, likely) who
will be forced to spend
March 22"“ poring over
their spreadsheets and bud-
get statements.

No one wants to spend the biggest social
night of the year over an asset liability portfo-
lio. Rather, we should be adding to our per-
sonal portfolio through selective dating.

There are other reasons besides ﬁnancial
for inviting a female student of the home grown
variety. I
W&L women are better versed in the in-
tricacies of inebriation ettiquent. They have far
more experience in nursing drunks back to a
semblance of sobriety or plotting the quickest
course to the inﬁrmary.

Consider finally that there are fewer
women than men on campus.

However, the tardiness of FD proposals to
consummately eligible W&L ladies suggests
that there are even fewer men than we think.

UOTE OF THE WEEK:

‘‘I WAS NEVER A GIRL SCOUT.”

—ANONYMOUS PHI ASSOCIATE EDITOR
REFLECITNG ON A MISSPENT LIEE:

zzws-.-

Editor—in—chief
Associate Editor
Asst. News Editor
Asst. News Editor
Opinions Editor
Asst. Opinions Editor
W&Life Editors

Matthew B. McDerrnott
Katie J. Howell
Latrina Stokes
Irnran Naeemullah
Brett T. Kirwan
Andrew Latimer
MatthewA. Coursen
Catherine C. Guy ,
Jeremy S. Franklin
Dave Crowell

Alison M. Trinidad
Mary E Guy

J eb Brooks

Meg Ferrara

Paul A. Seifert
Brian Castleberry
Emily Barker
William Litton
Peter L. Djalaliev

Sports Editor

Asst. Sports Editor
Contributing Editor
Photo Editor
Photographers

Business Manager
Circulation Manager
Asst. Business Manager
Advertising Managers
‘Internet Editor

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editor-in-chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion of the Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi

or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-

tions of libel and obscenity.
The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi.wlu.edu

TEE RrNG~*nn:r PHQI

  PINIONS

BRErr T. KIRWAN
OPINIONS EDIIOR
FMAIE-KRwANr@\nnEDU

Fear of envy drives liberals

In his speech last Tuesday, Dr.
Jack Wheeler, in addition to sharing
fascinating stories of an adventure-
ﬁlled life, gave a summary of very con-
vincing, consistent and well-founded
theory on the trouble with Muslim
terrorism. Identifying al—Qaeda, Yasser
Arafat and others as “Arab Nazis,”
Wheeler explained that the ideology
of Muslim terrorism is part and parcel
with Nazism and Communism. He ex-
plained that these three “social dis-
eases” go together because they are
all “religions of envy.” Nazis were

envious of Jews, Communists were '

envious of the bourgeois, and Mus-
lim terrorists are envious of the West.

Dr. Wheeler was unafraid of call-
ing the West, and America in particu-
lar, better than the cultures that have
produced these terrorists. The differ-
ence, he said, stems from cultural
“memes,” which, in the same way that
genes control a species’ development,
are traditions and beliefs that control
a cu1ture’s development. America is
successful because we have the
memes of the rule of law, separation
of church and state and equality for
all races and sexes. Muslim cultures
have produced terrorism because
they have the defective memes of re-
ligious government, abusive attitudes
toward women and intolerance of
non—Muslims. He concluded that if we
are to ever defeat Muslim terrorism as
surely as we defeated Nazism and
Communism, we must change the very
cultures of Muslims and create secu-
lar states along the line of Turkey. '

With so much evidence piled up
in favor of America and against Mus-
lim terrorists, why do some Ameri-
cans insist on claiming equality be-
tween our cultures ?_ Just as many lib-
erals denied the true nature of the
Soviet Union during the Cold War,
many today deny the true nature of
the culture that produces Muslim ter-
rorism and instead point to the fail-
ures of the United

tively disgusted by America’s display
of patriotism following Sept. 11 and
rather than cheer the unifying inﬂu-
ence on the nation, he has called into
question our moral uprightness in the
battle against terrorism.

Another fine example of liberal

confusion on the justiﬁability of our «

anti—terrorism action is Robert Scheer,
a columnist for The Los Angeles Times,
who claims that dissent and intellec-
tual freedom have suffered since the
attacks so much so that America is

equivalent to the Soviet Union.
Frank Rich of The New York
Times has accused the President of
stiﬂing dissent in his own cabinet
claiming, that “only after (Homeland
Security Director) Mr.

States and deny that RIGHT OF THE AISLE Ridge arrived on the
we have moral superi— scene was the sur-
ority in this war. BRETT  _ geon general liber-
‘ For example, - ated from the gulag.”

feminists who previously were, rightly
so, appalled by the Taliban’s treat-
ment of women, have changed their
tune since the war began. As soon as
they saw that ousting the regime and
rescuing the women of Afghanistan
would require military action, they
have focused on the minuscule num-
bers of Afghan civilian casualties
rather than the success we have had
in bringing women out from behind
the burqa.

Norman Mailer, featured in last
week’s “Coward of the Week,” is an-
other excellent example. Mailer is posi-

Letter to the Editor

Sober? drivers conflict with tow trucks

Dear Editor,

I, a law-abiding freshman, made the mistake of leav-
ing my car parked overnight on Saturday in the Lambda
Chi Alpha Fraternity parking lot. The car was there be-
cause I had been sober driving for the fraternity earlier
in the evening. I had plans to pick the car up Sunday

afternoon.

Sunday morning, I was startled by a phone call tell-
ing me that my car was being towed. The call came, not
4 from University Security, who had no plans to contact me,
but from a friend who was up at the house. I made a mad
dash from my home in Graham-Lees to the Lambda Chi
parking lot where I was greeted by a tow tr'uck and Ofﬁcer
M. Davis who informed me that I was to pay $35 to the
individual in the truck. My problem is not with this pay-
ment, the fact that I was almost towed or that I have to pay
an additional $25 ticket because I was “not in freshman
lot.” My concern arises from a discovery made during a
brief interview with Ofﬁcer Davis. I was informed that fresh-
men sober drivers are not permitted to park their cars in
any parking lot; not even for a second.
Fraternities often’ ‘strongly encourage’ their fresh-
men pledges to be sober drivers. Those freshmen al-

Rich claimed that Pres. Bush had
forced Surgeon General David Satcher
out of the public eye as if the KGB
had carted him off to Siberia. I sup-
pose it couldn’ t be that the public was
more interested in hearing about the
war than they were in the Surgeon
General’s news on obesity and Dr.
Satcher knew to stay out of the way.

Finally, Alexander Cockburn
writes in the New York Press that
America is approaching “the tradi-
tional barriers of imperial retribution,”
but more startlingly, he concocts a
conspiracy theory involving the CIA

Meg Ferrara/ The Ring—tz1m Phi
ALL ABOUT MEMES: V/heeler, with walrus bone, expounds on the uprightness of the West

and a Bush 41-connected biotechnol-
ogy corporation producing and de-
liverin g the anthrax that killed the tab-
loid writers in Boca Raton. That’s
right, America is at war, but the CIAis
using it only as an opportunity to use
anthrax to kill off editors at The Sun.

Where does all this idiocy and
self—loathing come from? How can, in
this time of the utmost moral clarity,
these people be so confused as to the
uprightness of our cause? It stems
from the liberal fear of envy. Muslim
terrorists conduct their war due to un-
controllable envy toward the West.
Liberals decry ours because they can-
not stand to be envied.

Examples abound from more
peaceful times. Social Security pro-
tects young, wealthy liberals from the
envy of the elderly and retired. Wel-
fare protects liberals from the envy of
the poor and less—fortunate. Soft
stances on crime and opposition to
the death penalty protect liberals from
the envy of criminals. Opposition to a
strong national defense protects lib-
erals from the envy of our sworn en-
emies and nations that cannot sup-
port such large forces. Anti— globaliza-
tion and support for massive humani-
tarian aid protects liberals from the
envy. of the poor and dispossessed
world wide.

But as Dr. Wheeler said, no na-
tion is free of defective memes. Ap-
parently, America has some of her own
to work out.

most always drive cars that are permitted to be parked

only in the freshmen lot. The drivers, according to
Officer Davis, are never permitted to leave their ve-

simple “no.”

hicles in non—freshmen lots. I asked him if fraternities
might alert University Security to the identities of the
sober drivers for the evening and that they might then
give those individuals a little more freedom when it
comes to parking procedures. He responded with a

I have the utmost respect for University Security
Ofﬁcers; they are simply doing their jobs. I also have
the utmost respect for sober drivers who are one of the
most important lines of defense against disaster. Officer
Davis was following his rules and regulations, and sober
drivers are following theirs. I see an inherent conﬂict
that exists within the behavior of both parties. I would
hope that the rules governing both groups may be dis-
cussed and an agreement reached that allows sober driv-
ers to focus on the care of Washington & Lee students
who need their help and not a fear of losing their car or a
great deal of money. Sober drivers should be given free-
reign to do what they need without the encumbering

concern of towing.

Sincerely,
J eb Brooks ‘05

PAGE 3

Pledgeship demands

mirror fraternity crisis

Hell Week has descended upon our fair campus,
and every fraternity brother on campus is working dili-
gently to guarantee that name isn’t a misnomer.

Suddenly, classrooms seem a lot less populated.
Sales of caffeine pills rise noticeably. Pledges who aren’t
donning ridiculous costumes wear their blue blazers
and talk in hushed voices with fellow brothers-to-be.
To most freshmen the somber mood that pervades
Lexington’s atmosphere is unmistakable.

As one of those many freshmen teetering on the
brink of Hell, an images of a pressure cooker comes to
mind. Even
though the Greek
system taxes our
strength more
than ever, profes— ,
sors refuse to give in and budge an inch. For the next
144 hours we lowly Greek warmabes will feel strain and
stress heaped upon us from all sides at nearly every

COGENT COMMENTARY
_. @£9§ .... -

hour of the day. The warnings have been clear: when- _

ever you are not at the house, attending class or catch-
ing the daily allotment of two hours of sleep, use every
moment to do your schoolwork.

Little wonder that posters touting checklists for
depression and suicide hotlines just so happened to
spring up all over the freshman dormitories. I’d be hard
pressed to call that a mere coincidence.

All in all, if one assessed Washington and Lee
Greek life based solely upon the days leading up to
initiation, it wouldn’t be hard to make a case for abol-
ishing the system altogether and writing off fraterni-
ties as exercises of collective sadism. You’d argue that
the only ones who would suffer would be the employ-
ees of the local wooden paddle industry.

Yet just as freshmen have the nasty habit of put-
ting their blinders on during Hell Week, so too do crit-
ics of fraternity life. Sure, treatment might be harsh for
eight weeks, but even a languishing pledge can recog-
nize that the beneﬁts far outweigh the detractions.

However, t1'ying to describe the positive side of
Greek life to someone who has never been in a frater-
nity is like attempting to explain colors to someone
who’s been locked away in a cave all his life. What
they can’t realize is that while there exist extreme cases
that defy any defense, for the most part what may seem
unnecessary or abusive in fact builds unity.

The situation is doubly precarious for school ad-
ministrators, the ones who are held responsible in case
a house runs afoul of the law during Winter Term.
Surely the specter of such infamous tragedies such as
the 1998 untimely end of a University of Washington
student who hanged himself the day after initiation or
the recent alcohol poisoning deaths at the University
of Maryland dances in their nightmares.

The last thing Washington Hall wants is a lawsuit
or high-proﬁle hazing death to mar Washington and
Lee’s reputation. Naturally, it must feel inclined to take
a clear cut course of action: continue to extend ofﬁcial
domain over fraternities while forcefully minimizing their
inﬂuence.

The first major salvo in this battle was fired with
the completion of the first ofﬁcial dining hall in 1959,
unseating the fraternity houses as the student’s pri-
mary option for meals. The current construction of the
University Commons is a continuation of this effort to
move the axis of extracurricular life farther away from
the orbit of Greek authority. Some might even say that
the Fraternity Renaissance also constituted an admin-
istration victory. .

When does it stop? When is enough enough?
Whether the fear is justiﬁed or not, the sense amongst
students is that university management from the top
down is through—and-through anti-fraternity. Rumors
of certain houses being kicked off campus in the future’
run rampant, especially at times like these when ten-
sions run high.

I don’t know if I’m the only person who sees this,
but it looks like the nextyear and the selection of a new
president will shape what direction the Greek system
will take from here on out. The feeling I got from man-
dated Inter-Fraternity Council Meetings indicated that
even they were conscious of the fact that we’re skat-
ing on thin ice.

In order to counteract university pressure, the
IFC must become far more robust. Whereas houses
may be rooted in tradition and ritual, the IFC has to
force itself to consistently update and consolidate
its power, a seemingly daunting task to an outsider
like me. Yet it lies with the Council, not individual
fraternities, to expand Greek control lest the entire
system crumble.

In these days of constant demands upon pledges,
Greek life at large also faces pressure on all sides. It will
take greater cooperation and selﬂessness in order to
preserve the system as we know it, but instead of eight
weeks of effort, this struggle might rage for years.

  TALKBACY: CADETS, irtEYDONr\X/&LANDVMI GET ALONG?

 

“The girls don’t talk to
me when I run through.”
—-Williarn Butt, ‘05

 

“The uppity attitude of

 

 

    

“We can’t go to the

“We can’t go to
. “Id ’tkr1 .” A . . ,,
the parties.” the students.” on ow Yvhy fraternity parties.
—-Daniel Harrison, ‘05 --Kathy Aldrich, ‘O5 --Paul Stamp’ 02 «Chris Meyers ‘04

 

  

PAGE 4

 

People often question me about my association with
and membership in the controversial organization
Greenpeace. True, some of the things they protest may
seem a bit unnecessary and their tactics a bit over the top.
I, however, do not agree.

One topic of interest to myself and Greenpeace has
been in the news this week: genetically altered food. I
recently had a friend of mine who is staunchly conserva-
tive and Republican bring this issue up with me.

He sent me an online article that I wish I could find. It
had some hilarious ideas about how genetically altered
food could be of some great benefit in the world. One of
the really amusing suggestions was that
this food could be made more durable and
sent overseas to victims of war and fam-
ine in need of assistance.

First of all, let’s think about this for a
minute. What do we sent to countries in need of aid? To
answer this we have to think about what is really basic.
What are the fundamental ingredients that can easily be
used to make food? It is usually things like ﬂour and
grain? A few of the more easily used and durable grains
that come to mind are things like wheat and com.

A Well, if you had noticed the tiny article on the very
back page of the A Section to Friday’s Washington Post,
then you know that genetically altered corn just cost the
food industry $9 million in lawsuits.

This week a Chicago judge awarded the firm of
Krislov and Associates $2.4 million in a class action
lawsuit the firm filed on behalf of consumers. Aside
from paying this fee, the companies involved also had
to include over $6 million in coupons on their prod-
ucts as payment back to the public.

i So, what was the problem you ask? Apparently
these companies had been using something known as

 

Oiiiiii bNs
Genetically altered foods illicitly made way ont supermarket shelves  

LEFT OF CENTER
NICK RAMSEY ‘03

 

MONDAY, MARCH 11, 2002

Starlink corn seed in products that had made their way
into supermarkets.

Now the Environmental Protection _Agency has ap-
proved the use of Starlink corn seed. But they have ap-
proved it for use in animal feed. It has not been approved
as of yet for human consumption, however. Oops. As a
matter of fact, this genetically engineered corn is known
to cause a high number of allergic reactions in humans.

Therefore, had this wonderful product been sent to
the war—ravaged villages of Afghanistan marked as “Re—
lief Packages,” as suggested by this article given to me, it
actually could have made many individuals sick.

What’s more, these products are still
right under our noses. Many of the
country’s more popular chain grocery
stores use genetically engineered ingredi-
ents in its own store brand products.

Therefore, as part of its 2002 Supermarket Campaign,
Greenpeace will be taking on the large chain store,
Safeway. As the case in Chicago demonstrates, as of yet
there are too many uncertainties when it comes to prod-
ucts like these. There are reasons that we grow foods
naturally. There are reasons we look forthe words, “All
Natural,” on the packaging of the things we buy.

However, we now have evidence that some companies A

are using products that are not even approved for human
consumption. It kind of makes you wonder what exactly
you are eating. I realize that all foods have a certain level of
impurities in them. That is to be expected. But when science
comes in and purposefully begins to change food in an
effort to make it “better” we begin to encounter problems.

So get educated. Find out what it is you are actually
eating. Realize that there is actually a reason people like
me are concerned. Like they say, the body is a temple. Just
be sure that you know what is going into it.

I have found that my typi-
cal pre—deadline writer’s block can

be easily alleviated by virtue of Top ‘

10 Lists. David Letterman’s suc-
cess revealed. I mean, there’s a lot
of pressure in picking just one topic
to write about.

If a ton of people have nega-
tive amounts of interest in said sub-

. ject, then there’s seven- hundred-

words rendered useless. However,
with a Top 10 list, you cover a wider
audience, thereby increasing you
success rate exponentially.

As a follow up to my last piece
on the “Top 10 People I Wish I Were
Friends With,” I thus present for
you reading quasi-pleasure, The

Top 10 People that Should Be
Phased Out of the Evolutionary
Cycle. They are most definitely not
contributing to the betterment of
humanity as a whole. Superficial
Darwinism at its absolute finest.

1. Anyone with a vanity plate.
Standard.

2. Anyone who engages in ar-
guments about who has more work
to do. That is unequivocally the
biggest waste of time in the his-
tory of life. By eliminating these
people, and therefore their argu-
ments, time is saved in the long
run. All such saved time can be
accumulated, and an extra day can
be added on to the calendar. For a

big party celebrating the merits of
Mix CD’s. Or some other worth-
while cause.

3. Any sophomore who didn’t
wholly appreciate the literary ge-
nius of his freshman reading book,
“Franny and Zooey.” Given the
other repertoire of
summer reading, it
was a gift from God. '

4. People who
interrupt jokes with
the punchline.

5. Anyone who constantly re-
lates a story by to him or herself. I
think that’s a technique fine-tuned
in upper level education. The abil-
ity to somehow twist a story so that

+-(M. .m.e.e.~..-¢-;,~.: ¥'o:v;..>.:, 

llllll lllll ill IHE PM

:

    ~  we Fm‘.       
organize mmmas and  them where they're mmtw meat.-. Esavacisﬁly ﬁgﬁtziag
as 21%;: ttttris 313.5%}.-'_g’f’?t5m  tr” s,~mt‘rt:. in at mmzmaziay gamma. ask it was cam «Sc

 

 vs at  Z  {ling itttifttrél 

El Elllléltlllﬂlll Elllllllll.

 he teatntatg up waif: a cesztaazniry éeaéﬁrécm. tta realty =5:-;m;_:l¢-. gum  $7,‘;
 er ta}: I~£.'1"‘NttD§«3t.3 ta mxtwx it rmmwnftztr
' . in your area. Thaw: mt was %‘;'?té’tt§!ZIl'(  ymr grantee an train. Yauliﬁ be
rszgsrariited at sieétat. Wu  Rt agent. Am  mm: was ran 3€.£'!I;‘il'Xt§It§§i‘§3'ta..

Y'ﬂ=’U GE’? Mﬂtlfi ‘hlﬂiﬁ "(ﬁll G=ET,'TQGE'5'ﬂE3I

 

     

(I )ll(IIi\\' ll'll'll'.'TRl I7<'X)[).V()ll',(1R(}

FRANKENPOOD: This assortment of Greenpeace stickers exhorts consumers to reconsider their purchasing choices.

Whom would you vote off the island? Pollina offers her picks

its theme does a 180 and pertains

to you.
“French toast isn’t the same
thing in France as it is in America.”
“One time I was in Chicago eat-

» ing French food.”

6. Easily offended people. My
favorite part about
Michael Denbow's

NoRTHERNoi’s.'l§.A:EosURE notoriety is that in
Kris PoLL1AA_f03

harassing him,
i you’re just prov-
ing his point.

7. Anyone who employs the
phrase, “I wasn’t drunk enough to
enjoy myself.”

8. People who entertain per-
sonal vendettas through thinly

veiled class discussions or news-
paper articles.

9. People who don’t leave mes-
sages on answering machines. I
used to never do it either, because
I hated the idea of my voice being
recorded, and what if there were
other people in the room listening,
and what if——a very high risk—I
said something erring on the side
of idiotic and then it was on tape
for everyone to fully understand
the caliber of my lack of coherence.

But then on the other hand,
leaving messages takes all this
pressure off you. You’re no longer
in charge of keeping the conversa-
tion going. You did your duty as

an American and called, and now
the ball’s in the cal1ee’s court.

10. Any of those college dudes
or chicks that go on “The Price is
Right” with their entire fraternity or
sorority. A

That totally doesn’t eliminate that
much of the population at all. We can
absolutely still survive without the
aforementioned unfortunates. Yet, at
the same time, we can probably still
live with them, too.

I suppose once again I have
contributed to the delinquency of
readers. Mylgrievous apologies
extend to those who were hoping
to save time and get that extra day
at the end of the year. I owe you.

av if “ ¥_/..

/

,)°*"*" 2 , 

 

Gerald lltus, law student, elected president

BY MATTHEW A. COURSEN
w&LIEE EDITOR

How does it feel to be the President-elect of the Executive
Committee ?

It feels great. I’m very excited and eager to get started.
So you went to W&L for your undergraduate degree also ?

Yes, I graduated in 2000 and was a member of Phi
Gamma Delta. I also played on the varsity basketball team.
I’m now a second-year law student across campus.

Is this your ﬁrst time serving on the student government?

No, I’ ve been the EC representative to the law school
for the past two years. I was never involved with student
government in high school, but I was always interested in
it. When I graduated from W&L a couple of years ago,
one of the things that brought me back here for law school
was my desire to be on the EC.

What one quality do you think is essential to have in order to
be an eﬂective leader on the EC?

Experience is the key factor. Learning the procedures and
protocol is a big part of the job, and I think it would be ex-
tremely difﬁcult for someone who had never experienced that
to come in and serve as president.

What is the one thing about this school that you do not
want to see changed?

The Honor System at W&L is deﬁnitely much stronger
now than it was when I first arrived here 6 years ago. I would
like to see that continue, and I encourage the faculty to con-
tinue embracing the Honor System. We need their support.

‘ What do you like to do on your free time?

Well, with what little I have between studying, classes,
and spending time at home with my wife and our dog, I just
love to hunt and fish as much as possible. I grew up in a
little town in West Virginia much like Lexington only with-
out the history, tradition, student population and charm.
What do you hope to improve while you serve as the
leader of the student body?

Well, online cheating has been brought to the atten-
tion of the EC recently. Fortunately, Rob [Naftel] has done
a great job of addressing this issue appropriately and force-
fully. We’re seeing more and more of this new-age cheat-
ing going on, mostly with younger students, and I would

, like to see that stopped altogether.

Does this job make you nervous at all?

Well, it is a big job with a lot of responsibility, but
I’m excited about the opportunity to represent a school
with such a rich history and strong student autonomy.
I’m very proud and happy to be the next President of
the EC.

Preview of

BY MICHEAL GEORGE
STAFF WRITER

The 74th annual Academy Awards are fast approach-
ing, and everyone is wondering who will win. ‘Lord of
the Rings’ and ‘A Beautiful Mind’ seem poised to sweep
every category, but strong performances and amazing
direction in such films as ‘Black Hawk Down’ and ‘Ali’
could make these awards exciting and unpredictable. I’m
not a prophet, but here are my predictions for this year’s
Oscars: ‘

Best Picture:
Nominees: ‘A Beautiful Mind,’ ‘The Lord of the

Rings,’ ‘Gosford Park,’ ‘In the Bedroom,’ ‘Moulin Rouge!’

Predictions: There are only two clear contenders in
this category. The Oscar will go to either ‘The Lord of the

’ Rings’ or ‘A Beautiful Mind.’ The other three nominees are

strong films, but not one can be called the best ﬁlm of the
year. My vote goes to ‘The Lord of the Rings.’ Ron
Howard’s ‘A Beautiful Mind’ is a stirring examination of the
horrors of mental illness and the beauty of nature, but it
does not compare in scope and grandeur to ‘Rings.’ It just
doesn’t have the impact.

Winner: ‘The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of
the Ring.’ '

Best Actor: ‘

Nominees: Russell Crowe (‘A Beautiful Mind’),
Sean Penn (‘I Am Sam’), Will Smith (‘Ali’), Denzel Wash-
ington (‘Training Day’), Tom Wilkinson (‘In The Bed-
room’).

Predictions: This is a tough one. Let me begin by
stating that I am praying that Russell Crowe does not
win again. His performance pales in comparison to the
real John Nash, and the Academy will be voting for ce-
lebrity if they give this New Zealander another award.
It’s a toss-up between Will Smith and Denzel Washing-
ton. After a string of movies that showcased his more
annoying qualities, Sn1ith’s portrayal of Muhammad Ali
solidified him as a legitimate actor. Denzel Washington
has been waiting for years for this award, and I think it is
time for the Academy to recognize his ability. Although
Smith was strong, I think the Oscar will go to Denzel
Washington, he deserves it.

Winner: Denzel Washington (‘Training Day’).

Best Actress:

Nominees: Halle Berry (‘Monster’s Ball’), Judi Dench
(‘his’), Nicole Kidrnan (‘Moulin Rouge!’ ), _Sissy Spacek (‘In
The Bedroom’), Renee Zellweger (‘Bridget Jones’ Diary’).

Predictions: Again, another tough pick. My guess
is the Oscar will go to either Sissy Spacek or Halle Berry.
My vote goes to Sissy Spacek. Her performance was
amazing. But I’m pretty sure this one could go either way.

Winner”: Sissy Spacek (‘In The Bedroom’).

K’ ‘ 'l’HE .lilNi’}—’iEf‘IFj.‘ri PI-sI1I1
W & IFE

Titus, Hughs t assume EC offices

I\I\RY GIY/ IIzeRr'ng-rumP/21'
GERALD TITUS

l’rl(lI()(I)ll(Il-.\) HI: 'l1.).\
HELEN HUGHES

‘organization,

Helen Hughes joins elite cadre of female officers

BY KATIE J. HOWELL
ASSOCIATE EDITOR

“They always want me to bake
cookies,” sophomore Helen Hughes
jokingly said of her relationship with
the other members of the male-
dominated Executive Committee.

Students elected Hughes as EC
secretary last week from two male
candidates. Hughes is the first female
EC ofﬁcer since Beth Forrnidoni served
as president as a third—year law student
in 1998-1999.

“I didn’t run to be a ‘first,’ I just
ran because I care about the school
and the Honor System,” Hughes said.

Hughes, who currently serves as
an EC class representative, said she
ran for EC secretary in order to “step
up her responsibilities” within
student government and to serve the
school in a different way. She thinks,
however, that it is important for
women to hold leadership roles on
campus. ‘

“Women in leadership roles is
important, because I think the women
students may feel more comfortable
when their perspectives are heard
and understood,” she said. “When
considering a difficult issue,
diversity always leads to a better
decision.”

Women around campus look
forward to having more representation
in the school’s primary student
government organization. Associate
Dean of Students and Counseling
Psychologist Anne Schroer—Lamont
believes women should be equally
represented in all aspects of campus
life. -
“Women need to be half of the
leadership force in every
corporation,
association, university/college which
is in existence to serve a mix of women
and men and/or children,” she said.

“The best of all decisions will be
made when all people who are
affected by outcomes are
represented in balanced ratios.
Diversity of cultures, gender, race
and religion need to be represented
in judicial bodies especially and
groups who are dispersing funds.”

Hughes, who believes she has
an obligation to her gender as an
EC representative, thinks that the
EC and other student organizations
do not have high female
representation because of W&L’s
all—male history.

“The EC is deeply rooted in
tradition, and all traditions are slow
to change,” Hughes said. “The school
hasn’t had a lot of time to experience
women in the job. . I’m glad they are
getting to see more women do it now.”

After sixteen years of
coeducation at W&L only a handful
of women have served the school as
EC representatives and even fewer as
officers. Schroer—Lamont thinks
women could be better represented
on campus.

“Women are not well
represented on campus to the extent
that they could be, with the
exceptions of our nursing staff and
our secretaries,” she said. “We are
not yet balanced in admissions, on
the faculty, in the administration, or
among the Trustees. We can do
much better and must.”

According to “Washington and
Lee University Fact Book 2001-
2002,” the ratio of female to male
students is 45% to 55%. Of the
thirteen member 2001-2002 EC,
Hughes and freshman representative
Anne Johansen are the only two
female members. Students will vote
for next year’s sophomore, junior,
senior, second and third—year law
class representatives next week.

See Helen Hughes On page 6

the 74th annual Oscars

(Illl’lF.\\'\‘I"\WL'.l.\lD\'.U).\l

Best Supporting Actor: I
Nominees: Jim Broadbent (‘Iris’), Ethan Hawke

(‘Training Day’ ), Ben Kingsley (‘Sexy Beast’), Ian McKellen
(‘The Lord ofThe Rings’), Jon Voight (‘Ali’).

Predictions: Ben Kingsley should win this award.
His performance as a British gangster in ‘Sexy Beast’ en-
veloped the screen. Ian McKellen is a top contender, as
well as Jon Voight. But their performances lacked the
presence of Kingsley’s. Voight and McKellen have celeb-
rity, but Kingsley is the dark horse candidate I’m voting
for.

Winner: Ben Kingsley (‘Sexy Beast’).

Best Supporting Actress:
Nominees: Jennifer Connelly (‘A Beautiful Mind’),

Helen Mirren (‘Gosford Park’), Maggie Smith (‘Gosford
Park’), Marisa Tomei (‘In The Bedroom’), Kate Winslet
(‘Iris’). '

Predictions: Jennifer Connelly’s performance as the
wife of mathematician John Nash will take home the Oscar
this year. Connelly’s performance draws you to her, and
every moment she appeared on screen she grabbed my
attention. Her subtle strength and courage shines through
throughout the film. Marissa Tomei could be a dark horse
in this category, but my vote still goes to Connelly

Winner: Jennifer Connelly (‘A Beautiful Mind’).

Best Director:

Nominew: PeterJackson (‘The Lord of The Rings’), Robert
Altrnan(‘GosfordPark’), RidleyScott(‘BlackHawkDown’), David
Lynch(‘Mullholand Drive’), Ron Howard(‘ABeautiful Mind’).

l-(I'll).//\\\Y\‘\".\lll’(1s'lIl?St(1)lI/G.\llI-RY..\\I’?.\lI):2867&Ill1F3089l6
Predictions: This may be the hardest category to
predict. My vote goes to Peter Jackson. The diffi-
culty of bringing Tolkein’s infinitely complex fantasy
to the screen was immense. Jackson’s story is detailed
enough to be interesting, but not so detailed that it
goes on complex tangents and becomes confusing.
Ron Howard surprised me with ‘A Beautiful Mind.’ I
always saw him as more of a storyteller than a director,
but his soft tones and quiet scene direction make the
details of nature beautiful and vivid. Ridley Scott,
Robert Altman, and David Lynch all display a rare ge-
nius, but the massive effort that Jackson heaped onto
his film will prevail.

l\LAI'IHE\x'CODRsEN&CATIIER1I\IEGUY
W&lIIE EDITORS

EAIAr;couRsEI\M@\IInEDU&GIIYO@vIInEDU
MONDAY, MARCH ll, 2002

The guy next door: 1 :3,
Why I wenttoVlVlI

V BY SAMIAGRONE/STAH=  r

Nobody thought I would go to military school. I
graduated from Gar-Field Senior High in Woodbiidge,
Va., which is mainly known for the high ratioofgas
stations-to—people and an outlet mall so big that it’s
measured in miles, not stores.

Most of the kids I knew had parents that worked
in Washington, in and around the federal government.
Almost all of them had an undergraduate degree. So
the institutions of higher education that their kids at-
tended was a big deal in the cul-de—sacs.

Around late March’ 1999, the heat started to build.
Moms and dads in the neighborhood would set a
round—the—clock patrol, surrounding mailboxes for ac-
ceptance letters. They established security checkpoints
around their property.

They would validate drivers’ licenses of mailmen,
and they would pull guns when Ed McMahon’s mug
showed up on an envelope — all to make room for the
all-important “fat letter.”

As soon as word came back and the choice was
made, cars’ back windows were plastered with enough
stickers to make parallel parking dangerous. College
ﬂags were raised ceremoniously on the front porch
with the whole family pledging allegiance to the re-
public of My—kid—

$°eS"°‘UVa' SOIAPPLIEDTOSIX
lstan.

Kids were SCHOOLS. MY IDEA WAs THAT

showing up to
school in future
alma mater gear,
slapping each
other high-fives
because they

TIONs ALL OVER THE sTATE,
I’D END UP SOMEWHERE
GOOD. THEN THE PAPER-

‘ didn’t have to settle for their safety school.

I was excited about getting out of high school,
too. But I felt the whole college thing would just drop
into my lap. I had a pretty laissez—faire attitude
about the whole thing. My grades were marginal. My
SATs were skewed towards verbal, and my extracur-
ricular activities included: academic team co—captain
and lacrosse announcer.

Other than the year I spent as an exchange stu-
dent on a reindeer farm in northern Finland, nothing
really popped off the page. Any school that would
take me would be all right with me.

So I applied to
six schools. My idea
was that if I shot-
gunned applica-
tions all over the
state, I’d end up
somewhere good.
Then came the pa-
p e r w 0 r k .

Mary Wash-
ington College was .
the first one to go out. (I liked that one because the
application was easy to fill out). Virginia was next. I

I NEVER THOUGHT I
WOULD HAVE TO GO TO
VMI, WHAT WITH MY WIT
AND WISDOM CIRCULATING
IN THE HIGHEST ACADEMIC
CIRCLES OF THE COMMON-
WEALTH.

hated that one. The fact that you had to send away for -

the second part of their application struck me as irritat-
ing and pretentious (that, and their crappy form’s rnis—
sion in life was to get smudged).

By the third one, the College of William and Mary,
I was getting cocky. My essay: “William and Mary
was founded on pirate booty, and I like pirates.” The
other forms trickled out and the last one to go in was
VMI. I sent one out to VMI at the request of my father,
an alumnus.

I never thought I would have to go to VMI, what
with my wit and wisdom circulating in the highest aca-
demic circles of the Commonwealth.

That’s when my thin letters started coming back.
UVA turned me down ﬂat. Mary Washington and Wil-
liam and Mary were kind enough to wait—list me. Vir-
ginia Tech wanted me to wait until second semester in
January — and on it went.

At the end I was left with two green lights: Huntingdon,
a tiny liberal arts school in Montgomery, Ala., and VMI.

I wasn’t too keen on the idea of the Alabama
school. It was the only one I had visited on my hunt,
and the people I met in the student body just smiled
too much. (Not that I have anything against friendli-
ness. They were nice guys, but I felt I was way outside
of the ice cream social demographic). That left me with
community college or VMI.

As I waited out schools that put me on hold, the
idea of military school started to grow on me.

“It might not be so bad,” I thought. “I mean, my
dad had some crazy stories from the place. Like the
one time he and a buddy dumped a bucket of poop on
this other guys head [see issue No. XX].”

That, and all the kids from high school were going to a
lot of the same places. I wanted something different I wasn’t
drawn to the idea of tradition or how proud my parents
would be. The more I mulled it over the more it made sense.
I sent in my conﬁrmation letter two weeks later.

It did make my parents happy, I think. I’m glad
they had the restraint not to buy the oversized golf
umbrella right away.

Reach Sam LaGrone at lagronesr@mail.vmi.edu.

Join us!

W&Life is looking for new writers

coursenm@wlu.edu
guyc@wlu.edu

‘IF I SHOT—GUNNED APPLICA— _

 

 

  

,1, PAGE 6

‘(:4 iii’-ii

W

 

 

¥ ‘Come dance with the dragon’: past photos and

Fancy Dress 2002
theme released to campus

BY CATHERINE C. GUY
w&nEE EDITOR

 With only two weeks until this

year’s Fancy Dress Ball,
" Washington and Lee students have
f entered the frenzied search for
" dates, formal wear, plans, and more.

For most of us, FD will be one
"memorable weekend, but for the
/7 members of the Steering Committee,
FD has been a yearlong
commitment.

They have been hard at work,
planning every detail, in order to
4 create a magical night for the rest
of the student body. This year’s
theme, “Come dance with the
* dragon,” the Chinese Imperial Ball,
' is one with historical ties. The 1921
and 1985 balls had a Chinese theme.
One of this ‘year’s chairs, Valerie
5 Bruneau has answered a few
questions about this year’s
upcoming ball and why it should
’ be one of the best thus far.

r

How did you come up with this
' year’s theme?
The committee narrows down
’the choices to the best few
‘options, and then committee
members do presentations on
5those to show choices for
“decorations, memorabilia,
publicity and entertainment. Then
we vote to decide on the final
theme.

How will this year ’s FD be
different from past years?
We are going for more of a total

atmosphere this year. Instead of"

building a bunch of big objects to
.be spaced out on the ﬂoor, we are
focusing on two huge structures,
- thanks to construction chair Glenn
Singleton, and then using the
‘ceiling for a majority of the
decorations. We want the gym to
‘have an overall feeling to it, as if
you were in thegmiddle of an actual
Chinese New Year celebration Zan

HELEN HUGHES from page,5

Freshmen and ﬁrst-year law representatives will be

chosen next year.

“We have had a number of women serve on the EC
over the years,” Schroer—Lamont said. “We just never
seem to get more than three or four and that is not balanced

enough to give women a voice.”

Both Schroer—Lamont and Hughes encourage
more women to become involved with campus
activities. Hughes hopes her election will inspire
other W&L women to seek leadership roles around

campus.

Schroer—Lamont thinks both men and women should
encourage and help women build greater prominence in

leadership positions on campus.

“Women need to see inclusive language on the
forms put out by the EC. Women need to be encouraged
by their professors and advisors to run. Men students
need to encourage their women friends and girlfriends
to run. Women need to be supported more consistently
by their women friends and classmates. Women must

vote! ! l”

Meanwhile, Hughes looks forward to a productive

year as EC secretary.

“I feel like I have an obligation to my gender, but also
I have obligation to all the students and to the school,”
she said. “To the extent that I do a good job, I hope it will

reﬂect well on all of them.”

Ellison and Kelli Carpenter have

done an amazing job as decorations

chairs to make everything tie.
together. Look for lots of color and

lighting effects.

What sort of turnout are you
expecting?

We had a great turnout last
year, and we hope to improve upon
it this year. We would especially
love to see more faculty and staff
participation. ‘

Have you worked on the committee
in past years?
For the past three years.

Will the next few weeks be very busy
for the committee? ‘
Definitely. We have contract
workers helping us out as well to
make sure everything gets done.

How do you feel, knowing that
this is you last FD?

I am excited...this committee is
extremely creative and we are
doing a lot of things differently. I
think this year will stand out in
terms of decorations and
memorabilia especially, so seniors
will have a very memorable FD to
end on.

What kinds of music will the bands
be performing?

The Tyrone Smith Revue is an
upbeat Motown/funk band; they
will play in the big gym. Big Ray
and the Cool Cats, a 10-piece
swing band, will play in the small

What do you, personally like most
about FD?

It’s a great opportunity for the
whole school to get together, faculty
and staff included. FD is a unique
tradition in that way. It sort of
symbolizes W&L culture...everyone
is dressed up and in a celebratory
mood.

For more information, feel
free to visit http://
fancydress.wlu.edu, the official
website of the ball.

  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 

I MOND.-\ggY, MARCH ii, T2/Q02?

current news  

V

AIL PHOTOS COURTESY or ‘COME CHEER FOR
W.isHtNGioN AND LEE’ FXCEPT (ENlE{Pl~lOlU.
MEG FERRARA AND MARY GUY / 772eRing-tum Phi"

Write for the Phi

phi @wlu.edu ,

  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  

 
     

#1 Spring Break
' Vacations!

Cancun, Jamaica,
Bahamas, & Florida.

Best Parties,
Best Hotels, Best Prices!

Group Discounts, Group
organizers travel free!

Space is limited! Hurry
up & Book Now!
1-800-234-7007

 

  

Celtic       _ 
Co n nectio n
Wishes you a Happy
St. Patrick’s Day!

Looking for a tasteful way to celebrate
‘ _St. Patrick’s Day?

Check out our ladies’ jewelry and selection of
men’s Irlsh ties—or try our delicious Irish foods.
Formal is quickly approaching!
if you want to wear something a bit more
distinctive this year, why not a tartan bow tie &
cummerbund, or a taran sash for ladies?
Order yours now!

Daily 10AM-5:30PM

19 W. Nelson St. ,. L
Lexington, VA 24450 ‘ , A ,

1‘-377-cEL11c-2
www.oelticconnex.com
www.irishmealsbymeail.com

   
  

  
   
 
 
  
 

  

540-464-6545

 

  t 9  !ayMarc i1  

 

 
 

 

   

Mom, MARCH 11, 2002

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

For most of 45 minutes on Saturday, the sixth-ranked
Washington and Lee men’s lacrosse team kept pace with
visiting Gettysburg.

But the Bullets (3-0) justiﬁed their No. 2 Division IH
ranking by scoring four straight goals for a 10-7 win at
Wilson Field.

“For a young team, you’ve got to be excited for the fact
that they were competing for as long as they were,” said
W&L coach Mike Cerino, whose team fell to 2-2.

Sophomore Matt Fink had ‘two goals and an assist,
while senior Andrew Barnett added a pair of goals. Fresh-
man Gavin Molinelli had a trio of assists for W&L.

For Gettysburg, senior Ric Bremer and sophomore Jake
Van Nostrand each recorded three goals, and Van Nostrand
added two assists. Sophomore Nick Purkat had two goals
and two assists for the Bullets.

“It’s a great group of attackmen they’ve got in there,”
Cerino said of the Bullets. “One of the tough things they
do is a nice job of picking their spots and when they want
to move the ball at people. We held pretty well, but those
are some top—notch players.” .

The Generals struck for an early 1-0 lead, as Fink
scored off Molinelli’s assist less than a minute into the
game. Bremer’s ﬁrst tally at 9:28, assisted by Purkat, tied
the score.

Junior Rob Brown gave the Generals a 2-1 lead two
minutes later off an assist from senior John Moore. But
Bremer scored at 6:32, assisted by Van Nostrand, for an-
other tie.

Gettysburg would take its first lead of the game at 2:26
when senior Chris Baran assisted classmate Wes Cadman’s

Men’s lacrosse bitten by

No. 2 Gettysburg scores 4 straight goals to b

. THE RlN(.§v~T'l.lfhl‘ Piil

  

]EREMYFRANl<l1N
SPORISEDIIOR

Bullets in

4th quarter

reak a 6-6 tie, shoots down No. 5 Washington and Lee in a non-conference contest on Saturday at Wilson Field

W eR1r1g—tz1m

IMMEDIATE OFFENSE: Freshman Gavin Molinelli moves the ball against Gettysburg on Saturday on \X/ilson Field. Molinelli
ﬁnished with three assists, but a four-goal charge by the Bullets gave them a 10-7 win.

Van Nostrand’s tally at the 10:17 mark of the second
quarter gave the Bullets a 4-2 lead, butgoals by Fink and
sophomore Mike McNamara drew W&L even at 4-4 be-

The Generals regained the lead at 11:41 of the third, as
Barnett scored off a Molinelli assist. Purkat scored two
straight goals at 7:49 and 3:55 to put the Bullets back on

 

W&L sophomore Dustin Martin recorded an unas-
sisted goal just 35 seconds after the second Purkat score
to make it 6-6.

But goals by Van N ostrand with 21 seconds left in the
third quarter and with 9:1 1 remaining in the game gave the
Bullets another two—goal lead. Bremer and Baran extended
the lead to an insurmountable 10-6 margin.

“We tightened up a little bit when the score was 8-6,”
Cerino said. “We tightened and tried to press instead of

I staying with our game plan and controlling the tempo of

the game. A two—goal lead turned into a four-goal lead
pretty quick.”

Fink believed that the Generals had several missed
chances to either extend a lead or pull back into the game.

“We had opportunities that we didn’t capitalize on
where we could have gone up a couple of goals,” he said.
“Mentally, we kind of fell apart and started throwing the
ball away. We’ve got to step it up when we get in tough
games like this.”

Despite the 17 goals scored, both goalkeepers played
impressively. Gettysburg junior Tim McGinnis made 16
saves, while W&L sophomore Ansel Sanders recorded 13.

“The play of Ansel Sanders was outstanding,” Cerino
said. “He was just dynamic today. He was all over the ﬁeld

making great plays. I really can’t say enough about his '

character and his intensity out there.”

The Generals get little reprieve from their schedule, as
they face 18th—ranked Franklin & Marshall at Loyola-
Blakeﬁeld on Saturday. The Diplomats are the last team
W&L will face before opening Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference play against 12th-ranked Roanoke on March 23.

“That’s a huge game because'we’re coming off two hard
losses,” Fink said. “We were in the game, and it got away
from us against the No. 2 team and the No. 5 team (Wash-

} +

goal for a 3-2 advantage.

BY DAVE CROWELL
5, ASSISTANT sporrs EDITOR

Completely dominating.

That is one way to define the
Washington and Lee women’s la-

? crosse team’s 22-0 drubbing of Old
Dominion Athletic Conference foe

I Guilford on Saturday afternoon at the
Liberty Hall ﬁelds.

The 13th—ranked Generals followed
up a difﬁcult 9-5 loss to St. Mary’s of
Maryland on March 2 by jumping out

»,~ to a 16-0 halftime lead on the Quakers
and never looking back.

The W&L midﬁeld set the tone for

A the game with its physical style of play
and ability to collect ground balls.
The Generals, starting with freshmen

1 Kristen Brown and Erin Rathbone,
also won a majority of the faceoffs.

The play at midﬁeld kept the ball in
the Guilford zone nearly the entire day,
giving goalkeeper Joanna Perini an easy

15‘ day as she didn’t face a shot on goal.

“It’s always good when the offen-
sive unit is playing tough on defense,
not giving anything up and prevent-
ing chances to clear,” W&L coach Jan

1‘ Hathorn said. “They played very
strong today.”

* When the Quakers could muster
the ball past midﬁeld, junior Sarah

V .Janowitz and sophomore Sarah

F Jurkowsky forced quick turnovers.

The focus of the day, however,

‘I was on the Generals’ proﬁcient attack.

Junior Leslie Bogart led W&L out
of the gates, assisting on the first

V three goals. Bogart collected ﬁve as-
sists on the day as she moved within

yr three assists of the W&L career mark.
She also added a goal in the ﬁrst half.

A “Leslie’s strength is feeding the

 “Generals

fore halftime.

 

ALL OFFENSE FOR W&L: Sophomore Tate Hoeffel looks for
an open teammate in Washington and Lee’s 22-0 drubbing had a goal and three assists against the Quakers.

ball inside. She has great vision on
the field and is one of the best
passers we have,” Hathorn said. ,

Bogart’s career statistics against
Guilford are mind—boggling: 10 goals
and 13 assists in four games.

The sophomore tandem of Lee
Wheeler and Kelly Taffe also contin-
ued to decimate opposing defenses
on Saturday, with Wheeler scoring
four goals and Taffe, who leads the
Generals with 13 points this season,
adding three tallies and two assists.

On one of her goals, Taffe beauti-
fully sliced between at least four
Quaker defenders for a ﬁrst-half score.

Senior captains Emily Owens and

han Gilford out to dy

Courtenay Fisher, junior Laura Wilson
and Rathbone each added two ‘goals.
Sophomore midﬁelder Tate Hoeffel
contributed a goal and three assists.

Despite the impressive win,
Hathorn still sees areas where im-
provement is necessary, especially
heading into a week where W&L faces
non—conference opponents Nazareth
and nationally-ranked Franklin &
Marshall, 21 team that has defeated the
Generals the past three seasons.

A visit from Mary Washington, the
team that ended W&L’s season last
year, also looms ahead.

“We have a tendency sometimes
to lose some of our focus and inten-

top 6-5.

sity when we get ahead. The alertness
was not always there (on Saturday),”
she said.

In addition, Hathorn believes the
Generals became sloppy with their
ball-handling and passing during the
victory over Guilford.

The pressure-packed atmosphere
of playing national contenders, how-
ever, should hopefully raise W&L’s
game to another level.

“I have no worry that the intensity
will be there. It won’t be difﬁcult for
us to get excited,” Hathorn said. “This
team has enormous pride and they
feel, being in the Top 20, that they
need to prove themselves.”

   

Mun’ Gm’/771eR1}1g-mm Phi
of Guilford on Saturday at the Liberty Hall ﬁelds. Hoeffel

ington). We’re pissed off, and we’ve got to get a win.”

W&L golf, men’s tennis
win at Hampden-Sydney

FROM STAFF REPORTS

AMHERST—The Washington
and Lee golf team won the first Old
Dominion Athletic Conference event
of the 2002 season on Monday, beat-
ing the host team in the Hampden-
Sydney/ODAC Invitational at the
Winton Country Club.

The Generals shot a [320 in the
one—day event, while the Tigers
finished 12 strokes behind at 332.

Junior Chip Campbell was the
medallist of the invitational,
shooting a 76. Freshman Carlos
Spaht contributed a 78 for W&L,
followed by freshman Pierce
Mayson at 81.

Junior Chuck Green and freshman
Matt Yohe each shot an 85, tying for
fourth on the Generals. Four play-
ers’ scores are factored into the team
scoring for ODAC events.

W&L returns to action today and
tomorrow with the Ferrum Invita-
tional at the Water’s Edge Country
Club in Smith Mountain Lake.

Men’s tennis routs ligers

HAMPDEN-SYDNEY—The
men’s tennis team improved to 2-0 in
the ODAC, 4-1 overall, with a 7-0 win
at Hampden-Sydney on Wednesday.

The Generals won all six singles
matches and the trio of doubles
matches in defeating the Tigers.

Freshman Paul McClure beat
John Moss at No. 1 singles, while
senior Rhys James stopped Durrell
Carothers at No. 2. Sophomores

Austin Kim and K.C. Schaefer won
at the third and fourth-seed singles.

Senior Rob Moynihan and
sophomore Seth Martin were victo-
rious in their matches at No. 5 and
No. 6 singles.

In doubles competition, James and
Moynihan, McClure and Schaefer,
and Kim and M’ in defeated their
Harnpden—Sydney opponents.

The Generals have a pair of dual
matches on Saturday, hosting ODAC
foe Bridgewater at 10 a.m. and non-
conference opponent Salisbury
State at 2 p.m.

Generals drop Hollins

ROANOKE——The women’s ten-
nis team continued its dominance
of the ODAC by opening the sea-
son with .a 9-0 win at Hollins on
Wednesday.

Freshman Lindsay Hagerman
won her match at No. 1 singles, fol-
lowed by wins by sophomore Eliza-
beth Law and junior Laura Bruno at
second and third singles.

Seniors Manning Willard and Sallie
Gray Strang won their matches at No.
4 and No. 5 singles, respectively, while
freshman Elizabeth McCracken
rounded out the singles competition
with a win at the sixth slot.

The teams of Bruno and Strang,
Hagerman and VV11lard, and Law and
McCracken won the three doubles
matches handily.

W&L hosts two ODAC opponents
on Friday, battling Bridgewater at 3 :30
p.m. and Emory & Henry at 6 p.m.

: ’f

 

Cover Washington and Lee athletics
 for THE RlNG—TUM PHI.

 I Oppor:unities areavailable to
a cover baseball, golf, lacrosse,
tennis and track.

N o experience is necessary.

Contact Jeremy Franklin at x4060 or franklinj @wlu.edu.

THE RING-TUM PHI

Wishes the student body a happy St. Patrick’s
Day and encourages all eligible
men to “get on the ball” and ask that

Special Someone to the

SOCIAL EVENT OF THE S0 UTH

(FANCY DRESS)

  Time’s running out. . .

item, MARCH 11, 2002,

,1i~.,.p
GENERALS ROUT:]unior center ﬁelder Bobby Littlehale was 3-
for-5 with a two-run homer in \X/&L’s 16-2 win over Merchant
Marine Academy at Cap’n Dick Smith Field on Monday.

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDlTOR

The Washington and Lee baseball team used its of-
fense to run all over Merchant Marine Academy and Villa
Julie at home this week, then turned to pitching and de-
fense in a doubleheader sweep of Hampden-Sydney on
the road Saturday.

&L sweeps Hampden-S

The Generals’ four- game winning streak upped their record
to 8-4 on the season, and the two wins over the Tigers gave
them a 3-1 record in the Old Dominion Athletic Conference.

 you win on the road, it’s good,” W&L coach Jeﬂ“
Stickley said of the Hampden-Sydney sweep. “In the ODAC,
you’re going to split sortie, and you get a sweep when you can.”

W&L started out the week on Monday with a 16-2 win
over the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Cap’n Dick Smith
Field. Senior third baseman Matt Kozora broke the school
record for career hits by going 3-for-5 with a pair of RBI.

Junior first baseman Brian Gladysz was 4-for-4 at the
plate, driving in ﬁve and scoring four runs. Junior center
ﬁelder Bobby Littlehale hit 3-for-5 with a two—run home run.

Sophomore Bryan Mulhem pitched a seven-inning
complete game, giving up ﬁve hits and striking out four.

The Generals continued their offensive onslaught
against Villa Julie on Thursday, posting 18 hits in a 13-10
win. W&L torched the Mustangs for eight runs in the first
inning, including two—run doubles by sophomore left ﬁelder
Dan Kagey and sophomore second baseman Austin Allain.

“We were able to jump on them immediately,” said jun-
ior shortstop Michael Hanson, who doubled to lead off
the first and scored. “It’s big when you start out like that
because -it gives the pitcher a cushion, and their team
begins to press a little bit.”

“With an RBI single from senior catcher Todd Gosselirik
and a two-run base hit by Kagey, the Generals pushed their
lead to 12-4 in the bottom of the sixth. Villa Julie scored twice
in the top half of the seventh to cut the advantage to 12-6.

Trailing 13-6 entering the ninth, the Mustangs smacked
ﬁve singles and scored four runs before Hanson, pitching
his second inning of relief, retired the side.

“College baseball’s like this all the time. It’s just a
struggle,” Stickley» said. “Teams swing the aluminum bats,
and you’ve just got to hold, to keep scoring.”

Sophomore Mike Wert (1-2) earned the win, allowing three
earned runs on and striking out six in six innings of work.

‘i"'--  ‘J-
's».rNi. 51$}

   

V 1l_..ii.§L-.321N(;'_l’(}?~{ ‘

1iFE

 ﬁiﬁﬁﬁ  1*  * 4! Bﬁlﬁi
*€A *%t'ROM!ﬁ)Cm%¢ﬁ.ﬂEWA5
9WW'FW ﬂﬁEﬂ¥f£ ‘4ﬂ-‘W1

 
     

BACK IN TIME: Sophomore left ﬁelder Dan Kagey ducks back to first base under the tag of Villa Julie first baseman Andy '1
\X/elling. Kagey was 3-for-5 with four runs batted in as the Generals beat the Mustangs 13-10 on Thursday.

“We’re just trying to get Mike some work and let him
go,” Stickley said. “His conﬁdence will come from the fact
that he made better pitches and got out of j arns. He battled,
he got out of some tough ones, and that was good for him.”

W&L returned to ODAC action with the two—game
sweep of Harnpden—Sydney on Saturday.

Sophomore Peter Dean improved to 3-0 in Game 1 of
the doubleheader, giving up one run on four hits in five
innings of work. Hanson earned his ﬁrst save of the sea-
son in a two-inning relief stint. ,

The game remained scoreless until the ﬁfth inning, when
the Generals put three runs on the board. After the Tigers
scored once each in the bottom of the fifth and sixth in-
nings, W&L put the game out of reach with a three-run
seventh, including a two—run, two-out double by Littlehale.

The second game was even more of a pitcher’s duel, with

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

l\'lFKyFH{lL\K1777c’Rﬁ7g-{Um P121’

righthander evened up his record at 2-2 by going six innings,
giving up one run on three hits and recording ﬁve strikeouts.

Littlehale and Kozora provided the offense in a two-
run ﬁfth inning, with each driving in a run. Hanson again

recorded a save, retiring the Tigers in order in the bottom *1

of the seventh.

Stickley hopes that Hanson can continue to be effec-
tive in the closer’s role, and that W&L won’t need him to
start games down the stretch.

“All through the season, if you can hold him out of the ’\

starting role and keep him in that relief position, you know

you’ve got somebody in there to get some guys out,” the ‘‘

skipper said. “Your strategy changes when you have a
closer, and that’s something we haven’t had in recent years.”
W&L returns to the diamond on Tuesday with a non- '

conference game against regional power Mary Washing-1*

Kagey walking away with the win. The sophomore ton at3p.m.
SCOREBOARD i
. 77
I .
SATURDAY s BASEBALL Box Scones W&L SCHEDULE. MARCH 11-17
‘ I
Firs‘ Game Tuesday’ March 12 Women s Lacrosse
WASHINGTON AND LEE HAMPDEN-SYDNEY Baseball W&L at Franklin 81 Marshall, 11 am. 4
ab r h bi ab r h bi Ma washm ton at W&L 3 m Baseball
Hanson ss/p 4 1 1 1 Poirierli 4 O 0 0 _ iy 9 ’ p‘ ' Rando1ph.Macon atwg,|_(D1-1),
Littlehale cl 4 0 1 2 Duncan 1b 4 0 2 0 12 p‘_m_
Kozora 3b 3 0 1 O Herndon ss 3 O 1 0 Friday, March 15 Mews Lacrosse
Mulhern rt 3 1 1 0 LaF|ame dh 2 0 0 0 women»s Tennis ,
Gjadysz 1b 3 1 1 1 Brock C 3' 1 1 0 B  t t    VS. Franklin 81 Marshall (at 1
Gosselink c 3 1 1 1 Szymanski rt 2 1 1 o E" 99“: E’ ii ‘W&L Sim‘ Loyola-Blakefield). 1 pm-
Kagey lf 1 1 O 0 Eanes 2b 2 0 0 0 iii°iV eiiiy a 1 pm 4--
Droppers dh 2 0 0 0 Gronewald 3b 3 0 O 0 Sunday, March 17
/Ltllztiin 2;/)ss, 3 (1) 8 (1) Welch ci 2 0 1 0 sagurday, March 15 women,s Tennis
 25 6 6 6 25 2 6 0 Men’s and Women’s Track Guiliord at W&L, 10 a.m. 4
Washington and Lee 000 030 3 — 6 W&L iiiviiaiioiiai‘ TBA W&i'ai Viigiiiia Tech” i pin"
Hampden.sydney 000 011 0 _. 2 Men’s Tennis Baseball

E —— Hanson, Vaughan. DP —- Washington and Lee 1. LOB — Washington and
Lee 2, Hampden-Sydney 7. 2B — Littlehale, Mulhem, Gosselink, Duncan,
Szymanski. SB —- LaFlame, Szymanski, Eanes. CS — Eanes. SF — Allain.

IP H R ERBBSO
Washington and Lee
DeanW,3-0 5 4 1 1 3 3
HansonS,1 2 2 1 1 2 3

Hampden-Sydney
VaughanL,1-2 61-3 4 '4 3 2 2
Fry 2-3 2 2 2 1 0
T—2:00.A—75.

Second Game

WASHINGTON AND LEE HAMPDEN-SYDNEY

ab r h bi ab r h bi
Hanson ss/p 4 0 1 0 Gregory of 3 0 2 O
Littlehale cf 4 0 1 0 Duncan 1b 2 0 0 0
Kozora 3b 3 0 3 1 Herndon ss 2 0 O 0
Mulhern c 4 0 0 0 LaF|ame dh 2 1 0 0
Giadysz 1b 4 0 0 0 Brock c 3 0 1 0
Gosselink rt 3 0 1 0 Syzmanski rt 2 0 0 0
Kagey p/2b 3 0 1 0 Eanes 2b 2 0 0 1
Sibley if 3 1 2 0 Gronewald 3b 2 0 0 0
Allain 2b/ss 3 1 2 0 Ellithorpe If 2 0 0 0
Totals 31 2 10 2 20 1 3 1
Washington and Lee 000 020 0 ~ 2
Hampden-Sydney 010 000 O -1

E — Herndon 2. DP — Washington and Lee 2, Hampden-Sydney 1.
LOB — Washington and Lee 9, Hampden-Sydney 3. SH — Duncan.
SF — Kozora, Eanes.

IP H R ER BB SO
Washington and Lee

Kagey W, 2-2 6 3 1 1 3 5
HansonS,2 1 0 0 0 0 0
Hampden-Sydney

Meadows L, 1-2 7 10 2 2 O 2
PB - Mulhern.

T — 2:00. A ~ 55.

   

Brldgewater at W&L, 10 a.m.

Salisbury State at W&L, 2 p.m. 12 P-m-

TENNIS Box SCORES

, .
Men s Tennis 7

Washington and Lee 7, Hampden-Sydney 0

Singles

1. Paul McClure (W&L) d. John Moss (HSC), 2-6, 6-4, 6-1
2. Rhys James (W&L) d. Durrell Carothers (HSC), 6-3, 6-1
3. Austin Kim (W&L) d. Chris Duquette (HSC), 6-2, 6-4

4. K.C. Schaeler (W&L) d. Rob Light (HSC), 6-3, 6-2

5. Bob Moynihan (W&L) (1. Tom Hogge (HSC), 6-1, 6-1

6. Seth Martin (W&L) d. Cooper Wilson (HSC), 6-1, 6-3

Doubles ,

1. James/Moynihan (W&L) d. Moss/Duquette (HSC), 9-8 (7-2)
2. McClure/Schaeter (W&L) d. Hogge’/Carothers (HSC), 8-2

3. Kim/Martin (W&L) d. Light/Wilson (HSC),. 8-2

Women's Tennis 7

Washington and Lee 9, Hollins 0

Singles '

1. Lindsay Hagerman (W&L) d. Alice Moss (Hollins), 6-3, 6-0
. Elizabeth Law (W&L) d. Anne Stephenson (Hollins), 6-2, 6-1

. Manning Willard (W&L) d. Brea Strager (Hollins), 6-4, 6-0
. Sallie Gray Strang (W&L) d. Katherine Howard (Hollins), 6-0, 6-3

0501-I>0>l'\>

Doubles

1. Bruno/Strang (W&L) d. Stephenson/Moss (Hollins), 8-4 «Q

2. Hagerman/Willard (W&L) d. Howard/Strager (Hollins), 8-1
3. Law/McCracken (W&L) d. Schnare/Penry (Hollins), 8-2

Serious;

  D=E:§(:o1m 1

-t»1r.co:.rnciitra1ael.cnmr
1-SGDQCUNCIL

   
 

  

West Virginia Tech at W&L (DH), 1

. Laura Bruno (W&L) d. Cayce Schnare (Hollins), 3-6, 6-1 (7-5) I‘

. Elizabeth McCracken (W&L) d. Kendra Penry (Hollins), 6-0, 6-1 .4

 
 
 

. "'5' 3755
R 

V

    

Jsrrtm G. t-t'.~’\r"E”t-'_r‘RN :-rr3-rmrrv
WAE;Hé5~éf§l’ON 2;  tmrmrrsny

v

  

77.,

\/I-0. '23I'I'sr:- Rr:.<<-r=. :.s i-

r '-H
 S I D E
BIRTE-ll)AY (I) PA(};l£i 3
l<;u:\<«'r\;\r is <’;n-'r.r=:r> rev.‘ r-its
;\SSl5’I‘.»\f\"l‘ :-:r;:rrg>n AND
r;rrr1.r; 8I{<_)'l‘l~iER
SNAPPY €I>P.r\G}5. 5
GAY S"i‘l,‘;li)’{.N‘£" T0
r,r:;c'rr'r;rzr=. rm r.‘=.r:r=. l.'\'

I .F.T\'. NICE}-l s<:.r—r.<‘><*>r.

TH

  
 

 

WrtSHtl\iG’l“()+¥

NG-TUM

 

1..-:,..»_  YA   N (V  A
INDEX
(.i}r):Ntr>Ns 3
\X7"&l .l,l*l~‘. 5
Sr-=< .>r1'.r;-: 
Gr«:;\t. %.\‘?<>rr-1s 2
24/".7 2

wrqunmnu

 

..sr.:;;\;-;;"rr:»\. ‘r’:rzr;t.\r=-, 24456

Forum probes
W&L diversity

BY LISA LANDIS
STAFF WRITER

The “problem” of diversity was discussed
at a well—attended PRIDE-sponsored forum last
Thursday at Northen Auditorium.

Seniors Jesse Rockoff and Peter Cook,
sophomore Brett Kirwan, freshmen Phil Walotsky
and Irnran Naeemullah and Associate Dean of
Students Courtney Penn comprised the panel.

The forum began with the students
reading from their articles, which had been
printed in The Ring-tum Phi or other cam-
pus publications, and had been reproduced
for the event. Each speaker had two to four
minutes on whether Washington and Lee
should pursue diversity, and, if so, how to
achieve it.

“Minorities would do well to look at the
lives of Colin Powell and Condoleeza Rice and
see how race affected their lives,” N aeernullah
said. “Similarly race should not stop minority
students at W&L from perceiving their full po-
tential.”

Naeemullah believed that W&L should
not pursue a diverse student body, but a meri-
torious one.

Cook asserted that fear causes W&L to re-
sist diversity.

“We needed to pay more attention to indi-
viduality and how that is respected on campus,
as opposed to the speciﬁc concerns of groups,”
said Rockoff, who stated that life at W&L dis-
courages individuality.

After the panel spoke, the discussion was
opened to the ﬂoor.

Issues that emerged were the new Black
Female Alliance, a fraternity party incident in
which several black girls were asked to leave
even after presenting university ID’s, the Din-

ing Hall’s fried chicken meal on MLK Day, and _

the lack of we1come.many under-represented
students feel in the Greek system and the uni-
versity in general.

and—a-half,” BFA member Marinda Harrell said.

Psychology Professor Julie Woodzicka
moderated.

“People got emotional about things, but
were respectful,” Woodzicka said.

However, Woodzicka would have preferred
to have more students “who were anti—diversity
attend.”

“Wehad a small body of anti—diversity stu-
dents attending,” she said. “It was a little (like)
preaching for the choir.” 0

Woodzicka teaches Psych 259: Stereotypes,
Prejudice and Discrimination.

Not all participants were happy with the
panel.

“(The Black Female Alliance) was intention-
ally let off the panel,” said Harrell. “(PRIDE lead-
ership) couldn’t give us a reason, besides that it
wasn’t supposed to be about the BF .”

Harrell said that a BFA member was sched-
uled to participate on the panel, but was told the
day of the event that she wouldinot be allowed
on the panel.

“We were too controservial,” Hanell said ‘They
didn’t allow us a chance to represent ourselves.”

PRIDE Co-president Patrice Wedderbum
responds that her organization “had set up
the talk to deal with the published articles.”

“The forum was not designed to focus on
the BFA,” she said.

The idea of the panel came out of PRIDE’s
fall retreat, Wedderbum said.

“All the seats (in Northen) were full, and
people were standing in the back,” Woodzicka
said. Penn estimates about 100 attended.

“I thought it was an important step in the
right direction,” Rockoff said. “People just don’t
discuss things. We’re too quiet a campus.”

The conference was arranged by juniors
Mike Morrow and Erin Russell, and sophomore
Nicole Davol. ' I ~

“We are in the planning session of another
forum.”

CRoss—cULTUREs, CROSS—DRESSING

DANCE TO THE MUSIC. Satomi I-lagiwara and Guillermo Cardone dance during SAlL’s Evening Abroad program. For more pictures, see Page 5.

We Fr‘r<ruru/ TlzeRr}2g-nmz P/21'

 

Record number of applicants scramble for on—campus housing

Spanish house, maxed-out Woods
Creek complicate upperclassmen search

BY KATIE ]. HOWELL
ASSOCIATE senor

On-carnpus housing interest was stronger this year
than in past years, Dean of Housing Courtney Penn said.

‘‘I think the greater interest is due to the fact that
more upperclass students want to stay in residence halls,”
he said. “More and more want to live on campus.”

All freshmen and upperclass students requesting on-
campus group housing in Woods Creek Apartments or
Gaines Hall for next year applied last Friday through a
lottery. Students requesting clustering suites in Games
applied first followed by current freshmen and then
upperclass students. The housing department is currently

Columnist Raspberry

addresses W&L Ethics Institute

 

placing individual applicants in on-carnpus housing for
next year. ‘ ’

“(The university’s policy) only guarantees housing
for freshmen and sophomores,” Penn said. “There have
not been any recent cases of juniors
or seniors» denied housing.”

Currently the university offers
upperclass housing in Gaines Hall,
Woods Creek, sorority and fraternity
houses,‘ the International House, the
Delt Center, and the Chavis House.
Students may have another housing
option next year if a new Spanish-
themed housing project emerges.

“(The Spanish house) would be a c0—curricular act
that would add to academic enrichment and bring people
together in a wonderful way,” professor and Spanish hous-
ing coordinator Cecile West—Settle said.

Wrsr-Srtrnr. 

The Spanish housing project would involve common
meals, speaking Spanish, Hispanic and Spanish food, con-
versation hours, guest speakers, and other special activi-
ties like ﬂamenco lessons. The residents would be both
native speakers and other students interested in improv-
ing their Spanish-speaking skills, West—Settle said.

The proposed project would take the place of the
current International House at 4 Lee Avenue. The Inter-
national housing group would move to the current Delt

Center located at 106 Lee Avenue if University officials

approve of the project.
The University held an executive staff meeting today
to decide whether this project and move are a viable hous-

ing opportunity. Minor renovations will be necessary to.

convert 106 Lee Avenue into a co—educational facility and
4 Lee Avenue also needs minor improvements.

Penn said eleven students have applied to live in the
Spanish House.

“We have a host of applicants for both the Spanish
and International Houses,” he said. “They just don’t know
where they will live yet.”

Penn said most students are satisfied with their
living arrangements for next year. He said while some
students are not in their first-choice housing, the Uni-
versity has still been able to accommodate all appli-
cants.

“Woods Creek is such a premium property,” Penn
said. “Some are concerned that the lottery is not fair, but
that usually comes from students that are at a low pick.
We think the system is fairly legitimate.”

Penn said that the Housing Department sees renova-
tions for the freshman dorms in the future.

“We have been working on ideas in the 5-year plan,”
he said. “There is some need to start planning for our
residential future. We are in need of some new or better
facilities.”

Husband—wife team
presents lecture double—header  

“It’d just be convenient,” Newman said,

“What are Journalists For’ asks Pulitizer-Prize winner

BY IMRAN NAEEMULLAH
ASSITANT NEWS EDITOR

Pulitzer Prize—winning colum-
nist and Duke University journalism
professor William Raspberry, who
has written on the myriad topics of
AIDS, the Nation
of Islam, and vio-
lent rap lyrics, vis-
ited Washington

.. . and Lee this past
RASPBERRY Friday, March 15.
Raspberry’ s
visit was part of the School of
Joumalism’s Institute on Ethics in
Journalism, which was hosted by
Washington & Lee for the 33” time
this year March 15-16. His speech,
entitled “What Are Journalists For,”
was held in the Williams School of
Commerce, Economics and Politics.

In his speech, Raspberry spoke
of the violence emphasized in the
media, and the de—emphasize on sub-
stance. He said that journalists can
entertain and divert, but their goal

  

. should be to inform. -

Journalists are responsible to
help democracy survive, Raspberry

said, pointing out that some joumal—
ists see themselves as detached crit-
ics.

However, Raspberry was careful
to pointiout that the way journalists
do their work frequently exacerbates
problems that should have helped
solve. He alluded to the need jour-
nalists have of creating drama, either
in the form of “hanging heads” or “lift-
ing hearts.”

When asked why he chose to
come to W&L this past weekend,
Raspberry said that he came on the
invitation of his old friend Journalism
Professor Lou Hodges, the Knight
Professor of Journalism Ethics.

Although unfamiliar with work- -

ings of the W&L journalism program,
he urged W&L journalism students
to learn to tell a story in service of the
facts, rather than making the facts
serve the story.

The School of Journalism was
established by General Robert E. Lee
during his presidency at W&L, which
makes it the oldest journalism program
in the United States.

Sam Russell contributed to this article

2000-2001 GRADE DISTRIBUTION
Highest percentages of grades

ﬁrst second
A+ 17.2 Theater 8.1 Engineering
A 50.0 Public Policy/Russian (tie)
A— 35.3 Neuroscience 33.3 Russian Studies
B+ 50.0 Public Policy 27.2 Anthropology
B 26.4 Religion 20.9 Accounting
B— 15.6 E. Asian Studies l5.l Journalism
C+ 7.7 Eoonornics/Spanish (tie)
C 16.7 Chinese 11.0 Geology
C- 6.3 E Asian Stud. 4.4‘Math
D+ 2.1 Math 1.8 French/Russian (tie)
D 33.3 Russian Studies 3.9 Math
D- 1.9 Math l.3 Accounting

courtesy W&L Registrar

BY PETER QUACKENBUSH
STAFF WRITER

Northwestem’s Richard Kieckhefer and
Barbara Newman gave two nights of lectures in
their respective fields of medieval study.

Kieckhefer, a religion and history professor,
delivered a lecture Monday on “Inventing Guilt
and Innocence in Early Witch Trials,” in Leybum
Library’s Northen Auditorium. Kieckhefer’s pro-
fessional work focuses on the history of the late
medieval Christian church.

Kieckefer’s wife, Barbara Newman, a pro-
fessor of English and religion, followed his lec-
ture with one of her own covering the 13th cen-
tury poetry of Hadewijch of Brabant. Newman
has written books about women and their role
in medieval society.

Despite differing disciplines, both are in-
terested in medieval history.

“We’re both medievalists,” Newman ex-
plained. '

“We [both] go to medieval conferences at
Kalamazoo,” Kieckhefer agreed.

While the majority of lecturing tours for
Newman and Kiekhefer do not involve travel-
ing together, occasionally the opportunity arises
for them to share their overlapping fields of
knowledge.

History Professor David Peterson invited
the duo to Washington and Lee. The pair jumped
at the opportunity.

“It’s not unusual for (both of) us to speak at
other universities.”

On average, W&L’s academic departments
usually bring in about 10 to 20 speakers each.

The Williams School brings in approxi-
mately 75 speakers for its politics, economics,
and management departments, according to sec-
retary Binda Bassett-de Maria.

“That includes two seminars where we’ve
had ﬁve speakers,” Bassett-de Maria.

History Professor Holt Merchant himself
brings two or three speakers a year for his
classes.

“Sometimes you know of them,” Merchant
said, “sometimes they come from speakers bu-
reaus.”

Guest lecturers usually run at lower prices
than those brought in by the student-run Con-
tact Committee, partially due to their lack of gen-
eral celebrity. The price can run anywhere, Mer-
chant said, but usually clock in around $500,
plus traveling expenses. I

Speakers brought in for classes usually
spend at least a day with W&L students,
participate in class seminars, and may eat
lunch and dinner with students. When
Newman arrived for her lecture, she sat in
on a couple of classes helped further the
discussions. I

“We typically get more than our money’s
worth,” Merchant said

 

PAGE 2

0. ail news briefs
hi@wIu.edu

 

Former national security
adviser to discuss terrorism

Anthony Lake, who served as national security advi-
sor during the Clinton administration, will discuss terror-
ism and other security issues affecting the country at
Washington and Lee University on Tuesday, March 19.

Lake’s speech, which is open to the public, is at 7:30
p.m. in Lee Chapel. It is sponsored by W&L’s student—run
Contact Committee.

In his speech, Lake will draw on his life—long career as
a national security strategist to discuss the role globaliza-
tion plays in the country’s national security, particularly
with regard to cyber crime and terrorism.

Having served during the Carter and Nixon adminis-
trations, Lake was appointed by President Clinton as na-
tional security advisor and served as the point man on
Cl'inton’s foreign policy team from 1993-96.



 

“In moments of crisis, in times of triumph, he has always
been at my side,” Clinton said of Lake and their close
relationship. '

As head of Clinton’s foreign policy team, Lake
strategized and implemented some of the most pressing

foreign policy issues since the end .of the Cold War. He‘

guided the United States through such geopolitical hot
spots as Bosnia, North Korea, Haiti, Iraq, Somalia and China,
while also extending the reach of democracy globally.

Phi Beta Kappa inducts new members

Washington and Lee University’s upcoming Phi Beta
Kappa and Society of the Cincinnati convocation was
held Thursday in Lee Chapel .

Joel Weisberg, professor of physics and astronomy
at Carleton College, delivered the convocation address
“The Lives and Deaths of Stars: From Gas Clouds to White
Dwarfs, Pulsars, and Black Holes.”

The convocation honored W&L students recently
accepted into Phi Beta Kappa based on their outstanding
character and superior academic records. Phi Beta Kappa
advocates that colleges and universities admit no more
than 10 per cent of class members. This year, W&L juniors
becoming part of Phi Beta Kappa had to have a minimum
3.8 grade point average on a 4.0 scale.

Courtesy wlu.edu

 

Today, March 18

Law Classes Resume

8:30 p.m.—Java at the GHQ.
Freaky Stylee and DJ Jonas.

Tuesday, March 19

7:30 p.m.—Contact Lecture.
“A Long Road Ahead: Global-
ization and the War on Terror-
ism,” Anthony Lake, former Na-
tional Security Advisor to
President Clinton. Lee Chapel.
A reception will immediately fol-
low in the Alumni House.

Wednesday, March 20

6:30p.m.—Leadership Semi-
nar Series. “Leading with Vi-
sion.” University Center, Room
205. Facilitated by W.C. “Burr”
Datz, director of Leadership De-
velopment.

8:00 p.m.—- Alcoholics Anony-
mous Meeting. Fairfax Lounge. All
W&L students, faculty/staff and the
Lexington community are welcome.
Coffee is provided.

Thursday, March 21

3:00 p.m.—Writing Program Ac-
tivity: Faculty Discussion of News-
letter Essay and Composition Re-
quirement. Fairfax Lounge, University
Center. Refreshments provided.
events .

8:00 p.m.— Fancy Dress Concert.
Bela Fleck and the Flecktones. Stu-

MONDAY. MARCH 18. 2002'

dent Activities Pavilion. Doors open
at 8 and concert starts at 9. Tickets
are $15 for W&L community, $18 for
non—W&L community. Tickets: on
sale on campus 3/18. See http://
sab.wlu.edu/upcominghtm.

Friday, March 22

All Day—-Frances Lewis Law
Center Symposium. The Jurispruden-
tial Legacy of the Warren Court. Moot
Court Room, Lewis Hall.

9:00 p.m.-— Fancy Dress. Warner
Center.

 

 

The Phi regrets the errors.

CORRECTIONS: In the March 11th issue of The Ring-tum Phi, Professor Harlan Beckley was incorrectly
attributed to say that none of the new presidential candidates worked for Washington and Lee. Helen Hughes was
incorrectly stated to be the first female EC officer since Beth Formidoni. That same year junior Jennifer Jackson was
secretary. The next year Ashlyn Dannely, a third year law student, was secretary.

_--yc.«~i.i§i

 

RESTAURANT
BAR & GRILL

Come Celebrate
Fancy Dress with Us!

35 North Main Street
Lexington, VA 24450
(540) 464-1887

LEXINGTON
SHOP FOR PAPPAGALLO

Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing and
Accessories

Girls, Look your. best for Fancy
Dress at

     

POL

We Have All
The Ball Necessities!

23 N. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450
(540) 463-5988

   

ooﬁpooooo

 

000000000000000000000000000000

0000000

00000000000

  

000000000000000000000000‘-

A

1‘

1

 map 1 8, 2002



Abolish Fancy Dress

Universities should set priorities, or at least
hew to the ones set by the College Board and
Princeton Review. And let us be serious, an
$80,000 ball does not help Washington and Lee
rise through the ranks of liberal arts academies.
Rather, W&L should seize the FD Steering
Committee’s fund and redirect it toward wor-
thier ends.
The Board of Trustees instituted the
Swarthmorifrcation Plan in 1994 to improve
: W&L’s reputation among the trustees of other
' liberal arts institutions. This meant streamlining
tradition, jettisoning the most popular aspects
of the last 250 years and abandoning that which

I attracts our unique variety of student.

‘ Some might protest that student subscrip-

‘ tion largely funds the event. But that’s no ex-
cuse. We wouldn’t approve if W&L students
wanted to blow their money on “smack,” or
heroin, a narcotic derivative of the opium poppy
plant. And when you think about it, funding an
event that encourages drinking and drug ging is
no different. It’s just one step removed.

Let’s make W&L students “voluntarily” do-
nate their money for worthier projects. How
about funding school enhancements?

One possibility is to fund scholarships bring-
ing in more students from the world beyond.
The money spent on each year’s Fancy Dress
could increase our school’s number who are
not Southern, white, SUV-driving fraternity
members by four.

Eighty thousand “World Peace” bumper
stickers would do much to beautify the
Volkswagon mini—buses soon, should the plan
succeed, to grace our fair campus.

We should take advantage of this untapped
soure of funding to accelerate our progress to
becoming a liberal liberal arts school. How de-
liciously ironic it would be to transmute our stu-
dents’ base desires into a higher place on US
News’ Top Twenty.

 ICTURE OF THE WEEK:

No oNE COULD BE HAPPIER: Anonymous Opinions Editor
finds The E.sse12r1a]_/oumeyin his birthday package, a gift he
received from an anonymous Asst. Opinions Editor, also a
fan of the rock bands timeless music.

T HE 

Editor-in-chief
Associate Editor
Asst. News Editor
Asst. News Editor
Opinions Editor
Asst. Opinions Editor
W&Life Editors

Matthew B. McDermott
Katie J. Howell
Latrina Stokes
Imran Naeemullah
Brett T. Kirwan
Drew Latimer
Matthew A. Coursen
Catherine C. Guy
Jeremy S. Franklin
Dave Crowell

Alison M. Trinidad
Mary E. Guy

J eb B rooks

Meg Ferrara

Paul A. Seifert
Brian Castleberry
Emily Barker
William Litton
Peter L. Djalaliev

Sports Editor

Asst. Sports Editor
Contributing Editor
Photo Editor
Photographers

Business Manager
Circulation Manager
Asst. Business Manager
Advertising Managers
Internet Editor

The Ring—tum Phi is published Mondays during the

r undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-

sity, Lexington, Virginia.’ The Washington and Lee Publi-

3 cations Board elects the Editor-in-chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5

J p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily
reflect the opinion of the Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-

‘ tions of libel and obscenity.
The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu

TEE REN(;~’I”tlM PEI

BRETT T. KIRWAN
OPINIONS Ennor
Ewan; KlRWANB@\lllU.EDU

PINIONS

PAGE 3

Splinter groups do not contribute to diversity

My attendance at PRIDE’s diversity forum on Thurs-
day evening has prompted me to write an article specifi-
cally addressing the issue of diversity. I had been invited
to sit on a student panel at the forum, presumably to share

‘ my views with the attendees of the forum, but in actuality

to serve as a target for criticism of the school, the Greek
system and white students in general.

The forum began well enough, with each panelist
sharing his views and Dean Courtney Penn summing up
the efforts that the administration has made, all of which
were prompted by Pres. Elrod admonishing the Board of
Trustees that he was fed up with the situation of diversity
on campus in May 1999, and the subsequent formation of
the Committee for a More Inclusive Community.

The discussion soon took a turn for the worse,
however, with students of every ethnicity bringing up
examples of the terrible racism and prejudice on cam-
pus. Rather than a constructive discussion of the prob-
lem and possible solutions, though, the forum never
moved from bashing the fraternity system and claimin g
“victim” status for all the minorities on campus, whether
racial, religious or sexual preferential.

Much of the evening’s discussion was little more than
nit—picking on the Martin Luther King, Jr. Day dinner, the
meaning and message of the names of different campus
groups and the precise location of ID—checking brothers at
fraternity parties. Little of substance was discussed, but
few of the attendees seemed eager to change the tone and
focus of the discussion from blaming and complaining.

There may in fact be a problem with the treatment
that minority students receive on campus. In fact, very
convincing evidence was provided to
support this claim. However, the last
people that needed to hear such talk again
were the people at the forum.

Moreover, many of the forum’s at-
tendees refused to accept that attitudes cannot be
changed by admonition and angry criticism. A recent
trend on campus, exemplified by the formation of the
Black Female Alliance, or BFA, is for minority groups
to sequester themselves in exclusive organizations and
not seek to join fully the W&L community. In response
to the problems with diversity on campus, I suggested
that these groups, although they have the admirable
goal of making W&L a more understanding and ac-
cepting community, are going about their mission in
the exactly wrong way.

I’H()'lUliYl EK} FRRXR—\ I-E ’G-II/ill

FUNNY THING HAPPENED AT THE FORUM: Students discussed racism and prejudice at PRIDE’s well—attended diversity forum.

If minority students wish to change the attitudes on
campus and no longer be treated as outsiders, they must
strive to become part of the community, not withdraw
from it by forming exclusive groups. It was established
that some students may feel afraid or uncomfortable in
the presence of minority students. Having a meeting only
of black females is not going to do anything to change

that. Only through exposure to and

 shared experiences with minority stu-

dents can anyone’s fears be alleviated or

BRETT   prejudices changed.

Also, if minority students continue
to socialize largely only with one other, they will never
encounter the many W&L students who are free from
prejudice, but will instead allow past slights to fester.

Many complaints were aired about the fraternity sys-
tem. It was said that ﬂat-out racism exists and students of
color are deliberately excluded from the system. However,
rather than examine the facts of the issue, generalizations
were thrown about, accusing all fraternities of racism. In
fact, my fraternity has a black member and four intema—
tional students. Before this year’s pledge class, we had
more brothers from Pakistan than from Texas, hardly com-

monplace among W&L fraternities.

Distressingly, the administration is doing little to
encourage minority and international students to ex-
plore and join the fraternity system and may in fact be
doing much to discourage their involvement. Intema-
tional students are told on the first day of orientation
to stay away from fraternities because the Greek sys-
tem is not for them and they won’t be accepted. The
MSA engages in similar propagandizing. They create
self—fulfilling prophecies after which they complain
about the state of the fraternity system.

Minority and international students come to
W&L not as familiar with Greek life as the average
student. If the administration wants to change the
level of their participation in the system, it needs to
take an active role in encouraging their participation,
not discourage their involvement.

In sum, if minority students truly want to see change
in the culture at W&L, they can no longer sequester them-
selves in exclusive organizations. They must join the ex-
isting social groups and share the value of their diversity
with majority students. I’d bet they’ll be surprised to ﬁnd
how easy it is to fit rightin.

Senate says ‘No’ to clean air, ‘Yes’ to auto lobby

Congress literally ruined the
chance for Americans to breathe a little
easier last week.

On Wednesday, the Senate defeated
a measure that would force automakers to
increase the fuel efﬁciency of their vehicles
by ﬁfty percent over the next thirteen years.
As Thursday’s Washington Post reports,
this bill was defeated in favor of legisla-
tion proposed by Sens. Carl Levin (D-
Mich.) and Christopher Bond (R-Mo.) that
gives the Bush administration two years
to develop its own policy on the matter.
Did you notice that one of the co—authors
of this bill is from Michigan? If there were
a way to spell out my mouth hanging open
in despair, I would insert it here.

' Now, allowing Bush’s administration
to figure this out has to be the worst way
possible to resolve the situation. Bush is
the guy who wanted to rip up Alaska for
oil that we would get ten years down the
road and would last us for about a year,
as experts estimated. Should I again men-
tion the lift on the emission of certain
harmful chemicals that Bush also im-
posed? He is one of the least eco-friendly
Presidents ever.

Also, the Post’s article mentions the
fact that the mileage rules for cars have
not changed in over twenty-five years.
That means the last time Congresspassed

ECO—FRIE‘.NDLY: The Toyota Prius is one car whose production the Senate could have encouraged.

New fuel economy restrictions rejected even though technology exists that allows their implementation,‘ responsibility left to Bush

over the next thirteen years. As a matter of
fact that is more than enough time.

The latest issue of Popular Science
showcases a new hybrid prototype that
Honda is toying with. It is a sports car with
more than three hundred horses under the
hood, a V6 and a three electric engine hy-
brid system that gets nearly fifty miles to
the gallon. What is more, this car could be
on the showroom ﬂoor in three years. Also,
this car’s zero to 60 time is greater than a
car of the same horsepower and engine that
is not a hybrid. This works because the car
has three electric engines, one attached to
gas—combustible and two at both of the
car’s front wheels, doing nearly all the work
when the car is accelerating.

The reality is politicians with assets in
the oil and energy industries still desire to
see things the way they have been. However,
the ecologicalrarniﬁcations of America’s gas
consumption will catch up to us.

One real problem with current legisla-
tion was the unforeseeable market for SUV’s,
which were nearly unheard of when the leg-
islation first passed in 1975. These vehicles
are classified as “light trucks,” and are not
subject to the same corporate average fuel
economy (CAFE) legislation. Therefore, as

,. ‘ their sales have dramatically increased, the
average number of miles per gallon of cars
on American roads has dropped to twenty-

htt/1.‘//phi. wlu.edu

a vote on this leisure suits were all the
rage, the Bee Gees were hot, and John
Travolta was actually cool. Houston, we
have a problem.

Moreover, all one need to do is look at
any of the student parking lots on this cam-
pus to realize that, even with the ever—in—
creasing gas prices in today’s world, people
are actually buying more and more over-
powered, gas—wasting SUV’s. Do sorority
girls really need that Land Rover to drive
to chapter every week? Seriously. But I
"guess it goes much better with that North
Face jacket than a Toyota Prius.

But speaking of hybrid cars like the
Prius, Detroit is slowly taking steps in
the right direction. Next year’s models
out of the car capital of the world will
include electric/gas hybrid versions of
the Ford Escape, Dodge
Durango, and the GMC
Sierra. The move is slow, 
as the industry is not sure ' C‘
if Americans are ready to
rely on anything but the good old gas-
buming internal combustion engine.

As the target for my anger, Senate
Minority Leader Trent Lott stated (while

TALI<oocK:woo

“O’Douls.”
--Danny Jones, ‘05

“Strawberry daquiris.”
--Esta Acree, ‘05

'   WLEEI or CENTER
   _.l>l191s.Ra1§E¥:<l3_-.. prove that many oppo-

“White Russian”
——Landon Lane, ‘05

standing in front of a photo the super.

gas efficient Daimler/Chrysler Euro-
pean—made Smart Car), “We should be
able to make our choices. We shouldn’t
have the federal government saying
you’re going to drive the
purple people eater here.”

These remarks only

nents of the bill have no
idea what they are talking about. It is well
within our current technology’s capabili-
ties to provide safe, affordable, well-pow-
ered, fuel-efficient SUV’s, cars, and trucks

“Good ol’ Shirley Temple.”
--Leah Greenberg, ‘05

four. It has not been this low since 1980.
So, theoonly thing that can be done is
for Americans to begin buying more re-
sponsible vehicles to send Detroit the mes-
sage that our society is ready to embrace
this wonderful hybrid technology. With
more and more on the way, our options are
much more than the small cars like the
Toyota Prius and Honda Insight. If Ameri-
can car companies market these cars well,
put their brains behind making the technol-
ogy work for the cars Americans want,
those in Detroit can keep their jobs and do
the environment a favor at the same time.

“Belfast Car Bomb.”
-—Dustin Olson ‘02

PAGE 4

      OriNioNs -e

MONDAY illigcii 11 2002

Forum exposes bigotry and victimization of false diversity forces

At PRIDE’s diversity forum held last
Thursday. I spoke about my recent ar-
ticle criticizing tlie Black Female Alliance
for what I felt was its racist rhetoric and

. attempt to polarize W&L. After the fry

rum, I found myself even more shocked
by the blatant intolerance and bigotry of
many minorities, and their resistance to
positive change at W&L.

Several black students spoke about
the difficulty of being a black student at
W&L. They mentioned feeling like an
outsider. being ignored by students as
they walked past, and sometimes feeling
unsafe, all valid concerns. However, the
only apparent solution proposed by the
false diversity forces is to continue to
falsely diversify and recruit more and
more minority students who do not ﬁt in.
It is the worst possible solution.

In order to give a reality check to the
more enthusiastic supporters of diversity,
who were frequently unable to refrain from
feeding the emotional lovefest that makes
the converted go wild, I urged the need to

W&L Guys,

realize that for many minorities, diversity
is not an issue.

I used the example of two black
people who grew up poor- one of them
in_the Deep South— and went on to
achieve national prominence: Secretary
of State Colin Powell and National Secu-
rity Advisor Condoleeza Rice. Despite
this, after the forum was over, a friend of
mine came over and said that my two
examples didn’t count because both Sec-
retary Powell and Ms. Rice are Republi-
cans. It’s faulty logic, because the Right
encourages minorities to stop viewing
themselves as victims; if minorities stub-
bornly choose to take the easy route pro-
posed by the Left of playing the “vic-
tim” role, that is their mistake to make.

Most disturbing, however, was
the issue of the “traditional" W&L
student: the wealthy Southern white
male. One audience member told me
that “it will probably be at least a gen-
eration before (wealthy Southern
white males who join fraternities) will

Impress your FD date
with flowers from

I %-e 97 Equestrian Lane

(540) 464-5011

and more

Floral arrangements for all occasions

Ht. 1 l North: Right on 631
at East Lexington (Old B.V.

wad). left on 763
(Lincoln Road),
right on Equestrian
Lane to top of hill.

Lexington, VA 24450

myfsn.com / lincolnhillﬂorist
Fax (540) 464-5519

Fresh, Dried and Silk Flowers,
Gourmet Baskets, Balloons, Gifts

Lincoln Han Florist & Gifts

<3

lelettora

be completely eliminated from this .

campus,” but that doing so is a must.

Beyond the obvious fact that it is
this very type of student that made W&L
great, and that graces the ranks of our
far—reaching alumni network, I challenge
anyone advocating this type of change
to show me a single college or university
in this country where false diversiﬁca-
tion has made a positive
difference. While there
are obvious benefits
like being able to inter-
act with people of many
different backgrounds if one chooses to
do so, the downside is that this is very
rarely the case.

The false diversity forces realize
this, which is why they want to eliminate
the “traditional” W&L student, so that
there is no room for friction. This is un-
fortunate, because it need not be the case.
By and large, the “traditional” W&L stu-
dent is color—blind and accepting of oth-
ers. However, the minority community is

 CAN Dom

Repairs ~ Cataracts

COOL FRAMESE
HOT LENSESS

Lincoln Rd.
Rt. 763

Equestrian Lane

in. 531 Old a.v.aooo"

SHADES!

encouraged by forces like the NAACP-—
which recently established a chapter at
W&L—— to perceive race as an issue.
They generate a mentality of fear and
loathing that causes minorities to believe
that when they walk down the Colon-
nade and are ignored by someone they
pass, it is because of racism. They never
seem to understand that it’s far more likely

that the person is sirn—

RIGHT-\V’IN(}iRl3.SP()NSE p1yaj°‘k‘“‘°S‘°'P°°p1°

ought to reconsider

A13 ,, UL] AH 5 their actions, anyway,

   since they contribute

directly to the decline of the speaking
tradition.

To those who advocate false diver-
sity at Washington and Lee, I urge you
once again to heed my words: separate
emotion from the facts. Don’t make bi g-
oted statements like “we must eliminate
wealthy Southern white males from this
school.” Those statements are frighten-
ingly rerniscent of a “problem” Hitler and
his Nazi party faced last century. How

they dealt with it was elimination; the
world knows the ugly story.

While the false diversity forces -

aren’t proposing genocide, they cer-
tainly seem to harbor a seething hatred
of the “traditional” W&L student, and
instead of facing their fears and angers,
seek to take the easy route. This is why
they splinter into groups like the BFA,
because it helps them stay in their coni-
fort zone instead of integrating into the
W&L community. “Witness the self—seg-
regating tables in the D-hall.
I It appears that the type of minority
student at W&L hasn’t progressed much
from the l960’s, which suggests that the
mentality of minorities in the country as
a whole hasn’t changed a whole lot ei-
ther. It’s an altogether sad state of af-
fairs, and while W&L certainly carmot
take on the problems of the entire coun-
try, it can certainly mold its future lead-
ers to advocate positive change. This
applies to minorities as well as “tradi-
tional” W&L students.

am I

its part per*tarm=.anr:e car; its part mul.t.Eg3:urpoaze ca.i:rya.tt. Er’; part Eufﬁﬂg-~Edg€ t:ran;sportat3ari. and its all Toyota.

ifs Matrix, an entireliy new breed of vehfti;ie —-~— step-and-stare good leeks. standard air condi£§ent;ng_,, tip to ":80 HP

The ﬁrst class of female students at
W&L sought to prove its worth by being
extremely studious and abstaining from
social “distractions” like sororities. Later
female W&L students realized that they
could integrate more fully into W&L and
embrace its traditions, and the school
made every effort to accommodate them,
most recently with the construction of
those gorgeous sorority houses.

Similarly, the minorities at this school
need to realize that the “icebreaker’ ’ gen-
eration entered this school a long time
ago, and they need to move toward inte-
grating more fully into W&L and embrac-

ing its traditions. It is they who are lag- I

ging far behind the times, not the school.

They need to stop pointing the blame at I
others and take a look at themselves. Sev- -

eral of them have; now it is time for the .1
rest to gather the courage from within ~'

themselves and do what they know deep ’
down inside is possible: become true mern- :
bers of the W&L community. We will be 

with you every step of the way.

with an available :6-speed. t‘-riatri:=< is des—igneri to be vmatever yeti want. iactwzting afta-rdiabie 5 starting at $1 5.13625 ‘.

Test: r-ii/e Matrix At‘: Your
Tayata Dealer Today!  

 nit  trim.

wuim.tay*ata.cn;:m

 ixtttlltéffsz  T3183.  FEEE3
§'i.;?%‘%%3! £3¥’TiC‘3!’%*\L. ‘i.£f}”i,¥itl‘*i5‘\$‘iE.%?*ili ixiﬂﬁii I933!

 E).€!t?l.E.E. SET5 Fl?’-IN; P?liC§.,

3

  

 

 

 

 

PAGE 5

THE RING—’l"UI\l PHI
W &LlFE

MATl‘HE\V UARAEN dc LAIIIERIRE om
W&LlPE EDITORS
ElVlAlI:COLl<SEl\lll@\l0IUE1)IJ&GIlY((@\VlJJ.EDU

MONDAY, MARCH 18, 2002

Lexington native returns to describe growing up gay

BY CATHERINE C. GUY
W&LI1=E EDITOR

On Monday, March 25, Lexington native and
current San Francisco resident Kirk Read will be
coming home to give a talk about being openly gay
in high school. He will be speaking here at Northen
auditorium at 8pm. The title of Mr. Read’s talk is
“How We Learn to Snap: Growing Up Gay in the
South.” His talk is based on his autobiographical
book “How I Learned to Snap”, which was honored
by both the Lambda Literary Awards and the
American Library Association. He is an Echols
Scholar and graduate of the University of Virginia.
He has been writing since the tender age ofthirteen,
and has done much study in the field of theatre.

. Since his graduation from college, he has lived in

Washington, D.C., New York, Virginia, and now San
Francisco. Mr. Read is a freelance writer, who has
contributed to many national publications. He is
currently working on his second book.

How much of your talk is autobiographical?

This entire book is about my life as a teenager.
True story. '

While growing up in Lexington, did you have
much contact with W&L or VMI?

If you grew up as a townie in
Lexington, chances are you had
a lot of contact with VMI and
W&L. Since Dad worked at VMI,
I practically grew up at VMI
athletic events. As a kid I was
constantly at the W&L library,
wandering the stacks. And from
eighth grade on, I went to tons
of concerts at the pavilion, where
I’d sneak under the railing into

i the beer garden. This was back in the golden age of

college radio, when we’d get lots of bands from Athens,
Georgia. Not all this frat boy jam band stuff that come
perform now. Neo-Dave Matthews stuff.

Did you attend Rockbridge County High

I School?

I attended Lexington High School before it was
consolidated into Rockbridge County High School.
I miss the school being small and intimate. My sense
is that teachers were happier at the smaller school
because it was more manageable and had
architecture that was less institutional.

When did you come out? Were yourfriends and

V family accepting of you?

I came out gradually from the beginning of high
school onward. I came out to friends and teachers
one at a time, then came out to everyone in town in
a play I wrote when I was 16. My friends were all
very accepting. My family was mostly accepting.
Some of them struggled with it and continue to struggle

What surprised you most about your high
school’s reaction to your homosexuality?

What I really enjoyed about Lexington high
school was that it had pockets of liberal and cre-
ative thinking in the faculty. Those people really
helped make the school safer for some of us.

Any humorous or touching stories you would
like to share?

When I was performing in Richmond last month,
we did a benefit for gay youth at the future site of
the Virginia Holocaust museum, this big Tobacco
Row warehouse. The guy who introduced me was a
Holocaust survivor and had lived in a dirt bunker
as a child. It was absolutely amazing to hear this
man welcome the audience and talk about how gay
people were rounded up by the Nazis and assure us
that our place in history would be honored there. .

I love coming home to Lexington because
straight people I went to school with always run up
to me and tell me about their gay friend. They always
want to set me up with him — “I have this friend,
you should meet him, you’d really like him, he
reminds me of you.” And then I tell them that I like
big Bubba types, guys that look like bouncers, and
they don’t really know what to do with that. It’s so
sweet, because they’re reaching out, doing the best
they can. You gotta love that.

What inspired you to write your book and talk
to students?

I wanted to write
the sort of book that
would have helped
me as a teenager.
There were definitely
books out
about coming out,
but they mostly
leave out sex and
drugs and drinking
because you’re not
supposed to talk
about kids
experimenting with
those things. Which is a joke, because that’s what
adolescence is all about for many of us. Kids are so
fascinated by sex and drinking and drugs and I think

As A KID I wAs
CONSTANTLY AT THE
W&L LIBRARY,
WANDERING THE STACKS.
AND FROM EIGHTH
GRADE ON, I WENT TO
TONS OF CONCERTS AT
THE PAVILION, WHERE I’D
sNEAK UNDER THE
RAILING INTO THE BEER
GARDEN

Studies Program.

2002 to

WASHINGTON AND LEE
UNIVERSITY

The Department of Environmental Studies is seeking a Projects
Coordinator to begin July 1, 2002. This is a two-year intern
position reporting directly to the Director of the Environmental

The Coordinator will serve as liaison between the Environmental

Studies Program and the community; and will assist the Director

and other faculty in developing internship opportunities, and

research, scholarship and fellowship opportunities for students;

and in developing funding for the Environmental Studies

Program; will provide research assistance to the Director and will
1 coordinate the Maury River Alliance, and the exchange activities
§; associated with the W&L leadership of the US/Brazil Consortium
E; for Environmental Studies. Will also coordinate visiting speakers,
Ff conferences, workshops, seminars and similar activities. Will
if maintain and further develop the department’s website and will
 maintain academic records of students participating in the
 Environmental Studies Program.

f A Bachelor’s degree in a social sciences, sciences or humanities
 with some coursework and/or experience in environmental areas
 is required. Experience with the organization of co-curricular

§ activities, demonstrated leadership abilities, knowledge of website
§ design, word processing,.spread sheet and statistical analysis and a
3 willingness to travel are also required.

Send letter of application, resume and writing’ sample by April 5,
James R. Kahn
Professor of Environmental Studies

Leyburn Library

Equal Opportunity Employer

there _

we do them a huge disservice by not talking about
it in an honest way. I also wanted to write about
how important music was to me as a teenager.
There’s this stereotype about gay guys being into
disco music and for me its always been punk and
underground music.

What have your personal experiences taught
you about life, people, etc.?

Touring with this book has taught me a
number of things recently, because l’ve met
several thousand people along the way. I hear so
many stories about growing up, and the straight
people say that high school was hard for them,
too. High school is a nightmare for everybody.
Awkward crushes, bad poetry, chasing beer with
whiskey, getting grounded, wrecking cars. That
stuff transcends sexual identity. One thing I love
is giving straight people an opportunity to ask
me anything they want with the rule that there
are no dumb questions. What ends up happening
is that they ask me really sensible questions —
howxdo gay people have sex,
when did I know I was gay,
those kinds of basic
questions. And I ask them
the same sorts of questions
and we get a dialogue going.
I think most prejudice is
based on fear of the
unknown. I love sitting down
with a straight person and
saying “Hey, it’s okay to be
fascinated. What do you
want to know?” Giving
people freedom to start
conversation can be really

 

healing.

What can we at Washington and Lee look
forward to seeing and hearing in your upcoming
presentation?

My readings are really funny. I like to teach

cheers to the audience, really insane,
nonsensical cheers that our high school
cheerleading squad did. It scares me how I have
total recall of those cheers. l’ve done a lot of
stand up comedy, so there’s an element of that
in my performances. Definitely don’t expect me
to sip water and stand behind some boring
lectern, kids, because I grew up Methodist and
now I just will not DO podiums.
What are your feelings about returning to
Lexington? Do you come back here often?

 

I come back 3-4 times a year to see my mother. I
have mixed feelings, now that the book is out. I love
Lexington but I feel really exposed when I come back
here. I put my adolescence up there on the chopping
block and it’s completely freaky to know that people
who held me as a baby are reading about my first
sexual experiences. When I come home for
Christmas, I love going to the Palms and seeing
friends from
high school.
I’m always the
one calling
everyone,
keeping in
touch with
everyone. I
love keeping
tabs on my
high school
friends. It
grounds me.

I FEEL REALLY ExPOsED
wHEN I COME BACK
HERE. I PUT MY
ADOLESCENCE UP THERE
ON THE CHOPPING
BLOCK AND IT’s
COMPLETELY FREAKY TO
KNOw THAT PEOPLE
wHO HELD ME As A BABY

ARE READING ABOUT MY D095 Your
FIRST sExUAL fmckground

in theatre

ExPERIENCEs. help you to

feel more

comfortable

addressing groups?

Definitely. I could tell pretty quickly that I
wasn’t cut out to be an actor, but I learned a lot
from theatre. I started reading my writing out loud
when I was in high school, so now when I write, I
think of it being read out loud.

Anything else you would like to share?

If you think you have a gay friend, the best
thing you can do for that person is to mention gay
issues or gay people in casual conversation. Just
keep dropping hints and make it clear that you’re
not freaked out by gay people and that you would
be accepting if that person came out to you. Also,
if people around you are making.antigay jokes or
saying “That’s so gay,” speak up and make it clear
that they’re being insensitive.

Teachers can make classrooms safer by making
it clear that gay people are a part of literature and
history. How can you teach English class without
mentioning gay writers like James Baldwin, Walt
Whitman and Willa Cather? How can you teach
history without. mentioning Bayard Rustin, the
architect of the 1964 March on Washington? How
can you leave out the sexuality of Eleanor Roosevelt
or Bessie Smith?

R-l(llIBC()Lllll‘b\"()F\X’\l\\‘l(lRl<l1E.\D.f()\l

‘" Students celebrate a magical evening “abroad” in the GHQ

 

M53 EauuR/ 77IeR1I1g—tum P121

PAGE 

  

 
 

   

 

 

Under New Ownership

Keeping the Best — Expanding the Rest
For All Your

University Wear
Sorority & Fraternity Items
as well as

USTOM

Screenprint
Embroidery .
Specialty Items

Bring this Ad for 20% off Purchases in March

University Sportwear
15 W. Washington
464-3000

     

3.a.tn1ra, ab! 8: 4;}; 
Ctnuausi stains fmrrz arcane
-the wand, Gxazptiaaai qaaiitg
and mang aniqae swings.

    

 
   

  

ANTI ,  -1 S
B£isiJii1§§i5jE,PiE«CES nan   , A a
rag ran are nae

 

         

‘  iii‘  .1 ‘_

 ieweizy Haadquanersi

Maw. 5%. a  as
3* $63-iﬁim {i'?‘Sﬁ3' %

a  ass .wm..~at as -:24 am, e

-6237 Wmideil. $t,
Lexingtan, Va. 14$-4550
(s4e) 4b4*904z
Fax ts4n)4a4~6aao

 

in iiniiil

..

plan ‘sing
rémlar ice‘ s. as and

a merry far iii:-av are wax?’ 355% of 1§-0!‘hi,‘;!2§n5

-

 

Make

 

-I

 
 

~ H MONDAY, MARCH 18, 2002

#1 Spring B1eakVacations!

Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas,
& Florida.

Best Parties, Best Hotels,
Best Prices! A

Group Discounts, Group
organizers travel free!

Space is limited! Hurry up &
Book Now!

1-800-234-7007

www.end1esssumme1tours.com

 I S your

$§ﬁm Fm
Pancyﬂress
GceatEva'n'IgSl:y]es
Cb]Qr —  
 &pLegi/ia:>dng
@um 
463-6003
25l\btthlVl3iI1St:t:eet
GUYS, GET YOUR CUTS EARLY!

 

i

 

 

 

THE. lll:\'i(}-TU.\1lil)Hl

MONDAY, MARCH 18, 2002

PORTS

]niENiYFRAi\iniN
SPORTS EDITOR
EAm;nnNidiNi@\1iiL=EDU

W&L, Jackets split ODAC pair

Weather forces Generals to
postpone 3 of 5 home games

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

With the doubleheader-heavy Old
Dominion Athletic Conference sched-
ule, sometimes a split is the best you
can hope for. _

That’s what the Generals (9-5, 4-2
ODAC) got against Randolph-Macon

_at Cap’n Dick Smith Field on Satur-

day. All six of W&L’s conference
games have come in twinbill format,
with the Generals coming up with two
splits and a sweep.

“If you split and get two sweeps, I
think that’s 10 wins, and that gets you
in the toumament,” W&L coach Jeff
Stickley said of the conference sched-
ule. “These are the ODAC double-
headers. You see everybody’s one
and two (starters), and you’ve just got
to hang in there and keep battling.”

In the first game, the Yellow Jack-
ets (5-6, 1-3) tagged sophomore Peter
Dean for four runs in the second in-
ning, and the Generals could never
rally in the 5-2 loss.

Doug McCray pitched the seven-
inning complete game for the winners,
striking out ﬁve. The loss dropped
Dean to 3-1 and was the ﬁrst defeat of
his collegiate career.

Though the Generals hit the ball

‘ hard against McCray, most of their

cuts were right at the Randolph—Ma—
con defense.

“In the ﬁrst game, we had a lot of
kids that were hitting the ball really

JACKETS BLANKED: Sophomore Dan Kagey ﬁres home in
Washington and Lee’s 5-0 win over.Randolph-Macon in the

sharply, but they were hitting it right
at people,” said junior center ﬁelder
Bobby Littlehale, who was 2-for-4 in
each game of the doubleheader. “The
second game, the breaks seemed to
go our way where they didn’t go our
way in the first game.”

Game 2 was scoreless entering the
bottom of the third, but W&L quickly
changed that. Sophomore second
baseman Austin Allain walked and
then scored when Hanson tripled to
the right ﬁeld comer.

Littlehale singled in junior short-
stop Michael Hanson and stole sec-
ond, and the Generals later loaded the
bases with one out. But W&L man-
aged just one run out of the scenario,

as Littlehale scored on Alan

J ohnson’s wild pitch for a 3-0 lead.
That was more than enough of-
fense for sophomore Dan Kagey, who

improved to 3-2 with the complete
game shutout. The righthander gave
up just three hits and four walks while
striking out seven.

“I had pretty decent stuff, but it
really took me a while to ﬁnd my con-
trol,” Kagey said. “In the ﬁfth, sixth,
seventh innings, I started to get bet-
ter control, and all three of my pitches
were working.”

W&L extended the lead with in-
surance runs in the fourth and ﬁfth
innings. Allain smacked a one-out
single in the fourth, advancing to third
on an errant pick-off attempt and a
wild pitch. He scored on Hanson’s
opposite—ﬁe1d sacriﬁce ﬂy.

The Generals manufactured an-
other run an inning later, as senior
right ﬁelder Todd Gosselink reached
base on a ﬁe1der’s choice and scored
on sophomore left ﬁelder Paul Sibley’s

MARi'Gui'/77ieRing-mm Phi"
second game of a doubleheader on Saturday. Kagey pitched a
complete game shutout, recording seven strikeouts.

two-out double.

Littlehale said that W&L would
have preferred to sweep the Yellow
Jackets, but was pleased that his team
responded after coming up short in
the ﬁrst game.

“We didn’t feel like we needed to
sweep Randolph-Macon, but we
wanted to sweep them,” he said. “If
we play these guys 10 games, we’l1
beat them eight or nine out of 10. It
was just one of those days where we
didn’t come out real sharp, and it kind
of burned us a little bit early on.”

Weather disrupted the Generals’
schedule twice this week, as a Tuesday
game against Mary Washington and
Sunday’s doubleheader against West
Virginia Tech were both postponed.

W&L travels to ODAC opponent
Bridgewater for a 3 p.m. Wednesday
game. .

Men’s tennis sweeps Saturday matches

BY DAVE CROWELL AND BEN SEGAL
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee men’s tennis team
improved to 6-1, 3-0 in Old Dominion Athletic
Conference play with a 9-0 defeat of Bridgewater
and a 6-1 victory over Salisbury State on Satur-

day afternoon.

“I know that we’re very strong in ODAC play,
but I was very impressed with the Salisbury vic-
tory,” coach David Detwiler said. “They have a
couple of good players and it was a great test to
see where we stand in the South region.”

In the conference victory over Bridgewater,
the Generals rolled off nine wins without drop-
ping more than three games in any set.

The match against Salisbury State proved a
bit more difﬁcult for the Generals, as freshman
Paul McClure lost a close match to Nick Peel at
No. 1 singles, 6-3, 7-6.

W&L quickly avenged McClure’s defeat, how-
ever, as senior Rhys James, sophomores Austin

1 Kim and Graham Nix, Moynihan and sophomore
K.C. Schaefer all won singles matches.

James endured a tough battle with Scott

Maybeny in order to grab a 6-4, 7-6 (3) victory
at No. 2 singles.

“Rhys played a great match,” Detwiler said.
“He was down 5-0 and came back strong to take

that second set. ,

“I was also very impressed with how Paul
played,” the coach added. “He was facing a very
good competitor from Salisbury and showed
some toughness.”

The Generals will face their next test when
they travel to Danville on Tuesday afternoon in
order to face Averett College, a squad that has
given W&L problems in the past.

“We’ll practice hard and make sure we’re well-
prepared for Averett,” Detwiler said. “They have
three very good players, then they drop off a
bit, so we should do well. We’re playing great
tennis right now.”

The Averett match begins at 3 p.m.

PAGE 7

Generals topNazareth,
fall atFrankli

r & Marshall

l\lARi’GLrv/771eR1ng-n1mPhi

ONE SCOOP: Senior co-captain Emily Owens scored a goal in Washington and
Lee’s 8-7 comeback win over Nazareth at the Liberty Hall Fields on \Wednesday.

BY DAVE CROWELL
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee
women’s lacrosse team ﬁnished off
an emotional, up-and-down week
with a disappointing loss to 15th-
ranked Franklin & Marshall, 13-8.

The defeat followed on the heels
of an impressive come-from-behind
victory over visiting Nazareth Col-
lege, 8-7, on Wednesday afternoon.
The momentum, however, couldn’t
carry W&L past the Diplomats.

Franklin & Marshall started the
contest by stunning the Generals with
a four— goal barrage within the ﬁrst nine
minutes. Sophomore midﬁelder Kelly
Taffe and senior defender Julie
Carskadon responded with goals as

V W&L closed the gap to two.

The Generals trailed 6-3 at halftime
and stayed within four goals of Franklin
& Marshall until about the 15-minute
mark of the second half. Over the next
6:30, the Diplomats exploded for six
unanswered goals to take a 13-4 lead
with nine minutes to play.

Sophomore Lee Wheeler tallied
two goals and junior Leslie Bogart
and freshman Kristen Brown each
added one goal apiece, but it was
too little, too late.

“We never got into a clear
rhythm,” coach Jan Hathom said.
“We would get into their zone and
then turn the ball over. They took
advantage of mistakes, which we
were never able to do.”

A slow start also plagued W&L
in Wednesday’s victory over
Nazareth. The Golden Flyers domi-
nated the first 15 minutes of the first
half, getting out to a 3-0 lead while
winning most faceoffs and annoy-
ing the Generals’ attack.

W&L had problems with catch-
ing the ball in front of the net, a weak-
ness that Hathom attributed to the
pressure to win a big game.

“I think sometimes we go in a little
tight. We’re afraid to lose a game,
so we lose our aggressiveness,”
Hathom said.

After heading into halftime down
4-1, the Generals began to chip away
at Nazareth’s lead. Bogart assisted
on two goals as she tied Erika
Snyder’s W&L record for career as-
sists. She later broke the record at
the 16:08 mark of the second half on
an assist to Wheeler to narrow
Nazareth’s lead to 6-4.

Wheeler’s goal also started a run
of ﬁve unanswered W&L goals in

order to take an 8-6 lead. Freshman

Maggie Speasmaker tallied the ﬁnal ,

two scores in the last 10 minutes,
including the game-winner.

Hathom praised the efforts of her
upperclassmen, who sparked the
comeback. .

“I thought (senior co-captain)
Julie Carskadon had an incredible
game and stood out for the entire 60
minutes,” Hathom said. “The se-
niors really picked this team up and
the freshmen, especially Maggie,
followed the lead. They discovered
some important things about them-
selves in a critical game.”

Hathom also described team spirit
as an intangible that made the differ-
ence in a close game, believing it was
“critical and essential” to the outcome.

Bogart led the Generals with one
goal and four assists. Speasmaker
and classmate Kitt Murphy each tal-
lied two goals in the winning effort.

The next couple of weeks, how-
ever, depend on the ability of the
Generals to forget about Saturday’s
loss and focus on the next game.

“We need to return to the basics
and focus on the fundamentals,”
Hathom said. “We need to learn from
our mistakes and forget past history.”

W&L returns to action this Satur-
day when they host nationally—ranked
Mary Washington, the team that ended
the Generals’ season last spring.

Martin leads men ’s lax to
win at Franklin & Marshall

B ALTIMORE—Sophomore
Dustin Martin recorded a career-high
four goals as W&L defeated Franklin
& Marshall 10-6 in men’s lacrosse at
Loyola Blakeﬁeld on Saturday;

The Generals and Diplomats
traded goals through most of the
first half, as sophomore Matt Fink
scored twice and Martin, senior An-
drew Barnett and sophomore Mike
McNamara each scored a goal.

Martin’s second goal gave W&L
a 6-3 lead with 7:02 left in the third
quarter, but Franklin & Marshall cut
the lead to 6-5 by the period’s end.

But the Generals outscored the Dip-
lomats 4-1 in the fourth quarter, as
Manin scored twice and Fink and fresh-
man Gavin Molinelli had a goal apiece.

The win broke a two- game losing
skid for the No. 7 Generals (3-2), who
open Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence play on Saturday with a 1:30 p.m.
home game against Roanoke.

SCOREBOARD

WASHINGTON AND LEE GOLF.

Results from the Ferrum Spring invitational, held
March 11-12 at the Water‘s Edge Country Club in
Smith Mountain Lake:

MEN’s TENNIS SCORES

Saturday, March 16 (Lexington)

Washington and Lee 7, Bridgewater 0
Singles

1. Chris Sorenson (W&L) d. Joshua Didawick, 6-2, 6-2
2. David Ellison (W&L) d. John Carlson, 6-1, 6-0 2. Sallie Gray Strang (W&L) d. Jennifer Goodwin, 6-1, 6-1
3. Seth Martin (W&L) d. Tim Mahames, 6-2, 6-2 3. Catherine Torrey Stroud (W&L) d. Mandy Sager, 6-0,
4. Chris Surdo (W&L) d. Doug May, 6-1, 6-0 6-2

5. Marshall Viney (W&L) d. Daniel Dell, 6-0, 6-1 4. Emily Taylor (W&L) d. Annie McKenzie, 6-1, 6-2

6. John Coltry (W&L) d. David Wyant, 6-1, 6-3' 5. Kristin Crawford (W&L) d. Sarah Kuhn, 7-5, 6-1
Doubles 6. Sahar Kamali (W&L) d. Anne Yost, 6-0, 6-2

1. Rob Moynihan/Zac Vuncannon d. Didawickl Doubles

May, 8-3 1. Melissa Halley/Erika Proko (W&L) d. Landis/Yost, 8-0

2. Ellison/Surdo d. Mahames/Carlson, 8-1 2. Bruno/Strang d. Goodwin/McKenzie, 8-1

3. Colfry/Martin d. Dell/Wyant, 8-3 3. Meredith Bailey/Stroud d. Kuhn/Sager, 8-2

I - SATur1DAv’s BASEBALL Box SCORES

First Game
WASHINGTON AND LEE
h

WoMEN’s TENNis SCORES

Friday, March 15'(Lexlngton)

Washington and Lee 9, Bridgewater 0
Singles

1. Laura Bruno (W&L) d. Lynsey Landes, 6-4, 6-1

Second Game
RANDOLPH-MACON WASHINGTON AND LEE
ab r

RANDOLPH-MACON
ab r

(0

3
O’
R7006-OOOOO-‘
U"
l\)©C>-1000-‘-"

Hanson ss
Littlehale cf
Kozora 3b
Mulhem c
Gladysz 1b
Gosselink rt
Kagey p
Sibley If
Allain 2b

Harvey 1b
Stevens 3b
Palmer ss
Madden ct
Coleman dh
Jenkins c
Opsut rt
Smith 2b
McCray ph
Durham If
Totals
Randolph-Macon 000 000 0 — 0

Washington and Lee 003 110 x — 5

E - Durham, Johnson. DP — Washington and Lee 2. LOB -
Ftandolph-Macon 5, Washington and Lee 7. 2B — Gosselink,
Sibley. 3B —- Hanson. SB — Littlehale. SH — Opsut. SF —
Hanson.

Hanson ss
Littlehale cf
Kozora 3b
Mulhern rt/p
Gladysz 1b
Gosselink c
Kagey If
Droppers dh
Sibley rf
Allain 2b

Harvey 1b
‘ Stevens 3b
Palmer ss
Madden of
Coleman dh
Jenkins 0
Opsut 11
Smith 2b
Durham lt

Team Standings
Christopher Newport
Washington and Lee
Roanoke
Randolph-Macon
Sewanee

Bridgewater
Lynchburg

N.C. Wesleyan

Washington and Lee 6, Salisbury State 1 Washington and Lee 9, Emory & Henry 0 ”a”“"“’”'SV.““eV
slug.” singles 10.  Apprentice
1. Nick Peel (ss) d. Paul McClure, 6-3, 7-6 1. Lindsay Hagerman (W&L) d. Laura Gotschall, 6-1, 6-2 11- H°'d'eb9'9
2. Rhys James (W&L) d. Scott Mayberry, 6-4, 7-6 (3) 2. Elizabeth McCracken (W&L) d. Lea McNutt, 6-0, 6-0 12- Ferrum
3. Austin Kim (W&L) d. Greg Forster, 6-3, 6-4 3. Marie Trimble (W&L) d. Nicole Fuselier, 6-1, 6-0 13. Shenandoah
4. Graham Nix -(W&L) d. Ed Snyder, 6-2, 6-3 4. Ellie Simpson (W&L) d. Jessica Cassell, 6-2, 6-0
5
6

316-305-621
31 1-312-623
310-317-627
313-322-635
31 3-323-636
320-31 7-637
332-31 0-642
311-336-647
320-328-648
323-333-656
329-344-673
346-330-676
340-344-684

i\)i\3r\>oo<.o<.>4>'.r:-
moo-—-—-oo
Noof\>-—A—A._L—.L—-A:
—A-CO-00-‘-U’
Mm-rowmoomcpxsxmm
~1-o-—-o—-oor\>—s
noo-c>oc>c>o-cg
_n:‘m—sr\>rom—-cognac»
ooooooooooo
ca-coo-oo-oo:r
ooooooooooooj
I\>t.o<.‘>c.><.>—-sxsssoanw
_A_n._A_A_A@$[\)..-L3’
o-ooooo—-Maj
.“’."9’S-":’>.“’."’."‘

Totals 26 5
Randolph-Macon 040 0001 — 5
Washington and Lee 001 100 0 —- 2
E — Stevens, Kozora. LOB - Flandolph-Macon 4, Washington
and Lee 6. 2B — Durham, Hanson, Littlehale, Droppers, Allain.
SB — Littlehale. CS — Harvey, Palmer. SH — Harvey, Smith.
IP H R ER BB 80

CD
CI
10
I0
3
0|
G
Jh

LO

Randolph-Macon
McCray W, 2-1
Washington and Lee
Dean L, 3-1

Mulhem

BK — Dean.
T -_. 1-1:0 ll ... 199

IP H R ER BBSO

7 7 2 2 0 5 Randolph-Macon ‘
Johnson L, 3-2
Washington and Lee
Kagey W, 3-2

WP — Johnson 2.

T -1242. A -137.

5. Rob Moynihan (W&L) d. Jacob Cook, 6-1, 6-1 . Lora Farris (W&L) d. Cecille Lawson, 6-0, 6-1
6. K.C. Schaefer (W&L) (1. Matt Vechiolla, 6-1, 6-0 . Lauren Burrow (W&L) d. Sara C_hi|ders, 6-0, 6-0
Doubles Doubles

1. James/Andrew Roberts d. Forster/Peel, 8-6 1. Hagerman/Manning Willard d. Gotschall/McNutt, 8-1

2. Kim/Nix d. Mayberry/Snyder, 8-4 2. Elizabeth Law/Mccracken d. Fuselier/Laura lnman, 8-0
3. Schaefer/McClure d. Cook/Vechiolla, 8-2 3. Simpson/Trimble d. Laura Labadie/Ashley Ornduft, 8-1

~ 1

W&L Scores
T5.Chip Campbell
T5. Ged Johnson 75-79-154
10. Carlos Spaht 80-76-156
T16. Kyle Ulep 82-77-159

. ﬁg;

684414 685433 74-80-154
111110 730047

MONDAY, MARCH 18, 2002

    spam  

WPAGE 8 ,

Track opens outdoor season with home invitational

 

l\l nu‘ Gt'\;/'7i1c R1i1g—rzmi Plzi

LONG DISTANCE:]unior]en Fallon (left) and sophomore Samantha Snabes compete
in the 3,000—meter race in the \W&L Invitational at \‘(/ilson Field on Saturday.

BY DAVE CROWELL
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee track
program officially kicked off the out-
door season by hosting the W&L In-
vitational on Saturday.

The men’s team, competing in a ﬁeld
of 13 teams, ﬁnished in 10th place with
14 points. John Carroll University won
the men’s competition, while Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference opponents
Roanoke and Bridgewater finished
seventh and ninth, respectively.

On the women’s side, the Generals
ﬁnished ninth out of 12 teams with 22
points. Susquehanna University won
the overall title, with Roanoke taking
second place and Bridgewater seventh.

Men’s coach Norris Aldridge and
women’s coach John Tucker both
agreed that the day proved a success,
with a number of athletes achieving
season or personal bests.

Aldridge also noted that the level
of competition was extraordinary as
compared to past years.

“There was a lot of good Division
III talent in that field,” Aldridge said.
“There were a number of records bro-
ken and some competitors, including
John Carroll’s relay team, have already
qualified for nationals.”

For the 32-year coach, the 10th-
place finish was not at all indicative
of his team’s performance. The Gen-
erals are still fighting a few injuries,

which caused the team to not com-

Enjoy elegant dining in a restored 1820 Clas5z'cal Revival
townhouse in historic downtown Lexington

Dine on our Veranda
May-October

i_._......».7f/ze.__s.._s.
_WILLSON-
~ W,A‘LiK.ER
.HOUSE __.

Restaurant *-

 

Creative American Cuisine

Fancy Dress Reservations Available for Small or Large Groups

www.willsonwalker.com

Tuesday - Saturday
Lunch — 11230-2130
Dinner - 5:30-9:00

Reservations Requested

* Casual Dress "5
$20.00 Four Course Dinner Specials
Available Tues. - Tlzars. 5:30-7:00 pm.
Childrerz '5' Menu
Famous $5 Lunch Special Daily
Catering 0270]?‘ Premise

30 North Main Street

463-2731

- 463-3920

pete in eight events, including hurdles
and a number of relays.

“Mike Hegg is still coming off some
injuries, but I’m sure he would’ ve
earned us some points in the hurdles,”
Aldridge said. ‘‘In addition, he leads
off our 4x100 relay, so hopefully we’ll
begin competing in that event when
he’s completely healthy.”

Freshman Wes Bell led the team
with a second-place ﬁnish in the 1,500-
meter run, ﬁnishing in a time of 4:03.87,
less than one half-second behind the
winner.

Aldridge added that Bell probably
would have earned points in the 5,000-
meter run, but was held out due to a
small injury.

Junior Chris Sullivan took fourth
place in the 100—meter dash ( l l .26) and
also grabbed seventh in the 200-meter
dash (22.87).

Junior Mat Rapoza rounded out the
scoring with,a ﬁfth-place finish in the

Make your dinner reservations for Fancy Dress today!

shot put, throwing 42’01.50”.

In addition, Aldridge praised the
efforts of sophomore Jonathan Brimer
— who he believes would have placed
in the 400-meter dash if the competi-
tion weren’t as tight — and freshman
Steven Chambers, who ran a couple
of personal bests.

As a team, Aldridge believes they
are ahead of where he thought they
would be at this point of the season,
especially following a week of bad
weather ‘and shortened preparation
time.

On the women’s side, Tucker also
was happy about the way his team
performed.

‘‘I am extremely pleased with the
way the team is running and continu-
ally improving in competition,” he
said. “Our girls, in many cases, ran
better than they’ve ever run.”

Junior Burke Duncan led the
women with a ﬁrst—place ﬁnish in the

10,000-meter run, finishing over a
minute ahead of the competition with
atirneof41:17.7.

Tucker’s squad also benefited
from the return of two ﬁeld athletes.
Seniors Sarah Schmidt and Megan
Babst both competed for the ﬁrst time

since the end of the basketball sea- I

son and earned 12 points for the team.

Schmidt ﬁnished second in the jav-
elin with a toss of 115 feet, while
Babst took fourth in the high jump by
clearing ﬁve feet.

The women also earned a number
of eight or 10th—p1ace ﬁnishes in the
tough ﬁeld. Tucker thus believes con-
tinual improvement will reap beneﬁts
at the ODAC Championships in April.

For now, however, the coaches will
emphasize a need to continue drop-
ping times and show improvement.

The Generals return to action by
competing in the Roanoke Invitational
on Saturday.

2' .. ‘‘'.--‘’.'.‘‘t. [.3

WANT TO LOOK YOUR BEST FOR FD?

We Can Help You!

Come by and see Skip, Marla, Connie and Wilson. »

SKIP THOMPSON’S BARBER SHOP

22 S. Main Street-Lexington, VA
Open Mon., Tues., Thurs., & Fri. 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.;

THE DRAGON NEEDS YOU!
HURRY‘ IN FOR RENTALS AT

THE COLLEGE TOWN SHOP
111 w. NELsoN

Divisions:
Dag:
Tim:
Courts:
Rujkest’

Eligibility:

Squash Courts)

Sat. 8 a.m. - noon; Closed Wed. & Sun.
540-463-5954

Men and Women’s Divisions
March 25, 26, 27

Matches will be played between 6 and 9 pm on the above dates
#1—6 (100) level —— Doremus Gym
USSRA Rules Apply — Players will make their own calls
All matches are first to win 3 games. Eyeguards are required
Softball (equipment: use own or sign out at windwon)

Law and undergraduate students, faculty, staff, alumni

Annual Washington and Lee
Soft Squash Tournament

Entry Deadline: March 24, 5:00 pm (Must sign up at Coach Joe Lyles’s office,
Rm 416, Doremus Gym)

ﬂgte: This will be a single elimination format. Please include your playing/touma-
ment history on entry form. Pairings will be based on information received.
Master Schedule (Pairings and Times) will be located at hallway (First Floor-

All information about tournament available outside Coach Lyles’s ofﬁce.

 set Rt)/ie 

    
  

 

 

Look and Feel Pretty

TIME IS RUNNING OUTFOR THE 22ND

WE ARE HERE TO SERVE YOU!

AMEX VISA MASTER CARD HOUSEICHARGE

and movies to'.,,c\reiztfe, 

asp/iere for  

 

  

Complete services in:

Hair
Nails

Waxing

Massage Therapy
Body Bronzing

    

n‘ me “Great Cuts For Guys!”

 Sﬁopping Center. , I I

CROSSROAD

MUSIC &‘:5."MO."l/IE5
1_12 East ﬂllicffancf ’fraz'[ 464-3645

 

MERLE NORMAN

COSMETICS AND DAY SPA
1223 N. Lee Hwy.
463-1782
Located in Wal-Mart Shopping Center

/

 

 
   

1

A

2”}.
ill‘ ﬁ

 Services provide off-campus studentsltemet access  

I

 ’b'*7}2;."I-35
_ 0\‘S'3'.L
. \i.‘W—‘r
1 WW '2‘\’INSIDE

'l’.=I.~  {- ‘1'1‘,~\2 l’=i=

Sr>E.cTAL FD Issue
Exgrrr .\ l.1(iH“l"liR, l_l:'..\.\f f
..\il~';\\V‘S—lril:.'..-'r_\".' P/4.:

NEXT: WEEK

I...( it JK t2t;T H m

   

’ FANCY DRESS

' 'mE 3
.~'\ERn.. ’l'i'(‘>(*»z,>. .lsst.7r:

 

 
 

Wnsarscron AND LEE UNIVERSITY

NG*TUM

 Lake talks to terrorism

 

_ MEI} l‘l~]UL—\M/Tll€R1l1g-ttlni Phi
DANCE WITH THE DRAGON. Ryan Owen and Mavia Brown  to the tunes of Big Ray & the Kool Kats. For more Fancy Dress pictures see pages 4, 5.

JAMEE ts  
‘.”~.‘J..’5Ht:"«lO?“~. ‘TM 3 ‘=11: -.%**3ﬂ"l'5“"*-‘W’

. ,9,‘

 

Irxiriax
(;)T>m<>Ns 3
\X7’&I_..T1=*1'=: 5
SPt‘)RTS 7
G N<_>T‘i>-is‘ :2
34/ 7 2

I\«l0T\fl>\‘;', i\l.tiz«:.;~i 25, 

Former national security adviser addresses globalization and war on terrorisms

BY PETER DJALALIEV
l?\'TERNET EDITOR

Dr. Anthony Lake, former National Security Ad-
viser to President Bill Clinton, spoke Tuesday on ter-
rorism and other security-related issues.

Lake placed special emphasis on cyber—crime,
especially in the aftermath of the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks. His Lee Chapel address also dwelled on a
political life and the games one must play, a conver-
sation continued at an informal discussion at the fol-
lowing Alumni House reception.

“If you support ideas A, B, C, D, E and F, you have
to carefully choose which ones you support more
heavily,” Lake said. “For example, if you choose to sup-
port E, which may be a rather controversial measure,
then you could lose the election and thus your ability to
support causes A, B, C, D, and F. It also works the same
way for the other causes: there are always drawbac .”

This analogy was applied to the war on terrorism,
where Lake observed President George W. Bush and his
administration battling opposing factions on issues such
as airport security. Many Republicans strongly opposed

federalizing air screeners workforce, preferring well-regu-

lated private companies better suited to screening pas-
sengers. However, faced with heavy Democratic (and
some Republican) opposition to this view, President Bush
later backed down and persuaded Congressional Repub-
licans to agree to federalize airport security jobs, pres11rn-
ably in the hope that on other issues—such as immigra-

tion control-—Democrats would be more amenable and
less likely to oppose controversial measures.

Lake’s proposal in the context of overall voter
support for controversial measures is voter educa-
tion. He believes that only with an informed citizenry
can support for controversial measures be less po-
litically dicey. When asked by this reporter how that
relates to Washington and Lee students, he replied,
“My central point during the speech is that the war
on terrorism will go on for a long time. Decisions that
we make now will affect us all later on. The more we
think about and debate these ideas ourselves, the
better off we will be down the road.”

When asked about his views on the present state
of the war on terrorism, particularly in regard to Paki-
stan and the U.S.’s support for its military ruler, Gen.
Pervez Musharraf, Lake’s response was equally di-
rect. “A nightmare situation for us is the overthrow of
Musharraf by Islamic fundamentalists in Pakistan, who
would then be in control of Pakistan’s nuclear weap-
ons,” he said. “It is important that the U.S. supports
Musharraf in politically sensitive ways.”

Lake’s reference to the nightmare situation of
Musharraf’s overthrowisinlinewiththetherneofhislatest
book, Six Nightmares, in which he outlines six potentially
real scenarios, in which the world is engulfed by terror.

In light of Lake’s claim that the war on terrorism is
far from over, the need for the voter education that Lake
spoke of becomes more apparent, as more and more
measures to counteract terrorism are enacted.

FROM STAFF REPORTS

most distinguished American
scholars of Islam, lectures in Lee
Chapel at 7 pm this evening on
“Political Islam: Radicalism, Revo-
lution or Reform?”

“He has written about many
topics in modem Islam and he is
studying the most inﬂuential think-
ers of the past 50 years,” said Reli-
gion Professor Richard Marks.
“Few other people who have trav-
eled over the Muslim world: he has
a a worldwide perspective.”

John Esposito, one of the»

Esposito is a professor of reli-
gion and international affairs and
of Islamic studies at Georgetown
University.

His talk is sponsored by the
W&L departments of religion and
political science.

A consultant to the Department
of State as well as corporations, uni-
versities, and the media worldwide,
Esposito specializes in Islam, politi-
cal Islarn and the impact of islarnic
movements from North Africa to
Southeast Asia. He has served as
president of the North American
Middle East Studies Association

International expert on Islam visits

oand the American Council for the
Study of Islamic Societies. He is Vice
Chair of the Center for the Study of
Islam and Democracy.

Esposito, who is editor—in-
chief of the four—volurne Oxford En-
cyclopedia of the Modem Islamic
World, has authored 25 books.

Esposito has lectured and orga-
nized conferences in the US and many
nations abroad, and has been inter-
viewed or quoted in The Wall Street
Joumal, TheNew York Tmes, Zhe Wash-
ingtonPost,CNN,ABCNightline, CBS,
NBC, and the BBC, as well as Europe
and and Middle Eastern media‘

I BY PETER DJALALIEV
INTERNET EDITOR

E-mail, the Internet, and chatting pro-
grams have become integral to college stu-
dents’ daily life, and W&L is no exception.
Even though the University offers a high
speed connection on campus, people liv-
ing off of it have to find alternative sources
of this service by themselves. Recent calls
to the University Computing HelpDesk re-
vealed that many off-campus students are
not fully aware of the local companies of-
fering Internet access and services.

For convenience, a summary of acces-
sible Internet services were compiled, as
well as a summary of the services and prices
offered by three Internet Service Provid-
ers operating in Lexington: Rockbridge
Global Village, Planet—Comm and LexNet.

The three types of Internet access ser- A

vices most suited for the needs of home
users are dial-up access, ISDN and DSL.
Dial—up access is the cheapest service of-
fered. The speed of the connection par-

tially depends on the speed at which the
modem can transfer data (the most com-
mon ones transfer data at 56Kb/second),
but an ordinary dial-up connection in real-
ity does not reach even half of that speed.
This service is good for email and chat-
ting, and is useful for users who do not
spend a lot of timeon the Net.

Another Internet access service suit-
able for home users is ISDN (Integrated
Service Digital Network). It is faster, but
more expensive. It requires an ISDN
adapter (which replaces the modem for dial-
up access) which the user has to purchase
separately and a special phone line. ISDN
phone line are offered by all phone compa-
nies at a rate little (or a lot, depending on
the phone company) higher than the rate
for a normal phone line. An advantage is
that the phone line can be used for Internet
connection and phone calls at the same
time, which saves a little money on phone
bills. ISDN connections have capacities
of 64Kb/sec and 128 Kb/sec, but in real life
the connection a user gets is much less.

This service is more expensive, but is faster
and is suitable for users who do more work
with the Internet and, therefore, demand
better quality.

The best Internet access service which
is still relatively affordable for home users
is DSL (standing for Digital Subscriber
Line). DSL users also need a special mo-
dem and a special, more expensive phone
line. Just as ISDN, the phone line can be
shared for Internet ‘connection and phone
calls at the same time. The prices for DSL
internet access are high, but the connec-
tion speed starts from 256Kb/sec (again,
this capacity cannot be actually reached)
and goes up. This service is suitable for
users who transfer large quantity of data
and demand a really high quality.

Internet connection is essential for
many people today, but not all of them are
familiar with the services they can choose
from. The choice of which type of Internet
access to use depends on the needs and
the amount of money a user wants to spend
on his Internet connection.

infographic by Matthew McDermott/ The Ring-tum Phi

Fm 2 presidential press secretaries to speak

FROM STAFF REPORTS

Former White House press secretaries Marlin
Fitzwater and Joe Lockhart will bring The West Wing, the
acclaimed NBC series for which they are consultants, to
Washington and Lee University Wednesday, March 27.

Their talk, which is open to the public without charge, is at
7:30p.minI_eeChapel.TheeventissponsoredbyKappaSigma,
the Contact Committee and Young America’s Foundation.

“I think you can expect an interesting discussion by
two people who have been there and who lqrow how the
White House works, how the press works, (and) how the
presidency works,” said Mr. Fitzwater in an exclusive inter-
view with The Ring-tum Phi. “We’ll also try to bring a little
humor to the evening, so it should be fun.”

Fitzwater, the only press secretary appointed by two
presidents — Ronald Reagan and Bush, =
his successor —— served as the White
House’s public relations strategist for
nearly a decade.

He handled some of the most sensi-
tive issues the country has faced in recent
years, including the Gulf War and the end
of the Cold War.

FITZWATER

_ Lockhart served under President Clinton, overseeing
issues mundane and momentous.

   

    

Appointed in 1998, Lockhart resigned as press
secretary mid-term in the Clinton administration and
did so as the House of Representatives opened its
impeachment inquiry in the wake of the Clinton-

Lewinsky sex scandal. He soon after
. was named by\Oracle, the software
maker, as its senior vice president for
refining and communicating Oracle’s
business strategy. I
In their W&L talk, the two press
secretariesiwill discuss their con-
sulting collaborations for The West
Wing, whose plots are based on real-world issues
facing the White House. The show focuses on
how the president’s staff handles, both good and
bad, a broad range of crises, while also trying to
cope with their own personal issues.

“We’ve done it a couple times and I’ve always
enjoyed it,” said Fitzwater of the upcoming discus-
sion. “Joe and I come from different political per-
spectives, but we’ve both been press secretary to
the same ravenous press corps, so we share many

'1
LOCKI-{ART

‘of the same insights and feelings about how the

White House works and how the press corps works.”
Questions from the audience will also be enter-
tained by the two speakers.

i
i
i
‘ .
i
I
i
i

l
n
i
i
i
i
i

Soldiers’ near great

‘We Wer

   
  

courtesy imdb.com
TALEY. Gibson plays Lt. Col. Moore in
‘We Were Soldiers.’

In late l965, in a grassy valley of the
central highlands of SouthV1etnam, a group
of 400 American cavalry soldiers fought
the ﬁrst battle of the Vietnam War. VV1th
little knowledge ofthe enemy or his tactics.

the 7".‘ cavalry defeated a force of nearly
2000 North Vietnamese veterans. We Were
Soldiers, directed by Randall Wallace, is a
tribute to the courage of soldiers and the
bonds of brotherhood built between them
War pictures tend to grab your
emotions and never let go. We Were Sol-
diers is no exeeption. Powerful and mov-
ing, the ﬁlm leftme stunned and wonder-
ing about the true meaning of war.
Despite its merits, how-
ever, We 
ing something. It is close to
greatness, but not quite there.
Despite strong performances from
Greg Kinnear as a helicopter pilot seeing
the horrors of war for the ﬁrst time and
Sam Elliot as a grizzled, hurnorless Ser-
geant, the ﬁlm relies on its stars, Mel
Gibson(LtColHalMoore)andCris Iﬂein
(2nd Lt. Jack Geoghegan) to pull at the

    

emotions of the audience. Despite their"

star power, Gibson and Klein seem ﬂat in
their roles, and neither one really seems
right for their role.

The main problem I had with the

  

ﬁlnr is that spends too much time mak-
ing speeches instead of showing the
true sacrifices of the men.

In one scene, we see a dying soldier
trying desperately to hold on. As soon
as we start to care about the soldier and
his plight, we are swept back to Gibson,
who makes a speech about the impor-
tance and history of the event.

The ﬁlm is littered with situations

——»~— just like this one.

_‘FRONT PAGE FEATURE It is too rhetorical,

:0 and the characters
 - seem too aware of
their importance in history.

It may have been better to show
the audience the sacriﬁces of the men
instead of tell them.

Although the message of We
Were Soldiers is aniimportant one, the
way the message was presented fell
way short of its potential. We Were
Soldiers is worth seeing, but it can-
not be called a truly great film. It
comes close to greatness, but, disap-
pointingly, it falls short.

 

PAGE 2

Pill
STAFF EDITORIAL
Ladies: Watch your wardrobe

Gone are the days when a trembling fresh-
man would be brought before the black-gowned
magistrates of the Assimilation Committee for
the unpardonable sins of forgetting his beanie
or of wearing white after Labor Day.

But while we may not have conventional ,
dress, we still have conventions of decency. '

On the hill, in the classroom, some cloth-
ing distracts students and professors from
learning.

One of our editors noticed a particularly
egregious example earlier in the week. She was
sitting in math class when an unconvincing
blonde hopped into the room with the rigid, fal-
tering steps of one whose legs can’t be more
than a foot apart. This blonde was squeezed
like toothpaste into a tube top that looked like it

‘ was held up only by surface tension and force
of will.

What’s the purpose of dressing like this? It
isn’t comfortable, and it can’t help one learn,
unless one’s hoping to push an elderly profes-
sor into a heart attack.

There are simple steps that can prevent a
classroom from tuming into a seraglio.

One is the strapless bra rule——any outﬁt
that requires one should probably be left on the
rack at the Hoochie-Momma Emporium. In-
structive as it might be to pre-chiropractics, the
sight of exposed vertebral colurrms is not a nec-
essary adornment to Front Campus or Lee
Chapel.

Don’t get us wrong. The Phi doesn’t want
women shoved underneath burqas or wimples.

But surely feminists don’t believe that tight
clothes liberate women: is it freedom to be pan-
dering to sexual appetite?

Men can be guilty of poor clothing choices
too, though usually out of laziness rather than
ulterior amorous aspirations. However, un-
shaven, unwashed fraternity brothers differ
from acceptable campus norms in a much less,
ahem, noticeable manner than do adventurously-
clad young ladies. ‘

Let’s, make sure that the Colonnade does
not resemble an armex to Bourbon Street or
pre-Giuliani Times Square.

UOTE OF THE WEEK:

“FD? WHO THE HELL GOES TO
THAT?”

—ANGRY, DATELESS PHI EDITORS RUMI-
NATING ON A STAFF EDITORIAL TOPIC

THE RIN(§-TUM PHI

 

PINIONS

"r5I<L‘I’I'”l. 1\IA\xA\*

OPINIONS EDHOR

EMAII; IqRwANB@wILIEDU
MONDAY, MARCH 25, 2002

Penna. sanitizes Internet for users’ protection

Legislature begins battle against internet child pornography with ill-considered, virtually

The end of the Internet as we know it is near. At least
that is what you could conclude from the past few week’s
developments, one of which will undoubtedly set a dan-
gerous model for ‘Net regulation and censorship.

English news website The Register reported that
Pennsylvania representatives passed a bill requiring
Internet service providers (ISPs) to block customer ac-
cess to child pornography or face hefty fines. Hailed as a
great step forward by Gov. Mark Schweiker, the law will be
in effect is less than a week.

The Keystone State, in its inﬁnite wisdom, produced
nothing more than a palliative, a shabby
and ill-conceived excuse for genuine leg-
islation. The only point the new act will
prove is that Pennsylvania, while appear-
ing to lead the crusade against ﬁlth on
the web, has an understanding modern technology no
better than your average cave—dweller.

Granted, the government had it heart in the right place
by trying to restrict the distribution of kiddie porn, an
unquestionably noble pursuit.

Yet by drafting a law that imposes fines of up to
$30,000 per offense without taking any consideration of
how the offending material can be blocked, our friends
from north of the Mason-Dixon line issued a startling har-
binger of what may be in store for the Intemet’s future if
the government gets its hands on it.,

Technology experts are at a loss as to how to block
particular addresses, as software that can handle the job
has yet to be developed. That and the fact that the state
attorney general’s ofﬁce is responsible for monitoring the
ever—expanding web and issuing a list of inappropriate
links. ‘

In other words, every week or so, state ISP’s will re-
ceive a list of useless, outdated addresses as thick as a
phonebook that will be of little assistance in a world where
site locations can change by the moment.

I can see it now: government workers will have to
begin busying themselves futilely chasing every last un-
seemly webpage in the world, every ISP owner will huddle
in their offices and gnaw their ﬁngernails for fear of being
run out of business by a mountain of penalties, and worst

  

‘ of all, sick creeps will continue to swap pictures and vid-


ﬂ7_Al_\Il)RE\lV LATIMER ‘O5

eos_ over Instant Messenger, IRC and other means. No
one wins.

As Thomas Greene aptly noted in his Register article,
“It’s pure self-congratulatory legislation with no appre-
ciation of the practicalities, and no hope of accomplishing
anything worthwhile.” Even worse, it places the burden
of punishment not on the true offenders but on business-
men who would have nothing to do with the garbage of
the Internet if they could.

To put it mildly, the incompetency that Pennsylvania’s
elected representatives displayed scares me. My fears are
compounded when Ilook beyond the
hot—button issue of kiddie porn and con-
sider the implications of the bill’s word-
ing when applied to other issues. Es-
sentially, what the government has done
is make its ﬁrst value judgment of the web’s content and
made great strides to censor it.

When you take into account the war on terrorism, it
isn’t hard to imagine that another state could draft a sim-
lar bill barring its citizens from viewing terrorist-related
information electronically. From there the government
could take it upon itself to render more and more sites
illegal by trying to direct which websites can legally make
their way to personal computersl

Perhaps that example is too extreme. But even so, this
latest ISP law sets a precedent of Pandora’s box propor-
tions. First Amendment concerns abound.

Another recent event evidences another movement
that, while it may be less disturbing constitutionally, spells
the demise of the Internet as the American public has
come to expect it.

The issue regards last week’s report that Yahoo! has
told its members that they have to pay for e-mail services
starting April 24. What used to be free will now be worth
$29.99 a year, and those who depended on free e-mail will
either have to change addresses quickly or open their
wallets.

This is by no means an isolated case. The net cover-
age journal TheEnd0fFree.com logs every instance that a
company begins charging for what was originally compli-
mentary. Visit the site and you’ll find information about
how The Times of London has plans to bill foreigners for

LONG ARM: These bruisers might soon turn up at your Internet Service Provider when Penna.’s new law proves its ineffectiveness.

Letter to the Editor

useless mountain of new police powers

_ (I)UKIEZsY\WlVL(I}l\F.'£(D\l
ALL SMILES: Penna. Gov. Mark Schweiker was thrilled to sign
House Bill No. 1333, providing for ﬁnes of up to $30,000.

reading their articles, CNN will no longer allow visitors to
view their online videos without a subscription and
Webster’s Online will make users pay for access to their
dictionary.

I’m not making a case for worldwide ‘Net socialism
where everything must be as free as the air we breathe.
Anyone can grasp the fact that no one would develop
any worthy content under those pretenses and that the
owners of websites have every right in the world to charge
whatever they want for their content.

For instance, the Education Testing Service’s plan
to give students an early peek at their SAT scores for a
fee sounds reasonable to me. After all, that information
is only valuable to anxious students who cannot wait
another moment until it’s available while those who are
more patient can get their numbers for free by mail a few
days later.

Just think if ESPN. com debited your account a quar-
ter for each score you check. While no plans have been
discussed, it’s not out of the realm of possibility.

What perturbs me more is that consumers all over the
country will be grossly inconvenienced, if not cheated,
out of Internet essentials like e-mail and weather. That
concept of the web being the world’s library becomes null
and void the moment you can’t surf without paying your
way first.

And for you out there who are troubled about the
plight of the poor, you should take note that the great

- digital democratizing force that we’ve all heard so much

about will become yet another playground of the rich if
things progress as expected.

Maybe my fears of a future where states had j urisdic—
tion over what can and cannot be seen aren’t justiﬁed.
Maybe my worries of a purely pay—your—way web are over-
blown. '

At the same time, every journey must begin with that
first step. During these last few months we may have
caught a glimpse of those first few tentative small moves
toward a future where we’ll be forced to experience the
Internet in a way wholly different from what we know
today. It would be a shame if the American public would
allow that to happen without putting up a ﬁght.

Editor-in-chief
Associate Editor
Asst. News Editor
Asst. News Editor
Opinions Editor
Asst. Opinions Editor
W&Life Editor
Sports Editor

Asst. Sports Editor
Contributing Editor
Photo Editor
Photographers

Matthew B. McDemiott
Katie J . Howell
Latrina Stokes
Imran Naeemullah
Brett T. Kirwan
Drew Latimer
Catherine C. Guy
Jeremy S. Franklin
Dave Crowell
Alison M. Ii-inrdad'
Mary E. Guy

J eb Brooks

Meg Fer-rara

Paul A. Seifert
Brian Castleberry
Emily Barker
William Litton
Peter L. Djalaliev

Business Manager
Circulation Manager
Asst. Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Internet Editor

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondaysduring the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editor-in-chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion of the Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court defun-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi ,
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
' Street Address.‘ 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi.wlu.edu

Annual Subscription Rate: $30

Minorities attempt to assimilate

Dear Editor,

In response to Irnran Naeemullah’s ar-
ticle published in the March 18 issue, “Fo-
rum exposes bigotry and victirrrization of
false diversity forces,” I must first state
that it is the ideals of those who share his
view on diversity on campus that many
minority students are opposed to.

At the diversity forum and in his lat-
est article, Naeemullah has emphasized his
belief that admissions makes exceptions
and admits minority students who “do not
fit in.” Irnplying that because a student is a
minority he will not fit in and can neither
enjoy the benefits of a challenging cur-
riculum nor respect and uphold the honor
code that makes this institution so great is
exactly what causes minorities to be viewed
as outsiders before they make any [attempt
to “assimilate” into the W&L community
and thus causes them to stand apart from
the rest of the student body.

Everyone must acknowledge that
those [the “traditional” students] are

people who built this institution. However,
it also cannot be denied that those very
same men would have sacrificed their lives
before they saw a black person admitted
into this institution. And it is clear from the
confederate ﬂags and the confederate print
Trident shirt that some people agree with
this school of thought. That is the mental-
ity that we are up against and working to
obliterate. V

Moreover, our newly founded chap-
ter of NAACP, along with the BFA and
MSA as well as every Greek organization
and every other organization on campus is
open to every student on campus and, as
such, work to promote unity.

What bafﬂes me is that when black
students choose not to go Greek we are
promoting separatism, but I don’t see any-
one rushing to Fairfax on Tuesday nights.
Better yet, why are black students expected
to attend fraternity parties in order to pro-
mote diversity but the majority of the stu-
dent body can be absent from other func-
tions and not be accused of separatism.
Regardless of what people like to believe,

minority students do not get a great deal
of support from the student body at large
and therefore have to provide a support
system for each other.

Naeemullah believes that the mental-
ity of minorities has not changed much
since the l960’s. People operate on an un-
spoken code that states I will treat you as
you treat me. So, if you happen to run
across an “angry black” person on cam-
pus it is most likely because they have
been the victim of an injustice and there-
fore have a right to be frustrated.

I like a majority of the student body. I
have met so many warm and friendly people
regardless of whether they are the tradi-
tional sort of student or not. The problem
arises when I get overlooked, pushed away
or just plain ignored when I make efforts to
become a member of the W&L
communityand then those same people
who brush me aside tell me I’m not work-
ing hard enough to “assimilate.”

If you walked into a_ room and every-
one gave you unwelcome looks, you
would leave. If you said hello to someone

on the Colonnade and they ﬂat out ignored
you, you would be offended. If every time
you went to an activity with people that
you don’t know and they brush aside your
efforts to get to know them, you stop go-
ing and form relationships with people who
share your experience.

I’d like to see more black students wel-
come at fraternity parties and I’d like to see
more white students at MSA parties. I’d
like to see such large turnouts for events
such as evening abroad that they have to
move it to a larger location. I’d like to see
huge turnouts for artists such as Rene’ Marie
and the Contact speakers.

Until N aeemullah, and those who think
like him are truly and honestly willing to
stop being so close—rninded and become
forward—tl1inking enough to realize that, just
like everyone else, all we are tying to do is
be accepted for who we are, this campus
will be plagued by division, frustration and
be left with a great sense of want.

Sincerely,
Kaela Harmon ‘O5

 

 

“Going from FD to the
hospital and back.”
--Raphael Penteado, ‘03

 

—-Christina lnnamorato, ‘05

‘‘I don’t know. I don’t

remember much.”

 

“Dancing.”
«Catherine Torrey Stroud, ‘O5

 

“Spending an entire week-
end with my girlfrien .”

 

“Getting dressed up.”
-—Barrett Nixon ‘04

--Erik Kiewiet de Jonge, ‘O5

‘

Ir

1»

4

‘F-

 

 
 

MONDAY, MARCH 25, 2002.     

Unless you’ve been living under the proverbial rock
for all of winter term, you know that the hottest topic on
campus is diversity. After attending the panel for diver-
sity on March 14 and witnessing the respective sides ar-
gue their cases, I felt the need to lend non-politicized in-

sight to the issue.

What is so obvious as to be unanimous is that W&L

is lacking when it comes to diversity. Our student body is
‘composed primarily of wealthy whites, particularly South-
ierners and males and combinations thereof. Furthermore,
it is common knowledge that even in the hardest years for
' Greek recruitment, membership in a given freshman class
‘never drops below the 60-65% level, and those years are
_ more an aberration than a trend. It is when the question of

whether this lack of diversity is a problem to be solved or

. simply part of the unique charm of this ﬁne institution that
opinions begin to differ.

Phi writer Imran Naemullah consistently argues in
his articles on diversity that the goal of W&L should not
be a highly diverse student body, but a highly merited
one. He hits the nail on the head by saying this. However,
if one compares the student body composition of W&L

with that of those institutions with higher national es-
"teem, such as those of the Ivy League, it becomes appar-
:ent that merit and diversity are not mutually exclusive
‘qualities.

It must be made clear that the issue at hand is not
achieving diversity for the sake of diversity, but provid-
ing a campus atmosphere that is attractive to the most
excellent and worthy students from all backgrounds, rather
than simply to the narrow range of types that currently
composes our student body. This is not to say that there
is something wrong with the current types. I merely assert
that as a school we would be strengthened if students of
all ethnic, religious, and socioeconomic
backgrounds were competing for and V
yearning for acceptance letters from Lex-
ington in April.

We are all concerned about how is
just how this more attractive atmosphere will be achieved.
Conservatives tend to fear that our admissions ofﬁce will
become a hotbed of the affirmative action movement, while
liberals tend to fear that the inﬂuence of tradition will stop
the movement dead in its tracks. Once again, if the respec-
tive sides are willing to compromise for the sake of a more
excellent student body, neither side has to “lose.”

One action which would help preclude the need for
special admissions policies similar to afﬁrmative action is
a reform of the school’s ﬁnancial aid program. No one
needs to be told that W&L is expensive. Though it is more
“competitively priced” than many similar private liberal
arts colleges, price is a significantly prohibitive factor for
many qualified or even admitted applicants.

While the current presidential prospectus states that
the university meets 100% of student ﬁnancial need, there
are those who qualify for aid and still fall through the
cracks. I could offer personal testimony to this point, but

    

    Oi5iiii1oNs        
Admissions, financial aid must be altered to promote diversity

 

PA§E,_3

  

GILLIAM HOUSE BLUES: The Admissions Office must step up recruiting efforts and Financial Aid must increase available scholarship dollars if such diversity is ever to grace our fair campus.

to avoid being inﬂuenced by my bias, ask someone in the
theater department about the fate of ' Sarah Garrison, a
talented theatre technical student who was forced to trans-
fer because of the Financial Aid Ofﬁce’s inﬂexibility.

The University would do well to follow the example
of Princeton. Princeton offers no academic scholarships
to entering freshmen, but meets 100% of all demonstrated
need, loan-free. A policy such as this allows an admis-
sions ofﬁce to recruit, select, and enroll the most qualiﬁed
students from all financial backgrounds.

p While on the topic of admissions, there are a few
other issues to consider. First on the agenda is the gender
bias. While this year’s freshman class was

. _: FIGHTING  an aberration due to miscalculations by

the admissions office, the school still has

2;  M a policy of admitting males at a minimum

rate of 55%. I realize this school was en-
tirely male from its founding until 1986, but is it really
necessary to enroll at least 10% more males than females
each year? What is that policy reallyidoing but denying
qualiﬁed females admission?.Besides, judging from the
number of guys who import dates for events such as Fancy
Dress, more selection is nothing to complain about.

The next issue is minority recruitment. The foremost
priority of the admissions ofﬁce should be to entice the
best students from across the nation to apply to and en-
roll at W&L. However, in order to enroll the worthiest
students, it is necessary to recruit more heavily among
those under-represented in the applicant pool. I empha-
size that this does not constitute affirmative
action. Affirmative action and discrimination both occur
when decisions are made on a basis other than
merit. Recruitment of under-represented students does
nothing more than ‘expand the applicant pool to include
qualiﬁed students who currently would make their contri-

   

 

   

Javu@meeHQ 

 

  lassical Guitar

 Aconstic Set   . .

   Monc1ay,March 25       
  To  volunteers going Nicaragua over  p
  spring break.Baked goods willbea?vai1able.i  0
    Donations appreciated.          

 

  

butions to more diversity-friendly academic heavyweights
such as the Ivy League.

What goes hand in hand with recruitment, though, is
a set of realistic recruitment goals. We must know that
possibilities may be limited due to our rural Southern loca-
tion and the role that a certain deceased Confederate gen-
eral plays in our school. This should not be used as an
excuse for a lack of diversity, but rather as a way of avoid-
ing discouragement should the demographic of W&L not
accurately represent that of the United States immediately
upon enactment of this policy.

Heavier recruitment, ‘however, will not work, if the
atmosphere of this school continues to be dominated by
wealthy white frat guys. The social system of our school
must change in a number of ways in order to provide an
atmosphere appealing to a wider range of qualified
students. This includes changes to the beloved Greek
system, both in its operation and in the role that it plays in
the social scene.

A lot of passions burn hot when changes to the Greek
system are suggested. The problem is that the Greek ma-
jority often makes one of two assumptions about the in-
dependent population. They assume that either everyone
wants to or ought to be in a fraternity or sorority, and that
somehow it didn’t work out for independents, or that in-
dependents are against the entire concept of a Greek sys-
tem and want no part whatsoever in the school’s social
scene. Neither of these statements is even remotely true.

There are independents who did not receive a bid, or
weren’t even courted by the Greek system. Many of these
are minorities and international students who might well
have enjoyed-the chance to participate in the system had
it been offered. There are individual fraternities who make
a concerted effort to reach out to these
individuals. However, the system as a whole needs to make

an effort to reach out and find a place for anyone who
wants to be a part of it.

What I see as the more crucial issue is that there are a
signiﬁcant number of individuals who either enjoy some-
times attending fraternity parties, but aren’t taken with
the system enough to warrant pledging, as well as a sig-
niﬁcant number who don’t take to the Greek system much
at all. Many of these individuals are told, in one way or
another, “If you don’t want to be a part of the Greek sys-
tem, ask yourself whether you want to be a part of W&L at
all.” It is shameful that these individuals are asked to
choose between full commitment to the Greek system and
social ostracism. This is not to say that the ostracism is
active or blatant, although sometimes it is. But it is often
similar to the passive racial prejudice which ethnic minori-
ties report— subtle actions that are enough to make the
victims feel unwanted.

The ﬁnal, and most crucial, issue in the diversity de-
bate is attitude. The make-up of this campus will not change
until the attitude of the student body does. There must be
a reduction of the apathy that has all but crippled the
speaking tradition, and a recognition that those different
from ourselves, in whatever regard, have something valu-
able to offer, or else they would not be here. The most
important acceptance does not come in the mailbox before
you arrive, but in the greetings offered on the Hill or at
fraternity parties, the reactions in class discussions, and
the late night bull/study sessions.

W&L does not exist to serve as a bastion for the white
upper middle-class, or the Southern male, or the diehard Greek
member. These groups are all valuable and should continue
to be vital parts of our institution, but as a school we should
realize that we could be so much more if we extended warm
and eager welcome to all committed to the ideals of honor
and academic excellence, regardless of background.

‘."if'.!‘l-‘lg’-’ia¥.I

_:a: RA§__oﬂer :i_g1*arictr_,i_:t Enuemrmt 4:t:a€J,fes—amz:s  expen-ks.

:n‘ae§=iae adiioiretoh I’-Bi.'21l1i.*...‘L:'A'§‘§£1(i:i10';lt:"i

"Va  wise ntian.

 ll.-Friiiaging  ' ..  

. with ntfmr lining: to think await?"

tnsuauarsf uuwmunas 4>£:1tss:w.i:st : ‘ll

:runeu.nmtnhmc;.a'pa . [imta‘aa§.. Tl"
Pmisai lrmattws  lrsiz, IfL51|ilﬁ.tl¢ 3@J§¥¥l‘ll25 rmaiut *“

ill’-F§l!1l'A1'ti1;iznéi=5ii3L ml ._

 —i1r»|k:,;z« aw‘ rmgst _Eu1i:’tir.-a.=_Fu.néE ETA!-{3£2£Fi. Mm tat. Hr. it-sin ttailriraxti was mar-'.mat.t:d. A

1

CATHERINE GLY
\X&L1FE EDHOR
MONDAY, MARCH

Ada
B
M»
m
D
VJ
m
a
F
am”
5
9
6
m

9
9

8
*1

 W&L1FE
‘ Dance with the Dragon

Q

E
F

W&L1

25, 2002

‘DAY, M»\R<:H

J}-’.REMYFRlNl\lll\J

SPORTS Errror

Emu; l?ltlNl\l.ll\:]@\XtIL'.‘
PAGE 6

Men’s lacrosse scores 4

goals in 4th quarter to win
  1 st conference contest

BY DAVE CROWELL
.\SSlST.\NT SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee men’s
lacrosse team weathered a third-quar-

ter storm in opening Old Dominion

Athletic Conference play with a 9-5
victory over Roanoke at Wilson Field
on Saturday afternoon. V

The win moved the fifth—ranked
Generals’ record to 5-2 on the season
and started ODAC play on the right
note, especially for a team hungry to
claim a conference title and return to
the national playoffs.

‘Traditionally, Roanoke has been
one of the stronger teams, so it was
important for us to get this game,”
first-year coach Mike Cerino said. “It
was important for our conﬁdence, with
a new staff and some younger guys.
It was a real character check for us
and I was very pleased with the way
the players responded.”

The Generals got off to a quick
start on Saturday, surprising the Ma-

Mary Wa

Tlltf. Ris;<;~rru PHI

MAROONS FOILED: junior Rob Brown drives against a

 

Roanoke defender in Saturday’s 9-5 Washington and Lee win their first ODAC match of the season.

roons with three first-quarter goals
and a quick tally in the second. Junior
Rob Brown notched an unassisted
goal and sophomore Matt Fink scored

off a pass from senior Andrew Barnett
less than six minutes in.

Freshman Gavin Molinelli scored
an unassisted goal with 20 seconds

left in the first quarter, and senior John
Moore made the score 4-0 with an

unassisted goal 30 seconds into the

second quarter.

shington knocks off W&L

No. 12 Eag as hand the Generals a 14-3 loss in a Saturday non-conference contestat the Liberty Hall ﬁelds

ROUGH AFIERNOON FOR W8cI.: Sophomore Kelly Taffe, shown here in W&L’s 8-
7 win over Nazareth on March 13, and the Generals fell 14-3 to No. 12 Mary
Washington at the Liberty Hall fields on Saturday.

 
   

r\llR\ (rl.\ /ThcR1ng—t11m Ph

BY IAN R Mclnzor
SPORTS wrm-zr

After a narrow 13-8 loss to Franklin
& Marshall the previous week, the
Washington and Lee women’s la-
crosse team returned to action this
Saturday with a renewed drive.

Unfortunately, Mary Washington
scored the first 10 goals of the con-
test en route to a 14-3 win over the
Generals at the Liberty Hall ﬁelds.

Ranked No. 12 in NCAA Division
HI, Mary Washington had an explo-
sive start on Saturday.

Leading the Eagles were two jun-
iors: attacker Pam Kramer, who re-
corded two goals and four assists, and
midﬁelder Kami McNinch, who con-
tributed three goals and one assist.

Senior midﬁelder Briana Gervat also
scored a pair of goals. Playing all 60
minutes in goal, sophomore Tricia
Marino recorded 10 saves.

Despite trailing 8-0 at the half, the
Generals refused to quit playing at
their best.

“The team should be extremely
pleased with their aggressive play,”
W&L head coach Jan Hathom said.
“Their intensity, especially in the sec-
ond half, was much greater than I have
seen in the last two games combin .”

Senior midﬁelder Emily Owens tal-
lied the Generals’ ﬁrst goal with 18:06
left in the second half. Five minutes
later, freshman midﬁelder Kitt Murphy
continued the rally with a second goal.

 

 

no 'nertr:rs Raaurarsa ,

 To 

‘ll   1:: . mrmtvm Wrtmtcaa  3*’  
 mt Alarm   1 “mm” W  FEW”
lwninwaea  Carrrrerr To  Warm
wrrrrmr er Dona lwmrarr warrmrr  Anna 

rr:-as., Anna  and-,2 Afr 9 pm
Wan... atvnrir. 3, 2092 AT’ 8 PM
“mrms., Anna. 4, zone arr 8 PM

With 11:24 left in the game, senior
midﬁelder Courtenay Fisher scored
W&L’s third and ﬁnal goal.

“(Fisher’s) play was impressive
since she was just coming back from
an illness,” Hathom said.

“I was just proud that nobody
gave up when we were down,” Fisher
said. “The late rally really meant a lot.”

Against a young and talented
Eagles offense, the Generals per-
formed rather solidly on defense.

Senior defenders “Eloise (Priest)
and Julie (Carskadon) played very
well under constant pressure,”
Hathorn said.

Sophomore Joanna Perini contrib-
uted with four saves in goal for W&L.

With a 3-3 record, the No. 15 Gen-
erals remain committed to their pre-
season goals.

“By winning our conference
matchups and always keeping focused
on our next game, we hope to return to
both the ODAC and NCAA tourna-
ments again this year,” Fisher said.

As a team, the plan remains to re-
turn to the basics in preparation for
the second half of the season.

“Right now, our biggest opponent
is ourselves,” Hathom said. “If we
keep to our tough work ethic and just
concentrate on doing the little things
well, we will be able to play the better
game that we are capable of playing.”

The Generals return to action as
they host Lynchburg at 4 p.m. on
Wednesday at Liberty Hall.

I Aiu-'Gus'/TheRing-tum Phi
at \X/ilson Field. Brown scored a goal as the Generals won

W&L’s quick outburst, however,
didn’t surprise Cerino.

“I felt we could control the tempo
of the game, and we finished some
opportunities early,” Cerino said.
“We had a good game plan for their
defense.”

The Generals and Maroons then
traded goals in the second quarter,
with Fink picking up his second goal
of the day to make the score 5-1.
Roanoke responded, however, by re-
placing their goalie with 6—foot-6-inch
freshman John Cooper and adding a
score with 34 seconds remaining in
the half.

W&L’s 5-2 lead slowly evaporated
in the third quarter, with Roanoke’s
Joe Wereen scoring his second goal
of the quarter to tie the score at 5-5
with 22 seconds left.

“We were still having some trouble
shooting on that goaltender, and there
seemed to be a rash of fouls going
against us. We lost some of our of-
fensive balance,” Cerino said. “We
really couldn’t settle in, but we seemed
to ﬁnd our rhythm again.”

Roanoke errors seemed to aid the
Generals in rediscovering a rhythm.
Barnett took advantage of a bad
clearing pass to give W&L a 6-5 lead,

in DAVE Cnowau.
ASSISTANT srorrs EDITOR

The Washington and Lee golf
team shot a 312 in the W&L/ODAC
Invitational on Thursday afternoon
at the Lexington Golf& Country Club
in order to seize the team crown, beat-
ing No. 2 Guilford by three strokes.

“It was a great boost for the
team,” coach Gavin Colliton said.
“We won the tournament and it feels
great to beat the second-ranked team,
but the guys still weren’t completely
satisﬁed, which is a good sign.”

Freshman Carlos Spaht led the
Generals by winning the individual
competition, shooting a four—over-
par 75 to be the event’s medallist.

Juniors Chuck Green and Chip
Campbell followed Spaht by shoot-
ing 77 and 79, respectively. Green’s
score earned a ﬁfth-place finish,
while Campbell tied for sixth.

“The freshmen, Carlos and Ged
(Johnson), have done a great job and
have really stepped up their game,”
Colliton said. “Chip is always steady
for us, but we’re still waiting for
some of the older guys to play at a
consistent level.”

Senior Kyle Ulep rounded out the
scoring for W&L, shooting an 81.

The Generals return to competi-
tion when they travel to Salem on
April 2 for the Roanoke/ODAC Invi-
tational, the last stop before the
Emory Invitational, where a number
of the top Division III teams compete.

“We just have to put everything

together and not leave anything in

lAONDAY,lAARCH 25,2002

an advantage that they would not re-
linquish.

Moore, Fink and Molinelli rounded
out the scoring, with sophomore
Mike McNamara assisting on the last
two goals.

A key to the game, however, was
the ability of the Generals to make
defensive stops, especially in penalty
situations. Sophomore Ansel Sanders
made a number of great stops in net,
often sending back point-blank shots.

Cerino noted the growth Sanders
has shown since taking the job at the
beginning of the year.

“He has made some athletic saves.
His maturity and poise in the net are
helping our defense and his
athleticism in the clearing game has
been an asset for us,” Cerino said.
“He’s playing well.”

Sanders and the rest of the squad
will need to continue playing well,
with road games against ODAC foes
Guilford and 18th-ranked Lynchburg
this week.

W&L travels to Greensboro, N.C.,
for a 3:30 p.m. contest against the
Quakers on Wednesday afternoon.

They continue their road trip with
a 2 p.m. contest against the Hdmets
on Saturday.

the bag. Hopefully we’ll keep im-
proving, but the trip to Emory will
be key,” Colliton said.

Track runs at Roanoke

The W&L track program com-
peted at the Roanoke Invitational on
Saturday, with the men’s team tak-
ing third place out of seven teams
with 99 points and the women’s team
claiming fourth out of eight teams
with 84 points.

The homestanding Maroons
dominated the day, winning both the
men’s (148 points) and women’s (266
points) competitions.

Generals ocme Roanok, ull out 9-5 win :

iv

1’

it

1

‘*1

-5

A

Golf wins home invite 3

4

A

V

1

On the men’s side, sophomore 4

Jonathan Brimer won the 200-meter
dash in a time of 23.52 seconds.
Junior Chris Sullivan excelled in
three events, claiming second place
in the 100-meter dash (11.45) and

third—place finishes in the 200-meter 1

dash (23.84) and long jump (21’02”).

Junior Mat Rapoza took third
place in the shot put (43’03.50”) and
added a ﬁfth-place ﬁnish in the dis-
cus (111’08”).

Junior Sarah Schmidt led the way
for the women’s team by setting a
new school record in the javelin. She
won the competition with a throw of

J’

-7

l29’05”, over 10 feet farther than she ’

threw last weekend at the W&L In-
vitational.

Senior Megan Babst took second
place in the high jump by clearing
5’01.75”, and junior Burke Duncan
took third place in the 5,000-meter
run with a time of 19:01.30.

#1 Spring Break Vacations!
Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, & Florida.
Best Parties, Best Hotels, Best Prices!

Group Discounts, Group organizers travel free!
Space is limited! Hurry up & Book Now!

1-800-234-7007

www. endlesssummertours. com

4

4'.

 

DPORTS

MONDAY, MARCH 25,2002

W&L strugg

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

Either the Washington and Lee baseball team is mired
in an offensive slump, or other pitchers in the Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference have the numbers of nearly ev-
eryone in the Generals’ lineup.

_ If you ask anyone on the W&L roster, chances are
you’re going to hear the former answer.

“Sometimes we’re pressing a little bit,” junior short-
stop Michael Hanson said. “We do have to do a better job
of jumping on them in the first inning. None of these pitch-
ers are that good, but we’re not making them pay for their
mistakes.” '

The Generals opened the week on Thursday with a 7-4
loss to Bridgewater at Cap’n Dick Smith Field. W&L man-
aged just one extra—base hit and had 16 groundball outs
against the Eagles’ pitching staff, led by starter Dan
Proctor’s seven-inning effort.

“He’s a good pitcher,” W&L coach Jeff Stickley said of
Proctor. “He stays away, stays away, then busts you in-
side with two strikes. I thought our guys at the plate battled,
but we just didn’t get the hits when we had to towards the
end of the game with guys on base.”

In the field, sophomore righthander Mike Wert
-struggled with his control, walking ﬁve and throwing three
wild pitches in ﬁve innings of work. But just two of his
ﬁve runs were earned as Wert fell to 1-3.

The Generals did manufacture a couple of runs early,

_ taking a 3-2 lead with two scores in the bottom of the third.

Hanson scored after reaching on an error, and junior cen-
ter ﬁelder Bobby Littlehale crossed home after being hit
by a pitch.

But the Eagles scored two runs off of three walks, a

A wild pitch and a passed ball in the top of the fourth. They

 

FRIENDLY CONVERSATION: W&L coachjeff Stickley consults
with the home plate umpire in the bottom of the second
inning of the Generals’ 2-1 loss to Eastern Mennonite.

would add insurance runs in the ﬁfth, sixth and ninth in-
nings, including a solo home run by second baseman Jamie
Lawhome.

“Little things are what‘ kills you against these guys,”
Stickley said. “They’re a good enough team that they
make you pay when you make a little mistake.”

W&L struggled at the plate in both games of a home
doubleheader against Eastern Mennonite on Saturday,
but quality pitching kept them in both games and gave
them a split with the Royals.

Sophomore Peter Dean tossed a complete game in the
first seven-inning stint, giving up two runs —— one earned
— on ﬁve hits. The only offense the Generals could muster,
however, was Hanson’s one—out homer in the sixth inning.

Generals continue regional dominance

senior Sallie Gray Strang were victori-
ous at No. 3.

Coach Cinda Rankin was pleased
with her team’s performance, and also
noted the match’s importance with
regard to postseason play.

“That match was an important
match for us and it was good to see
the kids dominate,” Rankin said.
“More importantly, however, Rhodes
College is a team that we don’t face
this season, but might see later in the
South Regional.

“They beat Mary Washington 9-0
earlier this year, so this was a way to
measure our progress and compare
ourselves to Rhodes.”

The Generals return to action with
a pair of matches today. Part of the
squad willtravel to Lynchburg for a
3:30 p.m. match. The rest of the team

  

“I hit that ball about as well as I’ve hit any ball in my
career, probably,” Hanson said of his shot over the left
ﬁeld wall. “(Eastern Mennonite’s Ethan Hilliard) hung a
curveball about belt-high, and I hit it right on the fat part
of the bat. I got under it, but I got a lot of it.”

Both of the Royals’ runs in the ﬁrst game came with
two outs. In the top of the third, leadoff hitter Tavis Laws
reached when second baseman Austin Allain threw away
a groundball and scored when left fielder Dan Kagey
dropped a pop ﬂy.

The game-winning run came with two gone an inning
later. Right ﬁelder T.J . Frazier smacked a double and scored
two batters later on shortstop Matt Lewellen’s RBI single.

W&L never seemed to get going in the second game,
save for an outburst in the bottom of the third. Allain
reached third on a pair of Royal errors, and Littlehale’s
double to center field scored the second baseman.
Littlehale scored when junior first baseman Brian Gladysz
pulled a double to right ﬁeld.

The 2-0 lead held up until the top of the seventh, as
sophomore Dan Kagey kept Eastern Mennonite score-
less through six. But catcher Erik Kratz hit a two-run, two-
out double to tie the game up and force extra innings.

W&L won the game in the bottom of the eighth on Allain’s
suicide squeeze, which turned into a bunt single and scored
sophomore catcher Bryan Mulhem from third base.

“We gave Austin a strike, and then I told him we were
probably going to squeeze,” Stickley said. “We did, and
he laid it down. Luckily, it was out of the reach of the
pitcher.” '

Hanson picked up the win in relief, retiring three straight
batters after Kagey gave up a leadoff single to start the
top of the eighth.

“Dan and Peter have done a great job of getting us so
many innings that I’m not needed to start,” said Hanson,

Men’s tennis tops

 

GENERAIS SLAM MONARCHS: Waslnngton and Lee sophomore Graham Nix
’ defeated Methodists Ben Porter 6-2, 6-3 at No. 4 singles at home on Saturday.

PAGE 7

Is t plate in 3 home ODAC games A

. ARYGLN‘/Tl1eRing-tumPhi
4-3 GROUNDOUT: Sophomore Austin Allain fires to ﬁrst base
in Washington and Lee’s doubleheader split with Eastern
Mennonite at Cap’n Dick Smith Field on Saturday.

who also has two saves this year. ‘‘I’ In adapting to the role
of closing, to shut the game down when we need to.”
W&L (10-7, 5-4 ODAC) has three huge conference con-
tests this week. They complete their season series with
Bridgewater with a road contest on Tuesday, and then
they travel to Virginia Wesleyan for a Saturday double-

ea Methodist

after Averett, as they destroyed the
Royals 7-0.

Detwiler was able to bring in players
who had sat out on Tuesday, and W&L
relied on them for the win. Junior Chris
Sorenson, freshmen David Ellison and
Marshall Vrney, sophomores Seth Mar-
" tin and Chris Surdo and senior John
Colfry all won singles matches and
teamed to sweep the doubles.

“We’ve got a very deep team,”
Detwiler said. “I’ ve been able to play
all 14 guys this wee .”

Saturday morning, the Duchossois
Tennis Center opened its doors to the
men of Methodist College.

“Methodist is a strong team in the
region, probably even better than
Salisbury State,” said Detwiler,
whose tearndropped Salisbury State
6-1 on March 16.

   

MARY(JL'Y/'Il1CR1ng—[umPh1

EAGLES LANDED: junior Erika Proko and the V/ashington and Lee women’s tennis
tearn handed Mary V/ashington an 8-1 loss at home on Saturday.

BY DAVE CROWELL
.\SSlSTAl\'T SPORTS EDITOR

The ﬁfth-ranked Washington and
Lee women’s tennis team completed
a strong week of tennis with an 8-1
victory over 20th-ranked Mary Wash-
ington on Saturday afternoon.

Saturday’s win, coupled with wins
on Tuesday and Thursday over Old
Dominion Athletic Conference foes
Randolph-Macon Woman’s College

' and Roanoke, respectively, ran the
Generals’ record to 10-0 on the year,

6-0 in ODAC play.
J_unior Erika Proko picked up a win

at No.2 singles over the Eagles’ Karli
Schneider. Senior Melissa Hatley,
sophomore Elizabeth Law, junior
Laura Bruno and senior Manning
Willard also picked up victories in
their singles matches.

Mary Washington picked up their
sole victory at No. 1 singles, where
the Generals were forced to retire the
match following an ankle injury to
freshman Lindsay Hagerrnan.

In doubles action, Hatley and
Proko teamed to defeat Schneider and
Steff Slaughter, 8-2, at No. 1.

Hagerrnan and \V1llard picked up a
win at No. 2 doubles and Bruno and

will face Sweet Briar at home in a 4:30
p.m. match.

The most grueling part of the sea-
son, however, starts on Thursday with
the Fab Five Tournament. The event
is being held at W&L.

The Generals will face ﬁve teams
in ﬁve days: top-ranked \V1lliams, No.
2 Emory, third-ranked Trinity (Texas),
No. 6 Pomona-Pitzer and No. 7
Gustavus Adolphus College.

“I hope we’ll do well, but I’m really
not sure,” Rankin said. “It will be the
ﬁrst time we’ll be tested and put against
comparable talent. I think it will come
down to mental toughness and which
team wants to grab the wins.

_ “There is a lot of pressure on our
team, and we’re going to have our
hands full this week.”

BY MICHAEL LEE
SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s
tennis team dropped a road match to
No. 10 Averett on Tuesday but re-
bounded to defeat Eastern Menno-
nite and Methodist at home on
Wednesday and Saturday.

The Generals began the week with
a 4-3 loss at Averett in Danville on
Tuesday. In a tough match, W&L just
couldn’t quite,,keep up.

Coach David Detwiler noted that
a few matches were very close, and
could have gone either way — but,
unfortunately, went to Averett.

“Averett is No. 10 in the nation,
and we’re No. 17,” Detwiler said.
“That makes for a tough match.”

The two squads split the singles
matches, as senior Rhys James won
at No. 2 singles and senior Rob
Moynihan and sophomore K.C.
Schaefer were victorious at ﬁfth and
sixth—seed singles.

Freshman Paul McClure lost at
the top slot, while sophomores Aus-
tin Kim and Graham Nix dropped
matches at No. 3 and No. 4 singles.

Averett’s point from winning two
of three doubles matches gave them
the win. Schaefer and McClure se-
cured the lone doubles victory for
W&L at the third spot.

The next day,'the Generals were
back to Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference action against Eastern Men-
nonite, and apparently had no lin-
gering doubts about their abilities

Once again, unrnindful of reputa-
tions that precede their opponents,
the Generals stepped up to a day of
excellent tennis, sweeping Method-
ist 7-0. W&L reverted back to the
same lineup they used against
Averett, but with better results.

Detwiler highlighted an excellent
performance by McClure in his
match, with a strong 6-4 third set that
gave the team a boost and the No. 1
seed a 6-3, 4-6, 6-4 win.

When asked about the doubles
matches on Saturday, Detwiler said,
“We do need to work on our doubles
a bit, but it’s the morning after FD.”

The Generals will have a few days
off from their rigorous schedule of
match play before they host Mary Wash-
ington on Wednesday at 3:30 p.m.

.‘/30 (I.\‘/fI"I(/ (2)0/11/1 1011/

MANGO MANIA - WILDBERRY BLAST - STRAWBERRY‘ BOMB
FROZEN CAPPUCCINO - FROZEN MOCHA - MORE
9 WEST WASHINGTON STREET ° LEXINGTON 0 464-6586

PAGE 8  .

       337511133        
Missing from lat wee’

ABOVE: Senior Rhys James serves in his 6-4, 7-6 (3) win over Salisbury State’s Scott

Mayberry on March 17. RIGHT‘. Sophomore Dan Kagey ﬁres home in Washington
and Lee’s 5-0 win over Randolph-Macon in the second game of a doubleheader on
March 17. Kagey pitched a complete game shutout, recording seven strikeouts.

Nazareth at the Liberty Hall Fields on March 14.

ABOVE: Senior Manning \Willard teamed with freshman Lindsay Hagerman for an 8-1 win at No. 1 doubles against Emory &
Henry on March 16. RIGHT: Senior co—captain Emily Owens scored a goal in Washington and Lee’s 8-7 comeback win over

7

PHOTOS BY MARY GUY/
THE RING-TUM PHI

S

 

 

isu...

. MONDAY, MARCH 25- 2002 ,

Due to a major printing error, several photos were omitted from

 

the March 18 edition of The Ring-tum Phi. The staff of the Phi 1
apologizes for the incident. Here are the photos that should have
appeared in last week’s issue:

6

‘-1
— SCOREBOARD
. .. 2 A 
BASEBALL Box SCORES AND STATISTICS MEN’s TENNIS SCORES WoMEN’s TENNIS SCORES AND SCHEDULES , ,
. » I .1
Thursday, March 21 Washington and Lee 3, Eastern Mennonite 2 (Second Game) Tuesday, March 19 - Danville, Va. Thursday, March 21 — Salem, Va. Fab Five Tournament ' 1
Bridgewater 7, Washington and Lee 4 EASTERN MENNONITE WASHINGTON AND LEE Averett 4, Washington and Lee 3 Washington and Lee 9, Roanoke 0 March 28-April 1 — Lexington, Va.
BRIDGEWATER WASHINGTON AND LEE ab r h bi ab r h bi Singles Singles
ab r h bi ab r h bi Laws of 4 1 0 0 Hanson ss/p 3 0 0 0 1. Vellu Antila (AC) (1. Paul McClure, 6-2, 6-0 1. Melissa Hatley (W&L) d. Ashley Fleming, 6-1, 6-1 Thursday, March 28 ,.

McQueen ss 3 2 1 1 Hanson ss 5 2 1 1 Rohrbough 1b 3 1 0 0 Littlehale 01 4 1 1 1 2. Rhys James (W&L) d. Pekka Mikkonen, 7-6, 5-7, Ret. 2. Elizabeth Law (W&L) d. Marianne Dolan, 6-4, 6-3 Upper Courts (‘
Lawhorne 2b 4 2 3 2 Littlehale cf 4 1 1 0 Kratz c 3 0 3 2 Kozora Sb 2 0 0 0 3. Mikko Hermans (AC) d. Austin Kim, 6-7 (4), 6-4, 6-4 3. Laura Bruno (W&L) 11. Blake Crilly, 6-3, 6-0 W&L vs. Williams, 4 p.m. ’
Heam rt 5 0 1 0 Kozora 3b 2 0 0 0 Quick 3b 4 0 1 0 Gladysz 1b 4 0 2 1 4. Tarmo Laaksonen (AC) 11. Graham Nix, 6-1, 3-6, 6-3 4. Emily Taylor (W&L) d. Devon Humphries, 6-0, 6-2 _ , .
Estes 1b 3 1 2 1 Mulhern nip 3 0 0 2 CaSevers It 4 0 1 0 Gosselink rt 3 0 0 0 5. Rob Moynihan (W&L) d. Olli Kellokumpu, 6-2, 6-1 5. Kristin ‘Crawford (W&L) d. Andrea Horner, 6-1, 7-6 (3) Frldav» March 29 1
Lewis 3b 4 0 0 0 Gladysz 1b 4 0 2 0 Frazier rt 3 0 0 0 Mulhern c 3 1 0 0 6. K.C. Schaeier (W&L) (1. Peter Rouch, 6-2, 6-2 6. Lauren Burrow (W&L) 11. Emily Smith, 6-0, 6-0 '-°‘”°" c°“''‘§ , - l
Patterson dh 4 1 0 0 Gosselink c 4 0 1 1 Robertson dh 4 0 0 0 Kagey p/It 4 0 3 0 Doubles Doubles ‘ KehY°h "5- T”h"Vv 12 pm I i
Childress If 4' 0 0 0 Kagey Ii 4 1 1 0 Lewellen ss - 4 0 1 0 Sibley If 3 0 0 0 1. Antila/Mikkonen (AC) d. Andrew Roberts/James, 8-4 1. Hatley/Bruno d. Fleming/Crilly, 8-2 UPP“ c°}"‘5 _ _ Y I‘
Shull c 3 1 0 0 Sibley dh/rf 4 0 2 0 Thompson 25 3 0 2 0 Leitner 20 0 ‘0 0 0 2. Hermans/Laaksonen (AC) (1. Kim/Nix, 3-2 2. Law/Burrow d. Smith/Humphries, 3-5 Pomona Pﬁzer VS- William 12 P-In =
Dewar cf 3 0 0 0 Allain 2o 4 0 0 0 Miller pr 0 0 0 0 Riiiee ph 1 0 0 0 3. Schaeier/McClure (W&L) d. Kellokumpu/Rouch, 3-4 3. Taylor/Crawford d. McCall/Tesconi, 9-4 Emory VS- W&L: 4 P-"1 p,’ M ,
Totals 33 7 7 4 34 4 8 4 Sauder 2b 0 0 0 0 Allain 2b/ss 4 1 1 1 Saturday March 30

Bridgewater 101 211 001 — 7 Totals 32 2 8 2 31 3 7 3 Wednesday, March 20 — Lexington, Va. Saturday, March 23 — Lexington, Va. Lower Calms -

Washington and Lee 102 000 001 — 4 Eastern Mennonite 000 000 20 — 2 Washington and Lee 7, Eastern Mennonite 0 Washington and Lee 8, Mary Washington 1 G t Add hus VS, Wm m 9 J‘

E —— Lawhorne, Lewis 2, Hanson, Kozora. DP — Bridgewater 3. Washington and Lee 002 000 01 — 3 Singles Singles EUS avus P p P.t' ' a 5’ am’

LOB — Bridgewater 7, Washington and Lee 7. 2B — Sibley. One out when winning run scored. 1. Chris Sorenson (W&L) d. Drew Fuderaro, 6-2, 6-3 1. Steit Slaughter (MWC) d. Lindsay Hagerman, 4-6, Umog; l§(‘)urct’?°na Izer’ 1 pm‘

3B — McQueen. HR — Lawhorne. SB — Estes 2, Hanson. CS — E - Quick, Thompson, Forry, Hanson, Gladysz. DP - Washington 2. David Ellison (W&L) d. Brian Miller, 6-2, 6-2 0-5, Def. Mg? washm ton vs Ken on 9 a m 4‘
McQueen. SF —— McQueen, Estes, Mulhern. and Lee 1. LOB — Eastern Mennonite 9, Washington and Lee 11. 3. Marshall Viney (W&L) d. Mike Barsteika, 6-1, 6-3 2. Erika Proko (W&L) d. Karli Schneider, 6-3, 6-3 Trinﬁy vs WEL 1 p'm y ’ ' ‘

IP H R ER BBSO 2B — Kratz, Littlehale, Gladysz, Kagey. SB — Kagey. SH — 4. Seth Martin (W&L) d. Kevin Steiner, 6-1, 6-2 3. Melissa I-Iatley (W&L) d. Lindsay McMahon, 6-2, ' ’ ‘ '

Bridgewater Frazier. 5. Chris Surdo (W&L) d. Justin Boer, 6-0, 6-3 6-4 Sunday, Maw), 31 4
Proctor W, 1-0 7 6 3 1 2 3 IP H R ER BBSO 6. John Colfry (W&L) d. Sean Boer, 6-3, 6-1 4. Elizabeth Law (W&L) d. Kim Colwell, 6-1, 6-1 Lowe, calms »
Geisert 1 0 0 0 0 1 Eastern Mennonite Doubles 5. Laura Bruno (W&L) d. Nancy Clark, 6-0, 6-0 Trinity ,,s_ Emory’ 9 a_m_

Jones S, 1 1 2 1 1 0 1 Forry 6 2-3 4 2 1 3 3 1. Ellison/Surdo (W&L) d. Fuderaro/Barsteika, 8-2 G. Manning Willard (W&L) d. Dena Heath, 6-1, 6-3 Upper cams

Washington and Lee Delp L, 0-2 1-3 2 1 1 1 1 2. Viney/Sorenson (W&L) d. Miller/Steiner, 8-4 Doubles A W&L vs. pomona pitze,-7 9 am 4
Wert L, 1-3 5 5 5 2 5 7 Flynn 1-3 1 0 0 0 1 3. Martin/Colfry (W&L) d. J. Boer/S. Boer, 8-3 1. Hatley/Proko (W&L) d. Slaughter/Schneider, 8-2 .1
Mulhern 4 2 2 1 1 1 Washington and Lee 2. Hagerman/Willard (W&L) d. Colwell/Heath, 8-3 Monday, April 1

WP — Wen 3. PB - Gosselink 2. HBP — Littlehale by Proctor. Kagey 7 8 2 2 2 5 Saturday, March 21 —- Lexington, Va. 3. Bruno/Sallie Gray Strang (W&L) d. McMahon Upper Courts 1!

T — 2:31. A — 162. Hanson W, 1-0 1 0 0 0 O 0 Washington and Lee 7, Methodist 0 Haufi, 8-2 Gustavus Adolphus vs. W&L, 4 pm,

WP — Delp, Kagey. HBP — Kozora by Forry. T — 2:19. A — 142. Singles J‘
Saturday, March 23 1. Paul McClure (W&L) (1. Glen Kitner, 6-3, 4-6, 6-4 . -

Eastern Mennonite 2, Washington and Lee 1 (First Game) 2. Rhys James (W&L) d. Adam Hunter, 6-3, 6-2  SPORTS SCHEDULE: ,MARCH 25'APRlL 3

EASTERN MENNONITE WASHINGTON AND LEE Washington and Lee Baseball Statistics 3. Austin Kim (W&L) d. Kevin Criscoe, 6-0, 6-1

ab r h bi ab r h bi Batting (minimum 10 plate appearances) 4. Graham Nix (W&L) d. Ben Porter, 6-2, 6-3 Monday’ Mam, 25 Saturday’ March 30 Tuesday, Apr“ 2

Laws cf 4 1 1 0 Hanson ss 3 1 1 1 Player AVG AB R H 2B 3B HR RBI SLG 5. Rob Moynihan (W&L) 11. Kevin Caccia, 6-1, 6-1 womenvs Tennis outdoor Track Go"

Rohrbough 1b 4 0 0 0 Littlehale cf 3 0 0 0 Dan Kagey .412 34 4 14 3 0 0 4 .500 6. K.C. Schaeier (W&L) 11. Marcus Dudley, 6-2, 6-2 W&L at Lynchburg, 3:30 pm_ W&L at Bridgewater «W&L at goanoke/ODAC ‘i
Kratz c 3 0 1 0 Kozora 2 0 0 0 Matt Kozora .368 57 11 21 3 0- 1 13 .474 Doubles Sweetg.-iaratw&|_‘ 4-30 pm Invitational TBA Invitational, TBA ‘
Quick 30 3 0 1 0 Mulhern rt 3 O 0 0 Brian Gladysz .361 61 11 22 5 1 0 10 .475 1. Andrew Roberts/James (W&L) d. Hunter/Keith ‘ Baseba" ,1 -‘_
casevers If 3 0 0 0 Gladysz 1b 3 0 1 0 Todd Gosselink .350 60 7 21 3 2 0 12 .467 Kassoui, 9-4 T"°5“aVi ”"’"°h 26 Baseba". . . Roanoke at W&L 3 m V
Frazier ri 3 1 1 0 Gosselink c 3 0 1 0 Michael Hanson .339 62 22 21 3 2 3 9 .597 2. Kim/Nix (W&L) d. Kitner/Criscoe, 8-6 Baseball _ W&L 3‘ V"9'“Ia We5'eYa” (2% Menis Tennis ‘ p‘ ' ,
ChSevers an 2 0 0 y 0 Kagey If 3 0 1 0 Bobby Llttlehale .303 66 16 20 6 0 1 16 .439 3. McClure/Schaeier (W&L) d. Caccia/Porter, 3-3 W&L aIB"d9eWa1or- 3 Pm» 12 P-m- Roanoke 3, W&L 330 g
Lewellen ss 3 0 1 1 Sibley an 3 0 0 0 Bryan Mulhern .300 60 12 13 5 0 2 17 .433 Wednesday, March 27 Men’s Tennis ' ' pm‘ '
Thompson 2b 2 0 O 0 Allain 2b 2 0 1 0 Paul Sibley .256 43 7 11 3 0 0 4 .326 : W&L at Washington College, .

Droppers ph 1 0 0 0 Andrew Rifiee .250 8 2 2 0 0 0 2 .250  INVITATIONAL  :tLGaEii:,::e3;30 p_m_ 12 p.m. :,3Vae::lfas|Tay’ Apr” 3 1‘ '

Totals 27 2 5 1 26 1 5 1 Austin Allain .235 51 10 12 3 0 0 4- .294 ' I _ Men’s Tennis i Women's Lacrosse Soumem V“, ima {W&L

Eastern Mennonite 001 100 0 -— 2 Kyle Droppers .133 15 1 2 1 0 0 2 .200 Reshhs 7'0"‘ ‘he 2002 W&L/ODAC G0” 'hVh3h°ha'» held Mary Washington at W&L Denison at w&|__ 1 p_m_ 3 9 3 " I
Washington and Lee 000 001 0 -1 Matt Marino .000 10 0 0 0 0 0 0 .000 March 21 at the Lexington Golf & Country Club (Par 71): 3-30 pm ' Men-S ,_ac,,,s5e Men,sp'T';'mis '- I‘
E — Lew Ilen, Ka ,All in. DP — ' t n n . B . . A ‘

— Easter: Mennogiiiiia 6, al/Vashingtor\IN::rc1ImI_geCe) 5? 2dBLfF1ra:gr, Totals 307 534 106 164 35 5 7 93 431 Team Standings W&L scmes Xi/hhllhhiz hlahlzffi P-"1 W&L at Lynchburg’ 2 p-mi ii/vv&L at 'Lyri_Chburg’ 3 pm. 3» »
Gladysz. HR - Hanson. Pitching (minimum 5 innings) 1. Washington and Lee 312 1. Carlos Spaht 75 omen 5, acmsse

IP H R ER BBSO Player ERA W-L G GS SV IP H R ER BB SO 2. Guilford 315 5. Chuck Green 77 Friday, March 29 Sunday, March 31 W&L’ at Bridgewater, 4 p.m.

Eastern Mennonite Michael Hanson 0.93 1-0 7 0 2 9.2 10 4 1 3 8 3. Randolph-Macon 320 T6. Chip Campbell 79 Riding - Me" 5 T°""'5 Me” 3 '-a°'°-"59 is
Hilliard w, 3-0 6 4 1 1 1 0 Peter Dean 1.73 3-2 7 5 0 36.13212 7 14 33 4. Lynchburg 322 — Kyle Ulep 91 W&L at Regionals. TBA W&L at Swarlhmoro 10 am W“ 3* W&L» 7 W“-

Flynn S, 3 1 1 0 0 0 2 Dan Kagey 1.85 3-2 6 6 0 39 26 12 8 16 34 4. Roanoke 322 — Ged Johnson 82

Washington and Lee Bryan Mulhern 3.00 2-0 5 1 0 15 126 5 5 7 6. Bridgewater 325 — Max Adler 89 For updated Scores’ Statistics and Schedwes’ Visit the QfﬁCja| I .Y
Dean L, 3-2 7 5 2 1 2 2 Mike Werl 8.25 1-3 5 5 0 24 41 29 22 12 23 7. Hampden-Sydney 328 . . . _ . ]

T— 1:49. A — 132. Totals 3.39 10-7 1717 2 130129 7049 56 108 3. Emory 3 Henry 368 Wa3h|hQt0h and I-99 athletics Weh She at hhP-//ath|9h°3-WlU-9dU- (

I
‘ I
’ "7 C W&L thl I" I Th R’ t Ph' 
Can tget a hard copy of the Phi. over a e ICS or 3 mg um I. 
O O I C I I I '
Visit our web site at phi.w1u.edu every Tuesday Contact assistant sports edIlOI' Dave Crowell at " ,
for stories, pictures, and Contact information. Cmwelld @ w|u _edu or )(4060_ 4

-.  .. ._ ..  .  . _  V  ., .  .. .. . . , . ,_ ,, - MAI ______ _,, ,_ , _ , _ , , __ . .._ , .   .._+.,,,,,_,....... : . . 

 

  
  

‘A

 
 
 
 

 
   
 
  
   
    
   
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
   
 
  
 
  
  
 

,/Arc. la
.) .. w~xA¢- 3:‘
‘Q J I‘?_~ "9 J
. ne'er»-‘.7.’

rw. 

MO. ‘)5
, APRIL FOOLS
PAGES 1-2
APRIL
" F<.><;>Ls

.i~)l'f)l’l‘l ‘LIV

Ti-Eli STl,§l')l',,’\?T l’(3l(Il'i {iii \5i‘i.~\Slll\(}'f(lE\5 .~\\D

    

l.r=.ia L'=,\‘l’\-'l?.l{'>‘.l’i'Y' srxtirt 1897 ‘OK ..

 

  
 

7. KT? Pl 1 l .\\"l .1‘ .I’.Di.' "

 

 

, 
N L<;\ws 2
OI-’lNl(.>NS 3
W&Lrr~£ 5
SI’OR"I‘S ".7
24 / 7 2
LIP SYNC 1>1<;:s. 5

 

i B oard name s

BY MICHELLE LALLY
7*‘ srrrr WRITER

g Washington and Lee University named Dr. Thomas
G Burish, former provost of Vanderbilt University, as the
school’s 24th president.

Board of Trustees Rector Frank Surface announced
Burish as the new president Wednesday at noon in Lee

3 Chapel with students, faculty, staff, and members of the
community present.

M “Tom Burish has a proven record of success as a

’* teacher, scholar, public ﬁgure and university leader,” said
Surface. “He has the vision, energy, experience and insti-

Qx‘ tutional understanding to lead Washington and Lee, rec-
ognized as one of the nation’s best liberal arts universities
and schools of law, to the forefront of its peers.”

Burish, a renowned psychology professor, is a direc-
tor of the American Cancer Society and leads many of its
scientiﬁc and research committees. Burish’s background
includes experience as a published author, as a contribu-
. tor and editor of psychology journals, and an accredita-
5 tion reviewer and advisor to national universities, medical
 centers, and the U.S. Army.

l Rector Frank Surface described Burish as “a proven
leader dedicated to the life of the mind.”
During the eight-month search for a new president,
Vice President and Dean Laurent Boetsch served as act-
ing president. Boetsch will remain acting president through
June 30, while working with Burish to orient him to his
new ofﬁce. Burish will assume the office July 1.
Boetsch took on the role of acting president follow-
ing the death of former University president, John Elrod,
5, who died of kidney cancer on July 27, 2001.

Undergrad dies

jg Suicide a possibility in management major’s death

Dean of Students David
Howison, members of Phi Kappa
Sigma, Bethea’s fraternity and
other friends attended funeral
services in New Orleans on Sat-

BY KATIE j. HOWELL
,' .-xssocrma rznrror

Authorities say suicide is a
possible cause of senior Morrison
Curtis Bethea, Jr.‘s death last
week.

The honor roll management
major died at his home in New Or-
leans last Tues-
. day morning.

While the

cause of death

“ has not been

0 f fi c i a l l y

‘' stated, many

suspect sur-
cide.

, 1' Washing-

ton and Lee

,. has not had an undergraduate

commit suicide for about 15

years, Dean of Students and

Counseling Psychologist Anne
Schroer—Lamont said.

1‘ “Suicide is a pretty unusual

urday.

emotioins.

 

 

ETHEA

Schroer—Lamont encouraged
students trying to cope with
Bethea’s death to talk about their

“It is important to share with
one another and not be afraid of
your feelings,” she said. “And If
you’re concerned about a friend’s
behavior—excessive anger, crying,
sleep or lack of sleep—they really
need to talk about it.”

Bethea was an ODAC All-
American golf champion and mem-
ber of Williams Investment Society,
according to The New Orleans
Times-Picayune obituary.

“This is a particulary stressful
time for students,” Schroer—Lamont

 

Burish’s wife, Pamela, who he says played an integral
role in his decision to accept the W&L presidency, at-
tended the announcement and joined her husband in greet-
ing the community at a reception Wednesday afternoon
in the Lee House.

When the Burishes move to Lexington this summer
the Lee House will be their new home, as it has been to a
long line of W&L presidents, including its namesake Rob-
ert E. Lee.

Pamela Burish is a professional director for Bredex
Corp, a company that designs Web-based assessment
tools for K-6 schools and students.

In September Burish, 51, announced his intentions to
withdraw from his office as provost of Vanderbilt to return
to full-time teaching in the psychology department.

When the chance to become W&L’s next president
arrived, Burish said he recognized it “not as a job, but as a
calling.”

“It is with a sense of exhilaration, humility and grati-
tude that I accept this presidency,” said Burish in his ad-
dress Wednesday. 1

Burish told Wednesday’s audience that his ﬁrst or-
der of business as president will be to earn the trust of the
community. Burish plans to dedicate his ﬁrst year as presi-
dent to learning about the W&L community, by meeting
with the members of the Board of Trustees, faculty, staff

and student leaders individually. Burish said he wanted to
get to know all the people who view the university as its
home.

“Washington and Lee has a legacy that will be nour-
ished and protected,” said Burish.

As provost Burish oversaw the student-run honor

system and the deans of eight colleges and schools.

BY ANDREW Lrmnnr
ASSISTANT OPINIONS EDITOR

Lee Chapel played host to both sides
of the American political spectrum last
Wednesday withatalkﬁom forrnerWhite
House press secretaries Marlin Fitzwater
and Joseph Lockhart. -

Their discussion, “Inside the Real
West Wing,,” focused on the their
involvement with thoughts regarding the
popular NBC drama, their tenures at the
mercy of the media and numerous
questions regarding current events. The
visit was sponsored by the Contact
Committee, Kappa Sigma and the Young
Arnerica’s Foundation.

Fitzwater, the only public relations
strategist with the distinction of serving
two presidents, Ronald Reagan and
George H.W. Bush, dealt with momentous
events such as the collapse of the Soviet

Union and the Gulf War.

Lockhart took the helm of press
secretaryinOctober l998,inthewake of
the Monica Lewinsky sex scandal and just
as the House of Representatives began
impeachment proceedings against
President Bill Clinton. He then resigned

l.E.T>Zi1\'t‘{l‘():‘~.,  2445 l

 

l\lo§<rm', : 

Burish24th resident

t Long-time Vanderbilt provost plans first presidential actions learning about the Washington and Lee community, meeting student /ea ers

 
   

LOOKING UP. Burish (left) looks forward to working with Acting President Laurent Boetsch another W&L community member.

more BY blur (1L\’/ The Ring-tum Phi

As he takes on the W&L presidency he will take on
the $225 million capital campaign, which has raised
$175 million to date. After his first year as president,
Burish intends to teach classes in the psychology de-
partment.

When asked by the media what kinds of plans he had
for handling diversity and alcohol abuse on campus Burish

responded, “At this point, I don’t know enough to say
what W&L should do.”

“I commit myself to Washington and Lee entirely,”
said Burish, adding that he looks forward to the chal-
lenges ahead of him in his new office.

“This is an exceptional place,” said Burish, adding,
“some would call it blessed.”

Press secretaries speak

three years later, just prior to the close of
the Clinton era.

“The West Wing,” which debuted in
1999, is an Emmy Award—winning series
starring Martin Sheen as President Josiah
Bartlet, regularly gamers high ratings as
it examines real-life crises facing the White

The duo traded political barbs and
insights alike as neither shied away from
jabbing each other’s parties. “George W.
Bush left his mark on the White House
eariy when he installed aT-ball ﬁeld on the
SouthLawn,,replacingtheexisting female
mud-wrestling pit,’ ’ quipped Fitzwater.

Lockhart unveiled his list of the “top
ten reasons you know you are not in the
White House anymore,” which included,
“When I hear the words ‘press
conference,’ all I do now is ﬂip on C-
SPAN, pop open a beer and laugh.”

The two entertained and informed
the chapel audience during their hour-
and—a—half long talk. Both agreed on the
realism of "llieWestW'1ng,” yet Lockhart
noted the show’s absence of
partisanship. Such an aspect is too
important to ignore and without it the
series is incomplete, he indicated.

 

As an advisor to the show, Fitzwater
could share his favorite episodes with the
crowd Among them was a “West Wing”
involving a Ukrainian ambassador who
anivesattheWhiteHousedrunk,dragging
arnisuessbehirrdhimF1tzwatersaidtheplot
wasbaseduponareal—lifeeventwherefuune
PrimeM1n1' 'sterofRussiaBorisYeltsinshowed
up in Washington thoroughly inebriated and
demanded to see the President immediately.

When a question arose regarding
Bernard Goldberg’s controversial book
“Bias,” an expose of the irmerworkings of
the CBS newsroom. While Fitzwater
expressed how Bush Sr. calls him regularly
to share choice passages, Lockhart
countered the notion of a liberal tilt to the

 Comcr Coxrwnrr
FULL PRFSS: Fitzwater (left) and Lockhart regailed a Lee Chapel audience.

media.Accordingtohim,what appears to
be left wing is merely the journalist’s
tendency to criticize those in power and
look forblame.

One issue where both speakers could
ﬁnd common ground was emphasizing
that Americans become more active in
politics. Lockhart expressed his
dissatisfaction with the sentiment during
the 2000 presidential race that there was
little to no difference between the
candidates, a point he rebutted with the
example of executive leadership duringthe
Sept 11 crisis.

In the spirit of political cooperation
and mature debate, neither hesitated at
the program’s close to shake hands.

 

 
 

  
  
 

  
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 

 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

 

event for W&L,” she said.

NOTE“; I  
Mentz named Player of the Year, Babst honored

Washington and Lee senior forward Jessica Mentz (Ellicott
City, Md./Centennial) was named the Virginia College Divi-
sion Player of the Year as voted on by the Virginia Sports
Information Directors (VaSID) and announced on Tuesday
afternoon. Senior center Megan Babst (Pittsburgh, Pa./Fox
Chapel) earned second team accolades.

For Mentz, it marks her second consecutive selection to
the All-State First Team. Babst was an honorable mention pick
a year ago.

In 2001-02, Mentz was the ﬁrst W&L women’s basketball
player to be named the ODAC Player of the Year after her
ﬁnest season in a W&L uniform. She led the ODAC and was
15th nationally in rebounding (11.8 rpg) and was second in
the ODAC and 16th nationally in scoring (20.0 ppg).

The 5-foot-9 Mentz, who also earned a spot on the All-
ODAC First Team for the second consecutive season, set 21
school records during her career. She is W&L’s all-time lead-
ing scorer (1,742) and rebounder (973). Her scoring total ranks
sixth in the history of Division III women’s basketball in the
state of Virginia.

Babst also had a banner year in 2001-02. She ﬁnished
third in the ODAC in both scoring (19.0 ppg) and rebounding
(10.1 rpg) and placed 28th nationally with an average of 2.2
blocks perigame. The 6-foot-1 Babst was a Second Team All-
ODAC selection this season after eaming honorable mention
accolades each of the last two seasons.

Babst concluded her career with nine school records, in-
cluding blocks in a season (57) and a career (190) and re-
bounds in a game (21). She is second all-time at W&L in scor-
ing (1,265) and rebounding (925).

  

   

Grove and Petrusek named as Watson Fellows

Thomas Grove and Matthew Petrusek, seniors at Wash-
ington and Lee University, have been named Thomas J.
Watson Fellows for 2002-2003.

Grove is a German and Russian double major from Altoona,
Pa. His project, “Tracing the Silken Lute,” will take him to
Turkey and China. Petrusek, a Medieval and Renaissance stud-
ies and politics double major from Summerville, Ore., plans to
travel to Norway, Tanzania, India and Argentina for his project,
“Listening Closely: Comparing Descriptions of Poverty
Throughout the World.” They are two of 60 recipients to re-
ceive Watson fellowships this year.

This is the third consecutive year W&L has entered stu-
dents for consideration in the Thomas J. Watson Fellowship
program. As Jeffrey Barnett, director of the Global Steward-
ship program and faculty advisor, pointed out, .”In our ﬁrst
three years of participation, we’ve had ﬁve winners. This at-
tests to our students’ zeal to know the world beyond our
borders. In recent years W&L has made great progress in its
commitment to international education. Given the talent and
creativity of our students, international post-graduate fellow-
ships are a meaningful culmination of a liberal arts educa-
tion.”

Approximately 50 of the nation’s leading colleges, prima-
rily small liberal arts institutions, participate in the program
which gives exceptional college graduates the freedom to en-
gage in a year of independent study and travel abroad. Nearly
1,000 students applied for these awards this year.

“We look for extraordinary young men and women of
extraordinary promise, individuals who have the personality
and drive to become leaders of tomorrow,” said Norvell E.
Brasch, the executive director of the Watson Fellowship Pro-
gram and a former fellow. “The program is designed to fund
the most creative dreams of our fellows with a minimum of
restrictions. The world is their canvas, and we let them tell us
how they want to paint it.” Fellowship recipients receive a
substantial grant of approximately $22,000 to fund their year
abroad.

27

   

"Way
7:30 p.m.—-Lee Chapel hours change. Monday

through Saturday, 9:00 to 5:00 p.m. Sunday 1:00 to
5:00 p.m.

8:30 p.m.—Java at the GHQ. Guy Smiley Blues Ex-
change. GHQ.

Tuesday,Apr.2

7 p.m.——Pre-Tour Concert. University Chamber
Singers. Great Hall, Science Center.

9 p.m.—One Acts 2002. “Andrea’s Got Two Boy-
friends,” directed by Agnes Flak ’03; “Wildwood
Park,” directed by Robert Powers ’02; “Caution to the
Wind,” directed by Susan Slopek ’03; and “Pitching
to the Star,” directed by Katie Frusti ’03. Johnson
Theater, Lenfest Center. No tickets required.

Wednesday,Apr.3

 

3: 15 p.m.-—Pre-Tour Concert. University Cham-
ber Singers. Great Hall, Science Center.

8 p.m.——Alcoholics Anonymous Meeting. Fairfax
Lounge (when W&L is in session). All W&L stu-
dents, faculty/ staff and the Lexington community
are welcome. Coffee is provided.

8 p.m.—One Acts 2002. “Andrea’s Got Two Boy-
friends,” directed by Agnes Flak ’03; “Wildwood
Park,” directed by Robert Powers ’02; “Caution to
the Vlfrnd,” directed by Susan Slopek ’03; and “Pitch-
ing to the Star,” directed by Katie Frusti ’03. Johnson
Theater, Lenfest Center. No tickets required.

Thursday, Apr. 4

8 p.m.—Applied Music Recital. Keller Theatre,
Lenfest Center.

8 p.m.—-One Acts 2002. “Andrea’s Got Two Boy-
friends,” directed by Agnes Flak ’03; “Wildwood
Park,” directed by Robert Powers ’02; “Caution to
the Wind,” directed by Susan Slopek ’03; and “Pitch-
ing to the Star,” directed by Katie Frusti ’03. Johnson
Theater, Lenfest Center. No tickets required.

Friday, Apr. 5

Environmental Studies Luncheon Series 2001-
2002. “Far and Near: Muir and Burroughs on the
Harriman Alaska Expedition, 1899,” Jim Warren, pro-
fessor of English, W&L. Room 1 14, University Cen-
ter. RSVP to Lynda Bassett de Maria, ext. 8932.

    
     

   

MKNGQ MAMA '  R¥' ‘BLAET *- 3Y3‘-..-\‘Wlf.I.§Iit.:§€’f £‘3IZ)M.ii
 % 0 -  ¥§0C§fz'5o. '1 
'9    Iv  5 

is its harsd fer a 30-ysea aid
in think anon. retire eat? 8 . 

mm-ds.. mid ‘lih §"‘«.=, ma gzéha
_ to ﬁﬁzrd =p!~an. y<3~1.a~cem tr

 

Great Student Rental for rent Undergraduates or
Law Students. Available 2002-2003
Two stories, two apartments , up to six people.
Ping Pong Room & TV Room. Large yard and very private.
Call 463-7168 or evenings 348-6908. . 1

   
 

   

   

 aéke thintniragj an mire re  mizag am:   

 
 
 

ram.  rat>titi%r~g like

 



BALDING (D PAGE X

S:\i_‘Ni)liRS rt) .»\l’1-‘EAR IN 

‘H tile. <.Ii,.L“B l-"QR WEN .’ ’
SCHISM <I>PAoE Y

 

Fi~’.i:‘.SH BI .;\(.l<.

 

. at N l'51..At:i<
. ..l:i .-.“.x.I..i,i.—\.:-\=<‘:t.>.. A

 \::«‘ ti" 1 \5

 

 

   

E..§-::.:\;t;‘i't;».\. \'2:t« ;:.\i.\.

 SHlNGTON AND LEE Umeasiir

,Hy...%

 
 

;\

  Bush visits W&L  

President showcases academic axis of evil’

BY GERALD O. PHILPOT
1r’s MY PARTY

In a surprise move that stunned analysts, President
George W. Bush today expanded the campaign against
terrorism to domestic targets.

Bush appeared as part of the Contact C0mmittee’s
noble quest to eliminate any traces of liberalism from Wash-
ington and Lee’s campus through
the invitation of absurdly conser-
vative speakers.

“Certain factions at W&L are
intent on obfuscating the Ameri-
can way of life,” said Bush, read-
ing slowly from notes in his Lee
Chapel address. “I want them
stopped, dead or alive.”

Pressed for speciﬁcs, Bush re-
sponded that his targets were
“those who teach so—called ‘sci-
ence’ that contradicts my theories
on creationism and abortion, and those dastardly Demo-
crats who generate support for the fuzzy math elites in
Washington. These groups must be eliminated if we are to
save America from vile liberalism.

“And we’re going to start right here, in the Science i
Center and Robinson Hall. They are the Axis of Evil in
America.”

Shouts were immediately heard from the audience.

“Don’t forget that damn women’s studies program,”
said History Professor Jefferson Davis Futch III, recently
returned from identifying the exhumed body of former
president Grover Cleveland, whom he met as a boy. “That
abomination should be destroyed root and branch!”

Bush replied in the affirmative, shaking his head sagely
and replying “It’s no exaggeration to say that in these
troubled times the undecideds could go one way or an-
other. We must strike pre—emphatically.”

Romance Languages Professor Domnica Radulescu
protested, noting that the women’s studies program is
housed in several buildings, particularly Tucker Hall.

“Who cares about foreign language, anyway,” Bush
questioned. “I learn enough Mexican from our ranch hands
and pool boys back in Texas. Saque la basura, chico.
Dame su vota, nir"tit0.” Bush added Tucker to the Axis of
Evil, noting that people only use foreign languages to talk
to “foreign people.” i

Not everyone in the audience was critical of Bush’s
message. "‘

“Now all y’all come with me,” shouted junior Nathan
Bedford Beauregard. “We [are] gonna get them damn
Northerners real good!” He and his fellow Kappa Alphas
then jumped into their SUV—pick—ups and drove in circles
around Lee Chapel. _

Bush praised this example 0 “grassroots civic action.”

“Now who wants a drink,” asked Bush, pulling out a
special presidentially-sized ﬂask of Jack Daniels and tak-
ing a swig. “As your Commander—in-Chief, I order you to
precipitate.”

As students leaped up at the chance to drink with the
43rd president, Dean of Freshmen Dawn Watkins and IFC
Advisor Burr Datz were seen conferring about the propri-
ety of giving Bush a strike. »

Commenting on the possibility of giving the Presi-
dent a strike, Datz said, “It is a hard decision for me to
make, personally. On the one hand, President Bush and I
are both similar in that we are formerly wild fraternity boys
turned sober advocates of personal responsibility. On the
other hand, I do have the duty to enforce the University
Anti-Litigation Committee’s regulations against alcohol. I
don’t know; I could almost use a stiff drink right now
myself.”

After the speech, Bush was seen kneeling in prayer
in front of a garbage can in Graham—Lees Dormitory, from
which he was taken to attend a dorm party hosted by new

BUSH

   

SAE’s.

‘Regretful, contrite’ Howison resignsasgu

School shocked at bland dean’s violenipast

, BY LIBERATE THE PEOPLE
l’ROl~‘ESSl()NAL RE\’OLUTl0N;\RY

Dean of Students David Howison announced plans
to retire following the 2002-2003 academic year, after a
Ring—tum Phi reporter unearthed his revolutionary
past. V

“Howie,” as he is familiarly known behind his back,
has been regarded as the epitome of the well—scrubbed,
professional administrator.

Few could imagine that the author of the Soledad
death march or the San Crucio terror raids hid behind
this staid exterior.

“In my youth, I was guilty of reckless pursuit of
certain social ideals,” Howison admitted at a press con-
ference announcing his retirement. “I apologize for any
people anywhere whom I may have inadvertently hurt.”

“‘Hurt’vappears a bit of an understatement,” said
History Professor Taylor Sanders. “Thousands of
people—soldiers, revolutionaries, peasants—have
been killed as a direct result of his actions.” ‘

Howison entered Central America in the 1970s as
an undergraduate on a nature tour. Disgusted with the
brutal actions of the US—suppor'ted Zaculioso regime,
he stayed behind to bring Marxist—Leninist valuesjto
an oppressed people.

"" ‘ ’ _ “:3 name Ho Wisonera, Howison’s ruth-

    
   

BY RUNPHOR PRESIDENT
MORE CREDENTIALS‘ THAN HILIARY

In a stunning reversal of tradition for both the
University and its new president, the Board of Trust-
ees Tuesday named Rev. Al Sharpton ‘72 ‘75L, a New
York religious and black leader, as Washington and
Lee’s 24th President.

The selection drew surprise from around the na-
tion, as Sharpton must abandon his White House run
to ﬁll position. He had been considered a major con-
tender for the Democratic nomination.

“The Trustees felt that naming Rev. Sharpton the
next President would show that diversity at Washing-
ton and Lee is more than just a word or an ideal—it is
practice and policy,” said J. Frank Surface, Rector of
the Board.

Dr. Thomas G. Burish, Provost of Vanderbilt Uni-
versity, had been the top choice for the spot, but his
nomination was killed by the last minute discovery of
his opposition to Swarthmore’s completely pass/fail
Interpretive Dance Department and major.

“The Board and the Presidential Search Commit-
tee were 100% committed to ﬁnding a candidate who
would continue the progress of our 1994
Swarthmorification Plan,” commented Prof. Harlan
Beckley, chair of the Presidential Search Committee.
“Unfortunately, Dr. Burish lacks the commitment the
new President must have. Fortunately, we also had Rev.
Sharpton lined up.”

BY ANNA REXIA AND Bur EMIA
WEIGHT WATCHERS

Piercing screams and falling objects shattered the
serenity of Washington and Lee’s back campus at
3:00am Sunday. Ablazing inferno erupted, causing the
tragic demise of Woods Creek West, one of campus’
most recognizable, and unsightly, buildings. No stu-
dent was injured or killed in the ﬁre, although struc-
tural damage was extensive. An acceptable number of
non-W&L students were killed.

The unattractive Woods Creek apartments were

less pursuit of a collective utopia became feared

throughout the area.

“In South America he is still known as El

Txzt Rink»-‘Fl '.tl’izI

INDEX

CI) -
APRIL FooLs
ISSUE

 

’:.“‘-"l’rf’.*‘{’l')”-‘~_‘t',”Al*

FILE more

AMEN l Rev. Al Sharpton at his inaugural press conference. He vowed to rescue the school from its association with “dead white guys.”

Rev. Sharpton is a civil rights and religious leader
from New York City. He ﬁrst came to national prominence
when he championed the cause of Tawana Brawley, a
young black girl who falsely accused white police ‘detec-
tives of rape. Most recently he served a 90-day jail term
for trespassing on the Naval base on Vieques Island dur-
ing which he went on a well-publicized hunger strike.

Mobbed by the media at his inaugural press confer-
ence, Sharpton stated his goals for the University.

“My mission is not only education, but integration.
Students, it is about time, you must change your para-
digm. Here at Washington and Lee, black students will no
longer be,the ones who are shunted aside, but those who
rise up high.”

The rotund Reverend went on to express his support
for the proposed Matrimonial Studies program, but added

known to be structurally unsound. In fact, its element of
danger attracted a large number of students, making it the
most popular on—campus housing option for upperclass-
men. Wood Creek West’s loss is particularly hard, as it
contained_17 apartments, significantly more than Central’s
10. '

Students Courtney Penn. “What do we do with the West
residents for the remainder of the school year?" What will
we do with the students who were planning to live there
next year?”

The administration has decided that the newly-home-
less will move into fraternities which did not make quota
last year. Sigma Nu and Beta have already seen their empty
rooms ﬁlled to capacity.

“Greek or non—Greek, we’re all Generals first,” Penn
said. I

The ﬁre’s origins are uncertain, but many suspect a
stray cigarette butt.

“Most students use cigarettes to help them lose
weight,” Health Center Director Jane Horton said. “This
points to the image-conscious Kappas.”

According to security reports, a group of ten sopho-
mores had gatheredin one of the apartments, imbibing
illegal spirits and smoking cigarettes of questionable com-

“We face a serious problem,” said assistant Dean of

that he expects the school to also add a Black Studies
program.

“Our mission will still include English inspirations
and C—school situations, but must expand to encompass
reparations,” Sharpton said.

The Lexington Chamber of Commerce cheered the
appointment, citing Sharpton’s plan to hold the Million
Man March in town as “great for the hotels on Route l1.”

Support for the choice has not been universal, though.
The United Daughters of the Confederacy are staging a
sit-in to protest Sharpton’s plans to convert Lee Chapel
into a bed and breakfast. They labeled his characteriza-
tion of Lee Recumbent as a “piece of white supremacist
trash” as “inflammatory.”

Acting President Boetsch has contacted the Virginia
National Guard to assist with the transition.

position.

I

«72 new President

ppa ‘cigartte’ burns down Woods Creek West;

“We feel conﬁdent in asserting that one of the ciga-I
rettes descended from the digits of an intoxicated stu-3
dent,” said Security Officer Thomas “Baner” Bane. “Speak— 1
ing epistomologically, the copious presence of the alco—‘:

hol indubitably acted as an incendiary device, dissemi-j
nating the flames throughout the entire ediﬁce.”

The women inhabiting the apartment were questioned, 
but refused to comment. .

The Business Ofﬁce estimates that the damage total is
approximately $86 million: $4 million for the structure and
the remainder from students’ destroyed personal effects.

Sophomore resident Avery Magnolia Ashton stated
that she was most distraught by the loss of her “school
things,” all of which perished in the fire. She estimates
personal losses at $1.3 million.

Several students and administrators have expressed
interest in replacing the burned out crater with a monu-
ment to drunken accidents, to commemorate both the
building’s original design and the ﬁre that destroyed it. A
Woods Creek Steering Committee composed of both stu-
dents and faculty will meet Spring Term to discuss the
site’s future.

Applications are now available outside Carol Calkins’
office in the University Center.

Revolucionario Monstruoso,” said Spanish Professor
Cecile West-Settle. “This is the man so committed he
would kill his wounded guerillas rather than leave them
for the enemy to torture.” —

Even Fidel Castro sought his friendship, sending
him a peace offering of goats and Soviet rifles in a bid
for cooperation.

Despite his fearsome reputation, “El
Revolucionario Monstruoso” enjoyed phenomenal
popularity.

“A lot of us girls in the Spanish Department had a
crush on him,” West—Settle said. “I actually learned
the language so I could tell him ‘I love you’ in what I
thought was his native tongue.”

In America, Ho Wisonera posters came into vogue,
symbolizing a younger generation’s dissatisfaction
with the perceived bourgeosis values of its parents.

After the razing the capital city Maria Dolorosa,
Ho Wisonera disappeared completely, spawning doz-
ens of legends about his mysterious whereabouts.

No one knew where he was—until now.

W&L reaction was incredulous.

“I still can’t believe that Dean Howison once killed
five tax collectors with his bare hands,” said sopho-
more Jackson Hunter Billingsworth, XVII. “Does he
have to retire now that he’s become interesting?”

VIVA LA REvoLUc1oNl Dean Howison and Fidel Castro
take an uncharacteristic break from hunting down “capitalist

errilla past resurfaces

running dogs” to enjoy a round of “the game of the people.”
Golfis enjoyed by oppressed workers throughout South America

41,

 

 

  

 

PAGE ;

In 1986, Washington and Lee opened it doors to the

fairer sex. Presumably, we had not done so previously_

because there weren’t many women to be found who were
interested in the academic rigor and depth of tradition that
characterize our University. Unfortunately, it seems that
although we have added women to the student body, this
is not because women are any more qualiﬁed to be stu-
dents than when they populated only Sweetbriar, Hollins
and Mary Baldwin. '

It is no secret that many, if not all, of W&L’s co-ed’s
are here in search of a husband. Whether conﬁning their
search to only the Big Four, or expanding the pool to
include all fraternity men, our Southern Belles are search-
ing for a man who can provide for them in the way that
daddy so generously has.

If the Board of Trustees is truly committed to making
a W&L education as valuable as it can be for every stu-
dent, regardless of sex, perhaps they should create a new
interdepartmental program to accompany Women’s Stud-
ies and Global Stewardship.

This program, perhaps entitled Matrimonial Stud-
ies, would be designed to impart to W&L women
marriageable skills that would make them more at-
tractive brides. The program would not just be a
simple Home Economics course, although sewing and
cooking would be included in the skills learned.

Specific suggestions follow:

Laundry Exchange Program: Each female stu-
dent would be assigned a male student, the washing,
folding and ironing of whose laundry she would be
in charge. Although this will be especially easy for
freshman women who need only to pick up dirty laun-
dry on their way downstairs to the laundry room,
perhaps sororities could be charged with arranging
weekly pick up and distribution of laundry at the fra-
ternity houses.

- Dining Hall Cooking Crews: The female popu-
lation will be organized into Laetitia Pate Work Teams.
These groups of 40 or so women will be charged with
meal planning, cooking, and cleaning. Opportunities
for learning would abound when it came time for the
special meals. Lady Generals could practice folding linen
napkins, starching and pressing tablecloths and the
proper arrangement of tableware. Everyone knows how
important it is for a hostess to “set a nice table.” More-
over, they could practice having all this done as well as
having their high heels and pearls on in time for a prompt
5 :30 serving.

- Art and Music Appreciation:
Any good hostess is expected to be able
to converse intelligently with her guests
on all subjects of fine arts and culture.
As such, no woman should leave W&L
without a detailed understanding of art
and music. They really need not waste any time outside
Dupont inithe C-School; husband will give each an ad-
equate allowance, I’m sure.

Itinerant Worker Management: As the face of

  

  APRIL FOOLS
Help women obtain the

’EErﬁ~Tﬁ’AE§
.504

  ir MRS dree

 

5

CO URTESY (X X )G]_.l:'. COM

SEE, SCIENCE ISN'T HARDl Who says that a college education can’t be practical? These girls know a rock on the ﬁnger beats a

sheepskin on a wall.

America changes, the ethnicity of cleaning ladies, nan-
nies and gardeners changes with it. This course would
give our female students the skills nec-
essary to manage a household. It
would include a basic study of Span-
ish and intensive study of the laws

 concerning payments to and taxes on

aliens (both legal and illegal).

- Large Vehicle Driving: All of W&L’s soon-
to-be soccer moms shouldn’t be expected to take the
wheel of the family Suburban without the proper
training. Women are notoriously poor drivers and

WEDNESDAY:
Career Services  
presents ‘What A
English Majors Should
Expect after Graduation’

Burr Datz speaks on the
true purpose of

become only more dangerous when piloting a large
vehicle. The Physical Education Department would

administer this course which will teach young ladies ,

important driving techniques and basic auto maintet
nance. Students will also be required to memorize the
number of their local AAA and watch the video
“What to Expect When Driving to or from the Gro-
cery Store.”

These few suggestions cannot give the full depth
and scope of the Matrimonial Studies program, but I, for
one, believe it would be a welcome and proﬁtable addition
to the W&L curriculum.

FRIIDAYZ

fraternities

i iﬁsnrail news briefs

 

SAE bums down historical Lexington,
gets one-week social suspension

Downtown Lexington is home to little more than
cinders and exposed beams after brothers of the Sigma
Alpha Epsilon fraternity torched it following an out—of—
control party Saturday.

The mass-arson was sparked by a “Down with
Lex” philanthropic mixer held to raise money for W&L
students injured in muggings this year. Decorations
included extra-large tikitorches and townpeople sus-

pended in cages from the basement ceiling. After the
ﬁnale, the ritual hanging of Lexington mayor John

Knapp in efﬁgy, things apparently got out of hand.
Grabbing their tiki torches and jumping into wait-
ing SUVs, SAE members and their guests inﬂicted more

than $40 million dollars of damage on the city—-more —

than ten times Rockbridge County’s annual income,
even including the under—the-table bribes given by
W&L.

An official statement released jointly by the Dean
of Students Ofﬁce and the SAE Housing Corporation
takes the fraternity to task for “increasing the possibil-
ity of liability against Washington and Lee.” However,
recognizing the many contributions that SAE has made
to the university community (most recently, a square
mile of available parking), punishment was set at a week
of social probation.

SAE officers protested the decision. Social pro-
bation prevents a fraternity from hosting recreational
activities at its on-campus house.

Ofﬁce of International Education aims
for students from 100 different countries

Director of International Education William
Klingelhofer announced plans to increase the number
of countries represented at W&L to 100. By combin-
ing neglible entrance requirements and near full—rides,
Klingelhofer has so far been able to attract students
from more than 60 foreign countries.

“We already have freshmen from Argentina, Aus-
tria, Bahamas, Bermuda, Bulgaria, Canada, Costa Rica,”
said Klingelhofer. “Ecuador, France, Germany, Ghana . . .”

Worried at the high number of students from India
and Jamaica, the ofﬁce is considering denying any stu-
dents from those country entrance for the next few years.

“This situation will thus let the numbers sink to
more representational indices,” Klingelhofer said.

The Ofﬁce of International Education has consid-
ered allowing foreign students to stay an extra four
years, thus eliminating the necessity of regularly find-
ing a replacement of their nationality.

MONDAYS

Women’s Forum car
wash ‘.‘to raise money for
women’s dignity”

 

JERE\lYl‘ltiNl{UN

SPORTS EDITOR

Emir PRll\ll{Ul\U@\WIL‘.El)L'
PAGE 3

TEE Rit~.ii;-TEM Pat

, A MONDAY, APRIL 1, 2002 

:Women’s ennis battles top Division III opponents

Generals fail to No. 1 W'IIiams and No. 2 Emory to open Fab Five Tournament, rebound to top 3rd-ranked Trinity and No. 6 Pomona Pitzer on W&L campus

film (iL"\'/Tlte Ring—tum Phi

'GENERAIS FAIL T0 N0. 1: Senior Melissa Hatley returns a

shot in her 8-5 loss with junior Erika Proko at No. 1 doubles

against Williams in the Fab Five Tournament on Thursday.
Hatley won 6-2, 6-2 over Kate Troy at No. 3 singles.

BY DAVE CROWELL
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The stage was set for a letdown after the Washington
and Lee women’s tennis team twice felt the sting of 7-2
defeats on subsequent afternoons, at the hands of top-
ranked Vlfilliams College and No. 2 Emory University at
the Fab Five Tournament on W&L’s campus.

With a match against Trinity University of Texas, the
third-ranked team in the nation and the squad that ended
W&L’s season last year, less than 24 hours later, the Gen-
erals badly needed a win. ,

Fortunately, Cinda Rankin’s squad returned with a ven-
geance and proved that “great deal of heart” should be
added to any list of positive qualities exhibited by the
ﬁfth—ranked team.

‘There are a couple of things that can happen in that situ-
ation: you can get beaten and oollapse or you can get beaten
and come back. They got beaten and kept ﬁghting,” Rankin
said. “It was amazing and, to me, that’s what it’s all about.”

The Generals used a big 6-3 win over Trinity on Satur-
day afternoon as momentum in posting an impressive 6-0
victory over No. 6 Pomona Pitzer on Sunday morning.

The key to ‘Saturday’s victory over the Tigers rested
quite simply in doubles play.

At No. 1 doubles, senior Melissa Hatley and junior
Erika Proko broke serve when down 3-2, then traded leads
with Abbe Ulrich and three-time All-American Lizzie Yasser
until seizing a grueling 9-8 (6) tiebreaker victory.

Freshman Lindsay Hagerman and senior Manning
Willard came back from a 5-0 deﬁcit in posting an 8-6 vic-
tory at No. 2 doubles.

“Manning and I really wanted that victory,” Hagerman
said. “We lost our last two doubles matches (including a 9-
7 defeat on Friday), so we really wanted to win that one.”

Junior Laura Bruno and senior Sallie Gray Strang contin-

Mxxr GUY/ The Rir1g—tum Phi

MORE FAB FIVE: Freshman Lindsay Hagerman teamed with senior Manning Willard to go 2-2 in doubles through four matches
of the event. In singles competition, Hagerman lost twice at No. 1 before moving down to No. 2, where she won two matches.

ued the drama by winning at No. 3 in another tiebreaker, 9-8 (5).

The Generals entered singles play with a 3-0 lead on
Trinity, an advantage that neither Hagerman nor Rankin
could play down.

“I think when you win all three doubles, you can play
with a lot more conﬁdence and take some chances in singles
play,” Hagerman said. “It makes it a lot easier.”

Rankin concurred, saying that if “we hadn’t swept the
doubles, Trinity might have come out ﬁghting harder and
we may have been a little tense. Doubles is so important
now. If you’re up 2-1, you just need to split the singles in
order to get a win.”

Hagerman, Bruno and Willard secured the Generals’ vic-
tory with wins at No. 2, No. 5 and No. 6 singles respectively,
despite a few scares during Bruno and \V1llard’s matches.

The Generals conclude the Fab Five Tournament with a
match today against seventh—ranked Gustavus Adolphus
at 4 p.m. The main focus of the season — the NCAA Divi-
sion IH Tournament — is slowing moving closer, though.

Rankin believes that keys for her squad down the
stretch will include good doubles play, consistency and

4 upperclassman leadership.

“We’re not a team that will blow anybody off the court
or hit outright winners,” Rankin said. “We have to play a
lot of balls and we have to be consistent.

“This tournament is the type of experience we need
and knowing what to expect makes all the difference,”
Rankin added. “This is where the upperclassmen can re-
ally help the team, telling the freshmen what to expect
down the stretch.”

O‘

f‘Ii&L struggl in 2 losss

MEG Fwakt/TheR1hg-mm Phi

EAGLES TOP W&L: Seniors Andrew Roberts (above) and Rhys James dropped
a 9-8 match to Mary Washington’s Dan Uyar and Nhat Nguyen at No. 1 doubles
on Wednesday. The Generals lost the match by a 5-2 score.

Generals rebound to beat Swarthmore on the road

,. BY MICHAEL LEE
SPORTS \X'RITl;'R

7’ On a windy Wednesday afternoon,
the men’s tennis team hosted Mary
(‘Washington College for a non-con-
ference match at the outdoor courts.
In a close match, the Generals dropped
7 a 4-3 decision to the Eagles.
The match began with doubles
rplay. The No. 1 and 2 matches split
— seniors Rhys James and Andrew
, Roberts lost, 9-8, but sophomores
’ Graham Nix and Austin Kim pulled
out an 8-6 win — leaving freshman
Paul McClure and sophomore K.C.
Schaefer to break the tie.

In an impressive tiebreaker
match, McClure and Schaefer de-
feated Conor Smith and Nate
Hathway of Mary Washington to
give Washington and Lee the
doubles match point.

i P‘ Coach David Detwiler was quite

pleased with that performance.

2 ’ "The No. 3 doublesteamieallycame

through for us today,” Detwiler said.
Coach Todd Helbling of Mary
1 Washington was not discouraged by
 the doubles loss.

“We saw some good tennis to-
day,” Helbling said. “These are two
good teams, and it’s always a toss-

v up as to who wins the big points.
For the doubles, W&L did.”

Helbling was disappointed in his

team’s technical play, pointing out
‘ that he saw nothing excellent from
his players during those matches.

Singles play began shortly after
the doubles matches. Kim and senior
Rob Moynihan won in two and three
sets at third and ﬁfth-seed singles,
respectively, but the rest of the Mary
Washington team proved too difﬁ-
cult for the Generals to overcome.

V

“Paul McClure lost tough at No. 1,
and Rhys James played very well in
the first set, but lost focus,” said
Detwiler, who was somewhat frustrated
with the team’s play on Wednesday.

“This was a wake-up call for us,”
he added. “They are a good team
and we didn’t take them as seriously
as we wanted to.”

Detwiler could be heard exhort-
ing his team to play to their poten-
tial after the doubles matches, re-
minding them that in order to win,
they had to concentrate on their
game and remember that Mary Wash-
ington is a good team. Unfortu-
nately, it didn’t quite work out.

“We can’t keep relying on No. 5
and 6 to pull out the matches,”
Detwiler said. “This will inspire us,
and make us work a lot harder.”

W&L lost to Washington Col-
lege, which knocked them out of the
NCAA Atlantic South Regional last
season, by a 5-2 score in
Chesteitown, Md., on Saturday. Kim
and Moynihan —— this time at No. 6
singles — were the only Generals to
win matches on the afternoon.

The men’s team traveled to
Swarthmore, Pa. on Sunday and de-
feated the Garnet Tide, a 2001 re-
gional opponent, by a 4-3 score.

James and McClure won at No. 1
and No. 2 singles, respectively. The
Generals picked up wins at ﬁfth and
sixth—seed singles thanks to Nix and
Moynihan. '

Swarthmore took the doubles
point by winning matches at No. 1
and No. 3. Kim and Nix eamed a vic-
tory at second-seed doubles.

The Generals (9-4) next return to
Old Dominion Athletic Conference
play on Tuesday with a 3:30 p.m.
home match against Roanoke.

Generals

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee women’s
lacrosse team broke a two-game slide
with wins over Lynchburg and Denison
at the Liberty Hall ﬁelds this week.

Sophomore goalkeeper Joanna
Perini made 16 saves and 10 Generals
scored as W&L knocked off Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference foe
Lynchburg, 10-7, on Wednesday.

The Hornets took an early 2-0 lead
on goals 20 seconds apart by Judy
Garger and Linda Jack, but W&L
reeled off six unanswered goals to take
a 6-2 lead into halftime.

“You don’t ever want to be down by
two, but we’ve done a lot of that this
year,” W&L coach Jan Hathom said.
“Because we’ve been in that situation
so many times, we didn’t panic. We
decided we had to keep ﬁghting harder,
and that’s exactly what they did.”

Sophomores Kelly Taffe and Lee
Wheeler tied the game up with goals
at 20:57 and 15:28. Freshmen Kristen
Brown and Maggie Speasmaker and
senior co-captains Emily Owens and
Courtenay Fisher also scored in the
ﬁrst half.

Lynchburg freshman Ali
Ballantyne, the Hornets’ leading scorer
on the season, pulled her team to within
three goals just over a minute into the
second half. However, goals by junior
Leslie Bogart — who also had three
assists -— and freshman Erin Rathbone
put the game out of reach.

Freshman Kitt Murphy and senior
Julie Carskadon gave W&L a 10-4 lead
later in the half. Lynchburg scored
three goals in the ﬁnal ﬁve minutes to
make the score closer than the game.

The fact that 10 different players

top Lynchburg, rout Denison

MEG P -nu/TheRing-mm Phi

BIG ODAC WIN: Junior Leslie Bogart scoops up a loose ball in Bogart had a goal and three assists against the Hornets, followed
Washington and Lee’s 10-7 win over Lynchburg on Wednesday by two goals and three assists against Denison.

scored for W&L pleased Hathorn,
whose team had trouble on the offen-
sive end in losses to Franklin &
Marshall and Mary Washington.

“First of all, it’s a big conﬁdence
builder, which we needed since we’ve
been struggling to score,” she said.
“Secondly, if we run our offense, that’s
what should happen. It means that
something’s going right in the way
we’re doing our settled offense.”

A lot of things went right for the
Generals’ offense on Saturday, as
W&L trounced Denison by an 18-8
margin. Taffe ﬁnished with four goals
and two assists, while Bogart added
two goals and three assists.

Carskadon contributed two goals
and an assist, and Wheeler notched a
hat trick and an assist in the second

half. Murphy and sophomore
Stephanie Haldy had two goals apiece.

The Generals again fell behind early
against the Big Red. Bogart broke a
scoreless tie more than 10 minutes in
off a Taffe assist, but Denison scored
two quick goals to take the lead.

Two Taffe goals followed by
Bogart’s assists on scores by
Carskadon and freshman Natalya
Hoobchaak, however, gave W&L the
lead for good.

“If we think we can get the ball
down and score, then we’re going to
do it,” Taffe said. “If we get tentative,
it’s not going to wor .”

Bogart, Murphy and junior Laura
Wilson also scored in the ﬁrst half for
the Generals, who led 8-4 after the first
30 minutes. W&L scored the ﬁrst four

goals of the second half for an insur-
mountable 12-4 advantage.

“This win and the one over
Lynchburg are deﬁnitely a big deal,”
Bogart said. “It deﬁnitely boosts our
confidence and improves our play,
especially during practice.”

The Generals (5-3, 3-0 ODAC) have
ﬁve straight conference games before
the ODAC Tournament on April 24-
28. They travel to Bridgewater for a 4
p.m. contest on Wednesday.

“We’re really looking forward to
playing Randolph-Macon and
Roanoke. They’re our other big com-
petition in the ODAC,” Bogart said.
“But Bridgewater and Virginia
Wesleyan both have really good
teams this year, so we have a bunch
of hard games coming up.”

  

MONDAY, APRIL 1,2002



Generals turn on offense in 2 ODAC wins

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

For the Washington and Lee men’s la-
crosse team, things are falling into place
at the right time.

Senior Andrew Barnett, the Generals’
leading returning scorer, tallied 10 goals in
two games as W&L knocked off Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference foes Guilford
and Lynchburg on the road this week.

A large contingent of second-yearplayers
hascomplimented Barnett on the offensive end
of the ﬁeld, including Dustin Martin and Matt
Fink, who each had three goals in the Gener-
als’ 15-11 win at Lynchburg on Saturday.

“Our offense is pretty young, a lot of
sophomores,” Martin said. “Last year, we

weren’t really in scoring roles. Our offense
has deﬁnitely jelled over the last few games.”
W&L traveled to Guilford on Wednes-
day, handing the homestanding Quakers a
19-0 loss. Barnett torched Guilford for six
goals, while sophomore Mark McLewee,
senior John Moore and freshman Jack
Murray had two scores apiece and fresh-
man Gavin Molinelli recorded four assists.
The competition improved greatly on
Saturday, and the Generals fell behind 3-0
to the Hornets in the first quarter.
“Falling behind kind of got us down,
but we knew our defense would step up
and get us back into it,” Martin said.
W&L scored ﬁve straight goals to as-
sume a 5-3 lead less than a minute into the
second quarter, but two quick answers from

Lynchburg forged a 5-5 tie at the 12:57 mark.
The Generals again put together an-
other spurt, including two of Barnett’s four
goals, to take a 9-5 advantage. The Hor-
nets pulled to within 9-6 at halftime, but
Barnett scored again early in the third quar-
ter to push the lead back to four goals.

Lynchburg scored twice to make it 10-
8, but Barnett again answered with his fi-
nal tally of the match.

The Hornets weren’t done, however, as
they clipped the W&L lead to 1 1-10 by the
end of the quarter. But the Generals sealed
the win with three straight goals, includ-
ing two of Fink’s three tallies, to go up 14-
10 with 8:31 remaining.

Sophomore Ansel Sanders made 16
saves in net for the Generals, who took 10

fewer shots (49-39) than the Hornets.

W&L (6-2, 3-0 ODAC) hosts the Lee-
Jackson lacrosse classic against VMI at 7
p.m. on Wednesday at the W&L Turf Field.
After that contest, they have nothing but
conference games through the ODAC
Tournament on April 23 and 27.

That includes an April 14 match against
Hampden—Sydney, which prevented the
Generals from reaching the NCAA Division
III tournament a year ago by handing them
a 12-1 1 setback in the regular season.

“The Hampden-Sydney game defi-
nitely has more of a heated rivalry since
what happened last year,” Martin said.
“These next few days of practice are go-
ing to be tough, and I think everyone’s
going to be pretty excited.”

 

 

    

are @ the GHQ A

Bluegrass and Folk

 

lvlenclay April lst8:3{l~n1idnight  

 

1

Internet Editor

The Ring—tum Phi is published Mondays during the under-
graduate school year at Washington and Lee University, Lex-
ington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Editor—in—chief, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise
independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submissions
and letters. All submissions must be e—mailed to phi @wlu.edu
or in the University Center mailbox by 5 p.m. Friday to ap-
pear in the following weeks edition. The Ring-tum Phi re-
serves the right to edit submissions for content and length.
Letters and columns do not necessarily reﬂect the opinion of
1 the Ring—tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does not reflect
the opinions of The Ring—tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

THE  PHI

Founder J. Samuel Slicer, Jr. 1899L
Editor-in-chief Matthew B. McDermott
. Associate Editor Katie J. Howell
1 Asst. News Editor Imran Naeemullah
1 Opinions Editor Brett T. Kirwan
Asst. Opinions Editor Drew Latimer
W&Life Editor Catherine C. Guy
Sports Editor Jeremy S. Franklin
Asst. Sports Editor Dave Crowell
Photo Editor MaryE.Guy
Photographer Meg Ferrara
1 Business Manager PaulA.Seifert
Circulation Manager Brian Castleberry
Asst. Business Manager Emily Barker
Advertising Manager William Litton

Peter L. Djalaliev

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address.’ University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address.' 3] Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email. p/ri@)v'[u.cdi4
http://phi.wl1i.edu

Annual Subscription Rate: $30

. Marlins handed the Generals 13-1 and 4-3 losses.

 

PAGM, .

W&L drops under ‘
.500 in conference :

FROM STAFF REPORTS

    
 
  
  
 
     
      
     
   
  
  

The Washington and Lee baseball team fell to 10-9-1, 5- 1
6-1 in the Old Dominion Athletic Conference, with an 11-
inning tie at Bridgewater and a pair of losses to Virginia
Wesleyan in a doubleheader on Saturday.

The Generals and the Eagles played to a 2-2 deadlock in
11 innings on Thursday beforethe game was called due to
darkness. Sophomore Peter Dean went nine innings on the‘!
mound, giving up just one earned run and striking out ﬁve.

W&L put its two runs on the board in the first inning, as
junior shortstop Michael Hanson doubled and scored on
junior first baseman Brian Gladysz’s two-out single. Senior
catcher Todd Gosselink drove in Gladysz with an RBI single.

Both teams had opportunities to break the deadlock,‘
which Bridgewater forced in the ﬁfth, as the Eagles left 12
men on base and the Generals stranded eight baserunners. 4 I

W&L then traveled to Norfolk for a Saturday double-
header against ODAC powerhouse Virginia Wesleyan. The Ar‘

Wesleyan right fielder John Kreiser was the hero in
Game 2, smacking a two-run home run in the bottom of the P
sixth inning to help his team to a 4-3 win.

)4

Track teams run at Bridgewater invite

BRIDGEWATER—~The Washington and Lee track teams
competed at the Bridgewater Invitational on Saturday.

Junior Mat Rapoza led the men’s team by winning’ the‘
shot put. The Generals’ 4x100 relay team also took first.

Junior Chris Sullivan finished second in the long jump,
while sophomore Jon Brimer turned in second—place fin-
ishes in the 200 and 400-meter runs.

For the women’s squad, senior Megan Babst placed
second in the high jump, and senior Sarah Schmidt took
third in the javelin. Junior Jen Fallon ﬁnished second in ,
the 3,000-meter event. ‘

V TTTTTTTTTTTTTT I  I  

FOR RENTT.

1 3-bedroom furnished ' 
apartment, off street

parking, 5 minutes on foot
from Washington Hall.
$600/month;
utilities not included.

One—year lease. Please call
463-7044 after 5 pm.

 

Fancy Dress Photos

All the Fancy Dress photos are on line now! ! !!
Tell your friends and family about them.
Help preserve your memories.

Check out: www.partypics.com

Use the password: FANCYDRESS

   
     

#1 Spring
§Break

Vacations!

1 1Cancun, Jamaica,

. 1Bahamas, &

Florida.

aBes’r Parties, Best 

Hotels,

Best Prices!

Group Discounts,

. Groups

organizers
irravel free!

1 ,Space is limited!

 1Hurry up (Sr Book ,

1 Now! 

11-300-234-7007 

1 www.endlesssummertours.com

1 1»

1 1
1

)1.‘

 

