 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a it ge

 

RA Ng a NG nee yy tN te eng

es

’
4

 

 

si} >
ory
2.

 

VOLUME 85, NUMBER 25

Low scores spark
golf team win

 
  
 

Page 5

  

 

40s

 

WASHINGTON ANDLEE UNIVERSITY

Middle-aged rockers
release 20th album

Page 6

 

ah I

 

 

Che Ring-tumn Phi

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Your exam weather

Friday: Sunny, mid-70s
Partly cloudy thru Sun.

 

APRIL 3, 1986

 

SAB reports
$10,000 loss

=

’ ‘By DANIEL BUNCH

4

Staff Reporter

 

The Student Activities Board lost
about $10,000 on student events since
March, according to its winter bud-
get report given at Monday night’s
Executive Committee meeting.

The SAB reported a loss of $5,460 on
Fancy Dress weekend and $4,900 on
the Violent Femmes concert March
15.

SAB Chairman Mike Guerriero
said that although the losses repre-
sent a departure from what the board
expects this year, they will have ‘‘no
effect’’ on SAB plans for spring term.

Guerriero said similar losses were
‘standard’ and unpredictable at
parties last year, but that improved
accounting practices implemented
this year have enabled the board to
keep better track of its finances.

“We're better managing the funds
we have available to us,’’ Guerriero
said.

Guerriero estimated that the SAB
has close to $15,000 remaining in its
budget for the year.

“It wasn’t a big surprise to lose
$5,000,’’ SAB treasurer George Boras
said of the FD loss.

Boras said that they ‘‘didn’t really
have a set mark’’ on how much they
were going to lose.

Boras said one of the reasons for
the loss was a disappointing turnout
at the Thursday night concert, feat-
uring Let’s Active and the dB’s. Part
of the $35 for Fancy Dress tickets

went to subsidize the concert.
Boras said the SAB bounced a $40

check during preparations for Fancy
Dress. He said that the SAB gave out
20 or 30 blank checks to people who
had to purchase supplies and the bad
check was a result of some of those
people not properly recording their
expenses.

The SAB lost about $4,900 on the
Violent Femmes concert March 15.

 

Age bracelets
called ‘charade’

A Student Activities Board
regulation that students at SAB
parties wear colored wristbands
to differentiate those who can
drink legally from those who can’t
is a ‘“‘charade’’ put on for the
Alcoholic Beverage Control
Board, SAB Chairman Mike Guer-
riero said at Monday night’s Ex-
ecutive Committee meeting.

The wristbands were used at
Fancy Dress, but students were
not required to show them to get
beer.

‘We waste an awful lot of time
putting those things on people’s
hands,”’ EC President John Lewis
said.

“It’s a charade for the ABC,”
Guerriero responded.

 

 

 

Boras said that when it was first an-
nounced that the band was going to
play there was a very good response,
but the actual turnout was poor.

The SAB also announced that the
White Animals and the Voltage
Brothers will be playing May 2 in the
student activities pavilion. There will
also be a “‘small band”’ playing a free
concert on the Colonnade.

The EC also voted to amend the
White Book so that the president and
vice president of the Student Bar
Association, who are responsible for
chairing “open” honor trials, will
have to decide at the beginning of
their terms in office whether to chair
the hearings or act as defense ad-
vocates.

The motion passed 8-4 with Andrew
Caruthers, Tony McCann, Baltzer
LeJeune and Bill Senft voting
against. It passed last week also, but
had to pass again to become final.

ers es

 

Hat trick

Senior Billy Holmes, on the attack for the Generals, fakes high and goes
low with a shot that tied the game against Towson State at 9-9 in the fourth
quarter on Saturday. It was Holmes’ third goal of the game and his 11th of

One incumbent loses post

 

By SEAN BUGG
Staff Reporter

 

Sophomore Brandt Wood defeated
incumbent Executive Committee
representative Pat Schaefer in
Thursday’s runoff election for next
year’s undergraduate EC members.

That makes Schaefer the only
undergraduate committee member
to lose a re-election race. Law School
elections have not yet been held.

In sophomore EC voting, Brad
Root led with 134 votes, Wood follow-
ed with 99, and the runners-up were

Schaefer with 93, and Tom O’Brien
with 75. Of the sophomore ballots

cast, 49 did not include votes for EC

representatives.

Junior Andrew Caruthers, who last
month lost a bid to become student
body president, was elected a senior
representative, as was incumbent
Baltzer LeJeune.

Freshmen Matt Bryant and
Christopher deMovellan were elected
EC representatives of their class.

In class officer voting, Mike
McAllister was elected next year’s

 

 

 

 

By Perry S. Hayes/The Ring-tum Phi

freshman Keri Hinrichs solved the tanning-studying dilemma by taking her books to a bench on the back campus this week

Testy?

‘Academic suicide’ said to result from exam-time slackness

 

By PAUL DAVEY
Social Critic

In less than 48 hours, the University community
will have already begun one of the most trying
periods of the school year: winter term exams.

Exams at this time of the year are particularly
difficult because of the nice weather that we have
been experiencing, the late winter burn-out, and
the ever-present thoughts about spring vacation.
Even so, one must do his best to be prepared for
exams, because to succumb to the temptation of
slack studying for exams is a sure-fire effective
form of academic suicide.

People prepare for exams in many ways. A cer-
tain part of the student body manages to line up
courses that do not have exams and in this way,
they ‘‘beat the system’ by not having to take
many, if any, exams.

Another group does full preparation throughout

the term, and in this way is able to get a good
night’s rest before exams because these people
are permeated with knowledge. It seems that dur-
ing the week preceding and the first week of any
given term, about 95 percent of the student body
claims they will do this. As the term goes on, the
weekends come, and the snooze buttons on clock
radios get slammed mercilessly on a daily basis,
the number of people actually adhering to the ‘‘full
preparation’ regimen dwindles

What then, does the majority of the student body
do to prepare for exams? Except for those who
have little chance to improve their dismal grades
even with a final worth 50 percent of the grade,
there are many things to do in order to do well on
exams.

Scheduling is always important. Most people
who pull the “Saturday, Monday morning, Mon-
day afternoon, Tuesday morning, Florida”
routine end up with horrendous exam grades
which translate into lowered term grades. This

system requires innumerable cups of coffee and
many doses of No-Doz or Vivarin.

A common trait of the person who schedules like
this is also a great deal of the, ‘‘Exams-are-killing-
me-and-I-haven’t-slept-in-72-hours ' type rhetoric
Who really cares to hear that kind of thing while
riding down the library elevator? It is tough to
have pity on someone who schedules his exams
stupidly.

The majority of the student body seems to take
exams at the pace between the ‘‘full preparation’’
and the “get out of here quick’’ extremes. Most
people seem to be somewhat knowledgeable about
course material and do a healthy amount of cram-
ming in order to try to ace exams. They spread out
the tests until Thursday, and often fill The Palms
on Saturday night in order to take a break after
the first exam

This system has an advantage over the ‘‘get out
quick”’ system in that, if one does not do well, he

See Exams, Page 4

oe

 

By Matt Horridge/The Ring-tum Phi

the season. The Generals lost the game 12-9 after coming back from a 7-3
deficit. Yesterday, the Generals beat cross-town rival Virginia Military In-
stitute, 20-2, to raise their record to 4-3. See story, page 5.

senior class president. Rob Tolleson,
Rich Hobson and Vin LaManna are
the vice presidents for the class.

The junior class will be led ‘next
year by Mike Henry as president and
Doug Elliot as vice president. The
president of the rising sophomore
class is Jim Ambrosini and the vice
president is David Thompson.

University Council representatives
are Bill Brown, John Brownlee and
Tyler Carr for the class of 1987,
Charles Lyle and Michael Suttle for
the class of 1988, and Carol Couch and
Rob Guyton for the class of 1989.

 

Correction

Due to an error in a Lexington
police report last week, The Ring-
tum Phi misidentified a fraternity
involved in an altercation.

The fraternity fight with Zeta
Beta Tau involved Phi Kappa Psi.

The case is still under investiga-
tion and no charges have been fil-
ed by ZBT according to Lt. Bruce
Beard of the Lexington Police.

The incident involved a ‘‘fun-
nelator’ slingshot that shot
oranges and grapefruits at the
ZBT house, breaking one window.

 

 

 

‘High-powered’ panel
to discuss DOD budget

 

By SIMON PEREZ
Staff Reporter

 

According to the Congressional
Budget Office, the Department of
Defense will spend over $300 billion
this year and next.

Is there a problem in how the De-
partment of Defense spends this
money, and if so, what are solutions
to the problem?

The answers to these and other
questions will be the main topics of a
panel discussion to be held in Lee
Chapel on April 25.

Washington and Lee senior John
Falk, who has been organizing the
discussion for Contact ‘86 since the
beginning of the year. The purpose of
the discussion, titled ‘The Procure-
ment of America’s Defense: 1986 and
Beyond’’ is ‘‘to present a_ well-
balanced and informative perspec-
tive of some very important issues.”’

The “high-powered” panel, Falk
said, will be composed of seven men
able to present a different view of the
Department of Defense’s procure-
ment process.

The panelists will be:

eCongressman Denny Smith (R.
Ore.), who is co-chairman of the
military reform caucus and will pre-
sent the Congressional Reform per-
spective.

Senior William A. Michaud was
charged March 5 with possession
of cocaine, Lexington Police Chief
L.O. Sutton said yesterday

Michaud, of Pearl River, N.Y.,
was arrested in connection with a
Jan. 12 incident at his 220 E
Nelson St. apartment in which he
and eight other students were
charged with possession of mari
juana

The delay in arresting Michaud
on the second charge is due to lab

 

Michaud faces cocaine charge

Congressman James Kolbe (R.-
Ariz.), who will present a neutral
congressional perspective.

eUndersecretary of the Army
James R. Ambrose, the second-high-
est ranking official in the Army, who
has experience in the procurement
process not only in his present
capacity, but as an executive with
the defense contractor, Ford Aero-
space and Communication Corp.

Assistant Secretary of the Navy
Everette Pyatt, who will present the
administration's and the Department
of Defense’s perspective.

eCharles C. Thompson, a producer

of the ABC-TV news magazine
20/20," to present the media's
perspective.

ePierre Sprey, a defense consul-
tant in Washington, D.C., who helped
develop the F-16 fighter aircraft,
and, consequently, has experience in
the procurement process,

eWolfgang Reuter, the executive
vice president of a naval architecture
firm, who will represent the private
industry’s perspective.

What the Department of Defense
does with its enormous amount of
money is a controversial topic, Falk
said.

Journalism

Professor Clark R.

See Defense, Page 4

tests that had to be performed,
Sutton said

“Were qualified to look at
marijuana and say, yeah, that’s
marijuana,”’ Sutton said. The pro
cedure with cocaine is different,
he explained. ‘‘Because of the lab
report, he wasn’t charged until a
later date.”’

Michaud and the other students
arrested are scheduled to appear
in Lexington District Court April
22at2p.m

—Jim Strader

 

 
‘OPINION
-The runs

”

 

With the elections of the undergraduate student officers
over, we have a few observations about the system.

First, consider the following numbers. Petitions were sub-
mitted to the Voting Regulations Board by 17 rising seniors
‘on March 17 for various student government positions. When
the vote was counted a week later, 17 individuals made it to
the runoff election,with only one student winning a race di-
rectly. What was the use of the first election? Sure, additional
write-in candidates were added for the less-popular Universi-
ty Council seats. But would it be asking too much of the
students who orchestrated their write-in campaigns to get
the application in a week earlier? Maybe the VRB should not
allow write-in candidates unless they (unlikely) garner a ma-
jority of the votes cast in any given election.

The fact remains, however, that only three candidates
were eliminated for the second round of voting. Somehow,
either the orignal nomination process or the rule of ‘‘gaining
a majority” to win needs to be re-examined.

Second, we agree with the action taken by the VRB and the
Executive Committee in disallowing a revote in the case of
sophomore Tommy McBride. McBride submitted his appli-
cation for sophomore class president as required. His name
appeared on the list of candidates published in the EC
minutes, but when the offical VRB ballot was posted on the
EC door later that week, McBride’s name was missing. But
he didn’t bother to take the time to check to see if his name
was present on the ballot, much less spelled correctly, as the
VRB had advised in the rule-setting meeting. When the error
was discovered, the balloting had already begun.

There is a certain responsibility that goes with every

- elected office. Is it asking too much of a candidate to give him
the responsibility of checking to see his name is listed and
spelled correctly? If any candidate cannot do that, what
should we expect of him when he is elected? In several recent
elections, a candidate has complained about the way his

‘name has appeared on the ballot. This time there were 84

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, April 3, 1986

 

 
 
 

‘Please stay on your own blanket during the exam period. Hackey-
sack and frisbee toss will resume at 5 p.m. ...any questions?”

 

 

around with a girl when you know

Roadtrip: Tradition not left by wayside

“Cute,’’ said Susie Sweetbriar,

_ original candidates, and each one spells his name differently.
. The VRB has come up with the best solution possible by post-
ing a sample ballot and letting the candidate approve it.
‘McBride gave up his right to complain by not checking the

ballot.
“ The recent elections were uneventful, for the most part.
“ Much of the credit for the smooth voting goes to the VRB and
-‘its co-chairmen, seniors Lou Mondello and John Scannapie-

co. In the future, however, we hope that a few changes in the

electoral process will make future elections even better.

Nipped in the bud

Last week, I had my worst fears confirmed. I have lost all
faith (and that was not much) in the earnest preachings of
faculty and administration members to ‘‘keep an open mind”’
in all matters.

-.. Isuppose this backsliding results from a private conversa-

SSeS
MY VIEW

By Lisabeth Fowler

Life as a Playboy air freshener in a
BMW isn’t always fun, but you do
overhear some interesting conversa-
tions. Like last Saturday, when eight
students armed with beer and picnic
supplies headed for the parkway. It
was apparent that they were a close
group.

“Isn’t it weird that out of four
couples, only one of us is a W&L guy
with a W&L girl?” asked Cathy Co-
ed, as they piled in. ‘‘Perhaps the T-
shirts about ‘The beginning of an er-
ror’ were right when they said ‘The
roadtrip continues.’ ’’

“Don’t be silly,’ replied Bob E.
W&L, putting his arms around his
girlfriend, Mary C. W&L. “Why go
out for hamburger when there’s
steak at home?”’

“but not entirely accurate.”

“I’m serious guys,” Cathy said.
“Doesn't it seem funny to you that in
a coed school, there is so much im-
porting of dates? And I don’t mean
just the guys either. You'd be sur-
prised how many freshman girls ac-
tually prefer to date from VMI,
Hampden-Sydney and U.Va.”

“Well,” said George General,
Susie’s date. ‘‘As a W&L man, I'd
kind of feel like I was taking advan-
tage of the newly coed situation by
dating a W&L girl. Besides, the way
it is now, I can date one at the Briar,
one at Hollins, and one at Randy Mac
with no one the wiser. Dating a girl
on campus would make playing the
field impossible.”’

“It seems to me to be more a mat-
ter of responsibility,” said Bob, ‘I
found I had to be more careful who I
found myself..uh...ahem..‘talking’ to
after 1 a.m. at the frat parties. It
makes you think twice about fooling

you have to face her Monday morn-
ing in your psych class. And if you’re
going out with a girls’ school girl and
you break up, you almost never have
to see her again, whereas if she’s on
campus...’

“*You know what really bugs me?”’
interrupted Martha, who’s dating Sid
D. Squid. ‘‘The guys think it’s okay
for them to roadtrip, but they have a
fit when they find out I’m going out
with Sid.”

‘‘Well, geez!’’ said Bob. ‘There are
12 guys to one girl already! What
possible reasons could you have for
dating foreigners?”

“The same reasons you just men-
tioned — it works both ways, you
know. And with the girls’ school girls
still very much a part of the social
life at W&L, the female/male ratio is,
really about 4 to1.”’

“Tt seems to me,’’ said George,
“that the roadtrips will always con-

At the same time, having your
squeeze close at hand has its advan-
tages, and I fully expect to see an in-
creasing number of W&L couples
each year.”

“But what about friendships?’’ in-
jected Mary. ‘“‘The guys are so used
to road chicks pursuing them that
they have trouble dealing with
women as friends. The minute you
start being friendly to one, he
assumes it’s because you want to
date him. If you pursue friendships
with too many guys here, you get a
reputation for looking for an ‘“‘“MRS”’
degree and all the guys mysteriously
disappear. It’s silly.”

“Now I’m confused.” said Bob.
“Do you want brothers or boy-
friends?”

“Both!” answered Mary. ‘Just
because we talk to you doesn’t mean
we want to-date you. At the same
time, when the right guy comes
along, we’d hate to see our W&L

“ction I had with a certain dean last Friday. I visited the dean
“hoping to inquire how and why a certain decision had been
“made. As a student, I was only following the direction of

tinue — for both sexes — that’s okay. status stop him from asking us out.”

“Many professors: don’t accept facts out of hand. Find out

~how people arrived at that decision.

> That’s what I tried to do. But this dean — who ironically, on
Good Friday, seemed to be bearing a heavy cross or at least a
_ big chip on his shoulders — told me that students seem to be
- asking too many questions these days. Students, he said, suf-
- fer from an ‘‘egoism”’ in believing that all decisions should be
: made ina “fraternity circle’’ on the Colonnade. (I never ask-
‘ed that.) All that he sees his job as is an attempt to facilitate
. the education process in the classroom. That is his only con-

“gern.

“! That was not so obvious in our conversation. Despite my
being a student, and thus favoring the student cause in part, I
“still wonder whether his priorities are straight. As I under-
“stand his remarks, students ought just to accept every deci-

“sion made by the administration without argument.

I reject that thought, just as I reject the notion that
students ought to make every decision on this campus. I also
‘decry the growing ‘‘egoism”’ of administrators like this dean
who see their decisions as somehow above reproach. Just
because they are administrators doesn’t make them experts
in everything they do. Sure, deans get critized often; I enjoy
participating in it. But the sheer frequency of this examina-
tion of every decision by people (students) affected by them
is not sufficient reason to reject every inquiry. One way of
promoting better communication with students is to allow (at
least) us to question how any decision is made.

Chatting with a phobia footlocker friend

 

MY VIEW
By Steven Pockrass

 

“T meant to do that!”
—Pee Wee Herman

No escape was available when the
giant Hippo-critter joined me for a
few hard ones at the old milk bar last
week. I cowered in the corner, trying
to avoid the bad breath emanating
from this big-footed, ugly, pear-
shaped beast’s huge, scooplike
mouth.

A friend from my footlocker of
phobias, the Hippo-critter is harder
to get rid of than a shadow on a sunny
day. To put it another way, Bink-
ley could wipe out the creatures
from his closet of anxieties with a
couple of aspirin, I would need a
handful of those super-charged
Extra-Strength Tylenol capsules to
eliminate the Hippo-critter.

“Say, I was just wondering,”’ it
said to me, “whether you think
anyone ever takes that newspaper
column of yours seriously?”

compared with quiet conversations
with friends. Now that one seemed
pretty well received. And as best I
can tell, a lot less beer was spilled
and a lot fewer drunks attended this
year’s Fancy Dress Ball.”

“Oh really,”’ it said. ‘I heard that
it might’ve done you some good to
have re-read your own column FD
weekend.”’

. “Now wait a second. I was just
planning on drinking these milks
— chocolate milks, it being a special
occasion — over at the frat house
before dinner, and somebody SPIK-
ED all the milk. Gosh, it must’ve
been grain, because I couldn’t even
taste it.”

The Hippo-critter wrote the letters

“HV” on a napkin and pushed it
across the table.

“Don’t believe me, huh? All right,
well then I’m going to let you in ona
secret. There’s a little-known codicil
in the reporting field known as the
double-secret, undercover investiga-
tion. It is used only in cases of utmost
secrecy, where life and property

two years here, but this year I needed
to test my ‘quiet evening’ hypothesis
by experiencing some wild drunken-
ness. And actually, I ended up getting
a bit of both on FD Friday.”

“But did you tell your date that at-
tending the FD Ball was not part of
your plans because of the investiga-
tion?”

“T couldn’t. It was double-secret.”’
“‘Well, what about the tickets, the

new shirt, tie, cuff links and studs?”
“That was part of the act.”

‘‘And the ‘10 cents a dance’ button
on your tux?”’
“That was a gift.”

“And your asking a number of
ladies to save you dances?”

“That was a mistake.”

‘And how did your date feel about
it?”

“She was very understanding, a lot
better about it than I would've been. I

guess that was a big part of the irony ~

of it, because she liked my last FD
column so much.”’

“That is a bit humorous,” said the
Hippo-critter, ‘‘but not nearly as fun-

and bright at the journalism school,”’
I said. ‘‘And what’s the big deal if my
basketball loyalties are to the Mid-
west?”

“Only about 50 bucks,” said the
Hippo-critter. “But I must say, at
least you’re able to keep up a sense of
humor about all this.”

“Perhaps that is one lesson that
can be learned,”’ I said, ‘‘because it
eases a lot of the pain and pressure
when you can laugh at your adver-
sities — the many times you've fallen
asleep in small seminar classes, the
time you trashed your room ina fit of
anger or the time you were dumped
by the one girl who ‘really meant
something’ in your life. You've got to
be able to joke about that stuff. After
all, no matter where you go, there
you are.

“The way I look at it is that I may
be a pretty serious kind of guy, but if
I’ve got to live with myself for the
rest of my life — and that looks pretty
certain — I’d better be able to laugh
at myself before I start laughing at
others. It’s just like the comedian

I believe it is the administrators who need a lesson in open-
mindedness. In a community where student-faculty commu-
nication is central to the philosophy of education, to preclude
any part of that communication process is to nip education in
the bud. Surely that is not the objective of the administration.

 

  
 

—NRP
2 2
Che Ring-tum Phi

NEWS STAFF
16h sa) cid sch oy cibedes beeebedintielas Gast Mike Allen
eS ne oe rr rrr erie Tener rrr rT here re Paul Foutch

Jim Strader
eerie benti a hedbednns CiViberess eligi Reade Williams
ig his ice lbesieneccekeccvdeveutoebUbacssadesenasess Mike Stachura
PI Fie ccc cnreVbarccecccecdcccveaseccceccscerss+scsbtaua; Jason Lisi
Photography Editor... «+ +ee+ Steve Sadler
Chief Copy Editer ....... ..... Matt Horridge
I os 000) 0 eb cece ean ecebiccsaieess ie ced Marshali Boswell
ek ke pd Ee David Emrich
EDITORIAL PAGE
er ree er Nelson Patterson
Assistant Editorial Page Editor. ...............c0cceeceececeeeees sss Marie Kothman
RE ET CET eee eTPeeREh ee TT ee Chris Bowring
BUSINESS STAFF
MU ec ad 6s cg Cede Ne dee 660th cbieiei Heres bes Jeff Kimbell
a6 v5 iss 0 cect cdccccnccccctseenessetcsceesrses Hank Greenberg
PIII, boss osd csc decedecececcoeevecscece John Feyrer, Keri Hinrichs,

Jay Reville, Greg Turley

5 5a usc o0b0 6 6.00 80:0.6s oeeeee Kevessetisetescsasans Matt Horridge

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee, The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 200 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run. Or send them to The
Ring-tum Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

‘morpnwolbrevo’ column that de-em-
phasized FD drunkeness, especially

 

 

 

“Why sure,” I said. “Take the

must be risked for the general good.
“I was pretty sober at FD my first

LETTERS

ny as your NCAA picks.”
“Just trying to keep things light

Harpo Marx used to say:

oe ,

Reader decries Patterson’s sneering remarks

To the editors:

I must take exception to Nelson Patterson's
commentary supporting military aid to the con-
tras, feeling Patterson is guilty of both painting
the world in unrealistic black-and-white dicho-
tomies and mudslinging akin to that of the late
Senator Joseph McCarthy.

“There are really two scenarios available...’’
Patterson states, giving the contras millions of
dollars now, or allowing the contras to fall. This
is very simplistic, failing to consider the ability
of the contras to survive on their own.

Most insightfully, I think Patterson has over-
looked another, even more frightening possibil-
ity: direct American intervention (likely
through the use of combat troops). This, indeed,
is another very real scenario, and there are
doubtless others, so it is plain that there are far
more than Patterson’s ‘‘two scenarios.”
Although decrying an either/or choice is handy
for red-baiting, it is not realistic.

I am offended by Patterson’s holier-than-thou
pronouncement that one is either a liberal (and, I
suspect, a closet commie sympathizer) or an

American. That he needs to use this type of argu-
ment (?) in his second paragraph only highlights
the weakness (or absence) of his case. Indeed,
Patterson never really presents a case for aid,
preferring to use tired Reaganisms to justify our
opposition to the Sandinistas. ‘‘Nicaragua under
the Sandinistas poses a threat to every country in
Latin America,” Patterson says, apparently
wishing to overlook American adventurism in
Latin America spanning nearly a century.

There are a number of valid reasons for oppos-
ing aid to the contras. They have been accused of
forced conscription, atrocities and massacres.
There are concerns about the past records of
some contra leaders and possible links to the old
Somoza regime. Should the United States, as the
“Shining City on the Hill,’’ support such ac-
tivities and people?

However, the all-too-frequently overlooked,
but most important, question is what will best
benefit the Nicaraguan population: a prolonged,
devilitating civil war waged by an increasingly
entrenched regime, or peaceful conditions allow-
ing political and economic stabilization? Admit-

tedly, the Sandinistas are nui an ideal govess-
ment, but they have made some improvements,
and I believe the United States would be able to
better help the people by steering (bribing?) the
Sandinistas than destabilizing them with the in-
tention of installing another suspect regime.

At the heart of the Nicaraguan controversy is a
form of myopic commie-phobia. The U.S. has a
knee-jerk opposition to any government that
smacks of Marxism or communism, but lends
blind support to equally tyrannical ‘“‘anti-com-
munist”’ regimes.

Mr. Patterson’s attack upon the “liberal
knaves’’ fails to present any real argument for
support of the contras (except perhaps for a veil-
ed appeal to the domino principle — if the alleged
red menace is allowed to prosper in Nicaragua it
will certainly spread to Harlingen, Texas) and is
guilty of unnecessary character attacks. (I won’t
even comment upon his discussion of ‘‘sniveling
professors spewing forth leftist dogma.’’) I hope
Mr. Patterson is able to do better in the future.

David Johnston
Class of 1986

 

 
 

 

 

ae

ee

._NEWS

a ‘hand’ for
the hungry

By CLARE KAYE
Staff Reporter

 

 

The mayors of both Lexington and
Buena Vista have issued a proclama-
tion declaring May 4, ‘Hands Across
Rockbridge” Day.

This county-wide fund-raiser is
patterned after the national event
called ‘‘Hands Across America” and
is designed to combat hunger in
Rockbridge County. The state of Vir-
ginia, the Shenandoah Valley, and
Rockbridge County were left out of
the national plans made by USA for
Africa. As Martha Doss, one of the
coordinators of the Virgnia event ex-
plained, ‘‘There are people in Vir-
ginia who are hungry as well; we
want to help.”’

The event will require at least 9,000
people to join hands in order to create
a human link extending from the
flagpole at the county courthouse in
Lexington, past the Lexington City
Hall, out Route 60 to the flagpole at
the municipal building in Buena
Vista.

Doss pointed out that the number of
people needed to make the project a
success is not unreasonable as it only
accounts for 1/3 of the county’s
population.

Participants in the projects will be
required to donate $1 to the cause. All
of the money will go directly to the
Rockbridge Area Relief Association,
which assists the hungry throughout
the county.

Various organizations will con-
tribute their services to the event.
Blue Bird bus company and the Lex-
ington Lions Club will both help
alleviate some of the transportation
problems expected by contributing
buses and their driving services.
Several other organizations will
donate funds to. the event.

In order to make the day a com-
plete success, Doss said, people in
and around the Rockbridge area
must donate time and efforts. Doss
extended an enthusiastic invitation to
the Washington and Lee community
to participate in the event. She said,

The Ring-tum Phi, April 3, 1986

 

 

New pavilion?

Workmen pause during construction of a stone stair-
way that will lead into the Hopkins Green park at the cor-
ner of Nelson and Jefferson streets. The stairway, being
built by stone mason Alvis Reynolds, is part of the first
stage of the development of the park, which will eventual-
ly include a stone wall, benches and a small pavilion, La-
mar J.R. Cecil Jr., a trustee of the Historic Lexington
Foundation, which is overseeing the project, said this

By Hank Mayer/The Ring-tum Phi

first stage of the construction is expected to be completed
in May, when the entrance and a fence will be finished.
The next step involves landscaping the park and the final
phase is the construction of the pavilion, which Cecil said
will be modeled on the architecture of the Hopkins house
(right). Hopkins Green is the only land in Lexington that
has remained in the same family since being purchased
from the original town trustees.

Bookstore selling souvenir sticker

 

 

 

By DUDLEY LEE
Staff Reporter

 

Would you buy a bumpersticker for
a bar that no longer exists?
Well, if you’ve ever been to the

 

 

THE

COCKPIT

WASHINGTON & LEE
UNIVERSITY

 

 

Cockpit — the tavern in the Student
Center now called the General Head-
quarters — and would like a souvenir

The outdated Cockpit bumper sticker on sale in the bookstore

has been sold over the year.

“‘We need student involvement. W&L

+ represents a major part of Lexington

and the students participation will
definitely ensure the successful out-

* come of the fund-raiser.”

‘Junior reps look to

’

By MATT HORRIDGE
' Staff Reporter

i

 

Brad Root, the sophomore Ex-
* ecutive Committee representative
; Tre-elected last Thursday, said this

week that he is looking forward to
* serving again on the committee next
+ year.

Root received 134 votes in last
Thursday’s runoff elections, after
what he called an extensive cam-
paign.

He said he ‘‘made an effort to con-
. front every member of the sopho-
more class’’ by going to the Woods
Creek Apartments and fraternities
- and by passing out handbills on cam-
pus.

Next year’s EC will be ‘‘extremely
strong,’’ Root said, because many of
this year’s members will return to
the committee next fall.

-

 

| Law scholar to present lecture on Soviet human rights

to remember it by, you’re in. luck.
Bumperstickers bearing the name
and insignia of the Cockpit are
available in the Washington and Lee
Bookstore for 50 cents.

Root plans to ‘re-educate’ faculty

Root said he would like to hold a
forum on the Honor System after the
Liberty Hall orientation session ‘‘to
further clarify the guidelines of the
Honor System.”

To ‘‘re-educate some of the faculty
on the Honor System”’ is another of
Root’s goals for next year. He said
professors might not keep up with
White Book revisions, and some have
not been formally introduced to the
Honor System.

He would also like to have sessions
at the Law School similar to the one
freshmen have at Liberty Hall to
make law students more aware of the
importance of the Honor System at
Washington and Lee.

Root is a ‘‘tentative’’ economics
major from Erie, Pa. He is a mem-
ber of Beta Theta Pi fraternity and

When the bar changed names this
fall, the bookstore had a surplus of
more than 1,000 stickers from last
year. The renaming of the tavern
hasn't stopped students from buying
the stickers. About half of the supply

No stickers have been printed up
for the GHQ, according to Debbie
Conner, a bookstore employee,
because there hasn’t been any stu-
dent interest in them.

called

By SAMUEL FOLEY
Staff Reporter

 

 

The word from Michael A. Cap-
peto, director of career development
and placement, should relieve many
anxious seniors looking for jobs.

“The job market is the best I have
seen it in the nine years I have been
here at W&L,”’ he said, ‘‘and I have
no doubt that it will remain strong.”

In past years, Cappeto said, about
half of the seniors looking for jobs
have found them by graduation. This
number excludes those students who
wish to go on to graduate school or
travel before finding a job.

This year, it looks as if seniors will
do even better, Cappeto said. He esti-
mates that between 65-70 percent of
the senior class will have jobs by
June.

“It should be a banner year,’’ he
said.

The search for jobs has gone very
well this year, some students said,
and they give much of the credit to
the placement office. A variety of
tasks are performed by Cappeto and
his staff. Among these duties are the
organization of a resume-writing
clinic, job hunts, job interviews and,
most importantly, helping students
decide what they want to do.

Cappeto said that setting a goal is
the most important thing a student
initiating a job hunt should do. “If
you do not know what you are looking
for, it makes it very difficult for us to
find you a job,” he said.

The placement office also
publishes a book containing the
resumes of any students who wish to
have credentials published. The book
is then sent to many businesses that
do not come to Washington and Lee to
interview students.

Perhaps the most vital service the
placement office provides to job
seekers is the arranging of on-
campus interviews with companies
that are looking to hire. Interviews,

strengthen EC’s image, role

 

BRAD ROOT

the Student Recruitment Committee.
He said he enjoys “‘squash and rac-
quetball’”’ and outdoor activities.

Wood regains committee post

 

By MATT HORRIDGE
Staff Reporter

 

Brandt Wood, elected Thursday as
a junior Executive Committee repre-
sentative, said this week that not be-
ing on the current EC will help him in
his job because ‘I’ve seen it from
both sides now.”’

Wood, who served on the EC during
his freshman year, beat sophomore
representative Pat Schaefer in last
week’s run-off by a six-vote margin.
The other current sophomore repre-
sentative, Brad Root, kept his seat by
finishing first in the run-off.

Wood said he was not required to
do muck as a freshman representa-
tive but added that he gained inval-
uable experience by observing the
older EC members.

Wood said he thought about regain-
ing his seat all year and, after talking

 

NEWS BRIEFS

Accompanied by Assistant Professor of History J.

Hodges is one of 12 professors in the nation selected to

with several members of the EC,
decided to enter the election.

“T didn’t campaign as hard as I did
my freshman year,” he said. He at-
tributed his victory to knowing peo-
ple in all the fraternities and ‘‘shak-
ing a lot of hands.”’

Wood said he is looking forward to
serving on next year’s committee
because he thinks there will be a feel-
ing of camaraderie among the mem-
bers.

“Strengthening the EC’s image
and trust”’ is a goal Wood has for next
year. He said he plans to use his
friends in many fraternities to poll
student opinion on issues brought
before the EC.

Wood is an administration major
from New Orleans He is a member of
the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity and

strong

though not always successful, give
students the opportunity to become
familiar with the interview process,
so that even if a student does not get a
job from a particular interview, the
experience will help prepare him for
future encounters with recruiters.

Cappeto said that W&L has a very
broad recruitment base that ‘is
helpful in attracting companies to
Lexington.

Senior Jeff Sapp said, ‘‘I think the
placement office did a very good job
of arranging to have companies
come to town and interview stu-
dents.’

 

Resim

THE CLASS

1986

ry

Wasnincton ano Ler University

Lexinctos, Va. 24450

 

 

 

The Resume Book

With the class of 1986 approaching
graduation, Cappeto had some ad-
vice for those who will be looking for
a job next year. ‘Seniors need to get
started early,” Cappeto said. ‘‘If you
get started early, you will probably
do better and have a definite advan-
tage over the late starters.”

Cappeto said that when seniors
come back in the fall there are a lot of
distractions, and this keeps many
students from getting a good start.

“If I was a job-seeker, I would do
everything: write resumes, go on in-
terviews, go to the workshops — the
whole deal,” Cappeto said. -

“And I would start as early -as
possible,”’ he added. »

of honor

 

BRANDT WOOD

the track team. He said he enjoys
biking, fishing and “enjoying the
country a whole lot.”

 

Staff Reports

 

Christopher Osakwe, scholar-in-residence at
Washington and Lee’s Frances Lewis Law Center, will
present a lecture on ‘The Theories and Realities of
Modern Soviet Human Rights Law.”

The lecture, which is open to the public, will be Mon-
day, at 4 p.m. in Room C of the Lewis Law Center.

In his lecture, Osakwe will examine the legal and
philosophical framework of some recent Soviet human
rights cases such as those of Andrei Sakharov, Anatoly
Scharansky and Alexander Solzhenitsyn.

While in residence at W&L this semester, Osakwe is
working on a book that will provide a_ historical,
philosophical and methodological analysis of modern
Soviet law.

He studied at the Moscow State University School of
Law from 1962 to 1970, receiving his doctorate. He
received his law degree from the Univeristy of Illionois
College of Law in 1974.

The Frances Lewis Law Center was established at
W&L to focus on developing knowledge ‘‘at the frontiers
of the law.’’ The center also supports the research of
lawyers and judges and holds major colloquia and
seminars on various topics.

Students deliver history papers

Several Washington and Lee students and graduates
recently delivered papers at regional meetings of Latin
American scholars.

David Parker, three students attended the annual con-
vention of the Southwestern Council on Latin American
Studies held March 13-15 in Fort Worth, Texas. David
Kelly, a December 1985 graduate, spoke there on ‘‘Self-
Serving Motives in Sixteenth-Century Biography.”’
Junior Scott Alford delivered a paper on ‘‘Ethnocen-
trism in European Accounts of the New World,” and
classmate Charles Elmer presented a paper on ‘‘Picon-
Salas’ ‘Indian Legacy’ Reconsidered.”’

Senior David Moose spoke on ‘Nicaraguan
Regionalism in National Politics, 1921-1934,” and junior
Matthew Lewis delevered a paper on ‘Honduran
Political Culture, 1932-1954.” In addition, David Hanna,
a 1985 graduate, gave a paper entitled ‘Constitutional
Devotion and Abandonment: The Rise and Fall of Ven-
ustiano Carranza, 1913-1920.”

Parker and two students also attended the annual
meeting of the Middle Atlantic Council of Latin
American Studies March 21-22 in Fairfax, where senior
Gerald Shepherd spoke on ‘Political Methods, Issues
and Forces in Peru, 1890-1920.’’ John Paul Vita, a 1984
graduate and first-year law student, gave a paper on
‘Guatemalan Politics, 1951-1954.”’

Hodges awarded ethics fellowship

Religion Professor Louis W. Hodges, director of the
Society and the Professions program in applied ethics,
has been awarded a fellowship from the Poynter In-
stitute for Media Studies iri St. Petersburg, Fla.

receive the 1986 Fellowships for Excellence in the
Teaching of Journalism Ethics. He will attend a four-
day seminar on ethics and teaching at the Poynter In-
situtue in May.

The fellowships are sponsored by the education com-
mittees of the American Society of Newspaper Editors,
the Associated Press Managing Editors and the Nation-
al Conference of Editorial Writers. They are awarded to
professors who demonstrate devotion to students, peda-
gogical ability, and upholding of journalism values

A graduate of Millsaps College and Duke University,

Hodges joined the faculty in 1960.

Rockbridge Cancer Run slated

The Rockbridge Cancer Run 86, ‘‘A Run with George
Cunningham,”’ features a new course that will provide a
challenge for both recreational and dedicated runners

Portions of the course used in past years were washed
away by the November flood, so George Cunningham,
one of the area's most dedicated runners despite his
battle with cancer, has been out scouting new routes for
the April 27 race.

Both the five-kilometer and the 10-kilometer races
will start at the field near the Washington and Lee Law
School. Runners will go through the parking lot to the
Wood's Creek trail and then follow the trail to the Stop
In near the Maury River. At that point the race splits

The 5K runners will take a right and head back on
Main Street toward downtown. The 10K runners will

 

take a left at the Stop-In, cross the Maury River, and
then take a left on state road 631 at East Lexington. The
10K course continues out 631 to Furr’s Mill, turns
around at that point, and follows the same route back to
the Stop-In.

From the Stop-In, the 5K and 10K courses follows the
same route to the finish line at Wilson Field. The course
follows Main Street to Letcher Avenue. Runners will
take a right on Letcher Avenue, go up around the Vir-
ginia Military Institute parade ground, down Superin-
tendent’s Hill, up Anderson Drive and then back on to
the trail to Wilson Field.

For more information about the race, including maps
and applications, contact Patti Ryan-Mandel, 628 Stone-
wall St., Lexington, VA 24450, 463-9432; or Jim Dittrick,
502 Lime Kiln Rd., Lexington, Va. 24450, 463-3797.

Senior wins science Fulbright

Shawn Harvey, a senior from Georgetown, S.C., has
received a Fulbright grant to study for a year in West
Germany. The grant includes a two-month language
course at the Goethe Institute, and a year of study and
research at the Institute for Neurobiology at Gulach.

A chemistry major, Harvey is a member of Alpha Ep-
silon Delta professional fraternity for premedical
students and Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity. He
was elected to Phi Eta Sigma, the freshman honor
society, and to Phi Beta Kappa, and has consistently
been named to the honor roll. He is the recipient of The
Henry Ruffner Scholarship for academic excellence.

 
Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, April 3, 1986

 

Break plans range from canoein’ to Cornell

 

By DANATHA HOFFMAN

Staff Reporter break

 

Which upcoming event is foremost
in your plans: a week of exams or a
week of spring break?

Many W&L students seem more ob-
sessed with tanning than tangents,
especially with the balmy weather
we've been having.

“I wish it would just rain,” said
freshman Liz Smith. ‘“‘That way I
wouldn’t be tempted to lay out and
would get some studying done.”

Mock constitutional convention
in planning for next spring

It will be open to all students, and
faculty members would serve as ad-

 

By DANIEL BUNCH

Staff Reporter visers.

 

If you don’t think you can wait for
the next mock political convention,
don’t worry. A mock constitutional
convention is being planned for the
spring of 1987, the bicentennial of the
U.S. Constitution.

History Professor Robert W.
McAbren is chairman of a committee
formed by University President John
D. Wilson to study possible ways to
celebrate the Constitution’s bicenten-
nial.

McAhren said the mock constitu-
tional convention will be ‘‘very much
like the mock political convention.”

Working on the perfect post-exam
tan will occupy many students during

Carol Couch and five other fresh-
men are headed to her home in Pen-
sacola, Fla. Among those is Melissa
Thrasher, who remarked that she
has ‘‘never been this white in my life
I can’t wait to get to the beach.”’

Other students have chosen to in-
vade Fort Lauderdale, including Stu
Sheldon and a few other Sigma Chis
They are not sure yet where they in-
tend to stay.

‘*We'll just see when we get there,”

“It would be something students
would have to participate in on their
own,” McAhren said.

McAhren said he would like to get a
better idea of how much the conven-
tion will cost before any definite
plans are made.

Other plans for the bicentennial in-
clude having special speakers at the
Founder’s Day and Phi Beta Kappa
assemblies.

A special course about the Con-
stitution will be taught in both the
politics and history departments by
professors Delos D. Hughes and J.
Holt Merchant Jr.

he said

Dec. 29

Not all students are going to the
beach. Moose Herring and Christo
pher de Movellan are planning to
canoe on the New River in North
Carolina. AS members of the swim
team, this is their first break since

Both are sure they will enjoy it
‘shaved legs, chlorine tan, and all.”’ it

Speaking of sports, the women’s
tennis team is headed to Hilton Head,
while the lacrosse team will remain
here to practice. The Generals have
two games: at Cornell University on

April 16, and at home against Rad-
ford College on April 19

Other W&L groups venturing off
are the Chorus and Glee Club. They
leave Friday after exams for a con-
cert tour through Switzerland, Ger-
many and Austria. Among those tra-
veling is Lucy Anderson, who said
she is ‘‘very excited to be a part of

Not all students have it so easy,
though. Many diligent pre-meds will
remain here or go home to study for
the Medical College Aptitude Test,
which is to be given April 18.

 

CLASSIFIEDS |

 

GENERAL NOTES

ing for a total cost of $44. A $20
deposit is due upon registration by
Friday, April 11.

 

Sophomores,

463-8583 for details.

Center.

 

juniors,
— pick up your '85 Calyx before
our supply runs out. Calyx office
hours are 3-5 p.m. daily.

Books are available for sale to
non-students at a cost of $30 per
book. Call the Calyx office at

Students interested in partici-
pating in the SAB’s White Water
Rafting trip on West Virginia’s
lower New River may register
with Carol Calkins in the Student

The day-long trip, Sunday, May
4, includes lunch with kegs follow-

SOniOrs Underclassmen who wish to ap-
ply for membership on the Stu-
dent Recruitment Committee but
will not be in Lexington for the
spring term should submit a letter
of application to McClain Stradt-
ner in the Admissions Office.

The National Italian American
Foundation is offering graduate
and undergraduate scholarships
for Italian American students.
The scholarships range in value
from $250 to $2,500, and the ap-
plication deadlines are in May.
For more information, call the
Financial Aid Office at 463-8715.

 

 

 

 

Exams

 

() Continued from Page 1

can tell his parents, with some honesty, ‘‘I spread
out exams so that I could get lots of studying in for
each one. I don’t know what happened. | guess my
hours of studying weren’t enough, but there was
nothing more I could do.”’

Location of study is important. A word of cau-
tion: Avoid the University Library, During exam
week, the place is a livelier night club than any to
be found in Fort Lauderdale. The complaining of
future exam difficulty, the protestations of there
being no way to be prepared for a test, and discus-
sions of spring break make the place condemnable
for studying purposes. Midnight in the library lob-
by is always a scene as well, when the free coffee

 

and tea are brought out. I wonder what would hap-
pen if someone dumped a big box of Sominex into
the coffee pot?

Also to be avoided is the Co-op. It is always
packed and it is very easy to get caught in there
for hours. Go for the free coffee, but wear blinders
to the coffee and back to the doors. The temptation
to sit down and shoot the bull with friends rather
than study is too great for most immortals.

Advice: Be fairly well prepared, spread out ex-
ams, and study like hell. This is the last chance of
the term to show what you do (or do not) know,
and a good showing on exams always seems to
raise a grade more than proportionally.

One last piece of advice: Watch who’s making
your coffee — exam pressure often leads to prac-
tical jokes and one wouldn’t wish to find himself
asleep the night before an important exam, rather
than riding the big caffeine buzz.

‘Calling all scholars’

If your study strategy for the upcoming exams
calls for late nights spent cramming material in-
to your head, you might want to give Margaret
Letrud a call.

For just 50 cents a call, Letrud will wake you
by telephone so you can be sure to make your 9
a.m. exam. The service isn’t limited to the morn-
ing hours, so you can arrange for a wake-up call
in the afternoon if you like.

“T’ll make sure they’re on their feet, you know,
ask them who they are,” says Letrud. She start-
ed an answering service last February, and re-
cently decided to advertise for student business.

Her number is 463-1777.

—Chris Munsey

aHby, we
s1% LYNCHBURG BICENTENNIAL ani
oss @

2 =s Se

“aut ostestina / of te Ats

Sponsored by First Colony Life Insurance Co. and Greater Lynchburg Chamber of commé
Presents

( i
THE WORLD FAMOUS COUNT BASIE ORCHESTR: ' |

“THE MOST EXPLOSIVE FORCE IN JAZZ"
with

|

THAD JONES 4}

(Director)

 

 

 

SATURDAY,
APRIL 5, 1986
8:00 P.M.

E.C. GLASS AUDITORIUM
Tickets: $10.00

FOR INFORMATION CALL: (804) 528-1986

ADVANCE TICKETS AVAILABLE AT:

Schewel Furniture Co.-all locations

Record Bar-River Ridge

Roberts Piano Co.-The Plaza, Timberlake Rd .
Fret Mill-Roanoke

 

—~

Wg wore, >

 

 

 

 

7 ow MR

4,

billions of our tax dollars are not be-
ing utilized in the fashion they were
intended.”

The discussion will provide insight
into not only the current problems in
the procurement process, Falk pre-

Meanie s Hain
Only Hairstylist to

accept the Colonnade
Card

an

Defense

() Continued from Page 1

.

ee CU
463-9588

te ee

UR Sates)
Old Main Si, Mall
Lexington, VA 24450

 

gy * Marie ¢ Sherry

 

 

 

oo eee

ve

et tin tet sitinate — “— — tt

Nt. tet..

i

 

Mollenhoff said the procurement pro-
cess ‘‘is the main problem facing the
country”’ today.

The problem is not whether to buy
the weapons, but to create a proper
system whereby the Department of
Defense is ensured that it buys the
best weapons at the best price,
Mollenhoff added.

Panelist Kolbe summarized the
problem by saying that most Ameri-
cans are in favor of a strong and
capable national defense, but the pro-
blem arises ‘“‘when billions upon

Valley True Value Hardware

HAROW.

 

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

E. Nelson Street
463-2186

 

110 S. Randolph St.

dicted, but also into any possible im-
provements that can be made.
Mollenhoff predicted that the dis-
cussion would receive wide-spread
support in the W&L community
because weapons procurement is a
topic that concerns almost all areas
of study on campus. /
Dean of the College John W. Elrod, }
Summer Programs Director Robert
P. Fure, the politics and journalism
departments, and the journalism
fraternity Sigma Delta Chi helped
organize the panel, Falk said.

 

 

 

Mon.-Sat. 8:30-6:00
Sun. 1-5

 

 

165 S. Main

SY OPS
oy ieee
‘a “tap GD

As exams draw near,
So does warm weather.
Stay in and study
And your week will go

     
   
   
  
   

hie Florist

better.

 

463-9152

 

 

TIRE CO.

 

 

It’s our 4th Anniversary and we’re celebrating with some of the best tire prices of
the year! Come in and save now thru April 12.

 

   

 

SERVICTAR.

23S. Main
Lexington, Va. 24450

Lexington Hardware

 

 

 

463-2242

Read The

   

Classifieds

FOOD
STORES

Open 24 Hours

Full Deli
Chicken

Hot Dogs
BBQ
Hamburgers

Custom made sandwiches
and Salads

Beer
Groceries
EXXON gasoline

 

Come by or call in

800 N. Main St.
463-6899

 

 

 

463-2178

 

Sandwiches (Eat In-Take Out)

110 S. Jeffersun St.
Lexington
463-3338

Hours:
Mon.-Sat. 9am to lam
Sunday 10am to lam

Gourmet Items of All Nations
Cocktails® Wine®@ Beer
Subs@Imported Cheeses
Catering

 

 

Swimwear:

Jams
Knee-length OP’s
Birdwell’s

style of W&L belt!

Visa

 

 

MasterCard

 

Make your Spring Break a “Jam”
with the latest in fashion from

Aluin-Bennis

Shorts: Shirts:
Madras Bermuda Izod
Poplin Bermuda Cross Creek

Duckhead Short-sleeve Madras

Don’t forget your white bucks and our most recent arrival, a new

Choice

SINCE 1963

Student Charge

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
»PORTS

The Ring-tum Phi, April 3, 1986

 

Vien roll toward national bid

LEIF UELAND
iff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee men’s
annis team continued on a roll this
ast week, winning four straight
latches, including a 5-4 win over
Vashington College, the team that

‘| was considered to be W&L’s last ma-

or obstacle on the road to a bid to the

, ‘ational championships.

The team’s performance over the

f _ week brought the record to 10-5.

The Generals jumped out to a 4-2
| lead against Washington on Friday.
‘Roby Mize, Bobby Matthews and
‘ captain Scott Adams all won their
matches in straight sets. Jack
| Messerly got the fourth W&L point
' with a three-set win at No. 5 singles.
W&L often looks to its doubles
teams to secure the victory. Not so in
Friday’s match. The Generals
almost let the match get away with
their doubles performances. W&L
was downed at both Nos. 1 and 3
doubles. The team victory was cap-
tured with the win at No. 2 doubles
‘ where Mize and Matthews came out
on top, 6-3, 7-6.
Head coach Gary Franke com-
mented on the win: ‘‘It ended up to be
a close match. I was a little disap-

pointed with No. 1 and 3 doubles.”

The Generals competed in a dou-
bleheader on Saturday and came
away with all the prizes. Both match-
es were won by wide margins. W&L
defeated Slippery Rock 9-0 and the
University of the South, 8-1.

W&L’s fourth win of the week came
on Wednesday when the Generals
handled the crosstown Keydets, 9-0.

Mize commented on the past
week’s developments and the team’s
future chances: ‘‘Everything is going
real well now.

Women lose two,

The Washington and Lee women’s
tennis team finished its 1986 home
schedule this week, losing to
Randolph-Macon Woman’s College
and Hollins College. Both matches
were shutouts.

Despite a 2-7 record, head coach
Bill Washburn said he believes that
his team has made much progress
since the season began. He said that
every single team member has im-
proved during the season and added
that the team’s many losses have
forced his players to examine their
weaknesses and make some im-
provements.

On the Saturday after exams, the

“It’s better to start off slow and
finish strong than the reverse. It’s
looking good for [Claremont,]
California [site for the national
championships ],’’ he said.

This coming week, according to
Franke, the team will work to main-
tain their level of play during exams,
and then it’s off to Florida for some
stiff competition, including tradi-
tional powers Flagler (National
Association for Intercollegiate
Athletics) and Rollins (Division IT).

record to 2-7

team will leave Lexington and travel
to Hilton Head, S.C., for a week of
spring training.

“We're going down to try to get in
shape for the ODAC [Old Dominion
Athletic Conference] tournament,”’
said Washburn, referring to the
season’s finale April 25-26 to be held
at Hollins College.

The team will practice at the Hilton
Head Racquet Club and have sched-
uled two matches against local
schools.

The Lady Generals conclude their
regular season at Bridgewater on
April 21.

—David Nave

.ax: ‘three goals away from top 10’

By DAVID EMRICH
Assistant Sports Editor

 

The Washington and Lee
acrossers split two games during the
week, beating VMI yesterday 20-2
and losing to 10th-ranked Towson
State 12-9 on Saturday, and gaining a

, lot of confidence in the meantime.

Yesterday’s win over the Keydets
was highlighted by three Generals
scoring hat tricks: G.T. Corrigan,
Bill Garavente and Peter Smith.
Head coach Dennis Daly sees the win

, as giving the players a boost as they
, head into exams.
* “T think that any time we win it’s
» good,” he said. ‘“‘The team got some
positive reinforcement going into the
* break. It’s good for everyone....Last
+ year, for one reason or another, we
, didn’ thave that.”
The Generals scored 10 times in
’ each half and shut out the Keydets in
_ the second half to give W&L its fourth
| win against three losses. The four
* wins is already more than the team
¢ won in the entire 1985 season.

Daly is understandably pleased.
“We're three goals away from the
top 10,”’ he said. ‘‘Towson is 10th, and
Duke [a one-goal winner over the
Generals in W&L’s first game of the
season] is 15th. We’re that close, and
I think that’s good for the players.”

On Saturday W&L suffered its first
home loss of the season when 11th-
ranked Towson State outlasted the
Generals to win, 12-9.

“T think the game proved to us that
we can play on that [nationally-rank-
ed] level,’ said Daly. ‘It’s unfor-
tunate that we didn’t win it, then we
could have showed everybody we
could play at that level.”

W&L stormed back into the game,
tying it at nine early in the fourth
quarter. The bid for the upset, how-
ever, fell short as Towson scored
three times over the remainder of the
contest to take the 12-9 victory.

“We were outscored in the fourth
quarter, but we had our opportuni-
ties,” said Daly. ‘‘It’s a strange thing
when you still get fast breaks and you
still get opportunitieis to score and
you don’t ...I’m not terribly upset, it

just would have been nice if we had
scored.”’

Daly continued, “I think we're
playing some pretty good lacrosse
and the kids are hustling...so I’m
pleased.”

A win over a team as highly ranked
as Towson State, who moved up to
No. 10 in the polls after Saturday’s
win, would have solidified the
Generals’ case for an invitation to the
NCAA Tournament, but Daly doesn’t
want the team to focus strictly on
earning a spot in the tournament.

“I think right now what we've got
to do is just make sure that we just
continue to play our game,”’ said Da-
ly. “‘We can’t get caught up and put
so much hype on the tournament that
we lose sight of what we’re trying to
do first and foremost — have a win-
ning season.”

W&L returns to action April 12 with
an exhibition game against the Vir-
ginia Lacrosse Club in Charlottes-
ville. Theroad trip continues with an
April 16 contest at Cornell.

W&L returns to Lexington for a
home game April 19 with Radford.

 

 

 

BUCK LESLIE

Golfers have
‘great day’

By MIKE SHADY
Staff Reporter

 

 

Two things were hot this week: the
temperature, and the Washington
and Lee men’s golf team. With the
thermometer hovering in the mid-
80s, the Generals easily defeated
Longwood College at the Lexington
Country Club on Monday.

Playing on their familiar home
course, W&L came out smoking. The
Generals scorched the links, posting
a season’s best total of 307. With such
outstanding scoring, W&L had little
difficulty beating Longwood (322)
and Bridgewater (327).

“This was our best round of golf in
three, maybe four years,” said head
coach Buck Leslie. ‘‘We had a great
day.”

Leading the way for W&L were
captain Greg Wheeler (74) and John
Gammage (75). Finishing out the
scoring for the Generals were Mark
Zavatsky (76) and Jeff Kimbell (82).

“It came ata very good time,” said
Leslie. “I think it picked up our
spirits after that disaster in Elon.”

The disaster Leslie was referring
to was last week’s Max Ward Invita-
tional in Burlington, N.C., in which
the Generals could only muster a
22nd-place finish out of 24 teams.

The squad will take a few days off
during the break before returning to
play in the Georgetown Hoya Open in
Fredericksburg on Friday and Satur-
day, April 18 and 19.

DIV. [LACROSSE
Team Record
Maryland (6) 60
Syracuse (3) 6-1
North Carolina st
Johns Hopkins
Navy (1)
Rutgers
Virginia
Md-Baltimore County
Massac!
Towson State
Brown

L
2.
3
4.
tie
6.
i.
8.
%

Army
Harvard
C.W. Post
Duke

 

 

‘W&L ‘9’ mix good with bad, placed fourth in ODAC

 

3 CHARLES T. GAY
Staff Reporter

t

 

+

The Washington and Lee baseball

* Generals sandwiched one good after-

» noon between two disappointing ones
in action during the week.

Bouncing back from last Thurs-

+ day’s humiliating 22-6 loss to Lynch-

burg, the team swept a doubleheader

 

By ROB MacPHERSON
Staff Reporter

,  Wouldn’t it be nice to compete ina
track meet and not have to worry
* about losing an unblemished record?
Well, the Washington and Lee
track and field team didn’t appear to
“mind, earning three second-place

‘

 

 

from Emory and Henry on Saturday.
The Generals closed their pre-exam
schedule with a 10-9 ninth-inning loss
at VMI.

The W&L record now stands at
4-8-1, 4-5 in the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference, good for fourth place.

W&L’s triumph over E&H got
started with a strong pitching perfor-
mance from Carter Steuart, who
earned his first win ever as a W&L

finishes and six fourth places at
Saturday’s Battlefield Relays at
Mary Washington in Fredericksburg.

Andy White and Ash Andrews ac-
counted for two of the fourths with
their performances in the 400-meter
hurdles and the 5,000 meters, respec-
tively.

John Carder grabbed one of the
W&L second places with his effort in

hurler. The Generals won the opener,
7-4.

The second half of the twinbill was
a comeback success for W&L. Eric
Acra’s two-run double in the bottom
of the fifth tied the game, and Adam
Yanez’s scamper home after a
throwing error by the E&H catcher
gave W&L the win, 6-5.

The Generals now enter what head
coach Jim Murdock calls ‘the All-
Star break,” a 15-day mid-season

the pole vault while teammate Joe
Fisher placed fourth in the same
event.

Jim McLaughlin was another
second-place finisher with his toss in
the discuss, while Fray McCormick
was second in the high jump, clear-
ing the bar at a personal best of 6-6,

Of the four relays, W&L snatched
fourth places in three events: the 400,

MIDNIGHT SNACKS

Due to the request from students the

' SNACK BAR will remain open later

on these nights with SPECIAL
HOURS for EXAM WEEK

Friday —8 p.m. -12a.m. Yes,
Sunday — 8 p.m. -12a.m.
1 Monday —8 p.m. - 12a.m. All
| Tuesday — 8 p.m. -12a.m. :
| Wednesday — 8 p.m. - 12a.m. 6 Nights.
, Thursday — 8 p.m. -11 p.m
; ‘ c
r Egg McQuicks will be available for 99
I English muffin cheese egg ham or bacon

Along with FREE coffee

The Snack Bar & Supply Store will BE OPEN ON
SATURDAY from 8 a.m.-2 p.m. April 5 for your

convenience.

 
  
   
   
    
   
  
   

hiatus during the exam period.

“It’s a time for us to regroup,”
Murdock said. ‘“‘When we get back,
we face [conference leader] Lynch-
burg again. That will tell a lot.”

The Generals’ problems at the
plate are evident in the conference
statistics where W&L is listed sixth
among the eight conterence teams in
hitting with a .252 team batting
average. The Generals are seventh in
runs scored per game with 4.1.

- Track-men still unbeaten, place well at Battlefield Relays

800 and mile. W&L finished sixth in
the distance medley relay.

W&L head coach Norris Aldridge
said his squad’s performance ‘“‘over-
all’’ was good.

The Generals are off until after ex-
ams when they will participate’ ‘he
Division II, Division III M in
Hampton on April 12.

 

Lady scorned?

..-Hell hath no fury lik a woman

 

scorned.
TIME Here we go again with that ‘‘what
OUT iiss are we going to call the women”

: issue that is drowning more fire than
those of us with saner minds would
care to give it. The fact of, the matter
is that I’m rather hungry and this
whole flap is making me not too
cooperative to those neo-feminists
out there who think the justifiable moniker ‘‘Lady General’”’ is sexist.

The Alan Alda-Phil Donahue in me is saying, ‘‘Hey, why are we
designating our women athletes as distinct? We don’t call the men
‘Gentlemen Generals,’ so let’s not call the women ‘Lady Generals!’ ’

Well, if I may be so bold, sexism is in the eye of the beholder, and I
ain’t behoidin’ any overt sexism in ‘‘Lady Generals.’’ You see, the pro-
blem here is we got all these Gloria Steinem types afraid that we're in-
fringing on somebody’s civil rights if we put some sort of label in front
of their sports team’s name. I see all that nonsense as being just a bit
too excessive.

If there’s fear that by use of the modifier ‘Lady’ we are somehow
exercising a silent male dominance, then I submit that such thought
needs a good deal more scrutiny than whether we're being sexually
discriminatory by calling the women’s tennis team the Lady Generals.
It’s not like we’re saying the only sports women should compete in are
sewing bees and bake-offs. No, not like that at all.

The argument for a generic General is simple. ‘Lady General’’ is
not what they’re officially known as. Well, I'll be darned. Far be it
from a sportswriter to come up with a nickname on her own. Not like
that type of thing has ever happened before. Oh, sure, I'll grant that
the University has left the matter rather set. All official press
releases, when they do use the nickname, refer to women’s teams as
the Generals.

Still, the feminist can argue that there still is no reason to call the
women’s teams something different from what the men’s teams are
called. Well, imagine being on the University of Texas women’s
basketball team and being known as the Longhorns. Women can’t be
longhorns. They don’t have horns, if you know what I mean. Now,
while Lady Longhorns isn’t all that great an improvement, the distinc-
tion is a necessary one, and one that doesn’t make me think of
discrimination.

The General, as we have seen over the years, is a curious bird. The
truth of the matter is that no woman has ever reached the rank that
the mythical Washington and Lee General has (five-star, battle
leader). Women cannot earn that rank, and, on top of that, have never
been placed in a position of authority on the battlefield. In fact, they
cannot even serve in combat duty. The point here is that to call the
women’s teams Generals is to call them glorified office clerks or head
nurses. Come again? Well, let’s face it, there is no such thing as a
female, sword-waving General so the prefix ‘‘Lady’’ needs to be added
for clarity’s sake. Otherwise, when we call our women’s teams ‘‘the
Generals’’ we are calling them men, and I’ll stick my neck out and say
that our women’s teams being known as “Lady Generals” is a mite
more palatable than their being known as men. In addition, when
I think of the mascot for a fine athletic team, I do not think of a pencil-
pusher, which is what most female generals end up becoming anyway.

As I see it, the options are two: go with Lady Generals or get rid of
the name General entirely. That way there will be no sexual
discrimination suits and less aggravation for those of us who know bet-
ter.

In the meantime, if anybody is still bothered about this serious issue,
I ask them to focus their energies to the vigorous support of the hard-
working female — and male — athletes at W&L. To paraphrase a
famous person, ‘‘An athlete is an athlete is an athlete (no matter what
nickname you give her)....”’

....Barely making it down the Colonnade, men’s tennis team is
movin’ and groovin’ through the first third of its season and head
coach Gary Franke says the team hasn’t really started to peak yet.
You like to hear that...No question Saturday’s lax loss to Towson was
rather large, but no reason to let it cloud your thoughts for the rest of
the way. Let’s take the good things, dispense with the bad, and get a
bunch more W’s...A tip of the cap baseball’s way for grabbing a couple
of wins over the weekend...

....Speaking for the diamond game, I can’t hold off any longer on my
major league guesses: AL East: New York, AL West: Oakland, NL
East: Chicago, NL West: Cincinnati...If they have the NBA playoffs
this year, it will be a grand waste of time, more so than usual. When
the time comes, it will be Boston over L.A. in five....

...Finally, not to downplay Louisville’s win, but it troubles me when
young people enrolled in a university regularly use the phrase ‘“‘We
was,” as Pervis Ellison did in interviews after the game Monday
night. Probably just nerves, right coach?......

 

 

= By Mike
Stachura

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Nair ates

 

 

 

 

18 Va. locations th rt you, including
College Square Shopping Center (next to Kroger’s)
Rt. 11 North
Lexington, Va.
463-160

 

 

 

 

 

1/2 price sale

Charcoal

Busy Baker Snack Crackers

Vintage Seltzer
Potato Chips
Cricket Lighters

a ee $2.65
Cg Ee $4.79

 

 

 
-BACK PAGE

 

Stones dig up ‘dirty’ roots

 

By RICK PIERCE
Music Critic

 

With the recent release of their 20th
studio album, ‘‘Dirty Work,” and a
possible tour to foliow, the Stones are
trying to regain the momentum they
lost five years ago

Since 1981's ‘Tattoo You,’’ the
Stones have released a live album
from their last U.S. tour titled ‘Still

Life,’ and a studio LP, ‘Under-
cover.’ Neither album sold very well
and only one single (‘‘Undercover of
the Night’’) has reached the Top Ten
since ‘Start Me Up.”’

For that reason the Glimmer
Twins ‘vocalist Mick Jagger and
guitarist Keith Richards) have gone
back to the basics, literally. Richards
said ina recent interview that ‘Dirty
Work” is an attempt ‘‘to get back to
our roots.”’

Richards said the influences they
felt in the early years by artists like
Muddy Waters, Chuck Berry and EI-
more James come out again on ‘‘Dir-
ty Work.”’ The Stones’ first single off
the new LP, ‘‘Harlem Shuffle,” is a
cover of a 1963 classic

Renowned blues artist Bobby Wo-
mack plays harmonica on ‘‘Had It

With You.’’ One may remember Wo-

mack for originally composing ‘It’s
All Over Now,”’ a song that was the
first Stones Top Ten hit in 1964
Former Led Zeppelin guitarist Jim-
my Page, now with The Firm, plays
guitar on ‘‘One Hit to the Body.”

A new cha’ * ecoo4 is the
advent of Ron Wood as a songwriter
along with the Glimmer Twins. Wood
wrote the music on four cuts, the
most writing he has done for a Stones
album

A star-studded cast and a return to
what made the Stones great still do
not mean the album will sell. Jag-
ger’s vocals are deteriorating with
each successive album. His voice is
so deep he can no longer hit the high
notes.

Depending on the success of ‘‘Har-
lem Shuffle’’ (currently No. 26 on the
charts), the Stones will release two
more singles. ‘‘Winning Ugly’’ may
succeed, but “One Hit to the Body”’
will be hard pressed to reach the Top
40.

Enough about the technical aspects
of the album. You want to know if you
should buy the record. The Stones
pull no punches on this record. This is
hard-core blues rock. If your tastes
tend to be pop-oriented, stay away,
but if you want to get down and dirty,
add ‘‘Dirty Work”’ to your collection.

NOW

BEING

ACCEPTED

The Stones on the cover of their new album, “Dirty Work”’

 

The Ring-tum Phi, April 3, 1986

 

ONCAMPUS

Thursday, April 3
7 p.m, — POLITICS FILM: ‘Fahrenheit 451.’ Room 327, Commerce
School.

Friday, April 4
6:30 p.m. — W&L Newcomers Potluck Supper and Sing-a-long. Alumni
House.
9p.m.— BAND: ‘‘Country Grass Express.’’ GHQ. Cover charge $1.

Saturday, April 5
Undergraduate examinations begin.
3 p.m. — FAIR CONCERT: Rockbridge Chorus with Booker T.
Howard Choir. Adults $3, students and children $1. Lee Chapel.

Monday, April 7
4 p.m. — LECTURE: ‘‘The Theories and Realities of Modern Soviet
Human Rights Law.” Professor Christopher Osakwe, Frances Lewis
Scholar in Residence. Room C, Lewis Law Center. ’

Friday, April 11
Undergraduate examinations end.

Monday, April 21
Undergraduate classes resume.
4 p.m. — PSYCHOLOGY LECTURE: ‘‘Human-Computer Interaction
in Manned Space Flight.’ Michael J. Burns. Room 318, Tucker Hall.
7 p.m. — “WWII THROUGH JAPANESE FILMS” SERIES: “‘Twenty-
Four Eyes.’ Room 327, Commerce School.

Tuesday, April 22
5 p.m. — BIOLOGY SEMINAR: “Some Aspects of the Ecology of the
Freshwater Clam, Nephronaias Penpisquensis."’ Dr. Maria Elena
Amidor. Room 305, Parmly Hall.
7 p.m. — CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT WORK-
SHOP: Job-hunting Techniques. University Center.

 

 

 

editors and business managers of
the student publications:

for

Political Review: editor
Ariel: editor

Ring-tum Phi: editor and business manager
Calyx: editor and business manager

Applications are due in Carol Calkins’
office in the University Center by
noon, Friday, April 25. Applicants
should be available for interviews Sun-
day and Monday, April 27 and 28.

 

 

 

 

== a a a ee <a

 

 

NEED
A CAR?

Students under 21
Must Have

prior Insurance
Approval

RFD 7, Box 149,

    
 

LiizuLl
LUG TOL

Lr

Rt. 60 East

  
 

703-463-1670

Emergency
703-377-6331

   

Brian and Doris
Fredricksen

Lexington, Virginia 24450

The Sandwich Shop
Old Main Mall

Tried our homemade chicken salad?
It’s Great! !

Small $1.35 Large $2.05

To Go: 463-2595
Mon.-Sat. 11-5 P.M.

 

 

 

Join Us For Dinner At

Maple He

One of the Historic Country Inns
of Lexington
463-4666 for reservations
Open Monday, Friday and Saturday

Route 11 North
SRR CI ER Ge SRE SME RE GEC me

id eiiciiaaiaa

.

 

cee

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NEW HOURS...

PERMS

Capers

 

Caper 3

PRESENTS:

NEW STYLISTS...
TO SERVE YOU, CHARLENE DAMERON

TO SERVE YOU, OPEN ’TIL SEVEN

NEW PERM SALE
REG. $35.00 PERMS NOW $25.00
REG. $50.00 COMPUTER PROCESSED

NEW POLICY, WALK-INS WELCOME
(STILL NEED APPOINTMENT FOR TANNING BED HOWEVER)

SUSAN POST

NOW $40.00

25 N. MAIN
463-2566

 

Campus Music

117 W. Nelson Street 463-4544

The areas largest selection
Of compact disks
With Over 100 Titles!

Blank Tapes

Maxell XL1190 2pk. Reg. $6.92 NOW $5.00
TDK SA90.......................3pk. Reg. $8.94 NOW $6.42

12 string electric acoustic guitar. used price $350.00
Bundy trumpet - 10-yr.-old classic

Never used and special priced $250.00

 

 

 

 

Prices For The College Budget

 

 

PIZZA SERVED HERE, TO GO,
OR DELIVERED

 

 

Michelin B.F. Goodrich

* Alignment *
* Brakes x
x Radiator Repairs x
* Swim Tubes *

Hileman Tire & Radiator
536 E. Nelson St.

463-2146

mt Ainswering” Lering
%y: Don’t Sleep Through
Your Finals

Study Hard! Study Late!

Have trouble getting up?

| WAKE-UP SERVICE
463-1777

| Special Rates For Students
. Box 533 Lexington Ry a )

CUT FLOWERS
1/2 PRICE

Every Saturday
after 3 PM

 

 

 

florist to The Homestead

103 N. Jofforson
Lexington
_ 463-9841 _

 

 

 

 

 

 

LEXINGTON SHOE

 

 

HOSPITAL

 

¢ Try our fresh baked Pan
Pizza, Thin ‘N Crispy"
Pizza, served anytime.

¢ Priazzotm Italian Pie,
served after 4 p.m. Mon.-
Fri., and any time Sat. &
Sun.

e Personal Pan Pizza for
lunch. Available from 11:00
am-4:00 pm (Mon.-Fri.).

¢ Plus...Pasta, Salad Bar,
Sandwiches, Beverages.

« Served to your table, or
delivered to your home, or
call ahead and we’ll have
your order hot and ready to

go.

 

Expert Shoe Rebuilding
1

We have a complete
stock of golf shoes and
heels for spring and
summer.

   

Ridge Mountains.

3 W. Nelson St.

 

 

 

 

Wendell’s

brochures:

 

e Each Wednesday night,
5:30 until 8:30 p.m., all the
salad, pizza, spaghetti, and
garlic bread you can eat for
only 3.49, Children under 6
years-99

 

600 E. Nelson St.
Lexington
463-7000

Barber
Shop

ERICH
J

 

 

 

$9 OFF

2. offany large pizza
or $1 off any medium. In
cludes Pizza Hut® Pan
Pizza! Hurry; offer ex
pires soon. One coupon
per party per visitat
participating Pizza Hut*
restaurants

 

OFF
$2" ott
expire
600 FE. Nel St. 4
talon. Wh April
453-/000

i need FABER
CLASS
your head OF
1988

for my business

 

 

 

ATTENTION: FACULTY & PARENTS

Only 70 miles from Washington and Lee is a beautiful relaxing
paradise — SMITH MOUNTAIN LAKE. | know because my parents
live there! This crystal clear lake with over 500 miles of shoreline
covering 22,000 acres is nestled in the foothills of the majestic Blue

SMITH MOUNTAIN LAKE offers excellent
VACATION, and RETIREMENT real estate opportunities. You can
sail, waterski, fish, golf, and enjoy many other recreational activities
on SMITH MOUNTAIN LAKE. It was Virginia’s best kept secret until
recently; now we are growing but still affordable with many quality
HOMES, TOWNHOUSES, CONDOMINIUMS, and INVESTMENT
LOTS available— ALL WATERFRONT PROPERTIES.

CALL me at (703)463-9793 in LEXINGTON or at the LAKE
(703)297-5795 for information or WRITE me for FREE color

  

INVESTMENT,

SELLERS & ASSOCIATES
Route 4 Box 28
Moneta. Virginia 24121

Your On Campus, Smith Mountain Lake Representative *

 

 

 

 
i

SEP 13 1995

-Student tavern to try new name, new image for renewed success

 

 

fe

ENS
, By IN PURYEAR
* Editor
"
5 ( listen to the rumors Don't
» pay ention to the signs. Washing-

ton and Lee’s university tavern is no
longer going by the name The Cock-
» pit but is now officially known as

,, General Headquarters.

There seems to have been nothing
but confusion about the name change

since it was officially made on Aug.
22. Many students immediately be-
gan pointing fingers at the W&L ad-
ministration thinking it forced the
name change because it might seem
offensesive to W&L’s incoming coed-
ucational class.

“The administration had absolute-
ly nothing to do with the name
change,” said Jerry Darrell, director
of food Service at W&L. ‘‘The student
managers came up with the idea to

change the name as part of our ef
forts to change the image of the
tavern.”

The Cockpit had been suffering
large financial losses in the past two
years in excess of $20,000 each, Dar-
rell said. He maintained that the
name change is part of an effort to
revitalize the tavern.

“We're in serious trouble down
here and if we don’t start doing
things a little bit differently, we will

fail,’ Darrell said.

The revenue from the entertain-
ment place in the Cockpit on Wednes-
day nights has helped the tavern pro-
bably more than any other event.
Sales on a Wednesday night could
pull in over $2,000 while other week-
nights only got sales of $10 to $30.

The tavern has planned to upgrade
its menu and make itself available
Evans Dining Hall patrons. In addi-

 

   

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

tion to the menu changes, Darrell

 

.

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Three freshmen women of the W&L Class of 1989 are interviewed by a TV crew upon their arrival in Lexington Sunday

Spring may bring first coed commencement

yrmitory counselor Kathleen Plante may join
liploma line with this year’s seniors, making
»  ’s graduation the school’s first coeducational
mencement ceremony.

» admits, though, that many of her class-
s aren’t exactly overjoyed by the prospect.

think there are a fair amount of guys that
i like me to graduate the following year,”’ she
junday. ‘I think that they went to an all-male

rsity and want to graduate from an all-male
rsity.”’

*

‘.

» ey om
STER, INDIANA

~~.
N. MANCHE

« .

*

 

“Rather than being the first of an era, they want
to be the last,” she added.

Plante, 20, noted that although graduating in
June would be ‘‘very interesting” — “I’ve never
made history before’’— she has not yet made a
definite decision.

An English and East Asian Studies major, she
said extra work in the latter field may cause her to

postpone her graduation until the 1986 academic
year,

Plante, a resident of Great Falls who last year
was W&L’s homecoming queen, attended the

crease in drinking age to 21
bringing strict enforcement

school for the last five terms as a transfer student
from Hollins College.

She said W&L allowed her to transfer 90 percent
of her Hollins credits, which she said was ‘‘better
than I expected.”

Plante said that before the trustees’ vote she felt
“a lot of anti-coed” sentiment, but recently she’s
been hearing ‘‘pretty much positive stuff.”’

“The guys in general are being very gentleman-
ly about it,”’ she said. ‘‘Now that it’s gone coed, I
think. the student body loves Washington and Lee
enough to support it.”’

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

said, he hoped the tavern will begin
to have more entertainment besides
the Wednesday bands

The rationale behind the change to
General Headquarters, or GHQ for
short, is that Darrell and the student
managers at the Cockpit felt that the
name should be more associated with
the University

“In Blacksburg it’s ‘Hokie’ this and

3 Che Ring-tum Phi

» VOLUME 8, NUMBER 1

SEPTEM

in Charlottesville it’s ‘Wahoo’ that, so
we felt a name change that better re-
flected some aspect of the college
would help the image of the tavern,”’
Darrell said.

In addition to the upgrading of the
menu, the walls have been painted
white to lighten up the room, and
photo murals of local athletic events

See Cockpit, Page 12

 

BER 12, 1985

Freshwomen:

H’89ers bring

coed’s debut

 

By MIKE ALLEN
Executive Editor

 

“The women are coming. The
women are coming,’’ The Associated
Press declared.

“A broken tradition,’ WSET-TV
noted.

“Among sadness, there was joy,”
WDBJ-TV observed.

Boys and girls — going to school
together.

A big, big story ... at least in the
view of the wire service, three radio
stations, three television stations and
eight newspapers that Sunday took a
break from Congress, South Africa
and Pete Rose to chronicle the arri-
val — pink lace curtains, teddy bears
and all — of Washington and Lee’s
first undergraduate freshwomen

From the reporters’ dogged,
breathless approach, you would have
thought they were covering the SALT
ITI talks

¢ A Roanoke television correspon-
dent convinced a student to take her
clothes out of a dresser drawer and
then put them back in for the
camera. (The only problem with the
unpacking motif was that the student
had arrived Saturday.)

« A writer for a certain colorful na-
tional newspaper ventured into a
women’s restroom to verify a tip that
the fixtures appropriate to male fa-

cilities had been covered with
wooden boxes. (They were.) The re-
porter later told her student guide
that she wanted ‘“‘to see the old
buildings.”’ (She was standing in
front of Lee Chapel at the time. )

e And a Roanoke radio reporter
who said she was a graduate of
Hollins College refused to believe
dormitory counselor Kathleen
Plante’s contention that she transfer-
red to W&L because of the acade-
mics. ‘“You came here for the boys,

didn’t you?”’ the broadcaster asked.

At a Lee Chapel meeting Sunday
afternoon, University President John
D. Wilson told parents that he was
“quite astounded” by press interest
in the July 1984 decision by the Board
of Trustees to admit women under-
graduates beginning this fall.

Wilson said that considering the
barrage of coverage given that vote,
he ‘“‘shouldn’t be surprised’’ by the
fascination with move-in day, but ad-
ded that he nevertheless found all the
attention a bit “‘strange.”’

“T can’t fully account for it,’’ he
continued, ‘unless the rumor I heard
this morning is true and Brooke
Shields has transferred.”

Wilson repeated the line Monday
morning for the freshmen. The par-
ents laughed; the students didn’t.

Following the president’s talk to
parents, he patiently fielded report-
ers’ queries, mentioning only in pass-
ing that he was anxious to get back to
the television coverage of the U.S.
Open tennis championship.

Student Body President John
Lewis, who took a break from his du-
ties as a dormitory counselor to intro-
duce Wilson to the parents as ‘‘Ro-
bert E. Lee’s 8th successor,’’ was
himself one of the objects of the me-
dia’s mania.

Despite the series of interviews
Lewis went through, he never made
it onto television; his girlfriend, a
Sweet Briar junior, did — identified,
of course, as a W&L freshman.

Lewis said Sunday evening that al-
though coeducation is ‘‘exciting”’ and
will add ‘‘a new dimension” to the
school, some residual ambivalence
remains among students.

He added that in some ways the
switch is ‘tragic’ and that many up-
perclassmen felt ‘‘betrayed.”’

“T think there’s a desperate fear

(See Media, Page 4

SCC rules
create
questions

(STRADER
iditor

 

tecent increase in Virginia’s
® age to 21 has forced Wash-
ind Lee to create a strict new
policy for the freshman dor-
3.
about 10 freshmen can legally
e € alcohol, and only because
. ueaked in under the law’s
’ ther clause.

dormitory counselor Tom
Mack explained that the new policy is
wnon-discretionary one.
j “If a dorm counselor sees a fresh-

ee

. SPORTS

¢

THE HECKMAN BINDERY, INC.

’

‘Rose is a hit

é

le Page 5

 

t Supplement

-Sports Preview

man drinking, he must turn him in,”
Mack explained.

Mack acknowledged some resis-
tance by counselors to the reporting
requirement, which formerly was
confined to drugs.

“It’s posed some problems for
counselors,’’ he explained. ‘‘People
don’t see alcohol and drugs as equals.
Alcohol is more socially acceptable.”

“T drank under age in Pennsylvan-
ia,’ he continued. ‘‘Now I have to
turn them in for doing something I
did.”

While the counselors are respon-

out punishment. Instead, counselors
report drinkers to Dean of Freshmen
H. Robert Huntley.

“Bach infraction is handled dif-
ferently depending on the circum-
stances,’ Mack said. “‘Even though
counselors have no discretion, Dean
Huntley does. That’s what’s kind of
hard about it.”

The problem Mack and several
other counselors see is what one call-
ed ‘‘the friendship factor.”

‘“‘We’re supposed to be dorm coun-
selors,’’ Mack explained, ‘‘and we’re
supposed to be their friends.”’

 

 

 

 

 

sible for enforcing the rules, Mack
said that they are not forced to mete

C) See Alcohol, Page 4

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

A non-alcoholic drink is poured at Tuesday’s mocktail party

Student found guilty of aiding triple murder

 

Staff Report

 

It seemed oddly appropriate for the summer
that Rambo took the country by storm.

A Washington and Lee student was sentenced to
four months in prison after pleading guilty to be-
ing an accessory to a May triple murder in North
Carolina.

Ian M. Perkins, a sophomore last year, was fin-
ed $3,000, put on probation for five years and sen-
tenced to six years in the North Carolina Depart-
ment of Corrections with all but four months sus-
pended

Perkins, who was charged with being an acces-
sory after the fact to three slayings in Winston-

Salem, told authorities that he aided in the killings
because he thought they were part of a Central In-
telligence Agency crackdown on narcotics traf-
ficking.

‘“‘No way — that’s really weird,’ Student Body
President John Lewis said when told in June of the
indictments against Perkins. “‘W&L men — you
find them everywhere. This is one place | wish we
hadn’t found them.”

The charges by a Forsyth County grand jury
stemmed from the May 18 murder in Winston
Salem of an 85-year-old woman, her 65-year-old
son and his 63-year-old wife.

Authorities said Perkins drove the man they
believe to have been the killer to the victims’
house and later helped him escape and dispose of
evidence relating to the crimes

If the impression of many of those who had con:
tact with Perkins in the weeks before the indict-
ments were correct, he stumbled into the bizarre
legal tangle naively and unknowingly. When the
light finally dawned, he was terrified.

Captain Ronald N. Barker, who heads the crimi
nal division of the Forsyth County Sheriff’s De-
partment, said five detectives from the depart
ment were assigned full time to the Winston-
Salem case, and several others assisted on a part-
time basis

W. Edward Hunt, who supervised the North Car
olina State Bureau of Investigation’s inquiry into
the deaths, said three agents worked fuil time on
the case, and three to five others were involved at

See Perkins, Page 12

 

By PAUL FOUTCH
Editor

 

Some student leaders expressed
dissatisfaction this week with the
codified list of offenses that the facul-
ty passed last year for the Student
Control Committee.

Meanwhile, several faculty
members have noticed misunder-
standing among students over a
clause regarding sexual slurs in Stu-
dent Control's list of offenses.

Second-year law student Jim Crut-
chfield, an Executive Committee
member last year, said there is the
possibility of Student Control’s
jurisdiction overlapping the E.C.’s.

“| think it has to be clear that Stu-
dent Control is subordinate to the
E.C.,”’ Crutchfield said.

Associate Dean of the College
Pamela Simpson, meanwhile, ex-
pressed concern that some students
think the new list of offenses means
that an accidental sexual slur could

result in expulsion from the Universi-
ty

Simpson said today that — as in the
past — any incident of sexual, racial
or religious slurs should be brought

informally to a dean, to be worked
out outside a judicial body

See Policy, Page 4

Al ab tea gui
OPINION

The Ring-tum Phi, September 12, 1985, Page 2

“*

 

No panacea?

‘They said it couldn’t be done...’’

_ Twoyears ago, on a dreary September morning, Washing-
ton and Lee held a press conference to announce the selection
of a new president for the University. President Robert E.R.
Huntley was returning to teach law, and the provost from the
school down the road (as in ‘‘All dirt roads lead to Tech’’)
grinned as his name was formally announced as the chosen
among many.

Alumni, students and some vociferous faculty will say that
was the beginning of the end. John D. Wilson meant business
and business for John D. Wilson meant coeducation. But it
will never happen, they said with much confidence. He who
laughs first laughs last.

But it isn’t that John Wilson came in with an agenda to
change, change, change. Sure, some members of the Board
of Trustees thought women would enhance the University.
One member thought it was such a grand idea that when he
was Chancellor of the other University in Virginia he brought
women onto its hallowed lawns. They prospered there. They
could prosper here. Maybe even some trustees who could
place money where it mattered — namely in the University’s
endowment — had some leverage.

Sinister plots there may have been. Student opinion may
not have mattered. Tradition — that nemesis of the feminist
movement — had to go. It was no longer a viable defense.
Fewer college-age men were interested in the all-male
education. Even fewer of those interested in such an educa-
tion were of the caliber the University was accustomed to.
Faculty members spoke of ‘‘burn-out’’ over having to teach
nattering nabobs called freshmen the rudimentaries of an
education.

So, after the much heralded — and timely (it was Bastille
Day) — decision of July 14, 1984, to allow the entrance of
women into the undergraduate ranks, optimism ran ram-
pant, as if sowed by none other than the gipper himself. Hap-
py days were here again, we heard. More people were inter-
ested in the Colonnade and its education. More people would
consider us along with the coveted ‘“‘Ivies.’’ More, more,
more; that meant success. Coeducation had solved all our il-
ls.

Wrong.

Coeducation has solved nothing yet. Sure, the admissions
office loves having a broader target audience. That makes
the job easier (except when there are 2,800 applications to
review). Faculty, in their lofty moments of liberal idealism,
speak of the gender gap disappearing, of ‘‘reality’”’ returning
to the educational process, of “‘better classes’”’ and more en-
thusiastic students. Oh happy day!

But coeducation has solved nothing yet. Classes have not
yet started. Not everyone has returned to school. Many are
still trying to ‘‘size up’ the new class. The faculty might be as
disheartened by this year’s entering class as it was in the
past two years. Student apathy might be as great a challenge
as it has proven in the past.

One person concerned about the new turn of events at the
University tried to tell me that coeducation was just the
‘‘New Deal’ for the ’80s, the ‘“New Coke’’ of the universities,
the ‘‘we-can-solve-all-your-problems-with-one-easy-answer”’
solution for a weak patient. But history has taught us that ob-
vious answers often obviously miss the mark. The New Deal
for American history never panned out, many will note, until
World War II helped it along. It was more of a psychological
victory than an economic landmark. Will coeducation spell
the same disastrous end for the University?

That question really doesn’t matter anymore. It was decid-
ed last summer that it would not hurt us. What matters today
— as will matter throughout the school year — is that coed-
ucation is now a reality here. The changes it will spell and the
victories and defeats it will encounter can only change the
University. Whether that change is for the better or for the
worse, time will only tell. We can only hope that the new
Washington and Lee remains the classic it always has been.

The Ring-tum what?

Say “the college newspaper’”’ these days, and folks expect a
bunch of little Sam Donaldsons running around asking obnox-
ious questions. Or maybe they think of a ragsheet that con-
tinually berates oppressive governments of the world while
tearing down the guys in Washington at the same time. Or
maybe it conjures images of hermits crammed into dark lit-
tle _ wondering why no one has brought by ads for the
week.

But that’s not The Ring-tum Phi. (By the way, the name is
derived from an ancient football cheer muttered for the last
time long before our parents were ever conceived. )

We are the weekly student newspaper — we have no faculty
advisor — that brings you the latest on the happenings on
campus and around the world (incidentally, the two are not
one in the same), along with the latest in sports information,
weather, movie reviews, and advertising. It’s all here
—every Thursday — in the one and only (face it, no one else
would call their paper this) The Ring-tum Phi. ‘‘All the news
we see from the office.”’

Che Ring-tum Phi

 

  
 

Me I oobi eo backs celine res fet saeurhs baausiecestecod css ME OD
MS 5c ones chee) Che hie ab bi obks 10) Fav adecivelsciveseai thoes Paul Foutch
ee re Cotton Puryear
oe ree eben. ...+,» Nelson Patterson
po) Vee err rere rare Reade Williams
eee ee eer ee ee Mike Stachura
News Editor .... . . Christopher Deighan
News Editor ...... +4 is CL Lekmps bod be Jim Strader
pe er ree ee re Chris Bowring
WD TURIN occ ci cc ccnvsccccasesctecestiesecess fesse . Jeff Kimbell
Advertising MARAGOT ........cccccccccrsceseesvresvccesveveccens Hank Greenberg
PII, 6 os oan eee Ve ekki cd (vine vine eeiidis Matt Coudert

The Ring-tum Phi is published each Thursday of the undergraduate academic year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia 24450. The newspaper is funded
through advertising revenue and a portion of the student activities fee. The University
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-Tum
Phi otherwise is independent.

Letters to the editors are due in The Ring-tum Phi office, room 200 of the Student
Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run. The newspaper observes cur-
rent court definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘‘And then my adviser said, ‘The boys may be a bit curious at first... . neg

 

Chauvinism

may become
last tradition

 

MY VIEW
By Brandt Surgner

 

Washington and Lee is widely
known as one of the last major
strongholds of male chauvinism, and
many are wondering if coeducation
will decrease or increase (if that’s
possible) that attitude.

Some think these feelings of male
superiority are natural, since W&L is
a ‘‘Southern school” and these atti-
tudes are widely bred in the South.
That explanation suffers only from
the fact that you hear the same chau-
vinistic remarks from men from the
North that you do from those from
the South.

How, then, does the chauvinism
arise? A couple of us were discussing
that in the Palm’s the other night and
one person (not from the South) said
he’d come to W&L without any trace
of chauvinism whatsoever, but that
after spending four years here, he
freely admits (as do most W&L men)
to being a male chauvinist.

When asked what had changed his
attitude, he took only a few minutes
to answer boldly and unashamedly:
“The women around here are, in
fact, inferior. They belong barefoot
and pregnant in the kitchen.”

The women in the class of 1989
seem to refute the lie to that opinion,
which clearly is held by more one
person. Indeed, the same person said
the freshmen women are ‘‘a hell of a
lot smarter than many men at
W&L.”’ With that being the case, it
seems as though men at W&L may
realize these women are their equals
(at least), and that may cause chau-
vinism on the Colonnade to decline
and finally die away.

That may not be the case though,
if the women continually receive
“special treatment’ — changing the
menus at the Co-op, for example, or
altering the name of the Cockpit.
“Special treatment”’ could also entail
a constant fawning over the newly ar-
rived women, which in turn could re-
sult in a neglect of the W&L gentle-
man.

Such favoritism may actually
cause the W&L man to become some-
what jealous, or resentful of women,
since he may feel threatened by
them.

If such a feeling were to arise
among the men at W&L, that could
cause the chauvinism quotient to rise
still higher among W&L men.

This would mean that the W&L
practice of going down the road to
“abuse chicks’’ may not be neces-
sary at all since it can now be done
right here at W&L.

(Brandt Surgner is the president of
Sigma Phi Epsilon).

| Coed non-story

 

 

is over ... finally

By MIKE ALLEN
Executive Editor

 

The biggest non-story since new
Coke now is behind us.

The other day one alumnus jok-
ingly congratulated a student on

the school’s new “bisexual”
status.
At least he was laughing about it

— the good humor hasn’t always
been unanimous. As the campus
controversy heated up two years
ago, one side compared single sex
to apartheid; the opposition liken-
ed coeducation to a rape of the in-
stitution’s traditions.

. Explaining the debate to some-
one unfamiliar with W&L invar-
iably ended in frustration. Once
while talking to a University of
Charlottesville student who
couldn’t fathom there being two
sides to the debate, I finally
resorted to: “The earth is flat — I
promise.”

 

It was at times like that that the
coed flap stopped being silly and
started being embarrassing. ‘‘All
right,” a Richmond journalist
once said disgustedly. ‘What are
those [anatomical reference de-
leted] at W&L doing now?”

Now that the tempest is over
and we ended up making the same
decision nearly every school in
the country made years before,
the inclination is to write off the
whole incident as an unfortunate,
unpleasant dream. ‘‘Coed debate?
What debate?” we’re tempted to
ask outsiders. ‘‘We’ve always had
girls here.”

* We're not answerable, though,

to those who would mock our
devotion to the school’s heritage.
Instead, our responsibility is to
the generations of Washington
and Lee men who've left the
school briefly, fleetingly in our
trust.

The night of the Board of Trus-
tees’ decision in July, 1984, I walk-
ed along the Colonnade with a

}

friend who'd been intensely, emo-

tionally involved in the ‘‘no-go-co”’
movement.

Looking down at Lee Chapel, he
began crying — crying for a
school he dearly loved, and crying
for an argument he had lost.

I'll always remember those
tears, and we all must remember
the issue that such a short time
ago polarized our campus. The
coed uproar was nothing of which
to be ashamed. It forced those
seeking change to defend their
position to an outraged alumni
and a student body screaming for
blood. ‘“‘But Mom, all the other
schools are doing it’’ didn’t cut it
—and we must never allow it to

The challenge for the university
is to remain flexible enough to
progress, but not merely to suc-
cumb to the passing fads of socie-
ty and academia.

If the coed spat fades but the
lessons from it live on, then we all
won.

 

 

Remembering a friend...

Jay Wingert, a 1985 graduate of Washington and Lee, was
killed last month in a Dallas automobile accident. Joe Cadle,
a classmate of his, sent this letter to University President
John D. Wilson. It is reprinted here with the permission of
Cadle and Wilson.

Dear President Wilson,

I am not often motivated and driven enough to write
personal letters, particularly to people that I do not
know very well. This is a special case, though, and I
would appreciate your attention to this letter.

As you may know, James R. Wingert III, class of ’85,
was killed last.week in an automobile accident. I do not
know how well you knew Jay, or even if you knew him at
all. The point is, I did know him. I roomed with him for
three years at W&L, and I loved him. I would like you to
know about him, too.

First, I want you to know what Jay was not. He was not
student body president, a member of the Executive
Committee, or a captain of any athletic club. Though
bright and sharp-minded, Jay’s grades didn’t make him
Phi Beta Kappa or class valedictorian. Simply put, Jay
might have been what some people call the typical W&L
student.

If Jay were the ‘‘typical student,’’ then W&L is a very
special place indeed. In our four years of school. I watch-
ed Jay’s character developed into something intangibly
identified with the ‘Washington and Lee gentleman.”
This concept of a “W&L gentleman,” a phrase often
scorned and ridiculed, took a very real form in the per-
son of Jay Wingert. Jay had a deep respect for responsi-
bility: responsibility to friends, studies, strangers, the
University, the country, his religious beliefs and to his
post-college job. Honor was a word that Jay aever, ever,
took lightly, and his deep caring for others was
something he never bothered to hide.

Jay was fortunate to attend a University that fostered
his ideas of honor and integrity. W&L solidified Jay’s
character into someone who I could deeply trust and re-
spect. I feel that Washington and Lee University had a
very powerful part in making the kind of person Jay
was. When Jay left the University last June on gradua-
tion day, he shed tears for the place and people that had
been so special to him.

President Wilson, I will always remember Jay. And

 

Photo by W. Patrick Hinely

Jay Wingert (1) and Joe Cadle watch the waters on
the fish ladder in East Lex before their senior picture
was taken.

this year, as you approach the entering class, I want you
to remember him, too. Your task, as I see it, is to take
these young people and make them into ‘‘Washington
and Lee people,’’ the kind of person Jay was.
It is a great task, indeed.
Sincerely,
Joseph Cadle

Class of ’85

e

*» =e

 

am

 

m ¥

 
NEWS

The Ring-tum Phi, September 12, 1985, Page 3

 

-

“= +

 

, By JIM STRADER
i News Editor

 

>» Washington and Lee senior Gene
, Girard last month pleaded guilty and
, Was convicted on one count of posses-
sion of cocaine. He is now housed in
‘ the Rockbridge County Jail awaiting
sentencing, scheduled for Wednes-
* day.
* The charge carries a_ possible
, penalty of one to 10 years in prison.
Commonwealth’s Attorney Beverly
*C. “John” Read said in Rockbridge
»County Circuit Court that he would
» ask for a prison sentence for Girard.

Girard’s atiorney, Laurence A.
Mann of Lexington, said he thinks his
client has ‘probably been punished
enough already.”

When contacted in jail yesterday,
Girard refused to discuss his case.
“Nope,”’ he said casually. ‘‘Noth-

ing.

Wearing paint-splattered camou-
flage pants and a light blue W&L t-
shirt, he said that the newspaper
already has ‘‘done enough on me.”’

A W&L official said Girard, a resi-
dent of Coral Gables, Fla., and for-
mer W&L football team tri-captain,

is registered for the fall term. He did
not have sufficient credits to grad-
uate with his class in June.

Girard was arrested March | at the
East Lexington grocery store when
he went there to pick up a package he
was expecting, according to court
testimony last spring. A Federal Ex-
press package, later found to contain
about an ounce of cocaine, was sent
from Miami to “‘Wm. Babe Ruth” at
Girard’s Lexington address. Officers
of the Lexington Police Department
and the Rockbridge County Sheriff’s
Department, acting on a tip from an
informant, were waiting for Girard

Calyx publication delayed;
‘book expected in October

Y

"By PAUL FOUTCH
“Editor

 

 

» The 1984-85 Calyx, scheduled for
delivery at the beginning of this
“school year, now is not expected to be
jpublished until late October.

Editor David Sprunt said Monday
‘that the yearbook is late simply
jbecause he didn’t work hard enough
on it this summer.
+, “Blame it on me, because it’s my
fault,” he said.

The Calyx this year switched from
| 4 spring publication schedule to one
in the fall in order to produce a more
up-to-date yearbook.

* Sprunt, a fifth-year senior, said he
will finish the last 70 pages of the 352-
ng book “inside a week and a
‘half,’ and when the two-week proof-
geading process is finished, the Calyx
will be ready for publication.
1 Sprunt was elected yearbook editor
‘n the spring of 1984 by the Publica-
\ions Board, which is made up of the
4ditors and business managers of the
“tudent publications. He ran unop-
fosed after having worked on the
cearbook staff for three years, but
‘he Publications Board refused to ap-
prove his application until it was
assured that Sprunt would have
enough help to get the job finished.
, The Publications Board decided to
, elect two editors — Sprunt and then-
| #§unior John Buchanan, who has since
graduated. Sprunt, admitting that he

 

DAVID SPRUNT
Editor of the yearbook

really didn’t want to work with
another editor, says Buchanan quit
working on the yearbook after a cou-
ple of weeks.

‘He came in here a couple of
times,”’ Sprunt said, adding that he
didn’t think having two working edi-
tors would have gotten the Calyx out
on time.

The Calyx switched to publication
in the fall to include spring sports like
lacrosse, Sprunt said. The cost of
having to send yearbooks to grad-

uated seniors will be offset by the
reduced publishing rates available in
the fail.

“It’s a good system, coming out in
the fall,” he said.

Sprunt said it was mid-July when
he realized that the yearbook would
be late.

“Apparently I didn’t work as hard
as I should have,” he said.

Sprunt added that the yearbook
probably will end up over budget be-
cause of the extra coverage, but not
because of the late publication.

“But this will be the best Calyx
we've seen, ever,” he said.

The cost overrun, which Sprunt es-
timated at between $500 and $1,000,
probably will be borne by the Publi-
cations Board, Sprunt said. It will not
affect students who are receiving the
books, because the books were paid
for through the student tax, which
each student paid along with his tui-
tion.

The cost of producing the books
will be about $41,000, according to
Sprunt. Student taxes paid for $11,500
of that, and donations and advertise-
ments paid for the rest. Students paid
$8.50 each for the book,

The books will-be- distributed from
the Calyx office in the student center
when they are ready, Freshmen are
not entitled to one; members of the
Class of 1985 will receive theirs
directly from the publisher, Hunter
Publishing Co. in Winston-Salem,
N.C.

Freshman interests are interesting

| By COTTON PURYEAR
Editor

 

» We’ve all heard about the impres-
sive academic statistics of this year’s
incoming freshman class, but per-
paps we can learn even more about
the class of 1989 by not just looking at
® lass ranks and SAT scores but by
, -@ooking at what they wrote about
/ themselves in their freshman face-
| kK.
|. The freshman facebook contains
ictures of most of the members of
this year’s new class, along with in-
formation on hometown and high
gchool. There is also included what
the freshman picked as their two
Ynost favorite activities. These ac-
tivities ranged from sports and out-

 

academics.

Taking a close look at the young
men in this year’s freshman class,
you can see that they are an athletic
bunch. Basketball, football, baseball
and skiing were the activities most
listed, Sports like racquetball, soccer
and golf weren’t far behind.

There were about 30 to 35 freshman
that listed those sports as among
their top interests, which is probably
good news to the W&L Athletic de-
partment. But all you College Repub-
licans and Young Democrats don’t
despair — 23 students expressed in-
terest in politics and 12 in student
government.

The top interest among the young
women in the freshman class is peo-
ple. Now ‘‘People’’ sort of seems like
a wide area to cover and you could

ways. Perhaps their interests are in
meeting people, but then their in-
terests could also be in dissecting
people. I guess it probably means
that they just prefer the company of
people to that of toaster ovens.

‘But don’t think that an interest in
people is gender-specific. While there
were 18 women who were ‘‘people’’
people, 15 men lives listed ‘‘people’’
as an interest.

Some other listings that might be of
interest are the six young women
that listed cheerleading as one of
their top activities. This might mean
that a Generals cheerleading squad
is not far away.

Among the other more interesting

interests were two surfers, five scuba
divers, four chess players, an

at the store and arrested him

In an April preliminary hearing,
Girard and his attorney maintained
that because Girard never had actual
possession of the package containing
cocaine, and that it was not address-
ed to him, he could not be convicted
Testimony from law enforcement of
ficers corroborated that Girard
never touched the package.

Girard was tried before a jury on
June 11. The jury first reported itself
deadlocked after approximately two
hours of deliberations, according toa
memorandum ruling written by
Judge George E. Honts III. Honts

then instructed the jury on the
charges against Girard and they re
turned to their deliberations. Half an
hour later, the memo continued, the
jury returned a verdict of ‘‘guilty’’ on
a charge of possession of cocaine and
recommended a sentence of ‘‘not less
than five years”’ in prison for Girard
The charge Girard was being tried on
was possession of cocaine with intent
to distribute

Honts refused to accept the jury’s
verdict and re-instructed them. The
jury reported twice within an hour,
the memo said, but could reach no
verdict. In all, Honts’ memo contin

Welcoming committee

Freshmen are welcomed Sunday by dormitory counselors and other volunteers
in Graham-Lees quad. As if armfuls of luggage weren’t enough, the incoming

Girard pleads guilty to possession charge

ued, the jury cast at least 12 to 14
ballots

A mistrial was declared, Honts’
memo said, over Read’s objections,
and the jury was discharged. Honts
wrote that the mistrial was declared
to protect Girard’s interests and ‘‘to
avoid an improperly arrived upon
verdict.’’ A motion by Read for a new
trial was granted at that time and it
was scheduled for August

Mann said that between the June
trial and the August 13 proceeding,
Girard changed his plea and indi-
cated his intention to plead guilty to
the court

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

 

door activities to music and look at it froma number of different astrology buff, and cliff diver. students were given handfuls of paper to begin their orientation process.
*
>
s
Summer News Briefs

 

Read’s four-day hearing ends; no result announced

.

 

W |.

.

|
N |"

 

}

 

 

Staff Reports
os
4. The local prosecutor last month faced a four-day

hearing by a Virginia State Bar committee investigat-
ing allegations of misconduct against him.

Lexington and Rockbridge Commonwealth’s Attor-
ney Beverly C. ‘‘John’”’ Read was accused of a variety
of improprieties in a report prepared earlier this year

“by a committee of the Rockbridge County-Buena Vista

Bar Association.

~~ The hearing at Mary Baldwin College was closed to
the public. The committee may decide to take no action
and make no announcement, or impose sanctions rang-
tg from a private reprimand to disbarment.

Trial dates set for students

“=F our Washington and Lee students arrested during the
last school year were assigned court dates and another's
case was placed under advisement this summer.

The case of David L. Perdue, last year’s Interfraterni-
ty Council president, was placed under advisement until
June 1986.

Perdue was arrested last May. According to the arrest

report, Lexington police Officer G.P. Joines found a

quarter ounce of marijuana and marijuana residue in

‘
.

{»

t

+

t

Perdue’s car. Joines also confiscated an 8mm Mauser ri-
fle from the car, the report said.

Senior William F. Zola of Sudbury, Mass., is scheduled
to appear in General District Court Oct. 16

Zola was arrested in May and charged with the theft of

a $160 tub of wine from Spanky’s restaurant.

Sophomore David J. Cox, from Potomac, Md., and jun-
ior Timothy D. Walker of Williamsville, N.Y., were also
scheduled to appear in General District Court. Cox is
scheduled for Oct. 1, while Walker will appear Nov. 12.

The two were arrested in March at the Delta Tau Delta
house, according to police.

— Charles T. Gay

Junior charged with arson

Alex Benedetto, a junior and a member of Pi Kappa
Alpha, has been charged with felony arson in relation to
an incident at his fraternity house, according to Lex-
ington court records.

Benedetto, of New York, was arrested June 8 by Lex-
ington police Sgt. E.W. Straub. Benedetto’s preliminary
hearing in General District Court is set for Oct. 1

He is free on bond until that date, according to Clerk
of Court Juanita Rice.

Two students die over summer

Two Washington and Lee students — Jay Wingert and
Paul Knight — died in accidents this summer.

Knight, who would have been a senior this year, died
in June after a climbing accident at Yellowstone Na-
tional Park.

Knight, from Warren, N.J., was a sociology and an-
thropology major and a member of the Outing Club and

 

Phi Kappa Psi fraternity.

Wingert, who graduated in June, died Aug. 25, in an
automobile accident in Dallas, where he was employed
by the accounting firm Arthur Andersen & Co

W&L gets 18 new faculty

Eighteen new faculty members have been hired by
Washington and Lee for the 1985-86 school year

Anece McCloud, formerly the minority affairs direc
tor at the University of Nebraska in Omaha, has been
named associate dean of students in charge of minority
affairs effective Sept. 12

Anne C.P. Schroer was hired last year as an associate
dean of students. The University registrar position has
been filled by D. Scott Dittman, and Barbara Brown
will be the director of the University Library

Three professors have been added to the staff of the
mathematics department. Michael Collins, a visiting
professor of mathematics from Oxford, received his
bachelor’s, master’s and doctorate in philosophy from
Oxford University. A part-time associate professor of
mathematics, Vernon A. Eagle, comes to W&L from
Rutgers University, where he received his doctorate
William K. Smith, another visiting professor of mathe
matics, earned his doctorate from the University of
Michigan, and was recently chairman of the mathe
matics department of Illinois Wesleyan University

John A. Lambeth, an assooiate professor of Romance
Languages, earned his bachelor’s in French literature
and language from Davidson College

ind is currently

completing the requirements for s doctorate at the
University of Florida. The second addition to the
department is Gwyn E, Campbell, an associate profes-
sor of romance languages, Campbell received a
master’s in Spanish at the University of Western On-
tario and is also currently working toward a doctorate
at Princeton

Mark Packer is currently a visiting assooiate pro-
fessor of philosophy from Dartmouth College. Elizabeth
Geimer, an associate city editor with The Roanoke
Times & World News, is a visiting instructor for the
journalism department. Geimer received a bachelor’s
in English literature from the University of North
Carolina

A recent addition to the military science depa
is Randall R. Hill, who earned a bachelor’s in jour
nalism from Arizona State. The second addition to the
undergraduate faculty is Kenneth A. Lambert, an as
sociate professor of computer science. Lambert has re-
cently completed work for his master
science at Wright State University

Of the five additions to the law school faculty, two are
associate professors of law. Lyman P.Q. Johnson is a
graduate of the University of Minnesota, and Gregory
Stanton has received degrees from Harvard Divinity
School, Yale and the University of Chicago. James R.
Elkins, a visiting professor of law, earned a master of
laws degree from Yale

Two adjunct professors of law were also added to the

school

tment

in Computer

Joel Miller

 
 

a a ea ee

Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, September 12, 1985

 

Alcohol

 

Continued from Page 1

Sydney Marthinson, a junior trans-
fer student from Sweet Briar College
who is a counselor, echoed Mack’s
thoughts.

‘I don’t want to catch them drink-
ing,’’ she said. ‘How am I supposed
to be friends with them if they think
of me as a policeman?’

Marthinson said she found it ironic
that trust between students and their
dorm couselors was discussed exten-
sively in meetings and now the coun-
selors are expected to report the
freshmen indiscriminately for drink-
ing.

“‘How can they come to me with a
problem if they have to keep their
doors closed when I walk down the
hall?” she said.

Marthinson explained that as a
transfer from Sweet Briar, where a
different policy is in effect, she might
find it more difficult to accept the
new rules at W&L. Sweet Briar’s
policy, she said, allowed student
drinking in rooms with the doors clos-
ed.

She added that non-uniform en-
forcement of the rules might cause
problems. ‘We have to be consistent
about this. If one of the dorm coun-
selors isn’t consistent, then we come
off being the bad guy.”

Enforcement of the drinking policy
rests with Huntley and the Student
Control Committee, said dormitory
counselor John Lewis, who is also
president of the Executive Commit-
tee. Lewis added that the EC will not
be involved in alcohol policy viola-
tions.

“It’s not deemed dishonorable to
drink,’’ Lewis said. ‘‘There’s a move
afoot to make using a fake ID (for the
purchase of alcohol) an honor viola-
tion.”’

A major part of student social life
— fraternities — also will be affected
by the change in the drinking age.
The new drinking age means these
groups must also be more careful
about who is served alcohol, said In-
terfraternity Council President
Jaimie Hayne.

“We'll all just have to be a lot more
careful than we were last year,”
Hayne said. ‘‘The best thing to do is
to start carding at the door.”’

Hayne said underage drinking at
fraternity parties is not confined to
W&L and area women’s college stu-
dents. There is also a number of local
high school students who frequent
fraternity parties.

Besides checking for age identifi-
cation, Hayne said, fraternities
should be careful not to attract police
or ABC attention to their parties.

“It’s very important for fraterni-
ties to be careful about people drink-
ing in the front yards. It’s very im-
portant for fraternities to keep peo-
ple inside, so the police don’t have a

reason to stop. If they think they see
a minor, they can stop and check.”’

Hayne said he is optimistic about
fraternity cooperation.

“If everybody makes an effort, I
think we can keep minors from drink-
ing. I believe that the ABC will warn
us if we’re doing something wrong.
Until that happens, I think the best
thing to dois to card for college IDs.”’

Another hub of Lexington social
life — local bars — is affected by the
new drinking regulations.

David Sorrels, manager of
Spanky’s restaurant in Lexington,
says 75 percent of his business is done
with students. Most of these students,
he said, drink. He has not yet noticed
a drop in business from the students
that are in Lexington already.

“‘My alcohol sales are the same,”’
Sorrels said. “I haven’t seen any
decrease.”’

The policy at Spanky’s, Sorrels
said, is to check customers for age
identification when they order
alcohol. He said Spanky’s requires a
picture identification card.

“It’s a little bit simpler now with
the change of the age,”’ he said.

Some students have tried to buy
alcohol at Spanky’s without age iden-
tification by citing their school’s
honor system.

“Honor codes don’t work with busi-
ness,’ Sorrels said. ‘I’ve had many
people quote me W&L and VMI honor
codes,” he continued, but adding that
because he bears the legal respon-
sibility of enforcing the drinking age
in his restaurant, he must insist on
checking his customers for legal
identification.

‘We are going to card as closely as
possible,”’ Sorrels said.

Bob Campbell, manager of The
Palms, said the first move made at
his restaurant was to hire a doorman.
Campbell said that in the past the
policy was to check identification at
the tables.

Over the summer, Campbell said,
he met with his business partners,
and they changed the policy.

“We decided to take the burden off
of the waitress and give it to the door-
man. The waitress is making two dol-
lars an hour and we couldn’t make
her bear the responsibility of losing
the ABC license too.”’

In addition to the technical pro-
blems that the change in the drinking
age has given him, Campbell sees
other difficulties. He used as an ex-
ample a situation that he saw occur
on a recent evening.

“Three students came into the bar.
One was old enough to drink and the
other two weren’t. When we carded
them, the one who was old enough
bought three six-packs to go. If they
had stayed here, we’d have had some
control. They wouldn’t have been out
driving around in a car, or at an
apartment or a fraternity house. If
they had stayed here, I don’t think
they’d have drunk 18 beers.”

Campbell places the blame for this
type of problem on the state legisla-
ture, adding that he feels there was
pressure from national groups to
raise the drinking age.

COLLEGE REP WANTED to distribute Time Inc. and other
publications’ ‘student rate’’ subscription cards at this campus.

Good income; no selling involved. For information and application
write to: Riverside Marketing Services, 816 Orange Drive, Silver

   

Spring, Maryland 20901.

 

CRAFTS PLUS, INC.

GAMES, HOBBIES & CRAFT SUPPLIES

Open Mon.-Sat., 10-5
31S. Main St., Lexington 463-3355

 

130 S. Main

¢ Cannondale accessories
¢ Camp trails packs
¢ Complete repair service

 

¢ Road or trail route information

Lexington Bike Sho

Open 9-5, Mon.-Fri. and 9-12 Sat.

463-7969
¢ Motebecane
e Shogun
e Ross

¢ Eureka tents

 

 

ett

Efegy

Dowtown Lexington

 

Would like to Welcome Back all W&L Students
and a Special Welcome to W&L Coeds.

150 S. Main St.

 

 

 

 

Hof fro’ [hie Florist
Welcome

All New Students

And a special Welcome
to the returning students

165 South Main Street

Master Card, Visa,

Leggett Charge and American Express

 

 

 
  

 

 

463-9152

 

0 NR WA NIRA OS Oe OPA

PAE BP

iinceinimipeiiinaiiiaeiaiaiaaiasiiiaiiaataai iit iil:

Media

 

C) Continued on Page 1

that we'll become just another small
liberal arts college in Virginia,”
Lewis said. “I was asked three or
four times today if I'd have come
here three years ago if the school was
coeducational and I said, ‘Hell no. No

way.’ ’

Associate Dean of Students Anne
C.P. Schroer said the attention heap-
ed on the 107 freshmen women was
not completely inappropriate, ex-
plaining that there’s a certain ‘‘pio-
neer spirit’’ among them.

Preparations for C-Day made the
1984 Summer Olympics look spontan-
eous. The gymnasium was reno-
vated, the security staff was beefed
up and uniformed, and $50,000 in ad-
ditional lighting was installed.

Seven dormitory halls were con-

verted for the women’s use. Changes
include locking hall doors that have a
remarkable tendency to prop them
selves open

The feminization of Lexington ex-
tends even beyond the campus. A
counter clerk at the Arby’s on Main
Street bragged that ‘‘we’re the only
fast-food restaurant in town with two
women managers," and the 244-
year old Lexington Presbyterian
Church this summer hired a female
assistant minister.

It is along the Colonnade, though,

that studenis .uatunue to hunt for any”
signs of change, whether or not it is in<
fact related to coeducation.

This year’s Letitia Pate Evans Din.*
ing Hall “‘point cards,” for example, ,
are printed on pink stock.

“Tf one more person asks me that,” ¥
a dining hall employee said in re.4
sponse to the obvious question,
“This is just what the print shop gave

S.
: One administrator chuckled when *
a student whined about the color. ¢

“It’s probably worth more on,

quiche day,” he said. e

 

 

44

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi,

President John D. Wilson addresses the W&L Class of 1989 in Lee Chapel during orientation exercises earlier this week

 

Policy

 

() Continued on Page 1

If the problem persisted, she said,
it might be brought before Student
Control, but even then “to be in-
vestigated as a serious offense, it has
to go through a rigorous process.”’

Student Control is a committee
made up of class presidents and vice
presidents who discipline students in

Welcome Bac
Students

cases that don’t come under the
heading of honor. Those cases go to
the E.C.

Until this year, Student Control
hadn’t had a codified list of offenses
to delineate its jurisdiction. A com-
mittee formed last year and chaired
by psychology Professor Leonard
Jarrard formulated a proposal for a
set of violations, a version of which
the faculty passed last year.

Crutchfield contends that Wash-
ington and Lee’s honor system ex-
tends beyond lying, cheating ‘and
stealing and into the list of violations
approved for Student Control.

If both bodies tried a student for

Whole Soles and
Ladies’ Work
My Specialty

LEXINGTON SHOE HOSPITAL
wenn Se! te

Expert Shoe Rebuilding

3 W. Nelson Street
Lexington, Va. 24450

 

 
     
       
      

J SHERIDAN
R. SHERIDAN

  
 

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

11 W. Nelson St.
463-2022

Watches and Jewelry Repairs
Gifts for Ali Occasions
Vie have class rings as well as watch and jewelry repair.

Cecil J. Christley
Owner-Operator

 

 

 
 

    

ALOHA WOK

409 South Main St., Lexington, Virginia 24480
703-463-9342

 

Sunday Lunch Buffet 12 - 2:30

Chinese and
American Cuisine

Exotic Cocktails
Carry-out Service
Available
Open Tuesdaythrough Sunday

Luncheon 11:30 - 2:30
Dinner 5 - 10

Saturday Open 4 - 10

 

 

  

47

GENERAL

OH

4 neuarTE®

“The Pit”

Presents

Speidel, Goodrich & Lille

Friday, Sept. 13 at 9:00

   
       
     

   

yee

 

       
        

  
   
 
 
   
  

the same incident and one acquitted
him while the other expelled him
from school, then the student could
sue to stay in school on the grounds
that he faced double jeopardy.

“T think it would be an indefensible
position for the University,’’ Crutch-
field said.

Second-year law student Bill
Thompson, an E.C. representative
this year, said this week that the sex-
ual slur clause, which is listed as a
major offense, is too harsh.

“The sexual harassment clause
has to be taken out,’’ Thompson said.

He also was opposed to a clause
prohibiting sustained conduct that

122 So. Main

 

 

 

The Style House

Welcome Back Students!
Visit Lexington’s finest hairstylists where we use

NE*US

and other fine products.
Call or walk-in.

disrupts a public meeting. Thompson
said that might take away students’
rights to speech and protest.

But, as both Simpson and Jarrar¢
pointed out, any charges brought
against a student to Student Control
would be heard by the student’s
peers. Therefore, any fears that the
faculty may want to kick a student
out of school for a slight infraction
are unfounded, Jarrard said. 5

“This is up to the Student Control
Committee to decide,” Jarrard said.*
“Tt’s not the faculty that makes those«
decisions.”

‘The policy was passed on a three-’
year trial basis. F

  

463-5954

2127 Magnolia Avenue
Buena Vista, Virginia
24416

Phone: (703) 261-3140

BECKY FAIRCHILD

BECKY’S COUNTRY CASUALS
“Where Good Taste Never Goes Out of Style”

 

 

 

 

 

THE COLONNADE CAD

available during Matriculation

_—

 

 

HOURS:
Mon. through Fri.
Evenings by appointment

BEAUTY
BOUTIQUE =

We would like to invite new students to come in for complete
hair care, hair cuts, color, or permanents,
We also specialize in sculptured nails and manicures.

BEAUTY BOUTIQUE ©

107 W. Nelson St., Lexington

 

—

   
    
    
   
 

os,

OPERATORS:
Mary, Ella Mae, Lynn
and Phyllis

463-2422

 

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi, September 12, 1985, Page 5

 

 

 

Pete rose to the occasion

s

*

é

.

ae

4...

*,

S.~

em Me: er a: 0a an,

Piney ene

 

By HAL BOCK
The Associated Press

 

CINCINNATI — He belongs to
baseball eternity now, to every dirt-
smudged kid on every sandlot who’s
every played this fascinating game
that is so uniquely American.

He is Pete Rose, as uncomplicated
as a punch in the nose, and he hap-
pens to have more hits than anybody
who ever walked up to home plate
with a bat in his hands.

How’s that for uncomplicated?

Using a formula he has employed
before, Pete Edward Rose charged
into history last night, crossing into
territory that was uncharted before
and probably never will be tread
again.

His record-breaking hit, on a 2-1
pitch off San Diego right-hander Eric
Show, was the quintessential Pete
Rose single, a line drive to left field,
never in doubt from the moment it
left his black bat.

If the face-first, belly-whopper
slide is Rose’s baseline trademark,
then the line-drive single is his
signature as a hitter.

So when he became baseball’s all-
time base hit king, eclipsing Ty Cobb
on the 57th anniversary of Cobb’s last
major league swing, it was entirely
appropriate that Rose did it with

-what baseball players call a frozen
rope.

This was no Astroturf bouncer.
There would be no controversial

~ scorer’s decision over whether it was

a hit or error. There would be no
close umpire’s call at first base.
Rose, as usual, took care of all

those contingencies with a first in-',

ning line drive, drilled over the short-

- ~stop’s head into left field.

‘

i 2
>

t
i
f

¥

PSs

It was his 4,192nd hit, and his
=3,162nd single. So Rose knew how to
react. He dashed hard down the first
base line as the capacity Riverfront
Stadium crowd erupted in a frenzy

.

e rarely heard in these parts since the

--glory days of the Big Red Machine.

He would add a triple later for hit
number 4,193 and he would score both
of his teams runs in a 2-0 vic-

 

  

# tory over San Diego. But this night

* would be remembered for Pete

toepRose’s trademark — a line-drive

/,osingle, the single that broke the

record.

‘ As the Padres’ Carmelo Martinez

foi

|| SERVIITAR

oh a 4
23S. Main

Lexington, Va. 24450
: Lexington Hardware
: 463.2242

bliin}
¢

tte MD ereteotnt

 

 

  
 

 

 

 
 
      
 
  
 
 
  
  
 

 

Jill’s a Lady

126 S. Main St.

4

Welcome
Students!

Come in and browse.
All famous name brands
in Jr. and Misses sizes

i Dresses
Sweaters
Sportswear
Accessories

 

 

 

 

 

fielded the ball on one bounce, Rose
rounded first base and took a couple
of challenging steps toward second,
much the way he had done more than
3,000 times before. That, too, was vin-
tage Rose — forcing the issue, taking
nothing for granted.

Martinez laughed about it later,
saying he was mad because Rose
made him throw to second instead of
allowing him to run the landmark
ball back for personal delivery to its
owner,

But it was typical Rose. First, you
play the game and play it hard. We’ll
celebrate later.

He retreated to first with one clap
of his hands and a double palm slap
for Coach Tommy Helms. Overhead,

fireworks exploded. In a moment, he
was engulfed by people, looking like
somebody stuck in the New York sub-
way at rush hour, The first person to
get there was Rose’s 15-year-old son,
Pete Jr., who hugged his father
warmly.

Then the rest of the Reds arrived,
swarming over this remarkable 44-
year-old man who learned from his
father that he could hone ordinary
skills to record-smashing levels with
pride and dedication.

Tony Perez and Dave Concepcion,
his longtime teammates, hoisted
Rose on their shoulders and let the
adulation of 47,237 fans rain down on

a part of history, watched as he sat
atop the pitcher’s mound.

“I’m not smart enough to have the
words to describe my feeling,’’ Rose
said. ‘‘I didn’t know what to do.”’

“T was doing all right, then I sort of
looked up and started to think about
my father. I saw him up there, and
right behind him was Ty Cobb.”

That was when the tears came,
tears that relieved the tension and
emotion of the moment, tears that
sent Rose over to lean on Helms’
shoulder and brought Pete Jr. back
on the field to support his father.

“That’s the only time I ever cried

, on a baseball field,’ Pete Rose said.

him. For seven minutes, they cheer- { He had cried only one other time in

ed for him, saluting the man and his
achievement. Eric Show, who’d been

‘his life, he said.
‘When my father died.”’

Fans toast without alcohol

 

By BILL VALE
The Associated Press

 

CINCINNATI — The hit was exact-
ly that and much more.

When Pete Rose lined a single to
left-center field in his first at-bat
last night, his 23-year chase of
Ty Cobb’s once seemingly invinci-
ble record officially ended. Hit
number 4,192 made Rose the number
one hitman in baseball history, and

, produced an evening filled with both

euphoria and emptiness.

Fawn Rose, who has been intently
watching her father’s exploits, was
both delighted and somewhat somber
after the momentous occasion.

“Tt was a wonderful feeling to know
my father achieved the record he has
strived for all his life. I got chills and

< ite Front Ma rk

I cried,” said the 20-year-old pre-med
student last night at Franklin College
in Columbus.

“It’s sort of a big letdown too, now
that it’s over, she added.

But the rest of the Rose contingent
was delighted, and exhausted.

“I’m just so happy,’’ said La Verne
Noeth, his mother. ‘‘He was crying.
He doesn’t show it, but he can be an
emotional person.”’

“We're very happy, it’s just won-
derful,” said wife Carol Rose with
her young son Tyler in a baby
walker.

“T just love him. It’s wonderful,”’
said Dave Rose, Pete’s younger
brother, tears streaming down his
cheeks.

Kevin McCarthy, an employee of

7

463-3106

167 S. Main St., 463-3106

Stop by and open up a charge account for all your
grocery needs. We carry a complete line of fresh meats
and produce, imported beers and wines for the most

discriminating taste.

Serving the W&L community over 30 years.

Boyle

CampuUS

SHOP

117 West Nelson Street

nd

Lexington, Virginia

Enlarged Stock Including:
Blank Cassettes and Newspapers

Albums and Cassettes

AT aes Y dia

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
  
   

* |o e
‘ °e U EAVERS e
: ° °
as) £2 @ Ghee Syyply
e w
* e Te & 6
# le e
j ° TR i e W. d be “Th B k Sh ”
- SERVICES ‘ e used to be @ DOO Oop
“fe . Now we’re much more
@
ih: + nan ; ee
misspellod a word
e found just tho right source e j
> at tho last minuto...? ‘ i 10% Off i
- RELAX - WE HAVE THB SOLUTION i 4
FF Alt our “typing” te done on an IBM PC ® i All I
¢* vee with a letter quality printer. e n-Stor Stock i
be a ; aranthi Pp abot Ores are a i e i
i ‘ AND YOU CAN'T BEAT OUR PRICES ‘ : Art, Stationary, Gifts, School Supplies :
i, Meese
1 © DATA SERVICES é a sacle ia abet este anit dian
ac Lexan, Vinca 2480 ,
" le ‘6 23 West Washington St. 463-3432 Offer good thru Sept.
}-
vet
5 Sandwiches (Eat In-Take Out)
E 110 S. Jefferson St. :
@ Lexington Gourmet Items of All Nations
r emit Cocktails@ Wine® Beer
e Hours:
s Mon.-Sat. 9am to lam Subs@Imported Cheeses
% Sunday 10am to lam Catering
"
t,
vi
%

»

a

an = YT a
~

*

G

 

 

 

 

the U.S. Steel Corp., was delighted he
saw the record. His boss had the
tickets Tuesday night when Rose
didn’t get the record hit. The boss
gave McCarthy the tickets Wednes-
day.

“I’m extremely grateful to him,”
said McCarthy, who added he will
cherish the memory all his life.

About a thousand cheering people
gathered four blocks north of River-
front Stadium at Fountain Square
Plaza, Cincinnati’s traditional place
of celebrations.

However, police were there in
force. ‘‘All alcoholic beverages were
banned from the area,’ Capt. Dale
Menkhaus said.

“We had no trouble,” he said.
“There were no arrests. We are very
low-key.”’

|
APPLE IIECOMPUTER |
FOR SALE
One disc drive, 64K, dot matrix
printer, Apple Writer II wordpro-
cessing software. Excellent con-
dition; best offer.
CALL 463-6587

Hair Shack

Located in

Lexington-Buena Vista Shopping Park
Hours: Mon.-Sat. 9a.m.-5:30 p.m.,

Thurs. 9 a.m.-8 p.m.

Appointments or Walk-ins Welcome
Owners and Operators:
Roxanne Hogan and Sue Clark

Phone: 463-7576

 

 

 

 

b

a

a MCA CUMC CRE ls (ts

The Difference Between
Dressed, and Well Dressed

9 he |

W. Nelson St.

 

 

Open Friday nights until-9 p.m.

 

 

 

 

83 Toyota SR-5
4x4 Pickup
463-2030 after 5:30 p.m.

 

 

George’s

HAIRSTYLISTS

REDKEN NE€*US

Located at 136 Varner Lane
directly behind Leggetts
with plenty of parking

Phone: 463-3975 or walk in.

 

 

J

 

E.
Welcomes You
Sunday Services 8:30 and
Church School 9:15

At the

The Rev.
The

 

 

Startins

’

Am.

to Follow

of the
Arranged

Come Join Us!
Arthur Ls
Rev. Nancy R.
Assistant

ap pa) ai)
PUSAN Ys
Leads

NZ ae
Aue eS

Lee Memorial Church

|

October oth
Canterbury Fellowship
The Episcopal College Ministry
Sunday 9:30 Evensong:

Supper
Weekday Open House
Home
To Be

Chere’ only one problem with
religions that have all the answers.

They dont allow questions.

If you sometimes have questions about God and the meaning of life, come and oin the search
for answers in the fellowship of the Episcopal Church. The Episcopal Church

¥,
my
«%

10:40

Chaplain

Dasher. Rector
‘Taylor,
and Chaplain

 

 

 

 

 

 
RUSH

All-male Rush still
will involve women

 

 

By JASON LISI
Staff Reporter

 

Although most of the University’s
attention has been on the newly ar-
rived women, next week it will shift
to the men when the two-week frater-
nity Rush beings. No fraternities
allow women as members and there
are no sororities at Washington and
Lee.

The freshman women, though, will
be able to take part in certain Rush
activities.

An Interfraternity Council rule
says W&L women will be permitted
at all Rush functions except open
houses. They may sign up for and go
to rush dates just as the men do, but
are not reviewed for possible frater-
nity membership. ‘

Associate Dean of Students
Pamela Simpson said yesterday the
IFC and the Coeducation Steering
Committee, in permitting the women
to go through Rush, ‘‘tried very hard
to make sure that women had a role
in Rush.”

“We have always encouraged men
who were not going to join a fraterni-
ty to go through Rush as a way of
meeting people,’ Simpson said.

‘Even though the women won’t be
able to join fraternities, they can still
benefit from Rush, she added.

ee ee eee a a a

General Notes

Advertise your club
or group’s meetings ,

functions or events

For information
contact The Ring-tum Phi

Room 200
Student Center

fee ce am cam coe Ge Gam > Ome an Gm GoD eam GD GED GED GD GED OS GES GD OS Em Om OD CD oD mois a

“We have to make sure that
everyone feels like they're part of the
community,” she said.

When asked why the women were
allowed to go to Rush dates but not
open houses, IFC President Jaimie
Hayne said: ‘‘Rush is for the guys.
We need some time to be alone — one
on one — with the guys.”

Another IFC rule is that women
from other schools will not be allow-
ed to participate in formal Rush func-
tions. Hayne said the IFC continued
the rule from past years.

“It would get too complicated to
organize that many girls, both from
the girls’ schools and W&L,”’ Hayne
said.

He added, though, that he’d ‘‘really
like to see sororities developed in the
next five or six years.”’

In meetings last year, the Coeduca-
tion Steering Committee agreed to a
two-year moratorium on so-called
“little sister’ programs, in which a
woman could be an unofficial mem-
ber of a fraternity while enjoying the
benefits of being an official member.

After extensive review of little sis-
ter programs at other colleges, the
committee decided there would be
too few women for the number of
fraternities and that type of program

cacao eee ppp ns pci en tence ome apse leven a as

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi Fraternity

 

invites you to be a member

 

  

Class of 1989

<¢$

 

 

 

 

W&L

 

The Brothers of
Sigma Phi Epsilon
Welcome You To .

 

ELE MELE POE BED IBLE EE PLE BOLE SE ELE ESE EE NS SE EEE EAE AE OE MEP EE PE PP

ZETA BETA TAU

220 E. Nelson

OLE LE AE ME LES OE LIME NG NI PO ME LE MIT I MI AMT MEM MM

AOE. BE AE AE IE’ LEED AD NS AE EE EP AP ID LE BE LP NE EE EP LEME BE ES BOR MT AP EE RE IP EAE

 

Welcomes
The Class of 1989
to

FALL RUSH-1985

Sept. 13 & 14: Party at the Zeeb House - get acquainted with the Brothers.

Sept. 20 & 21: Jamaican Weekend! Pig Roasts & party Friday night. Live Band
Party Saturday night w/ “Sunfire,” 9 p.m.
Sept. 27 & 28: Pledge Party Weekend. Pledge night party Friday, Rock & Roll
Classics with the ‘‘Monarchs”’ Saturday night, 9 p.m. - until ?.

 

would hinder the ‘‘natural develop-
ment of the social structure.”’

“Extensive affiliation might
hinder the formulation of other
organizations and, at a time when
class unity is important, these pro-
grams might prove divisive,” the
committee’s report said.

Little sister programs are banned
until the fall of 1987, when the pro-
gram will be reviewed again.

The Coeducation Committee also
investigated the ideas of sororities at
W&L. So far, 10 sororities have ex-
pressed interest in the University.

“If interest is shown in sororities,
then the University is obliged to show
the same support for sororities that it
has shown for fraternities,’’ accord-
ing to the report.

“Freshmen women will have to use
their own initiative to bring sororities
onto campus,”’ Simpson said.

When enough women — 25 to 30, ac-
cording to the report — have shown
interest, the coeducation committee
will go on to help the formation of the
sorority.

The committee will form a group to
advise the interested women. This
group will be composed of adminis-
trators, faculty and students who will
review the various national sororities
and their structures.

Associate Dean of Students Dan
Murphy, a member of the Coeduca-
tion Committee, said it would “aid
the interests of the women if the in-
terest is expressed.”’

The Ring-tum Phi, September 12, 1985,

 

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

A Sigma Chi polishes house letters during cleanup

Hollins party upholds tradition

 

By PAUL DAVEY
Staff Reporter

As day broke over the Hollins College apartments, the

strewn cups, cans and other assorted items pointed to
one event: the annual first-week-of-school apartments
party.
That ‘‘The Party” had indeed occurred was confirmed
by the higher than usual number of groggy-looking W&L
men knocking on doors looking for rides back to Lex-
ington.

The Party has become somewhat of a sacred ritual,
especially for Hollins girls who look forward to a night
without the usual competition from the other women’s
colleges. As in years past, the street between the second
and third rows of apartments was a literal sea of people.
Some come to meet “everyone,” some come to get some
rushing in during ‘‘no contact’’ period, some come to get
a first taste of a big collegiate party, and some come be-
cause the noise prevents them from sleeping.

In all, about half a dozen fraternities from W&L set up
shop for the night in the apartments. Altbough the apart-

 

 

 
 

116 N. Main St.

 

 

HODGE PODGE

Welcomes
W&L Freshmen!

Come visit soon — We carry a
selection of cards, soaps, mugs,
dhurrie rugs, lap desks, stationery,
stuffed animals, jewelry, cheese, tea,
candies, etc.!

We look forward to seeing you all year!!

VW

   

463-3683

 

 

 

 

 

Jonn Hudson
Rush Chairman
Anniston. Al

(205) 831-0629

Kappa Alpha |

Alpha Chapter
301 E Nelson
Lexington. Va 24450

463-2733

(703)

¢ Founded at W&L 1865 under guidance of

Robert E. Lee.

¢ Ranked 3rd in academics 1984-85
¢ Finished 3rd among fraternities in

intramurals 1984-85

¢ Strong social calendar

 

Phone: 463-2406

EP ENP MP OP

AE OE AO EE ST PE EO AE AP A AP Fo

a BP

a

Philip Davidson
Rush Chairman
Houston, Tx
(713) 464-3305

 

he Phi Kappa Psi
The First House On Campus

The Brothers invite the class of 1989 to
visit the house during Rush ’85
beginning Friday, September 13.

301 E. Washington St.

Chi Psi Social Fraternity

ments used as “headquarters”’ are invariably trashed,
the girls don’t seem to mind. Apparently, it is a small
price to pay to have a big group of eager W&L men
stumbling around one’s porch pulling beers from a cold
box.

A new aspect of this year’s party was the presence of
W&L girls. From all accounts, there was no hissing from
Hollins girls. Hopefully peace and coexistence will con-
tinue. There should be no reason why the girls from W&L
should be junwelcome down the road. But, no, girls, it
probably would not be wise to bring masses of guys to
Graham-Lees from that public, state school north of
here, or from that other institution whose name I cannot
immediately recall.

So, the long-awaited apartment’s party has now come
and gone. It was a success, a time for anyone to achieve
whatever he or she would like to have acmeved. Hopeful-
ly, on future September mornings, the streets of the
aparfments will again be decked with cups and cans and
young Hollins freshmen will happily wake up to see their
Gucci shoes covered in party gravy. For if these things
happen, we will know that the tradition continues.

Founded 1855

5 Lee Avenue
(next to P.O.)

Presently we have 45 brothers. We
are not a regional house, instead
we are
brotherhood.” Our brothers range
from All-Americans (2) to Phi
Beta Kappa (4) (academic honor
society). We stress both the acade-
mic and social aspects of college
life. We have the largest house on
campus and the most convenient
location.

Come by this September.

“a' close, but diverse

Sigma Nu

welcomes the Class of 1989

Go Greek

 

Hope to see you at the house.

4 Henry St.

463-2503

   
   
      
   
   

      
       
   
   
   
   
   
   

~

at”

ca

a

°

~ -

-

; rd ‘
(1 .. oe ae we

5

 
   
 

ie ee ee ee a a

Fe oe ee ee > S-S- 2: -e ee? =

ae
dw

 

oT ee aE a ee Te ve ae =

 

P+ ie
Pe!

 

a Sg age ie lle sili ile lg sai a pe iigee < Ae  gge  a el  AR * Al MS ell _— eek he

Oa
=

eit: -*- *. =: =< =m - =, >

 

 

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Staff Reporter

 

Interfraternity Council President
, Jaimie Hayne says no decision has
* been made regarding charges that
‘Sigma Nu fraternity broke Rush
™ regulations Sunday by helping

freshmen move into their rooms.

* According to the approved Rush

ecalendar, the “no contact’’ period

began Sunday, barring fraternity
members from entering the fresh-

«man dorms starting that day.

, “I haven’t investigated it yet,”
said Hayne. ‘‘We are going to investi-

‘gate it, though.”

+ The IFC’s judicial board will study
the charges next week, Hayne said.

Hayne said he learned that Sigma

‘Nu was helping freshmen move into

,the dorms, but that when he got

there, the fraternity had stopped.
"Junior Sigma Nu Everett Hamilton
“said, “No one told us to quit until

 

Southern
Inn

Welcome
Students
| Serving breakfast, lunch
and dinner for over
50 years
| Main Street, Lexington

-

 

 

: 463-3612

 

a

Jaimie got there that night. When he
told us to stop, we stopped.”

Sigma Nu President Ernest Frank-
lin said the entire incident was the
result of a ‘calendar mishap.”

“The calendar we received last
spring at an IFC meeting said that
‘no contact’ began at 9 a.m. Monday
morning,” Franklin said.

‘No contact’ has always started
when orientation began,” Hamilton
added.

Franklin also said the calendar he
received last year made no restric-
tions on Wednesday night parties,
while the current calendar forbids
any weekday parties during Rush.

“This calendar screw-up is going to
cost us a lot of money,” Franklin
said.

However, Hayne said the calendar
released last spring is the same one
in effect now.

“The first calendar that came out
was a proposal,” Hayne said. ‘“‘It still
had to be approved by the University
Council and the Student Affairs Com-

ls

RUSH:

mittee. It was never finalized until
the end of the year.”’

Hamilton said the fraternity helped
the move in as a public service.

“It was really done in the vein of us
remembering how it was,”’ Hamilton
said. “Besides, it was hot and there
was enough confusion already. We
were merely performing a service.”’

Sophomore Sigma Nu Jon Solomon
said the incident should improve his
house’s Rush program.

“If meeting people is the key to
Rush, then I think it was a great
help,” Solomon said.

Hayne, president of Kappa Alpha
fraternity, said his house distributed
calendars in the dorms but that it
was done Friday, before the ‘‘no con-
tact”’ period.

“My house, as far as I know, is the
only house that did it,’’ said Hayne.
“All I can say is that if any of the
other houses do it from here on out,
then they have broken Rush regula-
tions.’’

119 SOUTH MAIN, LEXINGTON 463-9491

Come by to see our complete line of

Gifts, Cards and Partyware
HOURS: 9:00 a.m. to5:00 p.m. Monday through Saturda

SAFEWAY

 

Welcome Back

Student Body
& Faculty

We haveall

your party needs

Phone: 463-3146

Hours:

8-9 Mon. - Sat., 10-7 Sun.

 

Herring Travel Services
Welcome W&L Students

Going Home?
On Vacation
On an Interview?

Come see your travel professionals at Lexington’s Main St. agency.
% ke

 
 

Air, Rail, Ship & Motorcoach Travel
Hotel, Car Rental Reservations

Full service, computerized agency
No charge for services. Billing to credit card and home.

41S. Main St. 463-2197

KAPPA SIGMA

203 E. Washington St.

 

 

| Welcome the Class of 1989

and extend an open invitation

for all freshmen to

i come by the house during Rush.

Bill Hemphill

President

Jim White

463-4709 Rush Chairman

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, September 12, 1985, Page 7

FRATERNITY INVESTIGATION

IFC to investigate
SNu dorm move-in

  
   
 
   
 
   
   
   

The Brothers of
Pi Kappa Alpha

Welcome

The Class of ’89
To WEL

and

RUSH 85

 

 

 

 

 

Hope to see you at

The Pika House this fall!

Greg Wheeler
President

 

Steve Best

463-5907
- Rush Chairman

 

    

DELTA TAU DELTA

To all Freshmen,

Welcome to Rush ’85 the W&L way! The Delta house cor-
dially invites you to attend what promises to be its finest
Rush ever. The highlights include CBS recording artists,
“The Dads” and a pig roast and crab feast in the country
with 50 lucky freshmen receiving commemorative T-shirts.

‘Rush is a fabulous opportunity to both meet people and
experience the highly acclaimed W&L social scene. Don’t
miss out!

Please feel free to come by, you are certainly welcome.

Michael P. Marshall
President

Paul L. Fearey
Rush Chairman

 

Calendar of Delta Events:

13th — Pear] Harbor Night

14th — Frozen Tropical Drink Night

15th — Open House Registration— {1-1 P.M.

16th — First Day of School

17th — Touch Football Game—4 P.M.

19th — Happy Hour—4 P.M.

20th — Septemberfest w/imports

21st — Morning Not-so-Virgin Maries
Band — ‘‘The Dads’”’

22nd — Country Pig Roast and Crab Fest w/T-Shirts

24th — Hoops Tournament—4 P.M.

26th — Happy Happy Hour—4 P.M.

27th — Shooters and Upside-down Jimmy Buffett Drinks

28th — Morning Maries before W&L football game
Band — “Dirty Secrets”

29th — Quarry Diving

 
Paae 8, The Ring-tum Phi, September 12, 1985

 

RUSH: THE BOOK LOOK

 

 

 

 

Frat book is guide to Rush Dear Mom

By TED LeCLERCQ
Staff Reporter

 

Here they come to the gate.
They’re positioned. The doors are
shut

There’s the bell.

And they’re off.

Rush: It’s jockeying time.

Unlike a horse race, however, it’s
often difficult to determine which
path to take to successfully reach the
finish line.

Robert Egan, a 1975 Harvard
graduate, travelled to 35 states to
write ‘‘From Here To Fraternity,” a
quasi-serious look at the whole scam.
In the 228-page book, Egan found
several! ways for freshmen to identify
top houses on campus.

For instance: “The sign of a
respected fraternity is one that can
get away with an occasional sexist
act such as sponsoring a size-D cup
only Wet-T-Shirt contest, and still at-
tract sorority girls to their parties.”

One of Egan’s other tests for a top
house is equally serious: ‘‘Scholastic
standing, the house officers of
academically-oriented houses will
tell you during rush, is what counts
most in making a top house. Don’t

believe it. Socially speaking, the
ability to quaff 3.2 beer will beat the
ability to grind for a 3.2 GPA anyday
Did you ever hear of a party being
called bad because none of the guys
hada 4.0?”

School locale also figures into
Egan’s formula for Greek evalua-
tion. Schools in Alaska, for example,
are listed under the ‘Out Of It”
category. ‘‘There are no Greeks in
Alaska. Besides, if there were, they’d
roadtrip south in a second.”

Egan divides the United States into
sections in his book, and Washington
and Lee falls into the ‘‘Greek Con-
federacy.’’ His description of the
category is as follows:

“In the South there are three major
highlights of life: birth, going Greek,
and marriage (four, if you count hav-
ing your offspring enter the Greek
house you were in). Greek life is
religion here, next to magnolia trees,
Robert E. Lee, and making up stories
about the heroic exploits of your Civil
War ancestors.”

Although his book is written in a
humorous vein, Egan had some ser-
ious questions for freshmen to ask
fraternity members. In particular,
he advises asking about the pledge
program and what it entails, its

 

= ia

 

 

length and the amount of time
pledges are required to spend at the
fraternity house. His questions on the
academic aspects of fraternities in-
clude finding out about study groups,
files of old tests and the minimum
GPA required for a pledge to go ac-

   

 

A tients

tive, as well as the overall GPA of a
house.

Egan’s advice may not always be
serious, but it is often important. He
ends his book by advising freshmen
to find out about the costs involved in
fraternity membership.

W&L law student pens sorority book

 

By TED LeCLERCQ
Staff Reporter

 

 

4

a
|

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Margaret Ann Rose is the author of a sorority manual

Advertise in The Phi
Call 463-8581

 

 

 

Geta

Sororities have not yet come to
Washington and Lee’s campus, but a
new book explaining what exactly
they are and detailing how to get into
one has. In fact, it has come from the
W&L campus.

“Rush: A Girl’s Guide To Sorority
Success,’’ by Margaret Ann Rose, a
third-year W&L law student, is an in-
formational guidebook that Rose
hopes people will take seriously.

“Some people may think that the
whole book is a joke,” she said. ‘‘I
wanted to put in both the good and the
bad. I certainly did not want to write
a book that made fun or parodied
sororities, although some people may
interpret it as that.”’

Rose attended the University of

' Texas as an undergraduate, and was

rush captain for her sorority, Zeta
Tau Alpha. Her book, she said, is not
meant to be like ‘‘From Here To Fra-
ternity.”’

“It was a very different kind of
book,” she explained. ‘‘The guy who
wrote it wasn’t in a national fraterni-
ty even though he did a lot of re-
search. He went to Harvard.”’

“T think his book parodies the
system,”’ Rose continued. ‘‘But I was
surprised that his advice on frater-
nities was similar to mine.”’

Rose added that she feels W&L is
ready for sororities this year. “‘I
think it would be a good idea to have
sororities this year,’’ she said. ‘‘One
hundred women is certainly enough
to start four sororities. It would help

the women get together.

In writing her book, Rose received
no assistance from national sorority
organizations, including her own.
“Sororities have gotten so much bad
press in the past,” she explained,
“that they would rather not talk. So I
sent out 200 questionnaires to deans,
rush chairmen and sororities.”

The similarities in sororities
across the nation was something that
Rose found interesting. ‘‘What was
surprising to me was that at big,
small, state or private schools,
sororities are basically the same,”
she said. ‘‘They have the same par-
ties, same selection process and
serve the same drinks and that was a
little surprising.”

Although the aim of the book is fac-
tual, Rose also tried to mix in some
humor. “I think some parts of the

~

*

& Pop,

If you really think your
son or daughter will write
you each week, you ¢ |
should be at school,
not them

gf

This newspaper is being sent

 

 

to you free, but to continue
receiving weekly news from
Lexington, send your
subscription order to:
The Ring-tum Phi

Box 899
Lexington VA 24450

$15.00 per year t

ie, oN

book are funny but true observations #

of sorority life,’ she said. ‘‘At this
point, though, I don’t plan a sequel.”

 

Answer for page 11

EIR

~

>

zl[c]alujmin
m]z]H

zm) 2] >| 7] <|/>l=

a Slate

0
V
A

wl>
~<
nl|x|>|=
=i GES
alo

 

 

 

 

Value Mart

Twin Mattress
Twin Mattress and Foundation

 

      

$65
$96 set

    

 

2175 Magnolia Ave., Buena Vista

  

 

60-minute
KIS.

 

No more waiting days for your prints to come.

Kis Photo gives you picture-perfect prints in

just 60 minutes. Extra prints and enlargements take
just minutes. We use Kodak paper exclusively
What's more, we do it all in our store with the
revolutionary new Kis 1-Hour Photo Processor

In only 60 minutes, if turns your 110, 126, 135

and disc film into memories that last a lifetime.

™

 

THOMAS C. BRADSHAW II
otographist - Frame Shop - Kis Mini La!
7 North Main Street
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

 

 

‘HPHOTO

in historic Lexington, Virginia

William Willson, postmaster, mer-
chant and treasurer of Washington
College, built his classical revival
home in 1820. The building remained
a residence until 1911 when Harry
Walker converted it into a meat
market and grocery store. Located in
the downtown historic district, today
it is Lexington’s most distinctive
restaurant decorated with period an-
tiques and offering dishes prepared
with the freshest and finest local and
regional ingredients along with an
assortment of American wines. The
Willson-Walker House proudly greets
its guests with the same warm welcome
that Capt. Willson would have extend-
sed over 160 years ago.

American cuisine. Cocktails, beer,
and wine. Open for lunch and dinner,
11:30-2:30, 5:30-10:00, Tuesday-
Saturday. Closed Sunday and Mon-
day. Banquet room available. Reser-
vations requested for dinner.

30 N. Main St.
Lexington, Virginia 24450
703-463-3020

 

 

 

  
 
   
 
 
 

  

*Busch
6 pk. Cans—$2,29
12 pk. Cans—$4.49 y» ,
*Budweiser 6 pk.—
$2.89
Coors 6 pk.—$2.99
eLong Necks

NATTY ®OH- +544
Busch ~ £7.99

*Hunting License
*Cups—$30.00, Case
*ice—50 Lbs., $3.99
*Grain Mix
*Groceries

 

~—
“a4
eC
7
«
*®
>
7
i
Py
§

; o¢ ’
0 > :
ol” Bee OF LAy’s Corte. ‘ eae
~ q 4 ewipenee «

HE DEST PARTY SERV)

Veedrieeer
W of LEXINGTON ON RT LO, Tust
KEY DET

———— PAST THE
\_, GENER

4:5 MILES

Ca re

eo \
MILES AND SANDY NYE  pRop, Fs aa

463-5452.

 

 

 
 

~~

  
 
   
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
    

fe

OR OS a a Se he MS Ry

i

mK ab

sie,

 

The Ring-tum Phi, September 12, 1985, Page 9

 

What | did this summer — three essays

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

A little of this ...

Senior Mike Brooks put his accounting major to work this
summer totalling the liquor tabs at the Noisy Oyster, a restau-
rant and raw bar on the Atlantic Avenue ‘‘Strip” in Virginia
Beach. Although he says the only drink mixing-experience
he’d had before was a little ‘‘bogus fraternity bartending,” he
liked the job so much that now he’s working at the Palm’s here
in Lexington. Brooks enjoys the ‘“‘energy’’ involved in the job
— the chance to meet and work with all kinds of people. He
said Palms customers are ‘“‘mostly a highball crowd,” order-
ing drinks like the rum and Coke he’s mixing here instead of
“more complicated layered and shaken drinks people at the
«-, beach preferred. An example is a ‘‘skip and go naked,’’ which
has rum, vodka, grenadine and half a dozen other ingredients.
‘You can light it if you want,”’ Brooks said.

IFC president works on Capitol Hill

 

By CHRISTOPHER DEIGHAN
News Editor

 

For senior Jaimie Hayne, the
chance to work in Washington as an
intern for his hometown’s congress-
man required several years of rejec-
tion.

But for a month this summer,
Hayne researched voting behavior,
answered constituents’ mail and sat
in on staff meetings.

The experience of being on Capitol
Hill was “‘incredible’’ at times, said
Hayne, who is president of the Wash-
ington and Lee Interfraternity Coun-
cil.

Hayne applied for the Lyndon B.
Johnson internship program a couple
of years in a row before being ac-
cepted.

He was selected for the position,
which carried a total salary of $960,
on the basis of a formal application.

Hayne worked in the office of
Congressman Thomas Loeffler, a Re-
publican in the 21st District of Texas,
which includes Hayne’s hometown of
San Antonio.

As an intern, Hayne’s job included
researching the voting habits of
congressmen on certain issues in re-
cent years.

Hayne believes he was more in-
volved with his congressman’s office

 

By CHRISTOPHER DEIGHAN
News Editor

 

Few students would be likely to
travel three weeks to get to campus
for a six-week session — unless of
course that campus were the Univer-
sity of Oxford in England, with the
realm of Europe just across the
Channel.

This summer, seven members of
the Phi Delta Theta fraternity organ-
ized a three-week tour of European
countries before heading to St.
Anne’s College at Oxford for a spec-
ial summer session designed for Vir-
ginia students.

Bourke Harvey, a senior this year
and one of the seven, said that be-
sides the initial three weeks there
was plenty of free time to travel
while going to school.

Each student participated in two
courses on the literature, history and
society of late 16th- and 17-century

England, including the Elizabethan,
Jacobean and Caroline periods.

“It wasn’t really hard work,”
Harvey said, “but it was challeng-
ing.”’

According to Harvey, the system of
education at Oxford is much different
from American procedures.

Each of the six academic weeks be-
gan with a meeting between a group
of three students and a tutor. The
tutor assigned the students a theme
for a paper due at the end of the
week.

Throughout the week the students
attended 1'2 hour lectures based on
the central theme of the course of
study.

Harvey said the lectures were of-
ten useful in organizing ideas for the
weekly papers, which were called tu-
torials.

Often, discussion of the tutorials
would lead to debates among the stu-
dents.

For example, Harvey said he was

 

than most other interns because his
responsibilities included answering
constituents’ mail and sitting in on
staff meetings.

While in Washington, Hayne lived
in a dormitory at Georgetown Uni-
versity, where he said he met many
other students working as interns in
the Capitol.

Hayne said he is not necessarily
looking into a political career and
said he applied for the internship to
learn more about the legislative pro-
cess.

Another consideration was the city
life in Washington.

“Georgetown is fun,’’ he said, “Es-
pecially at night.”

GOOD NEWS! |

The College Town Shop

111 W. Nelson St.

  

|
i
4
‘
‘
: has been getting ready for
5 YOUR ARRIVAL

all summer - come see
» New Ruff Hewn - Plenty of shorts
e Duckheads - pleated and plain.
e IZOD Shirts on sale!
e Donegal charcoal gray sweaters
e Wool blend blazer sale - $99.00

* kK KK ROR

e Beautiful sweaters for girls
¢ Ruff hewn jean skirts.

: Charge accounts sent home — Hope we will see you soon!

EK BES DRE AR SE AE SO SE SE ORS HI MRC RE SEK RE

 

part of a group taking a stand on
whether James I was an effective
ruler of England.

“One book we used said he was to-
tally ineffective while another said
he wasn’t quite as bad as people have
been led to believe,”’ Harvey said.

As a history major, Harvey said
he viewed the opportunity at St.
Anne’s as a unique chance to get an
understanding of England’s past as
well as to travel.

Running from July 1 to Aug. 10, the
Virginia Program at Oxford is spon-
sored by W&L, Hampden-Sydney
College, Mary Baldwin College, Roa-
noke College, Sweet Briar College
and Virginia Military Institute.

Thirteen W&L students partici-
pated in this year’s session, which
had an enrollment of approximately
60.

Each student earned academic
credit for six semester hours.

Included with the academics, the
program offered an excursion to a

Oxford session attracts W&L travelers

Shakespeare Festival at Stratford-
upon-Avon.

Also, students were able to tour a
number of castles not far from Ox-
ford.

London, an hour away, was also a
favorite trip, according to Harvey.
He said a night clyb, the Hippo-
drome, became a regular attraction.

On one occasion, Harvey said, he
was part of a group of students who
spent one night in London visiting 28
different pubs and having a beer at
each one.

“We weren't exactly standing by
the end of the night,”’ he said.

The summer session at St. Anne’s
is designed for rising seniors and
juniors, although exceptionally quali-
fied rising sophomores may be con-
sidered.

The program fee for the 1985 ses-
sion was $1,875. More information
can be obtained from Associate Dean
of the College Pamela Simpson.

ROTC student goes
to Air Assault School

 

By CHRISTOPHER DEIGHAN
News Editor

 

Despite the 3 a.m. wakeup calls,
the 4 a.m. inspections and the 4:30
a.m. physical fitness training, junior
David Shugart considered it ‘‘an
honor to go and represent my school’’
at the Air Assault School at Fort
Rucker, Ala.

Shugart, who spent 10 days at an in-
tense helicopter training session, was
selected by Washington and Lee’s
ROTC department to attend the avia-
tion school, which is a training camp
for all army personnel.

The camp included phases of train-
ing designed to teach the 105 men and
three women how to participate in
combat with helicopters as a means
of transportation.

Besides the helicopter training; the
cadets began physical fitness train-
ing at 4:30a.m.

After calisthenics, the cadets

would either run or take a ‘forced.
road march”’ with full gear at a mini-
mum rate of one kilometer per 10
minutes.

Shugart said the daily inspection
was something that “really moti-
vated you to shine your boots.”’ The
reason, he said, is the effect of ac-
quiring a ‘“‘deficiency”’ for something
as slight as having a mark on the uni-
form’s belt buckle or a haircut that is
just a little too long.

According to Shugart, such cauc.
were sent to an area known as the
“gig pit, where a sergeant would
‘gig’ you until you about dropped
dead.’’ Gigging included intense ca-
listhenics, such as push-ups and sit-
ups.
“I was not gigged,”’ Shugart re-
ported.

Although involved in W&L’s ROTC
program, Shugart said he is not defi-
nite about an army career.

“That’s in the future,’’ he said.
“Tt’s an option.”

SOME COLLEGE COURSES
ARE MORE EXCITING

THAN OTHERS.

How many college courses

 

teach you how to shoot the rapids?
Or rappel a cliff? Or find your
way out of a forest with nothing but
a map and compass to guide you?
Atleast one does— Army

And you could find your-
self doing any one of a number
of exciting adventure training
activities fike these in the Army

OTC program.

Activities that develop your
stamina. And your salbeont
dence

But adventure training isnt
the only way you develop
You ll also learn the basics of
leadership and management by
attending ROTC classes, along
with the subjects in your major.

And you'll be excited
about two other benefits Army
ROTC offers. Financial assis-
tance. Up to $1,000 a year for
your last two years of Army
ROTC. And the opportunity to
graduate with both a degree
and a commission in today's
Army -—including the Army
Reserve and Army National
Guard

For more information
contact your Professor of
Military Science at 463-8480

~ FRESHMEN -

Register for MS 101'
Page 10, The Ring-tum Phi, September 12, 1985

 

 

 

Virginia’s Lexington has its own charm

“People who come to Washington
and Lee fall in love,” Student Body
President John Lewis told a parents’
orientation session on Sunday. “They
fall in love with the beautiful campus,
they fall in love with the articulate pro-
fessors, they fall in love with the
magnificent scenery which surrounds
them, and they fall in love with each
other.”

Many of them also fall in love with
Lexington itself. One person who did is
reporter Laura Bruno, whose outsider’s
view of our city is reprinted with per-
mission from the Chicago Tribune of
Aug. Il:

Attention, history buffs. You know
well of Lexington, Mass., where the
opening shot of the Revolutionary
War was fired, and of Lexington, Ky.,
traditional breeding ground for many
of this nation’s finest thoroughbred
race horses. But are you schooled in
a third Lexington — in Virginia —
another distinct patch on the colorful
quilt of America’s heritage?

This quaint town, nestled in the
southeastern region of the Shenan-
doah Valley just off 1-81, boasts
among other attractions the homes
and graves of Thomas ‘‘Stonewall’’
Jackson and Robert E. Lee, the li-
brary and museum of World War II
Gen. George C. Marshall, and the
tradition-steeped campuses of Wash-
ington and Lee University and Vir-
ginnia Military Institute. The colos-
sal limestone Natural Bridge, one of
the seven natural wonders of the
world, is nearby.

Any drive to Lexington, about an
hour from Charlottesville and three
from Washington, D.C., promises
gorgeous scenery, especially the
Blue Ridge Mountains. The only rival
view might be from the peaks as you
wind along the Blue Ridge Parkway.

Two young couples, one from
Atlanta, the other from Indiana, had
caravaned along the Parkway en

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Horse and buggy tours of Lexington began this summer

route to this town. At the McCamp-
bell Inn on Main Street, one of the
Historic Country Inns of Lexington,
the foursome joined other guests in
the Great Room for complimentary
sherry and port, served nightly.
Charmingly decorated with anti-
ques and rich wood furnishings, each
room of the Country Inns contains a
refrigerator, hot pot, juice, and tea
and coffee makings. Under the same

ownership and management are two
restored townhouses on Main Street,
with 15 rooms and 8 suites between
them, and a refurbished plantation
home. On 60 acres just a few miles
from town, the third inn will have 14
rooms and a dining room and will of-
fer horseback riding and _ hiking
trails. In addition to free sherry in
the evening at the Inns, homemade
muffins are offered for breakfast.

Cable may solve TV crunch
for Graham-Lees freshmen

 

By SEAN BUGG
Staff Reporter

 

Although there are TV rooms in the
freshmen dorms, conflicts some-
times can arise over what should be
watched. For some students who
prefer movies to football (or vice ver-
sa) or ‘General Hospital” to ‘Days
of Our Lives,”’ there is hope.

Unfortunately, Gilliam and Davis
dormitories must continue under the
present system. However, students
in Graham-Lees and upperclassmen

living elsewhere have cable televi-
sion services available to them.

To get cable, one must go to the
Lexington Cable Co. office at 5 West
Nelson St. where arrangements to in-
stall cable in dorm rooms can be
made. The initial cost for basic cable
services is $25, which must be paid
when the contract is made.

To obtain the pay-TV channel
Home Box Office, an additional $25
deposit must be made. This deposit
entitles one to an HBO decoder box.

Unlike the $25 for basic cable, the
deposit for HBO is refundable at the

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Students line up at the Centel office for phone service

Students calling home
have two alternatives

 

By SEAN BUGG
Staff Reporter

 

Of the many things freshmen
might want to accomplish in their
first few days at Washington and
Lee, one of the most confusing is get-
ting a telephone hook-up in the
dormitories.

Students wanting a phone line have
two options available to them.

The first option is to deal directly
with Central Telephone, the local
phone company. Centel is located at
102 E. Washington St., about three
blocks from campus. The office
hours are 9a.m. to5p.m.

Dealing directly with Centel re-
quires a $90 deposit to ensure pay-
ment of bills. The deposit earns in-
terest during the year and is returned
along with that interest at the end of
the year,

Another route students can take is
to join the Student Telephone Union,
which guarantees Centel that stu
dents will pay their bills. By paying
the fee to join STU, a student can
avoid paying the $90 deposit.

The cost of joining STU is deter-
mined by how many years the stu-
dent has been a member. A first-year
member pays $7, a second-year
member pays four dollars, and the
third and fourth years are free of
charge. Unlike the $90 deposit, these
fees are not refundable.

Tom O’Brien, chairman of STU,
will be at Centel this week during of-
fice hours. When classes begin, the
STU office will be in Room 209 of the
University Center. The hours for that
office have not been determined.

STU’s purpose is to ‘“‘make sure
things run smoothly between Centel
and students,’’ O’Brien said.

Regardless of which of the two
routes a student takes, there is a
$23.85 hook-up fee, which is payable
with the $90 deposit, or on the first
bill if the student joins STU.

The basie rate for local service is
$12.17 for dial phones and $13.47 for
touch-tone phones. AT&T long dis-
tance service of course is extra

None of these costs include the
telephones themselves, but phones
can be bought from Centel starting at
$30

a5 250

end of the year with the return of the
decoder box.

After the initial fees and installa-
tion, there is a monthly billing. The
charge for basic cable is $8 per
month. HBO carries an additional
charge of $9.50, making the total
charge $17.50

Presently, Lexington Cable Co. of-
fers a total of 13 channels, including
HBO. Included in the basic cable
channels are affiliates of all three
major networks, WTBS in Atlanta,
ESPN, and Washington and Lee’s
own Cable Nine.

52525 e5e5S5e$ehe5cocae

 

Ego oC NC Co CoCo OC IC IC ICICI

III III I EN
OOOO oCoCIC oe

BO oC ee)

I I i

Co CC

a ——

a ta tea te tn dt tet ny ch tent ten din tn) tn in nani cin tn | cs | cn) cm) cw cn, sin in|

rm gn me mmm gr my EE EE IE ICO OC OSS 262925 2929°C Se

SOOO CICICIC.

 

Rates are $50 to $65 for single oc-
cupancy, plus $7 for each additional
person. Less expensive lodgings is
available at other hotels, including a
Holiday Inn, Howard Johnson’s, Eco-
no Lodge and Days Inn.

The Country Inns offer a summer
special that includes play tickets for
the outdoor Rock Kiln Ruin Theater
and/or the Henry Street Playhouse.

Other than the playhouses and the

 

 

An alternative to

2525¢4

FRESHMEN!

Here are five easy ways
to get your name in the newspaper:

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

. Drivers escort tourists around town in historic style.

two movie theaters, the local night-
life, or rather evening life, is restrict-
ed to two bar/restaurants, which
close at 1 a.m.: Spanky’s, plastered
with “Little Rascals” memorabilia,
and The Palms. Substantial deli-
sandwiches and gourmet hambur-
gers, from $3 to $5, are their respec-
tive specialities.

Lexington’s need for a full-service
restaurant has been filled with the

Become a:

Phi staff reporter

Phi sports reporter
Phi photographer
Phi ad salesman

Appear in The Smirk

Stop by or call The Ring-tum Phi office
Room 200 University Center 463-8581

IAG IE IG IEG 8G GIR hPa bree eee ec ICICI

opening of the Willson-Walker House.
“White tablecloths, ambiance —
we're going the whole nine yards,”
said chef Ron Wood. The restored
19th-Century private home features
American cuisine, he said and ac-
commodates 50 people in the dining
room, slightly more in the banquet
room, Entrees range from $7.50 to

$13.50.
A sense of history pervades Lex-

ington. A visitor is linked to the past
just by strolling the brick sidewalks
of the “‘business district.” Brick
facades and antique signs look as if
they might have been erected in 1796
when Lexington was rebuilt after a
fire destroyed many of its 100 log-
and-frame houses. A local ordinance
protects the historic appearanoe:
hence, even the Quality Quick Print
shop [where copies cost 8 cents
apiece] has a 19th-Century air. In-
deed, the storefronts on present-day
Main Street hardly differ from those
on the enclosed Old Main Street Shop-
ping Mall.

To connect more fully with history,
enter the restored Stonewall Jackson
House, the only attraction with an ad-
mission charge. The General bought
his home a few years before he enter-
ed the Civil War and did not live to
see it again. Many furnishings be-
longed to Jackson and his wife.

Much of the VMI Museum is dedi-
cated to Stonewall’s military career: -
and to his professorship at “the West”
Point of the South.” For 10 years he:

taught natural and experimental’:
philosophy plus artillery tactics —:-

not your typical combination.

An elderly couple from Michigan: -
admired Jackson’s teaching uni-'-

form. Driving through Lexington the

night before, they had made an im-':
promptu dinner stop. ‘‘We asked the |:
waitress what was around here, and |.
when she started naming everything, ::
we decided to stay on a bit,”’ the hus- ‘+
band said. :

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi ~

available in Graham-Lees

25905 255s eS eb eS e5es 5252525252 5e5e5e5eSe5eseGes |

Se ee ae Se ae ae ae Se ae ae Se ee ee a ae ae ae ae ae ae ae ae ae ae ae eae ae ae ae ee ae ee ee a a ee ee a ee nae ee

4

 

‘

si

 

x a,
% =
4 '
‘
‘

,
’ a
a,
‘
\ s
; '
®
' ¥
Ped
» «
‘ 4
» *
? 3
s =
,
7 *

 

 

A r

1 ¥

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, September 12, 1985, Page 11

 

 

 

 

 

    
    

 

 

 

 
       
   
   
     

 

 

WN :
14 15 16 1 Formerly, formerly
2 Debauchee j :
1 3 European range ~ John Falk made a surprise ap- _—~ Phil Sherrill was washed out of pena ey a wae being abrupt-
* T : ao — a pearance at the law school’s weicom- his summer house by hurricane ingly in y an exotic woman in a
. § britien pacae ing cocktail party with Tracy Bacha- Elena. That, however, did not damp- ’ a : t freshman had b
35 53 7 Wrestling maneuver lupa. Falk explained that he was try- en his enthusiasm for Nick Thomp- peat ; eae wa aohin trouble
: : eae 8 — Byrnes, aie son’s girlfriend. Yet, Nick didn’t co tad at 8 io ‘eaiee A ita
8 129 . ps with law students. | 2 :
9 Phone agai i
4. : 5 10 1957 movie, "xm ~ Second year law student Terri pharm = 2 pharm in had
1 34 35 tha tadaetae Amernick has been trying to recap- - Se Very Con:
r * 11 Winglike parts ture her youth. She was seen helping fused by the stranger’s presence in

{ 6 38 39 40 12 — souel | a tall blond freshman with his room ry her room, she slept down the hall.

g o i a = ——— - all the while whistling the strains | pa = Gener = — oan =

{ . a 18 The bottom —— of “‘Rock-a-bye-baby.”” ( with a member of the lolita set.
5 aa 45 146 47 148 “” : ¢ ot ~ Sydney Mathison spent her sum- 7 ee ee = sti, gal

d Pp PP tito tgag © mer working at a place called ‘‘Jun- F ps ¢ Af pean ; —

: a 49 50 aauneti ts gle...something or other.” All “The --. v After missing ride after ride,
, 8 25 Reproductive organ Smirk” knows is that she wore a leo- : Dave Ford reluctantly rode home
P e 26 1961 beshat) NYP pard print bib and had plenty of cus- = eee se 1 oe Too

armer , Vave, r luck next time.

y 8 59 28 Prefix for mural tomers.

i 29 Extremely pale
. 61 Hy 5 30 Seashore struc- Sh d h Offi s li

tures
ei $5 ; 31 Brilliance of enan Oa ice upp 1eS
success : 3 . 4s
32 Bridle attachment Old Main Street Mall, Lexington, Virginia
© Edward Julius 37 Unsel fish person
t 39 Astronaut 463-4062
45 "Liam, clest moi" :
‘ 23 Suffix for diction 49 Map abbreviation 46 Prefix for maniac 2 XEROX.
d ACROSS or honor 50 Company bigwig 47 China's "Great —— 10 to 5 Mon.-Fri.
1 Paleozoic, Meso- 24 Promissory note, (abbr. ) forward" . :
7 , : etc. e.g. (2 wds.) 51 Alleviate 48 Cultured milk College ruled fillers, Accounting paper,
ar accessory 33 Ms. Gardner 55 Chemical catalyst 51 Economist Smith j ; ;
10 Soviet nee agency Se Ca oe a College ruled spirals, Summary margin spirals,
Function 35 French resort (2 wds. 53 Bilk d York
‘ 15 Parenthetical 36 Poet Teasdale 61 iG the baer.) e Cross refills, School — calendars,
comment 38 Novelist Philip and movie, "Them" 54 First name in jazz Typewriter ribbons, Multi-color file trays,
16 Jai — actress Lillian 62 South American 55 Site of 1960
17 Principle of 40 Type of restaurant, animal Olympics desk lamps.
‘6 economics (3 wds.) for short 63 Home —— 56 Toilet case .
Provide evidence 41 Seed covering 64 Nearly all 57 Ms. Carte
21 With 60-Down, house 42 — schoo! Bis te in Rha ue Xerox Memorywriters - Eagle Computers
pet 43 Was a candidate foods em i
; 22 —— volta (once, 44 EDP personnel 66 Mah-jongg piece 60 4 21-Across We rent typewriters and copiers
: in music) (2 wds.) If we don’t have it we will order it for you.

 

 

 

 

th I el i a:

 

meres

| TRAVEL UNLIMLITED
, clemumty

 

Aluin-Bennis
Welcome Class of 1989

Please stop and look over our Fall merchandise,

 

 

a
suchas...

e Sero shirts e Duckheads Pants « Bass and Sperry Top
Siders Shoes ¢ Sweaters ¢ Woolrich Shirts and Outerwear
e Izod Shirts and Sweaters ¢ Sport Coats and Suits
e W&L Belts and Ties.

Also great reductions on summer merchandise

Going home for Thanksgiving or
_ || Christmas? Plan ahead,
SAVE MONEY!

“System One Computers”
“‘Boarding Pass Printers”

— 3 certified travel consultants —

Master Charge Student Charges

Choice

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

101 W. Nelson St. Lexington, Va.

 

aaa

   

ES

! We weren't responsible for the passage
7 of the new drinking laws that

: became effective July 2, 1985,

i but we must adhere and enforce them.
| If you aren't legally able to drink

| by the laws of the state of Virginia

then don’t ask us to serve you
alcoholic beverages at The Palms.

We don’t wish to create any animosity with the
W&L population but we will

strictly enforce the new laws.

The Management
Page 12, The Ring-tum Phi, September 12, 1985

 

Perkins

 

Continued from Page 1

other times.

They found the following:

Police say that at about 11:40 p.m.
on May 18, 85-year-old Hattie
Newsom was killed at her house with
two shots from a .45-caliber semiau-
tomatic pistol. Her son Robert
Newsom Jr. died after being shot five
times, and his wife, Florence
Newsom, fatally suffered two gun-
shot wounds and two stab wounds.

The three were the grandmother,
uncle and aunt, respectively, of
Frederick R. Klenner, a 32-year-old
friend of Perkins who was active in
the so-called survivalist movement.

About half an hour after the deaths
— at 12:02 a.m. on May i9 — Klenner
was stopped near the house by a
sheriff's officer who thought Klenner
was driving too slowly. Perkins was
following Klenner’s car in a Chevro-
let Blazer.

Klenner died June 3 when the same
Blazer exploded during a_ police
chase north of Greensboro.

(He was traveling with his 39-year-
old first cousin, Susie Newsom
Lynch, with whom he was living, and
her two children — Jim, 9, and John,
10. Lynch and the children’s father,
Dr. Thomas J. Lynch, an Albuquer-
que, N.M., dentist, were engaged in a
court battle for custody of the chil-

dren. Klenner, authorities said,
thought his relatives might be help-
ing Lynch.

(A few days before the explosion,
Klenner had vowed police would
never take him alive, and authorities
later ruled the bomb that killed he
and Lynch had been intentionally de-
tonated during the chase.

(Autopsies on the children found
that they had been shot in the head at
short range and had traces of cya-
nide in their stomachs. )

On May 19, though, there was no
high-speed pursuit. The officer be-
lieved Klenner’s story that he was
having car trouble and let him go.
According to investigators, Klenner
and Perkins then drove to Greensbo-
ro and later traveled toward Lex-
ington.

On May 18 and again when they re-
turned May 19, the two camped at the
Peaks of Otter, a wilderness lodge
area on the Blue Ridge Parkway
near Buchanan. Authorities now
charge that was part of an elaborate
alibi devised by Klenner, who they
say was responsible for the slayings.

No one contends Perkins partici-
pated in any of the killings. Forsyth
County District Attorney Donald W.
Tisdale emphasized that Perkins is
not being accused of being at the
scene of the crime, but ‘‘as far as the
general area where the bodies were
— yes.”

Tisdale says Perkins came into the
picture when investigators talked
with Klenner several days after the
killings, and he began trying to pass
off the Peaks of Otter alibi. They
immediately traveled to Lexington to
interview Perkins about his role in
the case.

Perkins, Tisdale explained, was
“the weak link’ in Klenner’s story.
“If someone was going to break, it
wasn’t going to be Klenner — it was
going to be Perkins,”’ he said.

North Carolina SBI agent Hunt

said his agents made “more than

one” trip to Lexington to talk with
Perkins, but he declined to be more
specific.

It was during those interviews that

 

Cockpit

 

_) Continued from Page 1

and historical areas have been order-
ed for the walls.

Darrell said he hoped that students
would be supportive of the changes,
but added that he realized not every-
one will be completely happy with it.

While the name will be changed,
Darrell said that the Cockpit sign will
remain above the entrance and a sec-

Perkins said he thought he was in-
volved with a CIA offensive against
narcotics traffickers.

Tisdale said he thinks Perkins
“absolutely believed it,’ but admit-
ted some initial skepticism about the
situation. ‘Anyone that told me he
was working for the CIA — that’s a
little strange just in itself,’’ he said

Investigators then told Perkins
what they suspected of Klenner’s in-
volvement. ‘‘I think he was shock-
ed,”’ Tisdale said. ‘I explained to
him that it was a dangerous situa-
tion.”

At that point, apparently panicked,
Perkins agreed to aid authorities in
nailing down their case against Klen-
ner. ‘He was about as cooperative as
I would think he could be,”’ Tisdale
said.

“I think he’s spotless,”’ the district
attorney said. ‘‘He would be a classic
college student .... clean-cut. He has
a nice mother and stepfather and
comes from a respected family.”

Barker said Perkins bought the
CIA line because of the great admira-
tion and respect he'd built for Klen-
ner. “He had had influences over
Perkins for some time before this,’
Barker said. ‘‘Klenner had convinced
him that he was a medical doctor and
a member of the CIA.”

The sheriff's officer also sees
Perkins as something of a tragic
figure who fell for a tremendous hoax
by a longtime friend. He said Per-
kins’ role could even be viewed as ‘‘in
a sense patriotic,’’ because he believ-
ed he was carrying out a ‘“‘dangerous
government mission.” :

Violet R. Firebaugh, who rented a
room in her Lexington house to Per-
kins last year, said “he was a won-
derful boy’’ who was always very
“sweet’’ to her and frequently
brought friends to her home.

She said that last spring ‘‘he seem-
ed like he was working undercover
for somebody” but that at first he ap-
parently didn’t know what he was in-
volved in. ‘‘I think he realized it last
time,” she said.

“He came here and got his things
out of my house”’ in June, she said. ‘‘I
knew that he was in some kind of
trouble — at the time I didn’t know
what .... He was crying and he said,
“T didn’t do it — I don’t know any-
thing about it.” ”

Harrison J. Pemberton Jr., chair-
man of W&L’s philosophy depart-
ment and Perkins’ faculty adviser,
said Perkins was in Lexington the
week before the indictment “‘to clear
out his apartment.”

“He knew it was coming up, but he
wasn’t sure what would happen,”
Pemberton said of the grand jury ac-
tion. ‘‘He was pretty surprised — he
didn’t know he was dealing with a
crazy man.”’

He said that during the spring
term, possibly the weekend of May
18, Perkins said he would be going
out of town, so he had to turn in a
philosophy paper late.

‘‘He told me he would be away for a
while,’’ Pemberton recalled. ‘‘He ac-
ted pretty mysterious about it.”

“He said he didn’t know what was
going on,’’ Pemberton concluded, re-
flecting on the events of the previous
few weeks.

“He knows now.”’

Perkins, who had been registered
at W&L for the fall term, is serving
the time at Raleigh’s Polk Youth
Center, a medium-security facility
for offenders between the ages of 18
and 21.

(The reporting for this story was done
this summer by a Ring-tum Phi staff
member while employed by the Rich-
mond Times-Dispatch. The material is
adapted here with the permission of
that newspaper).

tion of the Cockpit wallpaper has
been preserved for posterity.

With these changes already made
and several more being considered,
Darrell said he hopes GHQ can gain
more student support.

“We are here for the students,” he
said, ‘‘and we hope that they are sup-
portive. If not, I don’t think I can go
another year absorbing the same
kind of losses I have the past two
years. If closed as a tavern, it would
then be used as an extension of Evans

Dining Hall, for meal-plan dinners and

special banquets.”’

 

 

Welcome

@ MUSEUM REPRODUCTIONS
@ CHINA AND CRYSTAL

MASTERCARD
VISA

 

 

@ FINE GIFTS AND ACCESSORIES @ JEWELRY AND WATCH REPAIR

R.L. HESS eBro.

JEWELERS
121 So. Main, Lexington e 463-2833

9 to 5 MONDAY THRU SATURDAY
CLOSED SUNDAY

Students

@ ENGRAVING
@ AWARDS AND TROPHIES

AMERICAN EXPRESS
CHOICE

 

 

 

 

lan Perkins weeps as he testifies at his trial this summer in Winston-Salem, N.C.

   

   

 

IZ

fferson

Florist to the Homestead

103 N. Jefferson
Lexington
463-9841

Fresh, healthy plants selected with
our familiar high standards.

BIG Savings

to kick off the school year! Free off-
street parking on Jefferson Street.

 

  

 

 

Ferns - 4” Pot

 

* Ballet Reg. $3.95

Th a
Jefferson

  
  

* Birdenest
a 95 * Button
© Maidenhair
¢ Asparagus
Reg. $3.75 ¢Staghorn

Areca Palm
$1995

Reg. $29.95

5 Ft. Tall
* Decorator
quality

 

Schefflera

8" pot 6” pot
$1 5° $795
Reg. 19.95 Reg. $9.95

Umbrella tree
© Very full & green
© Areal bargain

   

 

8"-Reg. $12.50 — $ g°°

10”-Reg. $18.95 — $14°%° A
A)

 

 

September 9-21 only

 

 

|

Associated Press

Third Annual Welcome-Back to-School

House Plant Sale

Open 9-5, Mon. thru Sat.

 

© Reg. $25.00
* 10” hanging baskets

Hanging Baskets

* Creeping Charley

e Ivy
Green & variegated

*Bolivian Jew

© Spider Plant
Variegated with
plantlets

Piggyback
lush & green

Wandering Jew
several varieties

° Swedish Ivy

*Pothos
Marble Queen
Golden

    
 

"Reg. $8.95 — 4 6”°

/

the

— rson
Starter Plants

Reg. $1.95

$ 1 25

¢ 3” pots-hundreds

* Assorted ferns
Ivys-Philodendrons-
Aloe-Pothos-Jade
Peperomias-Palms
Reg. Begonias-Prayer
Plants

 

 

Ficus Benjamina

- $795
eeping Fig ie
Reg. $9.95

*6” pot
“17
Reg. $22.50

¢ Strong & healthy

  

     

. Jette rson
Spathiphyllum

(Peace Lily)
6” pot-Reg. $11.25
$ 8°
8” pot-Reg. $24.95
$ 1 85°

Students’ favorit —low light

 

 

Always
The freshest flowers
by the stem or
arranged.
Wedding and funeral
consultations.

 

~tferson

Os

Chinese evergreens
low light-low care

6” pot

$995
Reg. $11.25

Dieffenbachia

Lovely variegation
$ ] 8°° $ 8%

Reg. $24.95 Reg. $11.25

Schefflera _
Arboricola ug .
4

$795 ae

¥ ’

Reg. $9.95 /

 

$1 R°°

Reg. $24.95

 

 

 

 

 

 

Hardy Mums

   

* Large Pots
* Many colors and
varieties

 

  

Quality Foliage Plants

 

O10

 
 

ey

“

Fall Sports Preview =

. ws sf
- rai . ¥ i
a

a

 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi September 12, 1985
PRONE ROE ARERDE ME TD LAAT PRL LO IL LE TLR SIE ILRI AR EN LN CRORE Ci FE ERT
 

ATHLETICS & COEDUCATION

 

 

HOMEM

GnG

 

 

 

 

 

Tine

- LOCKER ROOM -

 

 

 

 

 

Signs of the times

These four signs represent the new look to the Warner Center. ‘‘Women only” and
new directional signs have become de rigeur in the gymnasium.

Outlook ‘very positive,’ Rankin says

 

By MIKE STACHURA
Sports Editor

All systems are “‘go”’ for the
first year of women’s athletics
at Washington and Lee, accord-
ing to assistant athletic director
Cynda Rankin.

“Right now, it looks very
positive. There is no doubt that
we will field four teams (cross
country, swimming and diving,
golf and tennis). It’s mandated
by the NCAA,” Rankin said.

However, Rankin indicated,
‘We're not sure of the number
of women we have competing
yet.” She said 16 women took
athletic physicals during orien-
tation week.

“Obviously, I'd like larger
numbers. But I really think
there are women out there that
may be interested, but because
they’re freshmen, they just
haven’t stepped forward. Once
they get to know other students
that are participating or know a
little bit more about the pro-
gram, then they may be willing
to make a commitment,’’ Rank-
in said.

In April, Rankin said one of
her early goals was to get the
women’s program off to “as
healthy a start as it can.”’ That
start is looking promising,
Rankin said, noting that the
women she has met with are
very enthusiastic.

One of those interested
freshmen, Leann Flood, has set
her sights on being a member of

the first W&L women’s tennis
team. Flood said she is excited
at the opportunity and said she
believes the first teams can be
as good as the women make
them.

Because all the first-year
sports are non-team sports,
Rankin said, there is the oppor-
tunity for outstanding _ in-
dividuals to shine and therefore
bring success to the entire W&L
program.

“I believe there are in-
dividuals (among the freshman
women) that have the capabili-
ty of being successful,” she
said.

Rankin said that no team
sports have been decided upon
yet, but that some women have
expressed an interest in

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

volleyball. She said the in-
tramural program will be used
as an interest-testing mecha-
nism.

The four sports have schedul-
ed meetings for next week. All
interested women are encour-
aged to attend. Cross country
will meet Monday at 3:30 p.m.
in Room 516 of the Warner
Center. Swimming and diving
will meet Monday at 7 p.m. in
Cy Twombly Pool. Golf and ten-
nis are set to meet Tuesday at
7:30 p.m. in Room 516.

Rankin said the meetings will
give the athletic department a
better idea of which women are
participating. The meetings
will also give the fres en an idea
of what is expected of them as
intercollegiate athletes.

 

1 Block Off Campus

 

US 11 North

Lexington Lighting

— Your Study Lamp Headquarters

5 West Washington St.)

 

Open ‘til midnite

 

 

Changes

Warner Center has new look
to accommodate new students

 

By BILL BLOOM
Staff Reporter

 

“ENTRANCE WOMENS
LOCKER ROOM.”

Those words symbolically
and literally signal the effect of
the change to coeducation at
Washington and Lee Universi-
ty. Nowhere on campus is the
change more evident than in the
Warner Center where renova-
tions were made t@ accommo-
date the incoming women.

The side entrance to the lock-
er rooms (the one that steps
down into the locker room) is
split at the entrance into two
doorways; the doorways lead-
ing to men’s and women’s
locker rooms. Because of the
change, the men’s locker room
is no longer connected to the
weight room. The former en-
trance to the men’s locker room
by the training room is now the
entrance to the women’s locker
room.

The weight room’s sole en-
trance is now beyond the IM of-
fice and Coach Verne Canfield’s
office. Other changes that are
not so obvious involve normal
additions of lockers to the team
locker rooms.

Coach Dick Miller, assistant
athletics director, explained
that these changes were very
simple and should accom-
modate women nicely.

Coach Miller added that four
intercollegiate sports will be
available to the women: tennis,
golf, sximming and cross coun-
try. Though this number may
be small to some, the number of
women’s sports will be deter-
mined by their interest. ‘‘Wo-
men have already contacted
members of the coaching staff,
expressing an interest in

athletic
Miller.

With reference to physical ed-
ucation courses, only one addi-
tion has been made and that is
P.E. 169: aerobic dance and ex-
ercise, The course, according to
Miller,”...is full, and we do
have some men in the class.”’

Essentially, the equipment
room will operate under the
same guidelines despite the
change to coeducation. Richard
“Chub” Yeakel regards the
coming year as “Business as
usual.”” He also stated, ‘This
year will be one of experimenta-
tion, but little change is really
anticipated.’’ The hours of the
gym and equipment room will
remain the same as last year.

The gym will be open from 7
a.m. until 10:30 p.m. Monday
through Saturday, and | p.m.
until 10:30 p.m. on Sunday. The
hours of the equipment room
are 7 a.m. until 7 p.m. Monday
through Friday. Tom Jones,
head trainer, also stipulated
that this year will be business
as usual. ‘‘Besides,”’ Jones said,
“e’ve been coed for years with
the law school, exchange stu-
dents, and women faculty.”

There is a female trainer in-
tern (Robin Rivers), similar to
years past, who will be assisting
Jones.

One other change to W&L ath-
letic facilities that is currently
underway is by the stadium
where a new women’s room is
being built. Also, ticket booths
are being made permanent.

involvement,”’ said

 

On the cover

On the cover: Chris Cof-
fland runs around end dur-
ing play from Saturday’s
Blue-White scrimmage.

 

University

SNACK BAR

Welcome
Students

& Faculty

Try the Trivia game!
Each week a “‘free lunch’”’
will be won

7:30-4:00 Mon.-Fri.

8 p.m. - 11 p.m. Sun.-Thurs.

 

 
 

3

Ria

SOCCER & CROSS COUNTRY

 

 

Piranian: Attitude, talent are ‘great™

By MIKE STACHURA
Sports Editor

 

The 1985 Washington and Lee
soccer team lost six starters to
graduation, has only a few pro-
ven players and is coming off a
disappointing 6-8 campaign.
But Coach Rolf Piranian has
nothing but excitement in his
voice as he speaks about his
charges during early-season
workouts

“T’d say [ve enjoyed this
team already,” Piranian said.
“The guys seem to be having a
lot of fun. The amount of en-
thusiasm right now is a great
sign for the rest of the season.”’

In addition to that enthus-
iasm, Piranian said, the 1985
squad is laden with young
talent.

“There’s more pure soccer
talent on this team than before.
...1 feel pretty good that we will
put 11 skillful players on the
field.

But Piranian said he is not
putting any pressure on his
team: ‘‘We have a young team
that is going to have to develop
over time. I hope we will im-
prove in every game. The last
game should be the best game
of the season.”

Harriers: Better than

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Staff Reporter

 

Last season, the Washington
and Lee men’s cross country
team scored a 14-0 regular sea-
son and an Old Dominion Athle-
tic Conference Championship.
It almost goes without saying
that this year’s squad has a
tough act to follow.

Now, try telling them that.

“IT think we’re going to the

nationals,” said sophomore
Richard Moore. ‘‘No doubt
about it.,’

One can hardly blame

Moore’s enthusiasm, though.

Consider this: the team has on-
ly lost one major runner, Frank
Pittman, who graduated last

 

 

 

 

The influx of talent has led
Piranian to change the W&L ap-
proach to the game. ‘“‘We’re go-
ing with an offense utilizing all
11 guys. We’re not going to be
counting on just two or three to
carry the team,” the nine-year
mentor said.

Although Piranian sees his
youngsters as talented, he
knows that leadership from his
few upperclassmen will be
vital. “I expect them to work
harder than anyone, to set the
example,” he said.

And that has been the case in
the early season workouts.
“There are not many upper-
classmen on the team, but the
upperclassmen we have are
role models, real standouts,”
the Generals’ mentor noted,
pointing specifically to the W&L
co-captains, senior forward Bill
Holmes and junior back Jim
Tucker.

The Generals’ combination of
leadership and talent will be
strongly tested in the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference.
Perennial conference powers
Lynchburg and Roanoke will
again field strong teams, Piran-
ian said.

The season opens at home for

year. This year’s probable team
leader, senior Eddie Goundry,
has been running 90 miles a
week. In addition, he has been
averaging a 32-minute ten kilo-
meters (a little over six miles).

“To win, everyone will have
to train and race as a unit,”
Miller continued. ‘‘We have a
lot of good returning veterans
and some promising freshmen
this year, so I am hopeful of a
successful season. However, it
is impossible for me to predict
how well we will do,” said
Miller. Miller was the 1984
ODAC Coach of the Year.

The team has been here on
campus preparing for the sea-
son since September |, even

 

 

 

 

Coach Rolf Piranian instructs his young soccer team.

the W&L booters against Shen-
andoah College, and Piranian

says the important element to’

take from Wednesday’s contest
is confidence.

“} think we have to come out
of the game thinking we played

perfect?

though their first meet isn’t
scheduled until the 28th.

In addition to Moore and
Goundry, the team boasts a
handful of other stellar runners
including senior Ron Moody,
David Andrews and Ted
Meyers, and sophomores Wil-
liam Calhoun and Scott Rippen.

And do not discount the fresh-
men. John Deighan, Perry EI-
kins, and Mike Watson will add
to the Generals’ 1985 team ef-
fort.

 

 

The Shop for
PAPPAGALLO

Shoes, Clothing
& Accessories

23 NORTH MAIN STREET
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

463-5988

 

 

 

 

well,” he said.

But despite the questions,
Piranian is confident in his
young players. “‘Some coaches
say the more freshmen you
play, the more you lose. But
with some patience, I believe

      

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

that youthfulness can be an
asset.

“I’m trying to look at the
positives rather than the neg-
atives. So, I really don’t have
any negatives in mind,” he
said.

 

PIZZA

$2 OFF!

SALE:

 

| © Better bases to your home
town Pizza Hut" restaurant!
It’s not often you save this kind
of money on our fresh, hot
and scrumptious pizza. | t So
come on in. Bring the whole

 

vt |

ee aE eh ee

: Eat In, Carry Out Or Delivered

yr

1 $2 0F

g $2. off any large pizza
or $1 off any medium. In-
cludes Pizza Hut® Pan

& Pizza! Hurry; offer ex-
pires soon. ne coupon
per party per visit at

9 participating Pizza Hut®
restaurants.

Please present coupur ‘
% cash redemption value © 1983 Pizza Hut Ine Gove

  

Hut.

 

nwhenordering Not valid inc ombir
ly through

of pure mozzarella cheese ant
all your favorite toppings.
There's no better time to try
our unparalleled Pizza Hut*
Pan Pizza. See you soon!

 

 

nadwuans

$a or

600 E.. Nelson St.
Lexinatan, VA
453-/000

neithony other offer

9-20-85
 

 

 

 

   

ie

Tommy D

onahoo is wrestled to th

ground in Saturday’s Blue-White game.

   
 

°85 gridders have plenty of power

 

By MIKE STACHURA
Sports Editor

 

The 1985 Washington and Lee
football Generals are much like a
game of Russian roulette. You
know the gun should fire, you just
don’t know when or, in the case of
the Generals, how often.

The offensive weapons are there
for the Generals as they begin the
1985 season. Head coach Gary
Fallon’s charges are looking to im-
prove on 1984’s 6-4 record and
fourth-place finish in the Old Domi-
nion Athletic Conference. Another
winning season for W&L would tie a
school record of six consecutive
plus-.500 marks set by W&L teams
from 1919-1924.

The 1985 Generals return 36 let-
termen, a third of which are either
offensive backs or receivers.

That group includes a power-
house backfield of senior tri-captain
fullback Frank “John Riggins’’
Surface and junior Kevin Weaver.
Weaver and Surface check in at 6-3
and 6-2, respectively, are both over
200 Ibs., rushed for over 600 yeards
combined in 1984, and, according to
Fallon ‘‘can run over people.”’

“Tf we’re healthy, we have two of
the best backs in the league,”’ he
said.

Weaver, who played second fiddle
to Gene Girard last season, saw
double duty in 1984 as a linebacker
and was in on 47 tackles. However,
Fallon said that scenario is not in
the plans for ’85.

“Kevin is no longer a backup.
We’re going to have to find time to
rest this young man,”’ he said,
noting that a year ago it was troubl-
ing to leave an athlete such as
Weaver on the bench.

Getting the nod at the controls
will be junior Jon Thornton. Thorn-
ton, who was the W&L first string
QB for the majority of '84, has beef-
ed himself up, both physically and
mentally, according to Fallon.

“He’s really worked on his
game,”’ the W&L mentor said, in-
dicating that Thornton studied
films during the winter and is big-
ger and stronger than the 1984 ver-
sion. ‘If he has a great year, we do
also.”

Fallon said that while Thornton is
set as the starter, if need be, there
are capable reserves at the ready.
He pointed especially to an improv-
ed senior Bobby Wilson who battled
Thornton for the starting role. ‘‘If
John’s not having a good day, I feel
confident in putting in one of the
backups, and our kids know that,
too. It’s nice to have the talent that
we have,”’ Fallon explained.

Thornton will have a hoard of
eager receivers to throw to. At split
end, there are junior Randy Brown
and senior Hugh Finkelstein, while
at the tight end spot, junior John
Brownlee and sophomore Gar
Prebor are expected to share

duties, Seniors Chris Bleggi and
Lee Cummings will see action at the
slot back position. The six let-
termen accounted for more than
half of the Generals’ passing of-
fense a year ago.

In 1985, they should do even more.
Says Fallon, ‘‘Our receivesrs give

us something we haven't had be-
fore. We are not only able to beat so-
meone deep, but also are able to
beat them after we catch the ball.”

“We've got as fine a group of
receivers as this school has ever
had...We’re going to air it out,”’ said
Fallon, now in his eighth season at
W&L.

The major offensive question
mark for Fallon’s troops is with the
front line. Four of five starters were
lost from last season’s squad. Only
senior guard John Sanders returns.

But Fallon seems patient with his
young line composed of two soph-
omores, two juniors and Sanders on
the first team and five freshmen
backing them up. ‘‘We hope we’re
not going to be asking things of our
line that they’re not capable of,” he
said. ‘Hopefully, we’ll be able to
keep our opponents off balance.”

Fallon was especially pleased
with the line’s preseason progress,
noting that sophomore John Pack-
ett should be a force at 6-4, 260 Ibs.

Defensively, the Generals return
all four starters in the secondary
from a year ago. Fallon said the
Fearsome Foursome of seniors
Kelvin Newsome and Scott Hender-
son (defensive backs) and Tim
Janyska and Chris Wilson
(safeties) may be the best secon-
dary against the run in the ODAC,

“The pass is something that
needs to be worked on,” Fallon
said, But he said that the seniors’
experience should make up for any
speed they are lacking on pass
coverage.

In addition to the senior secon-
dary, three other veterans (junior
linebackers Bob Berlin and B.J.
Sturgill, and senior tri-captain and
tackle Alex Castelli) return up
front.

Joining Castelli on the front line
are junior Jim Murphy at an end,
and sophomores John Johnston
(end), Jay Gorlowski (tackle) and
John Nozemack (nose guard). The
five combined for 115 tackles last
year.

The W&L kicking game suffered
a big loss when James White,
W&L’s all-ODAC placekicker in
1984, was unable to return to the
squad because of a recurring high
school leg injury. But Fallon be-
lieves Sturgill will fill in adequately
for White.

“When you lose a James White,
you swallow hard. But B.J. has
come along well,’ Fallon said. He
said that freshman Tom Skeen will
share the punting responsibilities
with Sturgill.

The Generals open their season
Saturday on the road against
Emory and Henry. Fallon said he is
expecting a stern challenge, but
says his charges are ready.

“I think one of our strongest
points is our attitude and en-
thusiasm,”’ he said, noting that the
players voluntary participation in
the W&L Barbell Club during the
winter is an indication of that en-
thusiasm.

“We know the problems we’re
facing.... 1 don’t think any adversity
is going to faze this group.”’

 

FALL SCF

 

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

 

 

FOOTBAL|
Sept. 14 at Emory and Henry*
Sept. 21 OPEN
Sept. 28 Centre College
Oct. 5 at Randolph-Macon*
Oct. 12 Maryville (Homecoming)
Oct. 19 at Hampden-Sydney*
Oct. 26 at University of the Sou!
Now. 2 Bridgewater (Parents' ®
How. 9 at Ursinus
ov. 16 Washington U. (St. Loui
Home games at W
*ODAC gar
SOCCER
Sept. 18 Shenandoah
Sept. 21 Eastern Mennonite*
Sept. 26 Mary Washington
Sept. 28 at Newport News Apprenti
Oct. 2 at Lynchburg*
Oct. 5 Messiah
Oct. 11 at University of the South
Oct. 12 at Maryville*
Oct. 15 VM.
Oct. 19 at Gettysburg
Oct. 23 at Liberty Baptist
Oct. 26 Hampden-Sydney*
Oct. 30 Roanoke*
Nov. 4 at Averett
Home games played on
*ODAC game
CROSS COUI
Sept. 28 ¥s. Washington |
at Mary Washin;
Oct. 5 vs, Roanoke*, N
Oct. 12 ¥s. Catholic
(Va. State Div. |)
Oct. 19 OPEN
Oct. 26 vs. Bridgewater
at West Virginia
Nov.2 vs. Hampden-Syi
burg’, at Easter
Nov. 9 ODAC Champion
at Hampden-Syd
Nov. 16 NCAA Division II
at Emory Univers
Nov. 23 NCAA Champion
at Emory Univers
Home mee’
Washington and Lei
*ODA
WATE!
Sept. 13-15 Wal Fall C
Sept. 20-22 at Northes
Sept. 28-29 at Virginia
Oct. 5-6 at Souther
Oct. 11-13 at Southea
Oct. 19-20 at Souther
Nov. 1-3 Southern
Nov. 8-10 Eastern Ch

 
 

FOOTBALL & RUGBY

 

 

{EDULES

 

1:30 p.m.
1:30 p.m:
1:30 p.m
° 1:30 p.m
1:30 p.m
th 1:30 p.m
leekend)* 1:30 p.m
1:30 p.m.
) 1:30 p.m
itson Field
nes

3:30 p.m.
1:30 p.m.
3:30 p.m.
lee 2pm.
3 p.m.
1:30 p.m.
1:30 p.m.
2 p.m.
330 p.m.
1:30 p.m.
3:30 p.m.
1:30 p.m.
3 p.m.
3p.m.

Smith Field
5

NTRY

 

College
ton 1:30 p.m.
‘ortolk St. 11:30 a.m.

| and 111 Meet} 11:30 a.m.

College*

Inst. Tech.
dney*, Lynch-
Nn Mennonite*
ships

ney 11 p.m.
| Regionals

sity

ships

lity

ts held on the

» Cross Country Course
C meets

t POLO

2p.m.

11:30 a.m,

Jassic

st Varsity invitational
State Championships
n League Tournament
st Varsity Invitational
n League Tournament
aque Championships
ampionship

 

Game 1

Wasps could be nuisances (again)

 

By MIKE STACHURA
Sports Editor

 

 

Emory and Henry has been a
thorn in the side of Washington and
Lee football since 1983, and the
Wasps figure to be just as difficult
in the Generals’ opener Saturday
afternoon in Emory, Va.

“This is a tough opener,” W&L
head coach Gary Fallon said, in-
dicating that his inexperienced of-
fensive line will face one of the best
defensive fronts in the conference.

The opener may be even tougher
than originally expected. Although
junior Kevin Weaver is listed as a
tentative starter for the game, he
injured his knee in Saturday’s Blue-
White game, according to Fallon.
Fallon said the injury has been a
“day to day kind of thing.”

Weaver said Wednesday after-
noon that the injury was “‘just a lit-
tle bump, nothing major.” Asked if
he expects to play in Saturday’s
game, Weaver replied, ‘‘Yeah,
hopefully.”

 

By MIKE STACHURA
Sports Editor

 

The Washington and Lee rugby
club has built a reputation as a
group of hard-nosed gentlemen who
tackle their opponents with almost
as much zest as they tackle their
post-game refreshments.

As the 1985-86 season approaches,
that reputation may take on the ad-
ded quality of being one of the
state’s best rugby clubs.

Senior Bill Jones, who serves as a
player and a coach for the W&L
ruggers, sees a veteran squad re-
turning to Lexington. ‘We got
everybody coming back,” Jones
said.

That crew includes club president
Dave Arthur, one of the team’s
scoring leaders, as well as last spr-
ing’s team leaders, P.J. lerardi and
Chris Komosa. Ierardi and Komosa
took over the reins in the spring
while Jones and Arthur spent the
semester abroad.

The Generals finished the spring
campaign with a 5-4 record, the
third winning season in two years
for W&L rugby. (Rugby has sepa-
rate seasons in the fall and spring of
each year.)

Nevertheless, the return of Ar-
thur and Jones is very welcome.
“With us there, it sort of coor-
dinates everything,’’ Jones said, in-
dicating that he and Arthur taught
most of the present members of the
club the ins and outs of the game.

The host of upperclassmen has

 

Jones setting sights on a possible
state championship this fall. ‘‘We
have a good chance this year, the

Jim Murdock, head trainer for
the football team, had no comment
on the extent of Weaver’s injury.

The knee was to be examined to-
day by a Lexington orthopedic
surgeon.

The Wasps are not without injury
woes, either. Starting quarterback
Gary Collier played hurt in last
Saturday’s loss to Ferrum. E&H
head coach Lou Wacker said Collier
is not yet 100 percent and is ‘‘still
not agile as we'd like him to be.”’

E&H will be looking to rebound
from last weekend’s opener. The
Wasps were beaten by a late-game
Ferrum touchdown, 15-8.

“Ferrum beat them, but then
Ferrum is a tough football team,”
Fallon warned.

The Wasps have the most return-
ing lettermen of any team in the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference and
are seen as a very real threat to
steal the crown from defending
champion Randolph-Macon. E&H
returns 44 lettermen, the most of

best chance in the last four years,”’
the senior said.

The road to the state champion-
ship will feature matches with VMI,
Virginia Tech, James Madison,
Mary Washington, the Roanoke
Men’s Rugby Club and the Lynch-
burg Men’s Rugby Club. Unlike
previous years, Jones added, the
W&L ruggers will be matched
against strictly the ‘A’ sides of op-
posing teams. The season’s focal
point will be in October at the state
championship tournament.

 

any team in the ODAC. The 44
veterans include 17 starters.

Coach Lou Wacker sees the ad-
vantages and burdens of having so
much going for his team. ‘‘They
know they have to come through.
It’s put up or shut up time,’’ E&H’s
fourth-year mentor said.

“This early in the season, the
team that can adjust quickly during
the game will do reasonably well,”
Wacker said.

The W&L game poses a special
problem, Wacker said. “‘Our big-
gest concern is that we have to
prepare for the unknown,”’ he said,
indicating that the same was true in
the Ferrum where the Wasps were
confronted with some unexpected
things from their opponents.

Defensively, E&H will be a force
with nine starters returning. They
are led by Division III all-America
defensive back Mike Lindsay, who
hauled in eight interceptions last
year, Only the cornerback slot was
hurt by graduation as both 1984

With the most successful club
program in recent years at W&L
the question naturally comes to
mind, ‘‘Why doesn’t the rugby club
seek varsity status?’ Jones ex-
plained that while the increased
funding would be most welcome,
rugby is played primarily on the
club level in college.

But despite his optimism, Jones
cited a couple of trouble areas for
the W&L ruggers. His squad lacks
some depth and Jones says the key
is to attract a large number of

starters were seniors.

On offense, Collier has both a
capable backfield and a number of
fine receivers. Last week, Collier
was less than stellar, however,
completing nine of 23 attempts and
throwing one interception. Junior
Sandy Rogers led all rushers with
56 yards on 13 carries.

“We are very respectful of
Emory and Henry,” Fallon said.
“Offensively, they can mix it up by
using options, a power running at-
tack, play action or by passing.
Defensively, they should really test
us. They are aggressive and well-
coached.”’

Saturday’s game will be the 15th
meeting of the two schools. The
Wasps lead the series, 8-46. The
Generals suffered their only
shutout of 1984 when the Wasps ex-
ploded for 28 second-half points to
beat W&L, 28-0.

Kickoff is set for 1:30 p.m. The
gam will be broadcast live in the
Lexington area by WLUR-FM
(91.5).

Wa&L rugby: one of state’s top teams

freshmen to join the club.

“We need people, freshmen, in
particular. We’re going to lose a lot
of players this year,’ he said, in-
dicating that anyone interested in
the club should report to the first
practice on the law school field on
Tuesday.

Another obstacle facing the squad
is one faced by every squad in the
pre-season: getting in shape. ‘‘No-
body’s in shape,” Jones said. ‘‘If we
can get in shape, I think we’ll do
really well.”

 

 

 
 

 

TIME OUT & SPORTS SHORTS
The bad, the bad, the bad and the good

.... The other day one of my
friends told me to go to hell.
“That's okay,” I replied,
“I’m already there.”’

“Come again?”

“I'm a Pirates fan.”
eal “Oh, I’m sorry.”’

4 Indeed, it has been a long

Mike Stachura summer. But then again it

was one filled with its in-

teresting tidbits or gaping wounds that made you swear

off ESPN for a couple of weeks. A number of things hit
me, most of them in the wrong way

¢ Headlines like ‘It’s baseball vs. drugs today.”

Remember when ‘vs.’ went with words like ‘‘Washing-
ton” and ‘‘Dallas’’? But then this is the 1980s and ideas
like that are as misplaced as believing in sportsmanship
and having faith in our professional athletes as role
models. It's a good thing ‘‘we don’t need another hero,”’
because there probably aren:t anymore....

¢ Money changes everything.

It seems the summer of 1985 was big on professional
athletes and money problems. The baseball strike is a fine
example of how the almighty dollar has replaced the ball,
bat or racquet as an athlete’s most important tool. Don’t
these guys make enough money? Sure, there’s the philoso-
phy that says they’re entitled to all they can get. But
campers, you can’t run the railroad that way, because
pretty soon every two bit coal-shoveler is going to be ask-
ing for as much as Casey Jones makes.

Someday, let us hope, those in professional sports will
join the rest of us who have outgrown the ‘“‘Me Genera-
tion.”’ Should a strike come up again, however, how about
just replacing the disgruntled prima donnas with some of
those eager to get a shot at playing. Send a message to the
strikers that they’re not missed.

¢ Invasion of the Holdouts.

Perhaps worse than any distaste the strike could have
caused is the phenomenon with us as the NFL season be-
gins: the holdout. Kind of sounds like the aftermath of a
nuclear holocaust. Indeed.

  

   

What’s scary and/or silly is that these holdouts
(mutants?) are getting off scot-free. John Riggins got the
starting nod for the Redskins, as did Touchdown Danny
Marino. (But then again, Danny personified the term
“hurtin’ QB” — we’re not talking injury here — on Sun-
day). No matter that they missed the heat and hard work
of training camp. And frankly, the owners and coaches
have their hands tied. Eric Dickerson can sit back, eat
potato chips and dip, and watch MTV until the Rams come
begging for him. And if the Rams don’t come begging for
him, they’ve lost half their offense.

Solution: I know if I went 38 days without showing up for
work, and then casuaily strolled in, I wouldn’t find a job
waiting for me. Why should it be different for these guys?

 

‘ If your job is
bagging groceries,
you bag groceries... ’

 

determine whether there is suf-

Hey, there’s no free agency at Kroger’s. If your job is bag-
ging groceries, you bag groceries, or you have no job. If
your job is playing football, you play football, or you have
no job.

And then there was some good news.

Finally, there were a couple of good things happening
sportswise this summer. The NCAA has finally realized
that college is more than Saturday afternoons on the field
or in the gym. The stern attitude and their ability to carry

’ out that attitude are to be applauded. Let’s hope they even

get tougher.... And speaking of tough, Pete Rose, love him
or hate him, you have to tip your hat to the record break-
er. But then you can tip your hat to him with or without the
record...

.... Let’s go to the Colonnade for just a quick look at

  

6

what’s happening this early in September. First, a special
wish of good fortune to the maiden voyage of women’s
sports at W&L. Let’s not look for any titles immediately.
And let’s also hope the participants don’t get down on
themselves if they’re not showered with early success. All
of us learn to walk before we can run... On the men’s side,
football has the firepower to hurt anybody; soccer seems
to have a super attitude, and I look for great things from
this group; cross country has a tall order to repeat as con-
ference champs and will have to benefit from steady
performances from a very deep squad; and water polo is a
likely candidate for the most successful group of them
all...

...Hey, so how about that non-U.S, Open? Yankees
came up with just one title during their home event
(Robert Seguso and Ken Flach in the men’s doubles), and
that one was questionable. Don’t look now, but the world is
catching up with us... A Spinks’ win in that mega-buck
match-up with Larry Holmes would sure be a treat, and
it’s not all that unlikely, especially since the champ has
said the $3 million he’s guaranteed for the Spinks fight is
more important than his run at Marciano’s record....

....Here’s some guesses at who's going to win the NFL:
L.A. Raiders, Steelers, Dolphins (by default), Seattle,
everybody but Philly in the NFC East, Minnesota, and the
49ers... In college: Your guess is as good as mine, but Bo
Jackson will own the Heisman, and don’t be surprised if
one of the runners-up is UCLA’s FG man John Lee....

....And a new weekly feature: The USA Today (in Tech-
nicolor and/or Sensurround) Gaffe of the Week: Only The
Mickey Mouse Gazette could have a grotesque hybrid
graphic of the universal best body in sports (Jan Stephen-
son for best chest!) and call it *Must Reading*. Anyone

....Hey, in parting, a suggestion: Since ol’ Doremus has
been renovated, it’s a hike guys-wise from the weight
room to the water fountain. If possible, this oversight
should be corrected.....

P.S.: Word has it WLUR will broadcast a number of away
football games this fall beginning this Saturday with the
E&H game. A good idea and worth a listen....

   

 

and currently attends the

 

 

   
 
  
   

WILLIAM WASHBURN

Alum to coach
fem netters

William Washburn, Wash-
ington and Lee Class of 1940,
will coach the first Washington
and Lee women’s tennis team.

Washburn played on the ten-
nis team when he was a student
at the University between 1936
and 1940.

Washburn also coached the
men’s tennis team between 1959
and 1966. Two years ago, he
became the University’s Asso-
ciate Director of Development.
He will remain the Associate
Director of Development in ad-
dition to coaching the women’s
tennis team.

Washburn’s first inte®est as
the women’s tennis coach is to

ficient talent among the women
to compete with other schools.
If the women exhibit that abili-
ty, Washburn says, he will
schedule spring matches for the
team.

“The Athletic Department
tells me that about 40 women
have expressed an interest in
playing college tennis,” said
Washburn.

However, ‘“‘We don’t know
how strong their interests are.”

Washburn has scheduled ar
organizational meeting for pro
spective players for Tuesday
Sept. 17. He has planned after
noon workouts during which the
players will establish their rank
on the team.

Lacrosse team gets
asst. coaching help

Darren Lawlor and Brian
Corrigan have been appointed
as assistant lacrosse coaches by
Athletic Director William D.
McHenry. ‘

Lawlor, a 1983 graduate of
Syracuse, comes to W&L from
Harvard, where he was an
assistant lacrosse coach.

Corrigan, a 1984 graduate of
Washington College, has been
an assistant at Notre Dame for —
the past year.

“T am very pleased that both
these fine men have accepted

   
 
 
 
 

Sports Shorts
compiled by
David Nave

 

the positions. They both played

and coached at outstanding
academic and lacrosse schools.
They should be great assets to
our program,” said McHenry.

Lawlor, who will serve as
W&L’s defensive coordinator,
was an All-American defense-
man at Syracuse in 1983 when
he led the Orangemen to the na-
tional championship. At Har-
vard he was an_ assistant
lacrosse and women’s soccer
coach for one year. Prior to that
he was an assistant football
coach at Needham (Mass.)
High School.

Corrigan, who will be the
Generals’ offensive coor-
dinator, played midfield at
Washington College. In his
senior year he organized a club
team in Chestertow, Md. He is
the son of Notre Dame Athletic
Director and former W&L Ath-
letic Director (1969-71) Gene
Corrigan and the cousin of W&L
lacrosse player G.T. Corrigan.

“TI am delighted to have two
coaches, with the lacrosse
pedigree, join our staff. They
have solid backgrounds as
players and coaches. I am look-
ing forward to working with
both of them,” said W&L head
lacrosse coach Dennis Daly.

Two join medicine

Robin Rivers and James
Crawley have joined the
Washington and Lee sports
medicine staff.

Rivers attended South-
western College in Windfield,
Kansas where she graduated
with a degree in health,
physical education, and recrea-
tion in 1983. Last July, she
graduated from the United
States Sports Academy in
Mobile, Ala., with a master’s
degree in sports science. Rivers
said that she has pursued a
career in sports medicine
because she has strong
backgrounds in_ biological
sciences and athletics.

Crawley graduated from
Towson State in 1985 with a
degree in physical education

University of Virginia’s athletic
training master’s program.

McHenry appoints

asst. coach

Washington and Lee Athletic
Director William D. McHenry
has named William Grafton
Young as assistant basketball
coach. Young replaces Tim
McDonald who coached at W&L

‘for two seasons.

Young graduated from War-
ren Wilson College in Swan-
nanoa, N.C., where he started
four seasons at point guard.

Describing his job, Young
said that he first must be loyal
and offer his support to head
coach Verne Canfield. He said
that he will also help with game
coaching, recruiting, and office
work, Young added that his
speciality will be working with
the team’s guards on offense
and defense.

Valley True Value Hardware

HARD

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

E. Nelson St.

Mon. - Sat. 8:30-6:00
Sun.1-5

 
 

7

WATER POLO

 

H,O Polo could be
one of East’s best

 

By LEIF UELAND
Staff Reporter

The Washington and Lee
Generals are a team full of
potential that could materialize
as one of the East’s top water
polo teams,

The team finished 18-14-1 last
year but failed to win the
Southern Conference
Championship for the first time
in four seasons.

There is every indication
though, that that could be im-
proved upon. The team could
win its Southern Conference
championship and make an im-
pressive showing in the Eastern
Championships.

In addition to nine returning
lettermen (including all of last
year’s starters, except for Bob-
by Pearson, who graduated),
the team has a bumper crop of
16 freshmen.

Coach Page Remillard real-
izes he has the best of both
worlds.

“We intend to capitalize on
our depth and experience and
benefit from a very good
recruiting year. We have a good
nucleus of talented veterans
who know our system and who
understand situational water
polo. I am optimistic about the
potential of this particular
group of athletes. They could
take a quantum leap in the level
at which they play.”

Though whatever success the
Generals do encounter will un-
doubtedly stem from a team ef-
fort, certain key individuals —
including All-American Tim
Stanford — are sure to make
their presence known.

“He [Stanford] is an incredi-

ble athlete who has worked
himself into a great water polo
player.”’

Sophomore Simon Perez, who
only began playing last year,
and junior Kevin Lederer are
also likely to make a healthy
contribution to the team effort.

In the crucial position of
goaltender will be returning
starter, junior Marty Radvany.

Among promising freshmen
are high school teammates
David Reavy and David Dietz of
Pennsylvania, and Christian
Westergaard of California.

The players, the majority of
whom have been practicing for
two weeks, 84 hours a day, will
open their season at home this
Friday through Sunday in the
W&L Fall Classic at W&L’s
Twombly Pool.

Eight teams will participate
in the tournament, including the
University of Richmond, the
University of Arkansas (Little
Rock), The University of North
Carolina (Wilmington), Dayton
University, Johns Hopkins
University, Lynchburg College,
and two W&L teams.

Richmond, rated No. 18 na-
tionally in the latest polls, won
the tournament last year. W&L
finished fourth.

With the nine returning let-
termen and the group of fresh-
men, W&L’s prior performance
is likely to be improved upon.

Though the season is still in
its infant stages, players
already cite a change in their
attitude and Remillard’s. While
Remillard last year was con-
cerned with giving Richmond a
good fight, this year the concern
is actually beating Richmond,
players say.

Remember
McCrum’s Pharmacy

Year In Year Out
Lexington’s Oldest and Most
Established Drug Store

a

‘Prescription

‘Health & Beauty Aids
‘Film Developing
‘Greeting Cards
‘Perfumes & Gift Items

Since 1851

 

 

deh

‘

ania

 

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Tim Stanford (center) looks for an open teammate in a polo match last year.

WHI II III III KI KK II III KK KIKI IK

as

Catch all the action
of the Generals’

opener against

Emory and Henry
on

WLUR-FM (91.5)

Live coverage begins
Saturday at 1:25 p.m.

KAKI KKK KK KKK KKKEKEKKKK KK KK

ORO ROI IOI IORI IOI ICAO IORI I RI IOI IC
FO OOOO OOOO COE
 

t
. ‘ ‘ . . < ‘ ‘ * @ <« <¢« <« «24 i ¢ £4 64 4 $F FT FT SG

   

  
     
   
   
   
     
   
  

Attention
All College Students

The sky’s the limit with us.
With openings available in many air related

 

fields. Here’s your chance for exciting

summer employment with a guaranteed job

when you graduate. Make no commitment
until you get that diploma. Tuition assistance

available to qualified students.

     
   
   
     
   

Get the facts,
call 1-800-542-5851

anytime
We're the Marines and we're looking
for a few good men to meet the

challenge of becoming

a Marine Officer.
me: ;

1985

¥

SEP 20

 

 

   
 

 

Season kickoff

Soccer stuns
Shenandoah

Your weekend weather

It’s back!
The Back Page

returns this week

Warmer tomorrow;

“

*

“

~

 

VOLUME 85, NUMBER 2

 

Page 10

  

 

Page 8

 

  

 

warm, dry weekend

 

Che King-tum Phi

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

SEPTEMBER 19, 1985

 

 

General
Notes

 

 

 

It’s that time again

Budget requests for the 1985-86
school year are due in the Execu-
tive Committee Office on Monday
at 7 p.m. Organizations that fail to
submit a request will have all
their current funds frozen and will
not be allowed any additional
funds until their request is receiv-
ed. Requests for extensions should
be directed to Secretary Mike
Webb at 463-5102 or 463-8587.

Lights, camera ...

The first meeting of the Wash-
ington and Lee Film Society will
be Tuesday at 7:15 p.m. in Payne
Hall, room 3.

Salesmen needed

Attendance is mandatory for all
members of the 1985-86 Student
Recruitment Committee at to-
night’s meeting in Northen Audi-
torium at7 p.m.

Dancing for dollars

All persons interested in work-
ing on the 1986 Muscular Dystro-
phy Superdance should meet in
Room 114 of the University Center
on Tuesday at 7 p.m.

Book ’em, Peggy

A police badge on loan from the
Lexington Police Department was
taken from a display in the Uni-
versity Library last week. Refer-
ence librarian Peggy Hays gave
her assurance to the police that
the badge would be returned, and
she asks that whoever took the
badge return it to the circulation
desk in an envelope marked
“Peggy Hays.’’ If the badge is
returned, no attempt will be made
to find out who took it.

Curtain call

Open auditions for the Universi-
ty Theatre’s first production of the
school year, ‘The Merchant of
Venice,” will be held at 7:30
tonight and tomorrow night, and
at 2 p.m. Saturday at the Boiler
Room Theater at Main and Henry
streets. Auditioners should come
with a Shakepearean speech pre-
pared. For more information, call
463-8637.

A continuance

The date of the pre-law forum in
the University Center has been
changed to Sept. 24. From 1 to 4
p.m., law school admissions direc-
tors from several law schools will
talk with students about their
schools. Come early to speak to an
admissions director privately.
From 4 to 5, seminars on how to
choose a law school and how to get
into law school will be presented.

Managers needed

The Washington and Lee la-
crosse team is looking for student
managers. Any interested stu-
dents should contact head coach
Dennis Daly in Doremus Gymna-
sium.

Give blood

The Washington and Lee rugby
club will hold practice Mondays,
Wednesdays and Thursdays. All
interested students are encourag-
ed to attend the practices on the
field in front of the Law School be-
ginning at 4p.m.

Smile, seniors

Senior pictures for this year’s
yearbook will be taken Sept. 23 to
Oct. 4. Seniors should sign up for
their pictures in the Co-op as soon
as possible in order to get their
choice of times.

General info

“General Notes’’ are run as a
public service by The Ring-tum
Phi. To publicize your non-profit
organization’s event, fill out a
“General Notes’ request form
and return it to the Ring-tum Phi
mailbox, upstairs in the Universi-
ty Center, by 1 p.m. Tuesday of
the week it is to be run. Forms are
available in Carol Calkins’ office
(Carole Chappell’s old office) in
the University Center.

 

Girard jailed for five more months

 

GENE GIRARD
Pleaded guilty to possession

 

By JIM STRADER
News Editor

 

Washington and Lee senior Gene Girard yester-
day was sentenced to an additional five months in
jail for a cocaine possession conviction.

The sentence was for five years, with all but six
months suspended. The five weeks Girard has
served since pleading guilty last month will be ap-
plied to the sentence.

“T obviously think that’s not a bad resolution to
this case,’ defense attorney Laurence A. Mann
said. He added Girard has not mentioned an ap-
peal.

Commonwealth’s Attorney Beverly C. “John”
Read, who asked the Rockbridge Circuit Court to
impose a sentence of not less than five years in
prison, declined comment after the sentencing.

Girard, a former tri-captain of the W&L football

 

team, was arrested March | at the East Lexington
grocery store in connection with a package con-
taining 29 grams of cocaine that was sent to the
store.

He was tried in June before a jury in a pro-
ceeding that ended in a mistrial, and pleaded guil-
ty Aug. 13 at a second trial. Since then he has been
in the Rockbridge County Jail.

Girard matriculated last week and attended
classes Monday and Tuesday. The registrar’s of-
fice said yesterday he is still registered as a stu-
dent.

Other provisions of Girard’s sentence are five
years’ probation following his release from jail,
periodic urinalysis to detect drug use during pro-
bation, and an agreement to refrain from associa-
tion with drugs.

W&L law Professor William S. Geimer said
Girard’s sentence was not unusual

“It appears to me to be within the (normal)

 

 

range, given the circumstances of the case,” he
said.

“T wouldn’t second-guess a five-year sentence
with all but six months suspended,’ Geimer con-
tinued. ‘‘And it’s not out of line with hundreds of
similar cases I’m familiar with.”

Geimer reasoned that a stiffer sentence was not
imposed because Girard’s case involved a first of-
fense and because he pleaded guilty. Geimer said
that although the nature of the substance involved
and the possibility of abuse are serious matters to
consider legally, he feels that “justice was serv-
ed.”

In imposing the sentence, Circuit Judge George
E. Honts III said he felt that because Girard was
“clearly a leader’ at W&L, his guilt itself was
a punishment. However, Honts made no provi-
sions in the sentence for Girard, of Coral Gables
Fla

See Girard, Page7

New rules
branded

‘un-Wé&L’

By MIKE ALLEN
Executive Editor

 

 

Several members of the Executive
Committee charged Monday that
three new University policies are
“ridiculous”’ and ‘‘very un-W&L.”’

The new Student Control Commit-
tee guidelines, the mandate that dor-
mitory counselors report freshman
drinking and a new bookstore rule re-
quiring students to present a ‘‘credit
card’”’ to charge books all came
under fire at the EC’s first meeting of
the year.

President John Lewis objected to
the changes on two grounds: First,
that undergraduate input is being
discounted at a school where ‘“‘stu-
dent opinion has always been very,
very important’’; and second, that in
contrast to Washington and Lee’s tra-
ditional and unspecific concept of

  

honorable, gentlemanly conduct,
“we suddenly have a very codified

2 =—=ss stem.”
i Me The new SCC disciplinary policy,

 

 

By TED LeCLERCQ
Staff Reporter

 

During the first night of school the
dorms really come alive, especially
after weekend Rush parties. Every-
body has heard of the excess. It’s
usually the janitors, though, that see
it the next morning. And that’s when
the stories are told.

In the words of one freshman:
‘More than anything else, the dorms
have been filled with people puking
their guts out.”’

‘I don’t remember what happen-
ed,” said a rushee from Georgia. “I
just woke up the next morning with
fuzz up top. It was a wild night and a
lot of fun — I think.”

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Kappa Sigma’s Steve Prindle fires off a round signalling the start of another Rush date for the freshmen going through Rush

Post-party dorms ‘not a pretty sight’

based on the final report of last
year’s Drug Policy Review Commit-
tee, delineates ‘‘major’’ and ‘‘minor”’
offenses under the committee's juris-
diction.

“This is a slap in the face to the
whole system we live under,’’ Lewis
said. ‘‘The whole system is very un-
W&L.”

Even the upperclassmen some-
times have trouble keeping up.

“IT was walking up to the front
porch to meet some of the brothers,”’
a Virginia freshman recalled. ‘‘They
took me to meet some of the other
guys and when I reached out my
hand to this one guy he passed out
— cold. The guy was like noodles.”’

One of the women in Davis Dormi-
tory agreed about the numbing ef-
fects of parties, particularly on the
day after.

“The mornings are real quiet
because everyone is still hung over,”
she said. ‘‘On the girls’ floors, it
seems like it’s been quieter than on
the guys’ floors.”

A freshman from New Jersey
sketched his experience: ‘“‘We had
had a few beers and one house of-

fered us some kamikazes. Of course,
we accepted. After a few more beers,
I went back to my room and started
to feel a little queasy. Then I went to
the bathroom and barfed. And when I
came back, I barfed in my bed.

“Next morning I was crowded to
the far end of the bed and the room
smelled really bad. I guess I rolled
around in ita little.

“TL even remember most of it.”’

Another freshman from Tennessee
got revenge on one of his drunk
friends for an earlier prank.

“I got one of my friends back for
sticking his stinky shoes in my face,”
he said. ‘‘He passed out in his room
and I went in there with my magic
markers. By the end of the session,
he had grown a curly mustache, a
goatee, some stars and hearts.”’

Rating brews: ‘buzz per buck factor’

A different Volunteer State fresh-
man found it profitable to leave his
door open.

“T remember coming in one night
really late and I walked into my room
and I left the door open and these
drunk girls kept walking in and talk-
ing about nothing,”’ he said.

Tommy Sloan of Buildings and
Grounds, who works in Graham-
Lees, said the dorms after parties
are ‘‘nota pretty sight.”’

“One kid this past weekend waited
until he got in the shower to throw
up,”’ he said. “‘Sometimes it’s in the
hall but they usually make it to the
bathroom.”

Meanwhile, Sloan of Buildings and
Grounds offers this advice: ‘‘If you
can’t party with the big boys, stay off
the field.”

Second year law representative
Bill Thompson expressed concern
about the possible ‘‘double jeopardy”
that could result if an offense were
found to fall under the jurisdiction of
both the EC and the SCC.

He said he and Lewis have drafted
a statement that would eliminate
that danger and that they would
discuss it with members of the facul-
ty that developed the policy.

“From what I can gather, many
faculty would back us on any amend-
ments we might offer,’’ Thompson
said.

Senior Representative Pat Hayden
cautioned, however, that while it
may be possible to change some pro-
visions in the policy, the new discipli-

See EC, Page7

 

 

 

 

By JAMIE BERGER
and CHRIS KOMOSA
Staff Reporters

 

W&L students have always prided
themselves on their upward mobility and
good taste, and the beers they drink rein-
force this perception. What proper W&L
gentleman or lady would be caught dead
with Old Milwaukee in their refrigerator
on Fancy Dress week? What better way
is there to relax in the frat hot tub than
with a cold bottle of some unpronoun
ceable Czechoslovakian beer? Chris and
I were determined to find out just what
beer gave you the most Buzz Per Buck
(BPB), and the results were surprising.

With our moderator and referee Walt
Devine, we set out to the Palm’s and pick-

ed out 10 beers that would be easily
recognizable to the well-versed drinker.
It was a blind taste test, with Walt pour-
ing the beers as we averted our eyes.
Chris and I would then rate the beers,
clean our palates with some water and
then Walt would pour the next beer. The
beers were rated on a scale of one to 10
with 10 being perfect in all respects. The
results were as follows:

Miller Lites

We both knew from the pale color that
this was an American beer, but on the
whole the taste was rather smooth. The
big word for this beer was “drinkabili-
ty,” because it went down so easily and
had no bad aftertaste.

Chris’

o

rating 5; Jamie’s rating

¢ Foster's Lagere

Foster’s was a good looking beer, with
a nice golden color and a good head
Chris was a little more impressed with
this beer than I was, but we both thought
it had a good imported taste and would
make an excellent quarters beer

Chris — 7; Jamie — 6

*Budweisere

The ‘‘King of Beers’’ didn’t fare so well
in our taste test. The color was rather
weak and it had a slightly sweet taste
that neither of us enjoyed too much. It
was the bitter aftertaste that bothered
me most about this beer. Chris did note
that at least it was a good belching beer. I
didn’t see fit to argue the point.

Chris — 4.7; Jamie 4

See Beer, Page7

 

  
 

 

  
 

deal :
Chris’ Jamiée’§ “=
rating: rating:

4.7 \Budweiben| 4] 4h
ij ij i ij iy ; i t ;

7 Gwiness Stout (warm) = 7.7 i ° |
+ St. | i

6.6 Micheéigb Dark 6.3 | ? i

3.8 Busch 4.5 |

ae nee ae

 

TLL LANNE Atte tthse.h eon y

 
 

2/OPINION
Changing

When the Board of Trustees decided to make this institu-
tion coeducational, it recognized that certain changes would
necessarily encompass the campus. Dorms would be remod-
eled and the looker room would have to be divided to allow for
privacy for the new students.

A committee on coeducation was created to oversee the
changes, to “help guide us in every step of the way,” as
President John D. Wilson stated upon its creation. The com-
mittee, consisting of professors, administrators and stu-
dents, met faithfully last year, and the ease with which this
year has begun is to their credit.

But change was not delegated alone to those on the commit-
tee. Others in the University, eager to help in the transition,
began a cleaning of their respective houses, ferreting out the
unpleasant or offensive and trying to create a welcoming en-
vironment for the women students. But they — like most who
have the power to change — seem to be taking their charge a
bit too far. Somewhere along the line, focus has been lost on
part of the goal the University hoped to achieve. Change has
become the magical password on a campus where sudden de-
cisions had been anathema for well over 200 years.

Consider the lights on campus. Sure, safety ought to be a
concern for the campus. Rape, whether we like to admit it or
not, is certainly a present reality in this community. Even
muggings have occurred. But something has been lost on this
campus when mercury vapor lights as bright as a spring day
illuminate the entire campus from dusk to dawn. Forget the
divine commandment to separate the day from the night.
This was not good.

A great part of the camaraderie and identification I
developed with the campus came from those few nights when
I was able to walk home and see the Colonnade softly lit by
hidden lights. That seems now to be a luxury that can exist
only in one’s memory.

Or there are the cute little vases and plastic flowers that sit
on the tables in the Co-op and the dining hall. If they were
real flowers, that would be one thing, but isn’t this taking the
“feminization” of the campus a bit too far? Plastic, like
polyester, deserves to sit elsewhere.

And though they deny up and down that it had anything to
do with the entrance of the women, the re-naming of the
Cockpit to ‘‘General Headquarters’’ (or coolly spoken,
‘*GHQ’’) seems a bit out of place and completely unneces-
sary. Even freshmen women wonder why this fuss was
created around them. If the concern for the old name was
that it might be “‘sexually offensive,” fine. At least admit so.
But the name never seemed to be of much concern until last
spring, when the coeducation machine really began to heat
up.
Maybe it is all a lamentation of the way things used to be.
Maybe it’s that I liked the days when a spade was a spade.
But too many changes for the mere sake of change seem to be

transforming this campus into a new and different institution...

from that which has existed for the past 236 years. Much that
makes Washington and Lee what it is has to do with the tradi-
tions that it guards and the honor it ascribes to such acts.
Subtle changes, anywhere along the line, have profound ef-
fects for all in the future.

Coeducation inevitably meant change and still means that
today. The past, the saying goes, cannot be reclaimed, nor
should we necessarily desire it to be. But these with the
power to change ought to guard that privilege with greater
care. Those with a political or philosophical predisposition
should not change this University for their tastes, especially
when their changes meet with such ridicule and disdain from
the freshmen women themselves. Maybe it has never occur-
red to those with the power to change the appearance and en-
vironment of the University that the women who now attend
this school do so because they liked what they saw when they
visited last fall, winter or spring, and not because of what
they found last week. —NRP

Reader whines over
panacea, Sour grapes’

To the Editors: to stay in such an unpleasant atmos-

 

 

I was very disturbed to read Nelson
Patterson’s editorial ‘No Panacea?”’
in last week’s edition of The Phi. It
was at best a vague and meandering
lamentation of sour grapes; at worst,
it says to our new female students,
“Well, we didn’t want you, but I
guess we're stuck — just don’t expect
me to like you or try and help you in
any way.”’ If this is indeed what Mr.
Patterson meant, he may have his
wish for a single-sex campus, for I
cannot imagine many people wishing

Smirk irks;
fie on

The Phi

To the Editors:

I read with great bemusement the
inquiring column ‘The Smirk” in
last week’s Phi. I find it difficult to
believe a college newspaper striving
for journalistic excellence could be
found ranked with the likes of Star
Magazine, Weekly World News and
the Globe. Journalistic principles of
excellence and gentlemanlyness (or
should it be civility?) have been ab-
dicated here.

Having been enrolled in the class of
a master journalist from Polk Coun-
ty, Iowa, last year, I know higher
principles must be applied when peo-
ple’s integrity is in question.

If this is another compromise of
coeducation, I ask you, is it a
panacea also?

David A. Shugart
Class of 1987

phere as his attitude will create.

It’s not that the thesis of Mr. Pat-
terson’s editorial was so incorrect.
There has been a tendency for some
of us (myself included at times) to
consider coeducation as a cure-all for
the ills of the University. The editor-
ial could have made a good point in
reminding us that the addition of a
hundred-odd women to W&L will not
solve all its problems and will pro-
bably cause some others. But were
phrases like ‘‘sinister plots’ and
“Business for John D. Wilson meant
coeducation”’ really necessary?
Were pot shots at Tech and U.Va.,
and insinuations that some members
of the Board of Trustees didn’t really
care all that much about W&L, re-
quired for Mr. Patterson to make his
point? I’m as conservative as the
next guy here at Republican U., but
even I think the description of the
“faculty, in their lofty moments of
liberal idealism,” was uncalled for, if
not unfair. Such pointless and non-in-
tellectual digression makes the edi-
torial truly disappointing. It was not
a humorous article, nor was it infor-
mative — although it had the poten-
tial for both. If we must have a nega-
tive attitude, let us at least stick to
the facts and not get into arguments
over the value of the New Deal or
new Coke.

Coeducation may not be a panacea,
but can we at least give it a chance?
When the editorial was written, wo-
men had not yet been registered for
their fall term classes! If coeduca-
tion cannot cure everything, I hope
that it can at least cure some things
— like bad attitudes and fuzzy think-
ing.

Christopher R. Carter
Class of 1987

 

The Ring-tum Phi, September 19, 1985"

 

 

 

 

a

 

 

 

Fall fashion ’85 at Washington and Lee...Duck Heads, camo, Jockey & Chanel

a

 

 

Freshmen still will be freshmen

 

By NELSON PATTERSON
Editorial Page Editor

 

For all the attention that this
year’s freshman class is getting, one
would think that things might be a bit
different with them. The stories in
The Washington Post, USA Today,
and other major publications portray
the newly-arriveds as if they were a
bunch of laboratory mice: here for
the first experiment with a supposed
carcinogen called coeducation, and
most likely going to encounter severe
overdoses of chauvinistic radiation
that will deter future mice from land-
ing positions in entering classes.

ba “Winehow. however, I: doubt that:

this year’s freshman class is really
all that different from those that
have entered Washington and Lee
during my four years here. They go
to classes (now, that might make
them different...), eat Letty Pate
food (that will render them dif-
ferent), go through Rush (though not
in as great numbers), and stand
around their dorm hallways at night
talking about their days and wonder-
ing about their nights. They tend, like
all college students with the first
drinks ‘“‘away from home,”’ to drink
too much and party too long. But big
deal — all that is part of what obser-
vers call the mystical ‘‘college exper-
ience.’’ And what an experience it
must be.

I suppose that I really don’t expect
these freshmen and women to be any-
thing different. They are human,
after all. And while the admissions
office has served us well with intelli-
gence and enthusiasm as prerequisi-
tes for entrance, they also found a
freshman class that is willing (might
eager be a better word?) to accept
the limelight for the interim in hopes
that the excitement will die down in
the long run.

But for all the praises that might be
sung of the entering class, they also
have their weaknesses. When the
midterms come, I am sure that fresh-
men will be freshmen, and grades
will always be lower than they ex-
pected. Maybe professors will have
reality shock and see that freshmen
women are as vulnerable to acade-
mic deficiencies as their male coun-
terparts. Heaven forbid. And when
one sex (as inevitably the compari-
son will be made) has a better GPA
than the other, what will be said?
Well, my my, as one professor loves
to lecture.

The greatest fear I hold for the
entering class is that with the weight
of the inordinately high expectations
being placed upon it, the slightest
slip-up will be seized upon as evi-
dence of the obvious failure of coedu-
cation. High expectations are rarely
realized, and we shouldn’t expect
these freshmen to be that different
from the three other classes seen
here now. There will be honor viola-
tions from freshmen; there will even

 

FRESHMEN

 

 

By Stephen Ingram

 

 

Lewis cites Post flaws

To the Editors:

Last week I was “interviewed” by
a Ms. Eve Zibart of The Washington
Post. I put interviewed in quotation
marks because it was over a beer in
the Cockpit and she never took any
notes whatsoever. The result, which
was published Monday, was a jum-
bled mass of negative and deroga-
tory statements, most of which were
taken completely out of context and
many of which were completely
false. I believe she came looking for a
great deal of chauvinism and bad
feeling. Since she did not find it, she
created it. She spoke with President
John D. Wilson for over an hour and
never mentioned him. She spoke with
Admissions Director William Hartog

and got his first name wrong. The
subtitle read, ‘‘Amid Grumbling, 115
Women Join 200-year-old, Formerly
All-male Bastion in Virginia,”’

I admit readily that I was an oppo-
nent of coeducation. I also admit that
now that they are here, I am enjoying
them immensely. I admit even more
readily that much of their story is
completely incorrect. It’s funny that
this is the only negative press we
have received during this whole ex-
perience. To students, faculty and
the administration, please accept my
apologies for speaking with this
woman, and let us continue with our
newest tradition.

John B. Lewis
Student Body President

be students who drop out from this
class because of academic or social
pressures. There might even be
(dare I say the word) pregnancies.
But then again, Washington and Lee
has entered the realm of the ‘‘other”’
universities and must encounter
these other big campus realities
sooner or later. It is hoped the bubble
will burst with some ease, if such a
feat is possible.

I suppose that the best anyone can
wish for the freshmen is that they en-

joy their four years. For all the pre-
paration that has gone into their four
years in college, for all the sense of
experimenting that they have sur-

*

 

*

«

rounding them (as if coeducation is .

an experiment), for all the times that
they will complain about 8 o’clock
calculus classes — this class is
another in the tradition called Wash-

ington and Lee. College is more than ‘

studying and partying, and
Washington and Lee is certainly
more than coeducation.

Katie Coed :
Trying to explain it all

Sept. 19, 1985
Dear Mom and Dad,

Well, I made it through Orientation
Week despite all the deans’ seeming-
ly endless rounds of speeches and
placement tests! This week has been
so hectic I really haven’t had much
time to write. Thanks for all the let-
ters, Mom — I know you miss me and
everything, but don’t you think six
letters and a package is a little ex-
cessive? Did you see my picture in
the paper? Yeah, I was the one in the
lower left hand corner of The Post
stuffing the oversized piece of lettuce
in my mouth in Evans! Sunday after-
noon some photographer made me
pack all my clothes again to take an
“action shot” of me setting up my
room, but I don’t think that one made
USA Today — Buffy down the hall
was in that one with her hair in
curlers!

By the way, what exactly is my tui-
tion for this year? I talked to a girl at
a party the other night and she in-
sisted that W&L was in financial dif-
ficulty and that the only reason the
school went coed is because girls
have to pay more??? I’ve been fol-
lowing your advice so far — but I
haven’t had to use the mace yet. I
think I went to a party on Friday
night, but I’m not sure. It’s amazing
how friendly the guys are around
here — they’re always offering to fill
up your drink for you! Oh, Dad send
me $100 for court costs — on Satur-
day night this nasty policeman ar-
rested me and called me a D.LP.
— which I thought was extremely
rude. I registered for Rush dates the
other day (no, Mom, that’s not a guy
in a hurry), and I’m really looking
forward to meeting some more peo-

 

Managing Editor .......
Sports Editor........
Editorial Page Editor
News Editors ..........

is otherwise independent.

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

Executive BAItOr.....cccccscsecccsveces
BRS oc iiiccccccevrce hie clieoe avian

(RECPOREETERS EF Cedi gia vee eee Mike Allen
FIR EVAG Eee Set dadede ae Paul Foutch
LECCE CEN ates Von barnes Cotton Puryear
TUNE SECIS ONIaKeeeeeies ae Reade Williams

  
 
  

COrtOOMlst. .cccccsccrccccecrcccerrsoecs

HEMARIT EDEN NaCMA a ES Chris Bowring

ECON Ne Jeff Kimbell
LAGER ee RI ES Hank Greenberg
(APSE ACCES PiolbaMe cee Matt Coudert

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia, Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 200 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity,

ple. Tell Aunt Betsy that I haven't
found the husband that she’s convinc-
ed I’m here to look for yet.

I really like my dorm room, but my
roommate is a nocturnal animal (li-
terally) and she doesn’t like me to
wake her up before her first 3 p.m.
class, so I’ve been spending the night
down the hall. Our room is supposed
to be a single, but somehow they fig-
ured that two people could survive in
here, and I’m hard pressed to find
room to store my extra 65 pairs of
shoes! I haven’t done too much in
class yet, but during matriculation I
signed up for 47 different campus
organizations — I hope I’m not too
busy!

I’m having some trouble with Phil-
osophy 101 since I’m not sure how to
“justify” my existence” or ‘“deter-
mine the reality of my being.’’ Accor-
ding to the placement test, I’m stuck
in Remedial Mathematics 89
— today we worked on long division
and I think I did alright on the quiz.
Other than that; I love it here — I just
wanted to write home and tell you
how things are going with your favo-
rite W&L girl! See you at Thanksgiv-
ing (maybe! )

 

 

Vie aete ree Mike Stachura
+e sees es Nelson Patterson
Christopher Deighan
iveasidee Jim Strader

 

 

’

?

2

+

*

+

‘

oo -

-_ *# eae co eo 2 Oo BP A CUD CUD

 

«<2» * © 2s + = 2 + & ‘
cane te

*
ae *

The Ring-tum Phi, September 19, 1985, Page 3

 

    

VIEW

By Marie
Kothman

Rock music and rebellion, it
seems, have always been synony-
» mous. During the 50s, parents pro-
+ tested that Elvis’ style of dancing
4 was lewd. The Beatles, long hair and
, all, were defamated by the Jerry
~ee Falwell-types of that era. We all
* know of the controversy over “Lucy
, in the Sky with Diamonds” and the

Everly Brothers’ allegedly porno-
‘graphic lyrics to ‘“‘Louie, Louie.”
, ‘Wake up, Little Susie’ was banned

in Boston for suggesting that a girl
“named Susie actually spent the night
+ with a guy, even though the lyrics
, make clear the couple accidentally

drifted off to sleep.
* So, the hoopla that never seems to
, end is now entering Round 436. The

Parents’ Music Resource Center,
‘ founded in part by Tipper Gore, wife
,of Sen. Albert Gore, R-Tenn., and
_ Susan Baker, wife of Treasury Secre-
, tary James A. Baker III, is a group
, that has proposed a ratings system,

much like movie ratings, for the
* music industry. The record industry
,s0 far has agreed to a ‘‘PG’’ rating

that each label would apply to some
‘of its own artists. But the PMRC
, wants an industry-wide system that
includes an “R”’ rating. They also
‘want the most offensive album
covers brown-papered, and the most
offensive lyrics listed on the front, so
| parents know what they are buying
,their children.

I doubt that many parents buy
‘records for their children; either the
,kids buy records with their allowance

or paper route money, or they nag
*Mom for the money and go buy the
yrecords themselves. Most parents

 

»* -» * > &

*

have more important things to con-
=*cern themselves with than their 12
year old’s infatuation with Duran
Duran.
’ Tf such a ratings system were im-
,posed, would there arise an obliga-
tory four-letter word in every song to
ravoid a “‘G’’ rating? The movie pro-
,ducer who makes a ““G’’ movie these
days is committing financial suicide,
} ‘and that producer will therefore

 

 

 

‘Rating rock lyrics
‘wrong, ridiculous

throw in some foul language and a lit-
tle nudity to get the “PG” or “R”
rating.

Another problem arises: How ex-
actly do we rate the music? By song?
By album? By artist? Prince, who is
fast becoming famous for porn-rock,
could be rated an ‘‘X”’ for “Darling
Nikki,”’ about a girl who does lasci-
vious deeds with hotel lobby maga-
zines, or a ‘‘PG”’ for ‘‘Purple Rain,”
a love ballad. Both songs are from
the same album; what should the
album be rated? What about radio
stations? Will there be ‘‘X”’ rated sta-
tions?

Who will set the standards for the
rating system? I’m positive that Mrs.
Baker’s idea of what is passable and
my idea of what is alright are radi-
cally different, and I am outraged at
the idea of someone pushing their
morals off on me. I dare say I’m not
alone in that opinion.

A “restricted’”’ rating on movies
means no one under 17 is admitted
without guardian. One must be 18 to
purchase ‘‘pornographic literature.”’
But how is “restricted music’’ to be
controlied? Once a tape is bought, it’s
gone. It can be easily reproduced and
distributed by ‘‘underage”’ listeners.
Will record shops start carding those
who wish to purchase Madonna’s
latest hit? Will kids be arrested for il-
licitly listening to Motley Crue?

The PMRC should leave the music
industry alone. Things are getting a
little out of hand as far as lyrics go
(who wasn’t at least a little shocked
by Madonna’s performance of ‘‘Like
a Virgin’ at the 1984 MTV awards’).
But as long as there is a market for
“norn-rock,”’ it will be produced. A
rating system will only fan the fire by
calling too much attention to the
lyrics. It might actually increase the
sales of ‘‘porn-rock’’ records. People
are fascinated by the dirt. Publisher
Bob Guccione used the same tactic
with his Vanessa Williams spread,
and sold millions of copies of Pent-
house magazine.

No, the solution doesn’t lie with
rating records (i.e., restricting
sales). The answer lies in parent-
child communication. The parents’
morals, whatever they may be,
should already be instilled in the
child, so that when the time arises,
the child — and not the parent — can
say, ‘‘No, I choose not to listen to this
music.”

 

—

A 2

ve dane NIN Wt.

 

 

Just one more reason
you gotta love Rush

 

By MIKE ALLEN
Executive Editor

 

Back in my little tyke days, I
loved Hot Wheels. My brother
Scott and I used to build quadru-
ple tracks with loop-the-loops and
Lincoln Log villages in the center
of the track. It was a nightmare to
clean up, but kids don’t mind, and
a little Lego never hurt a vacuum
cleaner.

Eventually, though, I got bored
with Hot Wheels. We didn’t get rid
of them; they still sat in the closet
and I’d play with them sort of half-
heartedly when it rained or I was
sick. But I could never get psych-
ed up for those all-day productions
of my Sesame Street years.

A lot of seniors feel the same
way about Rush.

I don’t know if it’s blue blazer on
the brain or termina] grip-and-
grin, but the novelty definitely has
worn off.

Some folks give up smoking for
Lent; Washington and Lee stu-
dents give up academics for Rush
— the only time of year that:

e Otherwise intelligent, in-
teresting people are reduced to
talking about their caffeine
buzzes. ==

¢ No one is too boring for you not
to be suddenly fascinated by his
life story, his class schedule and
his aunt’s cousin’s pets.

e And “‘other houses are doing
it’ becomes adequate rationale
for vivisecting your grandmother. |

The process cuts both ways as
far as intrafraternity relations:
The same guy who’s your “cool
fraternal brother’’ when he
rescues you from some joker
who’s on Act V of the time he ran
out of gas in Trenton, becomes the
devil incarnate when he’s the one
who decides to forego your next
door neighbor for 20 years whose
sister was going to be your Fancy
Dress date.

You quickly discover that some
of the freshmen just don’t have
their Rush patter down very well.
One specimen from southwest
Virginia who came through our
house last year astutely noted
there were “sure a lot of service

projects for an Eagle Scout
around here.’’ (‘‘Excuse me, I
need to refill my drink. May I get
you anything — say, a grip?’’)

It’s the repetitiousness that gets
to you very quickly. I think I'll
lose my mind, for example, if
another freshman says ‘‘I'm try-
ing to cut back’’ when offered a
soft drink. And, no, I don’t want to
hear any more Rock Hudson
jokes.

Of all the idiotic conversations,
though, the all-time hall-of-famer
has got to be: ‘Oh, you’re from
California? Do you know...?”’
(“Oh, you’re from the United
States, too? Do you know...?’’)

I shouldn’t knock it, though,
since I suppose discussing
Heidegger or transcendentalism
over chips and dip would be even
less appealing than explaining
(again) why I came ‘‘all the way
to W&L from L.A.” (I like to
travel, OK?)

Fraternity types all talk about
how bored they are at open
houses, but then refuse to reward
creativity. You’ve got to hand it,
for example, to the Florida fresh-
man who this year went through
Rush wearing a tux jacket, bow
tie and 501s.

Such individuality, however,
rarely prompts rave reviews on
the back of the offender’s name-
iag.
Those comments may range
from ‘“‘good man,”’ “‘bid material’’
or “cool guy’’ down to ‘“‘Clearasil
Poster Child,” ‘should be put to
sleep” or ‘just stopping off at
W&L on his way south for the win-
ter.”

(This year’s new rating system
for waterfowl, courtesy of a Wash-
ington Street fraternity: ‘‘flap
factor.’’)

Every once in a while, though,
there’s a freshman smart enough
to be in the driver’s seat. At a par-
ty Friday night, the ten thousand-
th hand I shook belonged to a guy
who introduced himself as ‘‘Ron.
Ron Reagan.”’

“Ron? Good to know you. ’Prec-
iate your coming by. May I get
youa....”

I realized — too late — that I’d
been had.

Bid him!

 

Attention

All College Students

 

 

We’re the Marines and we’re looking

for a few good men to meet the

challenge of becoming

a Marine Officer.

The sky’s the limit with us. With openings available in

+4 many air related fields. Here’s your chance for exciting
summer employment with a guaranteed job when you graduate.
Make no commitment until you get that diploma.

Tuition assistance available to qualified students.

Get the facts, call 1-800-542-5851 anytime

 
4/NEWS
Three fraternities fined for Rush violations:

 

By JIM STRADER
News Editor

 

The judicial committee of the Intrafrater-
nity Council last night found three frater-
nities guilty of ‘‘no contact’’ violations and
fined each $150, said IFC President Jaimie
Hayne.

Two of the fraternities, Phi Delta Theta
and Sigma Alpha Epsilon, committed their
violations by throwing a party that freshmen
attended at a house outside of town last
Wednesday night. The third infraction was
committed Tuesday night, when Sigma Nu

had freshmen to its house for dinner and kept
them there too late, Hayne said.

“No contact” regulations limit contact bet-
ween freshmen and fraternities at certain
periods before and during Rush to allow the
freshmen to concentrate on other activities
free of fraternity interference.

This was each house's second violation,
Hayne said. The first violation for Phi Delt
and SAE came after another country party
last Sunday, Hayne said. Sigma Nu was
found guilty of an incident that occurred the
same day, when house members helped
freshmen move into the dormitories. Hayne
said that each house received a warning for

those actions.

Commenting on Rush violations so far this
year, Hayne said: ‘‘I don’t hear about every-
thing, but I hear about most of it.”’

The IFC judicial committee meets when a
fraternity is charged with a violation. It is
made up of the president, vice-president,
secretary and treasurer of the IFC as well as
the two junior justices and the senior justice
of the body.

A new wrinkle in Rush this year is the in-
troduction of women into the mix. Women
were permitted to register for Rush dates at
fraternities Sunday while men signed up for
open houses.

IFC Rush Chairman Sam Svalina released
figures on this year’s registration. He said
278 of the 316 male freshmen, or 90.2 percent,
registered for Rush. In addition, seven up-
perclassmen are listed. Sixty of the 107
female students signed up for Rush dates.

Hayne said he informed the freshmen
women of the new arrangement at the IFC
presentation during orientation week. Only
W&L women are permitted to attend the
Rush dates, and there is a limit of 15 women
per fraternity at each function.

The IFC reasoned that including students
from area women’s colleges might be a bur-
den on the fraternities. ‘“‘We were afraid that

The Ring-tum Phi, September 19, 198

 
   
  
 

if we did that, we’d have no control over the
number of women,”’ Hayne said. ‘If it got out
of hand, it would turn into a party.”’ -
‘‘Rush dates are to allow the rushees to get
to know the actives better,’ Hayne contig.
ued. ‘‘If there were too many women, the
Rush dates would serve no purpose. But we
wanted the women to be involved in as much
of the Rush process as they could. We want to
prevent them from being alienated.”

Hayne said the next regular meeting of the
IFC will be Tuesday. Hayne scheduled it fgr
before the fraternities’ issuing of bids jo
freshmen so he could explain this procedure™
fully to IFC representatives. ‘

=

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4 — aa
By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

A freshman makes his descent from the footbridge

 

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

 

Fourth-year cadet Tony McCann helps a freshman prepare to rappel off the footbridge

30 freshmen get early taste of ROTC

 

By JOEL MILLER
Staff Reporter

*

 

About 30 to 35 freshmen par-
ticipated in Washington and Lee’s
ROTC-sponsored Adventure
Weekend held Sept. 13-15.

Major Michael Cullen of the
Military Science department felt
that ‘‘everyone enjoyed them-
selves and really learned a lot of
survival-based_ skills.’’ The
weekend, which was organized by

third- and fourth-year cadets,
featured a variety of different
military-oriented activities.

Friday afternoon, several fresh-
men hiked along the Appalachian
Trail for eight miles and camped
for the night at Peddler Creek.
Several groups of Special Forces
attachments were stationed along
the trail and they demonstrated
several survival skills. Also dur-
ing the day, several other fresh-
men rappelled down the W&L

footbridge and spent the afternoon
spelunking in a local cave.

Late Saturday morning, 140 peo-
ple gathered for the afternoon pic-
nic and concluded the day by raf-
ting down the James River. The
weekend was completed on Sun-
day with additional rappelling at
Virginia Military Institute and
rafting along the James.

Cullen had good expectations
for the freshmen that attended.
He said that several were ‘‘poten-
tial leaders.”’

 

 

Women’s halls decide on varied visiting hours

 

By JIM STRADER
News Editor

 

Rules regarding visiting hours in
the freshman dorms are another of
the changes in effect this year, and
like the other changes, these also
haven’t affected just freshmen.

“It was the wildest thing I’d ever
done — dropping a girl off at
Graham-Lees and then driving

home,”’ sophomore Will McNair said
this week. ‘‘It was the first time I'd
dropped a girl off at a dorm and not
stayed.”’

All the halls occupied by men
adopted 24-hour visiting hours, ac-
cording to head dormitory counselor
Tom Mack. He added that the
women’s halls elected to abide by
various schedules.

In the new visiting-hour rules, the
hours voted upon are subject to reap-
proval after three weeks, Mack said.

Also, the balloting on each hall’s
rules this year was secret, in order to
prevent any intimidation from other
students during the voting.

Mack said the trial period allows
the freshmen to see how they like the
rules.

“It gives them a chance to exper-
ience visiting hours for a while with-
out their being binding,” he said.

Sydney Marthinson, a dormitory
counselor on a women’s hall, said her
freshmen chose the strictest hours of

any hall. Their ‘‘off-limits” hours are
midnight to 10 a.m. on weekdays,
with ‘‘special provisions” made for
Wednesdays. On weekends, her hall
has 24-hour visitation.

The weekend schedule would suit
some freshmen fine during the week
as well.

Alston Parker, a freshman on Mar-
thinson’s hall, said her proposal dur-
ing last week’s voting called for re-
stricted hours to be 6 a.m. to 9 a.m.
on weekdays.

 

NEWS BRIEFS

“T wouldn't mind 24 hours,” she
said.

“I’m not modest. I wouldn’t care if
someone saw me in a towel,” she con-
tinued. ‘I have two brothers.”’

One counselor said the freshmen on
his and neighboring halls were carry-
ing on last weekend as if there were
no restrictions at all.

“Sunday morning it was like a
z00,”’ he said. ‘“‘There were guys and
girls running up and down the halls
screaming.”

Student charged with drunkenness, brandishing firearm

Mad rush :
for carrels:
subsides ;

By BERT PARKS k
Staff Reporter

 

 

~~

Just a handful of students were
waiting for the doors of the Universj-
ty Library to open Friday morning at
8:30. Their goal — to reserve a study
carrel for use this fall. :

Reference librarian Peggy Hays
said this week that seven or eigit
students lined up to reserve their car-
rels, and that now there are few car-
rels left. ’

“All the carrels may have already
been claimed, but I have not heard
any complaints from students,”’ ske
said. .

However, student response to re-
serving carrels was much higher
than last year, and the library pro-
bably will need more in the future,
she said. '

Carrels are reserved by studen|
simply by leaving personal belong-
ings in them. The student then cah
leave his books there for the school
year and have a handy, 24-hour place
to study. ‘

Rules for reserving carrels haven't
changed from past years. No carrels
were allowed to be reserved until
8:30 Friday morning, in order to
allow upperclassmen to have an }
equal chance of getting a carrel.

 

 
    
  
  
 
   
   
 
 
   

Also, reserving a carrel with a sign
saying ‘“‘Reserved”’ is not allowed.
Hays said students sometimes re-
serve carrels in this way for friends,
and then the friends never come in to
use them.

+

With the limited number of carrels

and the high demand, the library

must get the most use out of the car-
tels as possible, so they may as

students who rarely use their carrelé
to give them up to another student. ,

She said she is conducting a study
of the use patterns of the carrels to
see how many are still unclaimed
and how many of the claimed ones
are actually used.

 

   
   
    
  
 
  
   
 

There are also a number of locked
study rooms available for semestef
use by honors students, seniors write
ing theses and professors. Hays said
these have always been in short supp:
ly and must be requested in advance
Requests are considered on a first-
come, first-served basis. .

Although the lights are turned off
at night to conserve electricity, thé
library is open 24 hours a day during
the school year.

*

 

 

Staff Reports

 

A Washington and Lee student was arrested on
charges of brandishing a firearm and being drunk and
disorderly in Domino’s Pizza early Saturday morning,
according to police reports.

Mark McDonough, 21, was arrested at 3 a.m. Satur-
day after he entered the store and threatened workers
with a .45 automatic pistol.

The maximum sentence for brandishing a firearm is
a $1,000 fine and 12 months in jail.
: — Jason Lisi

SABU changes name to MSA

The Student Association for Black Unity voted last
night to change its name to the Minority Student Assoc-
iation,

“The acronym ‘SABU’ was looked at in kind of the
wrong way around here,” said President Derrick
Freeman.

He said the group was perceived as isolating itself
from the rest of the community, and that the words
“black unity’’ often were seen as unity against the rest
of the campus. Freeman said he would like the group to
be seen as striving for ‘‘community unity.”

“We're trying to become a more community-oriented
organization,”’ he said.

The name change reflects that, Freeman said, in that
the term minority is meant to mean not just blacks, but

women and other minority groups on campus.

“We're trying to get rid of that image of a black
hangout,”’ he said.

The group is planning to sponsor events for blacks
and the whole community this year.

Student convicted of theft

A Washington and Lee student was convicted this
summer on a charge of credit card theft. He and three
others were arrested in May on charges of illegal use of
another student’s telephone credit card.

The charges were brought last year after then-sopho-
more David Shugart reported the loss of an AT&T Call-
ing Card to police.

Walter J. Hopkins Jr., of Kingwood, Texas, was found
guilty of being an accessory after the fact to credit card
theft and received a 30-day suspended sentence. A
charge of credit card fraud against him was dropped.

Felton E. May of Hummelstown, Pa., who was charg-
ed with two counts of credit card fraud and one felony
count of credit card theft, will go to court on Nov. 15 to
defend his felony charge.

Senior Bryan K. Johnson, of Jersey City, N.J., had
charges of accessory to credit card theft and credit
card fraud dropped.

Junior Calvin Rankin was found not guilty of being an
accessory after the fact to credit card theft, and the
charge of credit card fraud was dropped

In other recent police actions:

¢ A pair of black stereo speakers was taken Tuesday
from the car of sophomore Roger Hildreth. Hildreth’s

1966 Mustang was parked in front of the Delta Tau Delta
fraternity house when the speakers reportedly were
taken.

* An Alpine stereo amplifier valued at $85 was report-
ed taken Monday from the 1976 Datsun of Christopher
Cilis, 19, while it was parked at 105 White Street.

¢ A Panasonic cassette player was removed from the
car of third-year law student Gregory Duncan while it
was parked in the Law School parking lot. The player
was reportec missing sometime on Friday night or Sat-
urday morning and was valued at $80.

¢ The Louisiana license plate was taken sometime
yesterday from the 1981 Buick of Catherine Hardy, a
Hollins College student.

— Jason Lisi

Delta Tau Delta awards money

The Delta Tau Delta fraternity recently awarded its
second Chris Larson scholarship to freshman Anthony
Waskiewicz.

The scholarship is awarded based on character, as
judged by the members of Delta Tau Delta, and this
year involves a $100 gift certificate to purchase books at
the Washington and Lee Bookstore.

Law elections held yesterday

First-year law students Chris O’Brien and Kemp Kas-
ling will represent their class as president and vice
president, respectively. The two were elected in first-

year law elections yesterday.

Both will serve on the Student Bar Association, and
O’Brien will be a member of the Student Control Com-
mittee.

Elections for the first-year law representative to the
Executive Committee will be held in a couple of weeks,
according to Julie Gregory, chairman of the SBA.

Plante to delay graduation

Dormitory Counselor Kathleen Plante has decided
not to graduate this year, eliminating the possibility
that this year’s graduation will be W&L’s first coeduca-
tional commencement.

Plante said she is uncertain whether she’ll graduate
in December or June of the 1986-87 academic year.

STU pays Centel $8,000

Students returning to school last week have paid
more than $1,200 in overdue telephone bills to the Stu-
dent Telephone Union, but that hasn’t offset the check
for nearly $5,000 that STU paid this week to Centel to
cover students’ delinquent bills.

Chairman Tom O’Brien said STU has paid Centel a
total of $8,851.24 in students’ overdue bills since
January

STU had a table set up in the matriculation line to col-
lect overdue bills from students. The students’ excuses

ranged from lackadaisical roommates to forgetfulness,
according to O’Brien.

— Chris Munsey

 

   
  
 
   
 
 
  
   
  
   

i ili

 

 

 
7

4

The Ring-tum Phi, September 19, 1985, Page 5

 

“=n 6 8

ijl copes
without
4 house

: RWOE BORAH HATTES

.

“tgff Reporter

‘Although the Phi Gamma Delta
ixeternity house, destroyed by fire a
gar and a half ago, is little more

" than blackened brick walls in its

a

rae eee ee ee ea — ae we ww

a ee

 

A i a i ag a a lll lily

main structure, the fraternity’s fac-
ulty adviser is confident that Fiji will
lufyve a brand new house in time for
Rush next year.

i Alumni Director Richard B. Ses-

soms, who lives across the street
from the house, said the scheduled
eefnpletion date is July 1 of next
“ear.

‘‘A year from now I’m hoping there
will be a brand new, resplendent
house,’ Sessoms said.

‘Yhe Fiji house burned down in
April 1984, killing sophomore Tom
Feflin. Arson and murder charges
weye brought against a Hollins man,
but a mistrial was declared before a
vefdict could be reached.

Sessoms said the new house, which
will be built around the brick walls
that remain standing, will be a 12,000
square foot structure costing
$500,000.

‘That money is coming from insur-
ante proceeds, alumni contributions
anda loan from the University.

Holland General Contractors of
Lexington has been contracted to do
the work. Sessoms said the firm ‘‘has
established a reputation.” It rebuilt
the,Sigma Nu house when it suffered
fire > damage.

Parsons said the contractor’s goal
is to have a roof on before bad
weather sets in.

“It’s not nearly as far along as I
pessonally would like it to be or the
fraternity members would like it to
be,” he said.

However, “‘There’s a lot more work
tha - s been going on than meets the

e*”’ he said.
«he next phase will probably be
mane visible.”

Fiji has had to go through the past
‘6 Rushes without a house, but Par-
sons is confident that the fraternity
will continue to get new members.

“I believe they got 13 or 14 pledges
last year,” he said.

“Yj have every confidence in the
group being able to do that again or
better it this year, even without a
house.”’

 

 

ae e

 

By Paul Foutch/The Ring-tum Phi

Workmen shore up the insides of the walls of the Phi Gamma Delta house

Entrepreneurs
get good response

with new group

By CHRISTOPHER DEIGHAN
News Editor

 

When junior Marquis Smith read a
Wall Street Journal article April 4 on
an “up-and-coming” national club
for student entrepreneurs, he im-
mediately was interested in begin-
ning a chapter at Washington and
Lee. Smith talked over the idea of a
new organization for young business-
men with junior Joe Jefferis and
senior Curt Mehorter, and the three
soon established W&L as a certified
chapter of the Association of Col-
legiate Entrepreneurs.

What Jefferis, Mehorter and Smith
did not foresee, they say, is the ex-
cited response of students all over
campus.

“We've been getting a lot of feed-
back about ACE just walking around
campus,” Smith said. ‘‘We think this
will be one of the strongest chapters
in America.”

According to Jefferis, one student
was especially interested in ACE
since he was considering ordering
shirts from the Far East to sell for a
profit.

One of the main purposes of the
organization, he said, is to make
available to student entrepreneurs
resources and information that may
not be available in any other way.

With the help of a microcomputer
and a modem — a device that acts as
a translator on the telephone — a
young entrepreneur can use normal
phone lines to tap information from
the ACE Electronic Network. Ser-
vices include access to electronic
mail, bulletin boards, a newsletter,
human networking and skills ex-
change, surveying, conferencing,
cataloguing and purchasing of more
than 70,000 consumer items.

W&L students were first introduc-
ed to ACE during matriculation,
when Jefferis, Mehorter and Smith
collected the names of nearly 140 in-
terested students.

Although Smith confessed that he
expected the chapter to grow to a
maximum of 20 students this year,
Jefferis said it is now ‘‘a mushroom
effect we're trying to create here.”’

On the other hand, Smith said,
“We're not here to waste time.”’

“Our goal for this year ... is to get
as many people out to Los Angeles
for ACE’s third annual conference
Feb. 20-23,” he said, noting that those
dates coincide with the University’s
winter break. The conference is an
opportunity for young entrepreneurs
to buy and sell franchises and share
thoughts, ideas and business cards.

Besides the national conference,
Jefferis, Mehorter and Smith have
plans to create a student agency and
workshop to educate entrepreneurs
about resources available to them.

“The whole purpose is networking
your ideas,”’ Smith said. He explain-
ed that the workshop will allow stu-
dents to exchange views concerning
a variety of literature dealing with
business.

The chapter’s first meeting will be
Oct. 21, when an as-yet-unselected
local entrepreneur will serve as
guest speaker.

Jefferis said membership in the
association is a great opportunity for
making contacts in the business
world. He suggested that corpora-
tions may be more likely to hire an
individual who has shown his motiva-
tion to succeed by joining an organi-
zation like ACE.

“They’ve got some of the brightest
students in the country working with
ACE,”’ Smith said.

Starting with seven member col-
leges in 1983, the non-profit organiza-
tion has since spread to 170 chapters
in the United States, Canada and sev-
eral other countries.

“‘T couldn’t believe something like
this wasn’t already here,’ Mehorter
said.

To aid in the group’s success, the
three have asked administration Pro-
fessor Lawrence M. Lamont to act as
adviser.

The three then sold boxer shorts in
the matriculation line to generate
revenue for the chapter’s expansion.
Selling 90 pairs of boxers at $1.50
each, the three generated $135 to be
used for organizing the Oct. 21 meet-
ing.

Interested students can get more
information by writing the group at
Lexington P.O. Box 300.

Rise in interest surprises W&L’s political organizations

 

3"SEAN BUGG
stadf Reporter

 

‘Washington and Lee students had
totun the gauntlet of campus organi-
zafions when they went through the
matriculation line last week.

But even with all the organizations
vying for the attention of students,
two of them managed to attract the
interest of more than 450 students.

Those two groups are the College
Republicans and Young Democrats,
wit are gearing up for the elections

ovember of Virginia’s governor,
lieutenant governor and attorney
general.

The College Republicans tradition-

'" EAVERS
oe A ’
‘
io LLEY

computer with a letter quality printer,

2

Additions, detetions,
NO PROBLEM.

corrections are

Coe

1 7 YPING &

1e

i

j CCOUNTING

414

io,  GERVICES
i o

_—

16

’ lave you ever:

1 forgotton an endnote...

i misepelied e word...

: & found just the right source

1 < at the last minuto...?

| O,  RBLAX - wa HAVE THE sOLUTION
i

© Ait our “typing” te done on on [BM PC
i

a
AND YOU CAN'T BEAT OUR PRICES

*@eeerteerteee#kheeteeeesee#e#e#e#e#e#ee &F @ @¢ @ 6

i¢
; ‘ 64 «x 11 $1.25 per page double spaced
°@ 84 x 11 $2.00 por page singlo spaced
1%
la DATA 8BRVICES
: 203 NORTH MAIN STRRET
Fa LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
;¢ 463-9455

a

 

 

| From:
* Name

* address

i" Phone

uC a
> ~

We will make

j arrangements for
|” pick up or delivery
‘ jin Lexington.

 

 

ally have been the largest student or-
ganization on campus, but the group
still saw an increase in interest this
year.

At the table in the matriculation
line, 365 students signed up, an in-
crease of 115 students from last year,
according to Chairman John Pnesec.

For the Young Democrats, 82 peo-
ple signed up, an increase of 45 from

last year. That increase included
more interest from upperclassmen,

according to President Everett Ham-
ilton.

Pensec was surprised at such a
jump in interest in a year with no ma-
jor national elections. Last year’s
presidential race between Ronald
Reagan and Walter Mondale spurred

 

  

 

“Sweet Things” now makes ice cream cakes
Order one today. Just complete and send a check for $10.60 to:

 

106 West Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia
703-463-6055

George’s

REDKEN

Located at 136 Varner Lane
directly behind Leggetts
with plenty of parking

Phone: 463-3975 or walk in.

voter interest. This increase may~
signal renewed political activism in
students, Pensec said.

“We were real pleased with the
number of people who showed inter-
est,” Pensec said.

However, both organizations
realize that the number of people
signing up does not mean that many
people will show up at the meetings.

Hamilton said the Young Demo-
crats have been contacted directly by
one candidate asking for help, and
they plan to work for the other Demo-
cratic candidates as well.

Pensec said the College Republi-
cans traditionally have worked dur-
ing elections for the local Republican

HAIRSTYLISTS

NE*US

   

To:
Name
Address
Phone

 

Messageon
Se

Date
OO ae

      

 
 
     
   
   

 

 

 

party.

Both organizations will be doing
similar work, such as polling Lexing-
ton citizens and manning phone lines
and distributing literature to drum
up support for their candidates.

As for special campus events, both
clubs have plans in the works.

The Young Democrats have sched-
uled Congressman Jim Olin of the 6th
District to speak Tuesday at 7 p.m. in
the University Center.

The College Republicans have no
speakers definitely scheduled, but
they plan to have someone on cam-
pus before the end of the school year.

Hamilton and Pensec also express-
ed a willingness to work together dur-
ing the coming year. Some of the

   

Call for Spporiment

OFF RIGHT!

TRO Bod Chop

ideas they have tossed around in the

past include a friendly softball game,
a cookout, or some type of communi-
ty service, although nothing definite
has been decided.

Despite the willingness to co-
operate, no love is lost between the
two groups.

At matriculation, the Young Demo-
crats displayed an advertisement
against coeducation that the College
Republicans placed in The Phi in the
spring of 1984.

Although many of the women
thought the advertisement was a bad
mark against the College Republi-
cans, they felt that their political
benefits lay more along a conser-
vative line.

| We give good ‘type’
Connections Unlimited
203 N. Main St. (next to Stop-In)

Lexington

463-1100

 

648 Waddell St.

Lexington, Virginia

CO-ED Classes

in Aerobics and Karate
aerobics - mon-friday classes all day
KARATE - tues and thurs 7-8:15 p.m.
first class complimentary!
call 463-5852 for details

Walk-ins welcome

Hamilton said he displayed the
advertisement in retaliation to others
taken out by the College Republicans
that made fun of the Democratic Par-
ty.

Pensec said he was not a member
of his group’s Executive Board when
the ad was published; so he could not
explain the Board’s decision.

“At the time,” he added, ‘‘every-
one was against coeducation.”’

Pensec said he couldn’t speak for
every member of the organization,
but that it was not actively opposing
coeducation now.

“We are all doing our best to make
the women feel welcome,’’ Pensec
said.

      
 

    
 
  
       
   
   
   
     
Page 6, The Ring-tum Phi, September 19, 1985

Crowded dormitory rooms ,—"

spark freshman complaints

 

By JOHN PIPKIN
Staff Reporter

 

Some freshmen have complained
that they are living in crowded condi-
tions in double rooms designed to be
single rooms, and Dean of Freshmen
H. Robert Huntley says the situation
was caused by the increased number
of freshmen this year compared with
last year

There were over 400 freshmen in
this year’s class, 40 to 50 more than in
yrevious years.

To accommodate the large class,
many single rooms in the freshman
jormitories had to be converted into
jouble rooms. As a result, there area

large number of freshmen who are
using a fold-down desk and a portable
closet.

Huntley said that coeducation at-
tracted more applicants and caused
more freshmen who were offered ad-
mission to accept.

The alterations in some of the dor-
mitories didn’t reduce any living
space, Huntley said, so coeducation
was only an indirect cause of the
crowded rooms.

Huntley said he has told the dor-
mitory counselors to do what they
can to make the cramped freshmen
more comfortable. Students are be-
ing allowed additional freedom in
rearranging their rooms.

Although little can be done about
the crowding this year, a new dor-

 

 

 

 

mitory being planned for occupancy
in the fall of 1987 will increase hous-
ing for upperclassmen. It will house
250 upperclassmen in 90 single rooms
and 80 double rooms grouped
together in suites.

The new facility is intended to meet
the needs of the growing student
body, women who may prefer not to
live off campus, and the 100 to 150
male students who have indicated
that they would prefer to continue liv-
ing on campus as upperclassmen.

Assistant to the President Frank A.
Parsons said the project is on
schedule and that construction
should begin in January. The build-
ing will be located on the corner of
Washington and Nelson streets and
will cost an estimated $8 million.

Report cites college system's faults.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
     

1 Block Off Campus

  

Lexington Lighting

— Your Study Lamp Headquarters

   

  

5 West Washington St.

 

CRAFTS PLUS, INC.

GAMES, HOBBIES & CRAFT SUPPLIES

Open Mon.-Sat., 10-5
31S. Main St., Lexington 463-3355

 

 

ee ee ee

i Marie's Kain Ftylers

By Appointment 463-9588
Robine Peggy * Marie

>

Old Main St. Mall
Lexington, VA 24 ‘so

ON RS) A A A ) AS ) T(E ) ND EMD () IED (

3 W. Nelson Street
Lexington, Va. 24450

 

     
       

122 So. Main

 

The Style House

Visit Lexington’s finest hairstylists where we use

NEXUS

and other fine products.
Call or walk-in.

Whole Soles and
Ladies’ Work
My Specialty

LEXINGTON SHOE HOSPITAL

a a a SNE A a a
Expert Shoe Rebuilding

Cecil J. Christley
Owner-Operator

  

463-5954

 

130 S. Main

e Cannondale accessories
e Camp trails packs
e Complete repair service

Lexington Bike Shop

Open 9-5, Mon.-Fri. and 9-12 Sat.

e Road or trail route information

463-7969

¢ Motobecane
¢ Shogun

¢ Ross

¢ Eureka tents

 

 

 

ALOHA WOK

409 South Main St., Lexington, Virginia 24450
703-463-9342

   

 

Sunday Lunch Buffet 12 - 2:30

Chinese and
American Cuisine

Exotic Cocktails
Carry-out Service
Available
Open Tuesday through Sunday

Luncheon 11:30 - 2:30
Dinner 5 - 10

Saturday Open 4- 10

 

 

    

1678. Main St.

 

167 S. Main St., 463-3106

Stop by and open up a charge account for all your
grocery needs. We carry a complete line of fresh meats
and produce, imported beers and wines for the most

discriminating taste.

quite Front Ma,

‘ing the W&L community over 30 years.

  
   
 
   
    
 

     
 

‘ke

453-3105

SITAR
FOR SALE =|] SERVISDTAR.
iBMelectric typewriter, 23 S. Main
$200. Lexington, Va. 24450
Call 463-8639 between Lexington Hardware By CHRISTOPHER CONNELL
10 and 3. 463-2242 The Associated Press
a Ee WASHINGTON — America must
1 . develop an entrepreneurial spirit and
THOMAS C, BRADSHAW il K — a sense of civic responsibility in its
Photographist - Frame Shop - Kis Mini Lab | college graduates or risk losing pre-
7 North Main Street 1-HOUR eminence in the world’s economy, a
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450 Carnegie Foundation report said this

The U.S. system of higher educa-
tion is “‘the best in the world,’’ but
needs to change ‘“‘to encourage crea-

Wendell’s
Barber Shop

| need your head for
my business.

 

 

Tape Sale

TDK - D90 - $1.49
Maxell - UDXL2 - C90 - $2.49
Some restrictions apply
Eastern Distributing
463-9703 after 6 p.m.

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

Freshmen Mike McKinney (left) and Brad Slappey share a crowdedroom in Graham- Lees

tive and challenging thought and to
stop stifling these characteristics,”
the study said.

The report by Frank Newman also
sharply criticized the ‘excessive
loans” many college students now
are being forced to shoulder.

‘*A student who leaves college with
a large debt burden may well feel he
has already assumed all of the risk
that he possibly should,” said
Newman, who charged that the trend
toward loans may ‘“‘inadvertently un-
dercut traditional values’’ and make

ges ga etn ie ERR ROAR SO A SS EN SLE TORENT

Liberal arts career fair set for November |

Challenge ’86, a liberal arts
career fair, will be held on Wed-
nesday, Nov. 13, 1985, at the
Radisson Hotel in Lynchburg.
This event is sponsored by nine of
the area colleges and is exclusive-
ly for the benefit of seniors.
Throughout the day employers
will have tables of information
about their organization set up in
a central area. The special ses-
sions will run concurrently with

Guidelines and application
forms for the Younger Scholars
Program of the National Endow-
ment for the Humanities are now
available in the Office of the Dean
of the College. The program will
award up to 100 grants nationally

 

it harder for graduates to buy homes
or cars,

The report also cited graduates’
emphasis on materialism and lack of
civic involvement. ‘By every mea-
sure we have been able to find, to-
day’s graduates are less interested in
and less prepared to exercise their
civic responsibilities,” it said.

Newman’s report, ‘‘Higher Educa-
tion and the American Resurgence,”
is the latest in a volley of reform
reports that began 24 years ago with
‘A Nation At Risk,” prepared by the

the open information tables and
are intended to supplement that
part of the program. A $5 registra-
tion fee includes one meal. Sev-
eral employers have requested
the option of conducting indi-
vidual interviews with seniors at-
tending Challenge ’86. These
interviews will be requested
through the Career Development
and Placement Office. All
students have the opportunity to

Applications available for young scholar program

to college and high school students
to conduct their own research and
writing projects in fields such as
history, philosophy and literature.
Applicants must be 21 years of age
or under throughout the calendar
year or, if they are over 21, they

~

National Commission on Excellencé
in Education.

Newman, a former president of the,
University ‘of Rhode Island, was the
author of two studies commissioned
by the Department of Health, Educa-
tion and Welfare that influenced fed-
eral education policies in the early”
1970s. ¥

His new report calls for a recon+
figuration of the current $8 billion
Federal Student Aid Program, with a,
great emphasis on Pell Grants and”
work-study funds. ‘

4

talk with employers at each of the -
information tables.

For a listing of the companies
attending Challenge ’86 and infor- *
mation on registering for this pro- ,
gram, visit the Career Develop-
ment and Placement Office in the *
University Center. Also, there will
be a Resume Workshop on Sept. 25
at 3 p.m. in Room 109 of the Stu- °

dent Center to help you prepare ,|..

for this important program.

must be full-time college students ~
pursuing an undergraduate de- ,
gree at the time of application. In-

dividuals who will have received *
or expect to receive a bachelor’s

degree by Oct. 1, 1986, are not
eligible to apply.

 

 

 

SAVE MONEY!

 

21 W. Washington St.

TRAVEL UNLIMITED

Going home for Thanksgiving or
Christmas? Plan ahead,

“System One Computers”
“Boarding Pass Printers”’
— 3 certified travel consultants —

463-7174

 

 

Rambling Rose Weaving Studio 4
Nessa Scannell Degen {
Handwoven 4
Originals 1

by
Nessa ¢

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

116 N. Main St.

 

 

Come visit soon — We carry a selection
of cards, soaps, mugs, dhurrie rugs,
lap desks, stationery, stuffed animals,
jewelry, cheese, tea, candies, etc. !

We look forward to seeing you all year!!

463-3683

 

 

 

 

 

Me,

 

Jefferson ®

Florist to the Homeste

103N. ics
Lexington
463-9841

Uk...
a ferson

Fresh, healthy plants selected with
our familiar high standards.

BIG Savings

to kick off the school year! Free off-
street parking on Jefferson Street.

 

 

 

African Violets

 

* Ballet Reg. $3.95

    
 

   

Lian
: Jette rson
Ferns - 4” Pot
ee ee ee
: A *Maidenhalr
\ * Asparaque
*Staghorn
— h Nr

 

 

Third Annual Welcome-Back to-School

House Plant Sale

September 9-28 only

Open 9-5, Mon. thru Sat.

   

   

Starter Plants
Reg $1.95
$ ] 25
* 3” pots-hundreds
* Assorted ferns
Ivys-Philodendrons-
Aloe-Pothos-Jade
Peperomias-Paime

Reg. Begonias-Prayer
Plants

Hanging Baskets

* Creeping Charley
*lvy
Green & variegated

*Bolivian Jew

* Spider Plant
Variegated with
plantlets

*Piggyback
lush & green

* Wandering Jew
several varieties

* Swedish Ivy ss

*Pothos <
Marble Queen
Golden

 

Quality Foliage Plants ‘
R=. O10

 

Caper’s Welcomes
W&L men and women

With specials on:

 

eee ee ee ee eeeses

 

for

eee eee eee eee eee eee eeeeeeeeeseeseese

with 10 session sign-up

10% student discount on all other services
with sutdent body card

$4995

Free Sunnigoggles

 

 

 

/ un

463-2566
25 N. Main St.

By Hank Mayer/The Ring-tum Phi Nag:

   
   
   
   
   
  
 

 

 

 

The president’s new house

president’s house on campus, but that his family will use
the new house as a less-formal alternative. The Univer-
sity holds a $75,000 mortgage on the house for Wilson.

University President John D. Wilson in March pur-
chased this house 115 miles south of Lexington for
$124,000. Wilson said this week that he will not leave the

 

) rN (
By Paul Foutch/The Ring-tum Phi

 

EC

0 Continued from Page 1

nary structure is unlikely to be
changed in the short-term.

“T don’t think they’re going to do
anything about the system” as a
whole, Hayden said. ‘They want to
try it for three years.”’

Junior Representative Shayam
Menon was among those singling out
for criticism the provision making
the ‘‘use of racial, ethnic, religious or
sexual slurs” a major offense.

“It’s really ridiculous — that’s
what it is,”’ he said.

Shifting to another matter, sopho-
more representative Pat Schaefer
objected to the requirement that
dorm counselors notify the dean’s of-
fice of possession of beer by fresh-
men younger than the legal drinking
age.

Schaefer said that creates “a very
dangerous situation’ in which dorm
counselors and freshmen “‘are pitted
against each other.”’

 

Lewis, in his second year as dorm
counselor, agreed.

“It’s impossible to do academic
counseling when you turned him in
the night before for having beer on
the hall,”’ he said. ‘“‘He’s not going to
trust you and he’s not going to listen
to you.”

Junior Representative Baltzer Le-
Jeune raised the point that the book-
store is not allowing students to
charge books to their parents without
presenting the new bookstore ‘‘credit
cards.”

Bookstore Manager Helena W.
Roller confirmed the card is required
in order to charge purchases.

“Can I ask the members of the
committee what ever happened to
this book?’’ Lewis asked, theatrically
displaying a copy of the Honor Sys-
tem White Book.

‘Does Mrs. Roller know anything
about our Honor System?” he con-
tinued. “I think this is very bad. I
can’t imagine that a man’s — a per-
son’s — word is not going to be taken
at this university.”

Menon echoed his concern. ‘‘We

can’t let [the Honor System] slip,’’ he
said. “It’s slipping now with all these
ridiculous changes.”

Secretary Mike Webb, though,
pointed out that the bookstore had
been having trouble with bills being
sent to incorrect people, and that the
cards were an attempt to eliminate
the errors.

“It hasn’t anything to do with
honor,” Roller said Tuesday. ‘‘Isn’t
anybody sympathetic to my plight?”’

The change came, she explained,
because of longer charge numbers
required by the University computer,

She said errors inevitably creep if
the information is given verbally.
‘“‘What are we supposed to do about
that but get hearing aids?” she asked
in frustration.

Roller also pointed out that the
fallibility of students’ memories
sometimes results in a lot of hemm-
ing and hawing at at the counter as
they try to conjure up their number.

Roller added she knows of no other
University bookstore that allows
students to charge home “at all.”’

Beer

 

 

 

 

ENROLL IN AMERICAS
LARGEST MANAGEMENT
TRAINING PROGRAM.

  

 

 
 

Becoming an officer in
today’s Army—which also
includes the Army Reserve
and Army National
Guard — requires getting the
right kind of management
and leadership training.

What's the best way to

. get it? By enrolling in

America’s largest manage-
ment training program-
Army ROTC.

In the Army ROTC
4-year program, you'll
acquire discipline of mind
and spirit, and the ability
to perform under pressure.
We call it learning what
it takes to lead.

It'll pay off, too. First,
during your last two years of
college, when you'll start
receiving up to $1,000 a year.

And, most of all, on
graduation day, when you
receive a commission along

@ with a college degree.

ARMY ROTC.
BE ALLYOU CAN BE.

For more information
contact your Professor of,

Military Science at 463-8480

~ FRESHMEN -

Register for MS 101

Continued from Page 1

eBeck’se

With all the fine German quality
this name implies, this beer was pro-
bably the biggest let-down of the
night. When poured, it was a good
looking beer with a strong yeasty
smell that both of us liked. But the
first taste was a real disappointment.
Although it was a smooth beer, it also
lacked h.eavily in any distinct taste.

Chris — 4.2; Jamie — 5.5.

*Coorse

Chris and I both liked the look of
this beer, with a nice golden color
and a good smell. We liked the taste
but had a lot of trouble pinning down
exactly why. It had a sharp taste on
the tongue with your first sip, and we
found it to have a rather dry taste.
One thing for sure, we both thought
that it was inferior to beer No. 1
(Lite) and showed that in our slightly
lower ratings.

Chris — 4.9; Jamie — 4.9.

Guiness Stout warm)¢

Our bartender, Misty, suggested
that we include one cold bottle of
Guiness Stout and one warm one, so
we readily complied. Of course, since
this was the only warm beer we were
drinking, we knew what it was, but
we were still very impressed.
Guiness is a very dark beer, with a
robust look and highly alcoholic
smell. Surprisingly, Guiness tasted
great warm because there was so
much flavor (and alcohol, we may
add) that it didn’t need to be cold to
help wash it down. We suggest you do
not try chugging or playing any beer
games with this beer, because the

The Ring-tum Phi, September 19, 1985, Page 7

results could be regrettable. As an
after-dinner drink, though, this
would be tops. Very enjoyable and
filling.

Chris — 7; Jamie — 7.7

*Michelob Darke

This was the other dark beer in our
survey and it had its pros and cons
Mich Dark was a good looking beer,
but it had none of the strong smell of
Guiness. It also had none of the flavor
of Guiness. We came to the basic con-
clusion that Mich Dark was very lit-
tle more than Michelob with food col-
oring. Yet, Chris and I both found this
to be a very enjoyable beer. It had a
very dry, smooth and drinkable
flavor that we both liked. A good
beer, but do not let the ‘‘Dark”’ on the
label fool you. As Chris said, ‘‘For
neophytes only; leave the big stuff to
the heavy hitters.”’

Chris — 6.6; Jamie — 6.3

*Busche

Chris imediately called this a
“dead head’’ because of the total lack
of any head. It looked almost like
watered down ginger-ale and as we
soon found out, tasted like it also. The
only reason I gave it any sort of de-
cent rating was because I figured it
would be an excellent party beer
when you didn’t care what you were
drinking. A “rapid-fire” beer, meant
for chugging, beer-bongs and throw-

ing on fellow party-goers.
Chris — 3.8; Jamie — 4.5.
eHeinekene

This beer caused a lot of disagree-
ment. Chris thought it was a superior
tasting beer, while I didn’t like the
sharp taste it brought to my mouth.
When told what it was later, I was
certainly surprised to find that I had
disliked the taste so much.

Chris — 7.4; Jamie — 5.3.

 

*Bass Alee This was simply an
excellent beer. It had a nice brown
color, and a good head and smell to it.
The taste was the best of both worlds,
with a lot of taste that made a very
distinctive beer but also very drink-
able and smooth. A good beer for just
about any purpose.

Chris -— 7.1; Jamie — 7.9.

Guiness Stout (cold)«

It was surprising how the cold
Guiness did not taste much different
from the warm stuff. Chris decided to
back away from a high rating on
Guiness because of the near in-
timidating flavor of this beer. ‘This
beer puts me in my place,’’ Chris
said.

Chris — 5.2; Jamie — 7.8

But the most interesting results oc-
curred when Chris and I added in our
BPB (buzz per buck) formula. We
decided to divide the numerical
ratings by the price of that particular
bottle of beer, and the results were
amazing. The higher the BPB score,
the better for the beer, because that
would mean low price and good taste.
The results of the BPB factor were as
follows:

Miller Lite: Jamie6.5 Chris-4.3

Foster’s: Jamie-5.8  Chris-6.7

Budweiser: Jamie-7.5 Chris 6.3

Beck’s: Jamie-5.8 Chris-4.4

Coors: Jamie-7.4 Chris-7.4

Guiness (warm): Jamie-
6.4 Chris-5.8

Mich, Dark: Jamie-8.8 Chris-8.4

Busch: Jamie-7.7_ Chris-6.5

Heineken: Jamie-5.8 Chris-8.1

Bass: Jamie6.9 Chris-6.2

Guin.(cold): Jamie4.5 Chris-4.3

So with the buzz per buck factored
in, Michelob Dark was the clear win
ner with a good compromise of taste
and decent price.

 

Girard

© Continued from Page 1

 

to attend classes at W&L while in jail.

In court yesterday, Read raised the
issue of Girard’s attendance in
classes and at a freshman orientation
meeting last week at which Girard
spoke. He said Girard left the jail
without the consent of Read’s office
or of the court, and called it ‘‘an or-
chestration to try to influence the
court.”

He also mentioned several letters
written to Honts after Girard’s plea
but before sentencing. He said neith-
er he nor law enforcement officers
received copies and suggested Mann
might have done better to call the
people who wrote the letters to testify
in court.

Mann, who was aided in the.case by
W&L -law Professor James. M.

BEER

12 PK.

$

COUNTRY
DELI

Great Deli Sandwiches
Bakery Goods

Party Packs

Seating for 25

 

With any purchase

 

 

  

 

Phemister, later said Read ‘‘must
think that this is part of an overall ne-
farious plan to undercut his authori-
Bigg

Mann added that he didn’t intro-
duce the issue — Read did.

Mann explained that he was asked
to speak to the freshman class during
orientation on questions of Virginia
law concerning drug use. He added
that it was suggested by Sheriff S. M.
Reynolds that Girard speak to the
freshmen as well about his exper-
iences.

Mann said that he thought that was
a good idea. ‘‘It’s logical to ask him
to speak,”’ he said. ‘‘He’s a student.”’

Two of the letters contained in the
court record are from W&L Dean of
Freshmen H. Robert Huntley and
head football coach Gary R. Fallon.

Huntley’s letter referred to
Girard’s participation in the orienta-
tion exercises. ‘‘Without exaggera-

 

  

B00 NORTH MAIN STREET+ LEXINGTO

PEPSI

2 Liter boitie

“1.29

  

COKE
CLASSIC

G pk. cans

1.49

   
  
  
   

463-6899
OPEN 24 HOURS

Pepperoni
Cheese, Mushrooms
Or any Combination

 
 
  

MOVIE

VCR and 1 Movie $6.95 with deposit

 
  
   

tion, it was the single most effective
presentation I’ve ever witnessed in
Lee Chapel,’’ Huntley wrote. He con-
tinued that it showed the freshmen
“the real and immediate disaster
they court in dabbling with drugs.”

When asked about Read’s assertion
that he skirted the proper procedure
in arranging to have Girard speak
and registered for classes, Mann
replied that since no’plea agreement
was made in the trial, it v
necessary to receive the approval of
Read’s office in the case.

“T think John felt his authority was
being usurped,” Mann said.
Mann added that it was on Rey-

nolds’ authority that Girard was re-
leased from custody.

In past cases involving W&L stu
dents, arrangements have been
made with Read’s office for a defen-
dant to attend classes in exchange for
aplea agreement.

A, «

 
 
   

 

STOP iN
RENTAL

FREE Membership with
approved credit

TUESDAY MOVIES
$1.00

 

   
  
 

$.50 OFF
Ay, liciouws

cn

Sandwiches made
to order
8/SPORTS

 

 

By ROB MacPHERSON
Staff Reporter

When one attempts to name the
‘winner of an athletic event, he must
take home-field advantage as one of
his primary criteria. Yesterday, the
‘Washington and Lee soccer Generals
‘made the prognosticator’s job easy.
Playing for the first time ever on the
‘same field they practice on, the
“Generals showed how much they like

_etheir new home field, Smith Field, by

*’ stifling Shenandoah College, 7-0.

» Until this season, the home soccer
field had been Wilson Field, a site

~ that was not cozy to say the least.

» Yesterday's performance made it
perfectly clear that future adjust-

~ ments to their playing accomoda-
tions would be few and far between.

The Generals came out strong and

~ began creating some excellent goal-
= scoring opportunities. They estab-
© lished a ball-hawking style of offense
: early in the first half and at 25:55,
- junior forward Ken Randby pounced
- ona loose ball inside the Shenandoah
- defensive third and banged it home
- for W&L’s first goal of 1985.

- From here, W&L shifted into high
- gear and within the next five min-
* utes, they had four terrific chances to

W&L never let up. The Generals’ per-
sistence paid huge dividends in the
form of two goals in 30 seconds
Freshman Johnny Sarber, with an
assist from junior Tom Myers, and
junior Peter Van Son each connected
to make the score 3-0 in favor of
W&L.

Van Son must have been thrilled to
score his first goal of 1985, because he
added another with just under four
minutes left in the half to put the
Generals ahead 4-0 as the teams ex-
ited for the intermission

Shenandoah opened the second half
with possession of the ball. But
despite quickly breaking through the
W&L defense, they could not score.

Assuming a ‘‘no more Mr. Nice
Guy”’ position, W&L worked the ball
and the clock to meet its personal
wishes. Among those wishes appar-
ently was another goal. Senior co-
captain Bill Holmes quickly acted on
those wishes by blasting a 20-yard
left footer that easily found the back
of the Shenandoah net.

Holmes’ goal signaled the end of
the day for the General starters as
W&L head coach Rolf Piranian went
to his reserves for the rest of the
afternoon.

Defensively, junior co-captain Jim-

“.add to the score.

’ Despite not being able to connect,

 

my Tucker anchored a strong W&L
effort along with junior Tom Peters

By Charles Slate
W&L quarterback Jon Thornton avoids rush Saturday

Fallon confident
despite 30-0 loss

 

By DAVID EMRICH
Staff Reporter

 

Last Saturday’s season opening
loss to Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference rival Emory and Henry
didn’t seem to bode well for the rest
of the season. After all, following 30-0
losses there usually aren't many
Washington and Lee supporters leav-
ing the stadium with smiling faces.

However, according to W&L head
coach Gary Fallon, there were many
promising signs — hardly what one
would expect from a man whose
team was so soundly defeated.

‘But perhaps the biggest reason
behind Fallon’s good humor is that
the injured Kevin Weaver was exam-
ined by the doctors and given appro-
val to play next Saturday against
Centre. Fallon said this would allow
them to run the more complicated of-
fense and would most definitely help
the team.

W&L entered the game without the
services of projected starting
tailback Weaver who had to sit out
due to a new injury. Weaver’s ab-
sence forced Fallon to alter the
salanced W&L attack by utilizing a
iufry-up offense to try to rattle the
&L defenders. This ploy appeared
o be working as W&L moved the ball
ve}l early

Unfortunately for the Generals,
our miscues opened the floodgates
or‘the Wasps.

The first, a fumble on the Emory
nd Henry 40, killed an effective
rive, while the second, an intercep-
ion with the Generals at the E&H 26-
ard line, was returned 75 yards for a
yuchdown to put W&L down 7-0 ear-

4

W&L attempted to mount a come-
ack, but mistakes again kept them
ut of the game. This time the Wasps
rored after a blocked punt gave
em possession on the Generals’ 5-
aid line. E&H's Sandy Rogers, who
‘sored two touchdowns and rushed
r over 100 yards on the day, scored
1a 5-yardrun to put E&H up 14-0.

In the second quarter W&L
iarterback Jon Thornton was sack-

and fumbled on his own 1-yard
ie. The Wasps again capitalized,
oring on another short run to post a

) halftime lead.

After the Wasps scored on a second
lf drive, W&L committed its final

mistake, snapping the ball over the
head of punter B.J. Sturgill and into
the end zone for a safety.

Why, then, was Coach Fallon so
happy? “I liked the way the team
played. They never gave up,’’ Fallon
said. ‘Even though they were down
30 points, they played like the score
was 7-7. If you had walked into the
ball game late and didn’t see the
score you would have thought that it
was a close game from the way our
guys played. I was very proud of

and freshman Michael Drusano.
Sophomore Chris Gareis and fresh-
man Sheldon Clark combined for the
shutout in the General goal.

W&L closed out its scoring with
second-half goals from sophomore
Charles Lyle and a second tally from
freshman Sarber.

Piranian seemed satisfied with his
team’s play, saying, ‘It took a while
to get going, but we’re where we
want to be right now.”’

If he means Smith Field, he may be
right.

On Saturday the Generals will play
host to the Royals of Eastern Men-
nonite College, an Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference match that both
teams anxiously await.

The Royals, coming off a dismal
3-11-1, fourth-place finish last year,
are hoping to rebound from last
Saturday’s 1-0 loss to Averett.

Center forward Phil Landes and
midfielder Gary Meyers lead the
Eastern Mennonite attack. They are
supported by six fellow returning
starters. Coach Byron Shenk is op-
timistic about his goalkeepers, whom
he describes as ‘good communica-
tors.”

However, communication is only
one aspect of the Royals’ game plan.
Scoring goals is another, and accord-

ing to Shenk, this year’s major con-

cern. Last year’s team was shut out

11 times, a statistic which caused

Shenk to place his emphasis on of-

fense in this year’s pre-season. Con-

sequently, he feels that the Royals

“should be stronger’ in the oppo-
nent’s end of the field in 1985.

The Generals, under the tutelage of
10th-year head coach Rolf Piranian,
have installed a new system which
enables them to utilize all 11 men on
the field. This game plan will keep
teams from marking a particular
General player, Piranian said. The
ll-man attack also should make in-
dividual fatigue less of a factor, ac-
cording to the W&L head coach.

Piranian sees the Royals as a tough
defensive team year in and year out,
and he expects no reason for a
change this year. He’s hoping to keep
his players as fresh as possible
because he knows that this will be a
tight, high pressure ballgame.
“We're going to have to do a lot of
running,” the coach said. And run
was exactly what they did last year,
when the Generals prevailed 3-2 in
overtime.

Last year’s dramatics should carry
over into Saturday’s contest, so much
so that, according to Piranian, ‘‘Jim-
my the Greek would pick this to be a
tight match.”

The Ring-tum Phi, September 19, 1985 ,

   

New field just fine in soccer’ ‘S 7-0 opener

By Cotton Parvear/The foe tum Pa

Bill Holmes (in white) takes control of ball

Polo overcomes itself to get second place

 

By LEIF UELAND
Staff Reporter

 

Winning three of its five matches,
the Washington and Lee water polo
team finished second to Richmond in
W&L’s Fall Classic last weekend.

The team’s performance showed
its ability to play impressive polo. It
also illustrated the inconsistency of
an inexperienced group.

After handling Lynchburg, 36-2, in
their opener, the Generals suffered a
surprising defeat in their second
match to Johns Hopkins, 11-10. The
team came back with victories over
Dayton, 12-8, and the University of
Arkansas at Little Rock, 21-8.

ly the most important
match for the Generals was the loss
to Johns Hopkins, a team W&L look-
ed likely to beat soundly.

“The Johns Hopkins loss occurred
because we made some mistakes
that are common with a young
team,”’ Remillard said.

“It was one of those early season
problems that I do not expect to see
later in the year.”

The loss to Johns Hopkins pulled
the rug out from under the confident
W&L team, and with three tough
matches remaining the Generals had
no time to lose in getting back up on
their feet.

“Everybody was just devastated
[by the loss], but we did a great job
coming back,” said sophomore
Simon Perez.

In their victories against Arkansas
and Dayton the Generals were on top
of their game, looking confident in a
challenging situation.

“Arkansas and Dayton are good
teams and I think they were an in-

 

 

 

 

 

 

David Weaver (11) takes a defensive position in action from the W&L Fall Classic.

dication of the way we can play,”
Remillard said.

In the championship game, W&L
was dominated by the University of
Richmond, the No. 18 team in the na-
tion.

‘“‘We are a better team than last
year, but they’re no worse. They
made us make mistakes. They’re
mistakes that we can correct. And I
assume the responsibility for correc-
ting those mistakes,” said coach
Remillard.

 

them. I don’t measure success by
wins and losses, I measure it by that
type of thing.”’

Fallon did cite some bright spots
for the Generals during the E&H
game. ‘‘We didn’t pass or run as well
as we could have, but I was very im-
pressed with the job Chris Coffland
did.”’

Coffland started in place of the in-
jured Weaver, gaining 116 yards in
total offense.

Due to a scheduling problem with
Dickinson, the football team now has
an open date with no game planned
for Saturday. Coach Fallon thinks the
time off will help the team.

‘We had a tough pre-season, and
then the tough game with Emory and
Henry. The time off will allow us to
regroup,” he said indicating that
while the players will have next
Saturday off, ‘We'll start working
just as if we had played on the
previous day.”’

Fallon said W&L will work on
sharpening pass patterns and im-
proving its running game in the days
leading up to next Saturday’s game
with Centre College.

‘‘When Kevin Weaver went down,

 

we were left without an experienced

Che Ring-tum Phi
Washington and Lee University’s
Student Newspaper
Only $15 for a year’s supply
of campus news,
opinion and entertainment

 

The Ring-tum Phi.

Name

Yes! Please include me on the 1985-86 subscrip-
tion list. I have enclosed a $15 check payable to

 

Street

 

City/State/Zip

 

 

 

 

 

 

tailback that we could use. This
prevented us from using our more
complicated offensive formations
and we're going to work on that this
week,”’ Fallon said.

Fallon said the extra time between
games also will be used to review
game films and prepare a game plan.
The W&L kicking game which gave
up three points in the E&H loss, will
also be a focus, Fallon said.

‘“‘But basically,” he said, ‘‘we’re
going to work on our passing and run-
ning so we don’t repeat the mistakes
we made on Saturday.

Valley True Value Hardware

HARDW Tru Value STORES

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

E. Nelson St.
463-2186

 

Mon. - Sat, 8:30 - 6:00

Senior co-captain David Lewis
spoke of such mistakes, ‘‘Richmond
capitalized on six on five [man disad-
vantage]. We didn’t.”

The weekend saw many notable
performances. Senior co-captain Tim
Stanford had 19 goals, Perez had 12
goals, and Lewis had 11 assists.

W&L’s ‘‘B”’ team finished seventh

with a 12-11 win over Lynchburg.
This weekend the team travels to

Brown University to play Bucknell,

Iona and Army in the Northeast Var-

By David Sprunt

sity Invitational. The three teams are
all of the caliber of Richmond and
should make for tough competition.

“It will be close. We hope to win
one, we would be thrilled with two,
and if we win three — look out,’’ said
Remillard.

Brown’s pool is Olympic-size with
no shallow end, which the team feels
will complement its depth and abili-
ty.

We are working hard, it should pay
off,” Stanford commented.

 

WILLSON-

HOUSE

ei IP neice

WALKER

Lt

 

 

 

 

a

ae.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

See ea
=

 

LT
eo

 

 

 

 

 

 

Restaurant.

Located

American wines.

 

in historic downtown Lexington,
Willson-Walker House is Lexington’s most distinctive
restaurant decorated with period antiques and offer-
ing dishes prepared with the freshest and finest local
and regional ingredients along with an assortment of

‘a
pt i I

the

 

full banquet facilities can

ther information.

As an additional feature, the Willson-Walker House
offers a banquet room which seats up to fifty. Our

reception, luncheon, dinner party, or seminar. Con-
tact Steve Hintze or Patty Wood at 463-3020 for fur-

accommodate your next

 

ner, 11:30-2:30, 5:30-10:00,

dinner.

 

Sun. 1-5

The Willson-Walker House is open for lunch and din-
ed Sunday and Monday. Reservations requested for

30 N. Main Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Tuesday-Saturday. Clos-

 

 
 

 

TIME OUT/Mike Stachura

Let’s not go
to the tape

...Officiating. The issue's been talked to death: perhaps ever since
that demon technology invented the instant replay, and one more talk-
ing isn’t going to make a bit of difference, but here’s a new idea: Let's
not use anything but the six gentlemen we already have scurrying
around the field.

But wait, you say. The USFL used the joy of videotape last season,
occasionally. The NFL also was lured by the apparent charms of the
second-look factor. So much so in fact, that Pete ‘The Pup” Rozelle is
talking about using cameras as officials come playoff time. These
video machines are going to give you a better angle than six men scur-
rying around the field, you say. These six scurrying men, you say,
have been missing calls left and right, And not just missing calls, you
say, but missing calls that are game-maker calls.

Boy, you say a lot.

But all of it is true. And still we don’t need the TV camera. The addi-
tion of the TV judge, a name quite fitting for the new official, would
be much the example of too many cooks spoiling the batter, if not
changing the entire recipe.

The game is fine as it is, but it can only get worse with the addition of
TV. The logistical problems inherent in adopting the camera as
an extra official are only an initial step toward real confusing pro-
blems. For example, there are the delays involved in deciding that
maybe they should look at the tape for this play. And what if the
camera doesn’t catch the play from this angle? Or when do you decide
to use Supercalafrajolistic Slo-Mo to get a better idea of how the play
really turned out? Meanwhile, what do we get to do while a bunch of
bozos deliberate for 20 or 30 minutes on whether or not Mark Duper
had both feet in bounds?

If the video camera replaces the official, can we be far from changes
in the game like running pass patterns designed to provide for difficult
camera angles? Officials will become lax in their duties. (‘‘Oh, the
camera will catch our mistakes.’’)

The instant replay is a technical mess. But what's more is that it is
not a uniform part of the game. The cameras would not be used at
Washington and Lee nor at Lexington High School. But would anyone
dispute the fact that at the core, both the game played in Lexington
and the game played in Dallas are the same?

And Pete the Pup’s talk about just using the camera in the playoffs
is patently absurd. What makes these games more important than
those played the week before?

Football is football. Its bi-annual rule changes have done little than
clutter the game. Let’s make better officials. Let’s not continue to clut-

 

 

....Colonnade-wise, here’s what’s doing: They’ve got a good idea
geared up for lunch every Tuesday in Evans Dining Hall. The in-
season coaches will host a ‘‘General-Lee Speaking” kind of get-
together that will include video demonstrations and ‘‘week in review”
presentations by the coaches. A leisurely way to spend lunch while at
the same time showing a little bit of appreciation for the work the W&L
athletes and coaches put in. Make it a point to be there...I think it
would be best for all if we forgot about last Saturday afternoon in
Emory. What we can remember, however, is the water polo team’s
weekend in Lexington. They might lave lost a couple, but somehow
you know that this week’s appearance in the finals is merely a taste of
good things to come...Good to see the soccer team get off to a good
start. A reminder that their home games are up on the field in front of
Liberty Hall...

.... Noticed the other day that a U.S.-Soviet sports pact had been sign-
ed. A what? Sad is the day that we start having ‘‘political” agreements
determine athletic practices. The agreement doesn’t even guarantee
both countries will show up for the 1988 Seoul Summer Olympics. Some

....And finally, a personal note to Gerry Faust: Hope the new home
you reportedly are building fn South Bend has wheels underneath it....

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, September 19, 1985, Page 9?

 

 

 

 

By DAVID NAVE
Staff Reporter

 

Want to exchange play calling
strategies with Washington and Lee
head football coach Gary Fallon?

Anyone, including W&L students,
faculty and administrators, may at-
tend the weekly ‘‘General-Lee”
Speaking Sports Luncheon on Tues-
days at noon in Evans Dining Hall’s
side dining room.

The Athletic Department hosted
the first luncheon this past Tuesday.
Those who wish to attend may bring
their own lunch or purchase an “‘All
You Can Eat” lunch at the. Dining
Hall for $3.35.

Head lacrosse coach Dennis Daly,
who is also responsible for Athletic
Department promotions, organized
the program. Daly said that the pro-
gram is designed to bring the coach-
es, faculty and students together.
Hosting these luncheons, Daly plans
to illustrate to the W&L community
that the University’s athletic pro-
grams are only extra-curricular ac-
tivities and not high pressure, class-
time consuming athletic programs
that some other schools have.

President Wilson attended Tues-
day’s meeting and hopes that the
meetings would ‘help increase the
interest in supporting Washington
and Lee athletics.” He also supports
the luncheons because they give the
faculty, coaches, and students a rare
opportunity to meet together and
discuss the University’s athletic pro-
grams.

Each week, the coaches whose
teams are in-season will discuss
strategies, players and schedules.
Also, each meeting will feature video

 

By Sean Connelly /The Ring-tum Phi

Coaches Gary Fallon (left) and Dennis Daly joke at luncheon

Sports on the menu
for Tuesday lunches

tape highlights of a current W&L
sport.

The inaugural ‘‘General-Lee”’
luncheon featured highlights from
the Washington and Lee football
team’s season opener against Emory
and Henry last weekend.

During the highlights, faculty
members asked Coach Fallon about
specific plays and players. For ex-
ample, one guest asked about Emory
and Henry’s Old Dominion Athletic
Conference outlook. Fallon replied,
“I’ve got to think that E&H is the
team to beat.’’ He also said that
Randolph-Macon and Hampden-Syd-
ney would contend strongly for the
ODAC title.

Coach Daly opened Tuesday’s
lunch describing the program’s pur-
pose and introducing the ‘‘in-season’”’
coaches. He also mentioned that
future luncheons may feature some
of the University’s outstanding
athletes.

Head soccer coach Rolf Piranian
then reported on his new team, its
strengths and weaknesses, and its
opening game against Shenandoah.

Following Piranian, head water
polo coach Page Remillard discussed
his team’s second-place finish at last
weekend’s W&L Fall Classic. He also
described his use of video tape to help
him coach his team. Fallon then con-
cluded the program with his high-
light presentation.

Coach Daly said that he was very
pleased with the first meeting’s at-
tendance and results.

Daly has scheduled ‘‘General-Lee”’
Speaking luncheons for each Tues-
day on the W&L academic calendar.
Next week, the program will feature
soccer highlights. The Oct. 1 lunch-
eon will feature water polo.

W&L-VMI Golf Invitational set for weekend

 

By REED HOWLETT
Staff Reporter

 

This weekend the Washington and
Lee student body, as well as the en-
tire Lexington community, will be
treated to some of the finest col-
legiate golf in the area, as the 7th An-
nual W&L-VMI Invitational Golf
Tournament is held on Friday and
Saturday at the Lexington Golf and

Country Club.

Eighteen teams will be participat-
ing in what Coach Buck Leslie calls
“one of the best fall tournaments in
the Mid-Atlantic region.’’ Two Divi-
sion I golf teams, Old Dominion and
William and Mary, will be included in
the field.

Leslie looks for senior captain
Greg Wheeler, sophomore Gary
Camal, sophomore Chip Gist, junior
Mark Zavatsky, and sophomore John

Gammage to play the Generals into
an upper-half finish in the invita-
tional.

Across the way at VMI, head coach
John Swink speaks of the strength of
the field: ‘“‘Teams such as James
Madison and Virginia Common-
wealth play in many prestigious tour-
naments all year round.’’ Swink
would not venture to predict how the
Keydets will fare, but he looks to h.is
strongest golfer, Robert Nussy, and

two more lettermen to lead VMI.

The tournament will begin this
Thursday, when the course opens for
practice rounds. Practice will give
way to actual play on Friday and
Saturday with tee times starting at 9
a.m. from both the first and tenth
tees.

One thing is for sure, no matter
who wins the tournament, there will
be some excellent golf played this
weekend right here in Lexington.

 

 

Handcrafted
Jewelry

Unique designs in silver, gold
and porcelain
Artist’s in Cahoots
Gallery

in Old Main St. Mall
at Main and Henry Streets

 

Mon.-Sat, 10 a.m. to5 p.m.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Jill’s a Lady

126 S. Main St.

Come in and browse.
All famous name brands
in Jr. and Misses sizes

Dresses
Sweaters
Sportswear
Accessories

 

 

 

 

 

The Beauty
Bar

156 S. Main St.
463-2886

Specializing in
style cuts

Six fine hairstylists
to serve you.

 

110 S. Jefferson St.
463-3538
Hours:

Mon.-Sat. 9am to lam
Sunday 10am to lam

 

Sandwiches (Eat In-Take Out)
Gourmet Items of All Nations
Cocktails@ Wine@ Beer
Subs@imported Cheeses
Catering

 

 

 

  

(703) 463-7440

  

THE NEW OPTICIANS

Contacts - Glasses - Repairs

 

Raybans - Vuarnets

10% OF F

 
          

next to Stop-In

 

Visa Choice

 

A

¢
| luin-Bennis

Please stop and look over our Fall merchandise,

suchas...

¢ Sero shirts e Duckheads Pants ¢ Bass and Sperry Top
Siders Shoes ¢ Sweaters ¢ Woolrich Shirts and Outerwear
¢ Izod Shirts and Sweaters ¢ Sport Coats and Suits

e W&L Belts and Ties.

Also great reductions on summer merchandise

Master Charge

Student Charges

 

 

 

sa mA Sa GEN WS ESA EIR DE CS SEIN 8 ETE AEE Ah ENP ON Ah

 

  

  
 

 

VARNER & POLE

Furniture Dealers

115 S. Main Street

463-2742

‘For your extra pieces of furniture’

 

 

 

 

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers
11 W. Nelson Sf.

~ SHERIDAN
R SHERIDAN

463-2022

Watches and Jewelry Repairs
Gifts for All Occasions
We have class rings as well as watch and jewelry repair.

HOURS:
Mon. through Fri.
Evenings by appointment

107 W. Nelson St., Lexington

BEAUTY
BOUTIQUE

We would like to invite new students to come in for complete
hair care, hair cuts, color, or permanents.
We also specialize in sculptured nails and manicures.

“e

OPERATORS:
Mary, Ella Mae, Lynn
and Phyllis

BEAUTY BOUTIQUE

463-2422 |

 

     
      
   

   
     
   
      
 

 

 

Students:
GO KAYPRO!

 

“a
.
fe]

om

4

Complete Word Processing Systems From Kaypro

Write everything, from a book report to a master’s thesis, with a
go-getter from Kaypro’s line of quality computers. Kaypro makes it easy to
Organize notes, construct outlines, write multiple drafts, edit, and
polish - all in half the time. }

Kaypro's complete line of computer systems start as low as $99§. Ask for

eee as

SHENANDOAH MICROCOMPUTERS, INC

21 North Central Avenue
Staunton, VA 24401
688S-80S7

PIZZA SALE:
$2 OFF!

@ Better hurry to your home

 

 

 

 

 

family. () We'll pile on layers

 

town Pizza Hut" restaurant! | of pure mozzarella cheese and
It’s not often you save this kind | {

of money on our fresh, hot
and scrumptious pizza. f¥ So
come on in. Bring the whole

—

all your favorite toppings.
There's no better time to try |
our unparalleled Pizza Hut*
Pan Pizza. See you soon!

 

 

 

 

B Eat In, Carry Out Or Delivered ©

  
 

a 5

E $4 off $aorr §

‘ 2 wer your tame a 8

a $2. offany large pizza ’ a... a
a eee oe. In- |
cludes Pizza Hut® Pan

& Pizza! Hurry; offer ex- Pizza 600 E. Nelson St. 8
pires soon. One coupon +H t Lexinatauna, VA ©
per party per visit at i 4532-/000

g coeticinn(ing Pista Hut u : a
restaurants y

& er Mdceraic. Na ineHinioet RO ¥

L 9-25-85 al
i 2G Se St A Se ROE Sn ee Ge ee ee Ds ae a
EBACK PAGE

The Ring-tum Phi, September 19, 1985

10

 

W&L women:
an artsy look

ARTREVIEW

By BOB STRICKLAND
Art Critic

 

 

This year’s opening exhibit at the
duPont Gallery is an appropriate
way to initiate Washington and Lee
into the realm of coeducation. Is
coeducation here to stay? Indeed. In
fact, the University has had quite a
collection of women who have helped
the school develop into a mature in-
stitution.

‘‘Women At Washington and Lee:
A Historical Exhibit’ is just that.
Although it includes art, the portraits
themselves are not the focal point of
the exhibition; rather, it is the
women who have contributed both
their time and money to better the
University who make for the
historical nature of this exhibit. The
exhibit will run until Oct. 3

In the entrance of the gallery is a
miniature bed and doll made by
Mary A.R. Custis Lee, wife of Robert
E. Lee, who was an active seam-
stress in the community while Lee
was president of the University. She
would give these doll house beds as
Christmas presents to neighborhood
children. This bed is a fine example
of Southern folk art of that time.

Above the bed is a photograph of
Mary Custis Lee, daughter of Robert
E. Lee. She was responsible for
donating many portraits of the
Custis-Lee family to the University.
These portraits can be viewed in the
museum below Lee Chapel. A world
traveler, Mary Custis Lee made
beautiful books of her journeys that
can be viewed in the University
Library’s Special Collections room.

Another extraordinary lady associ-
ated with Washington and Lee was
Louise Herreshoff, who married

Summer
MUSICNOTES

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Music Critic

 

 

The record industry, to put it light-
ly, boomed this summer. It seemed
as if every important act released a
record and it also seemed that every
person with $8 in his pocket plopped it
down for one of these hot platters.
Maybe it was because the movies
were so pitiful or perhaps Live Aid
caused this upsurge, but nonetheless,
people were buying a lot of records.

Sitting at the top of the old industry
charts is Dire Straits. And who would
have thought it? Dire Straits de-
serves to be as big as, say ‘‘Thriller,’’
but that sure doesn’t guarantee
platinum success.

Anyway, ‘Brothers In Arms’”’ is a
wonderfully exquisite record that is a

Euchlin D. Reeves, an alumnus of the
law school. The couple collected
Chinese Export porcelain and even-
tually donated all of their collection
to the University, where it is housed
in the Reeves Center. While the col-
lection was being organized, a large
amount of dusty paintings were
found among the porcelain. It was
discovered that Louise Herreshoff
was quite an accomplished artist in
her younger years. ‘‘Self Portrait
With Parrot”’ (c. 1918) is a classic ex-
ample of her Fauvist-inspired work,
which she turned to after her earlier
work with a casual Post-Impression-
ist style. In her earlier ‘‘Le Repos”’
(1899) Herreshoff demonstrates her
ability to mimic the Impressionist
style advocated by the great art
school in France where she studied in
her youth.

A lively, lyrical portrait that usual-
ly hangs in Washington Hall portrays
one of the University’s great ladies,
Ruth Parmly. In 1974 she gave a
large sum of money to strengthen the
science program at the school. The
science building was later renamed
Parmly Hall. Oddly enough, she had
no connection with the school; she
gave to W&L because she thought
this institution embodied the same
moral attributes as those of her late
father. The portrait is a fine example
of the smoky, lyrical impressionist
style which was used by many por-
trait artists of the time.

Two interesting pieces in the
gallery are the photographs of two
women during the early years of
Fancy Dress Ball. One of the women
is ‘Annie Jo’’ White, the University
librarian at the turn of the century
and the celebrated founder of Fancy
Dress. She never missed a Fancy
Dress Ball until her death. A portrait
of her that usually hangs in the
library is also on display.

 

 

Two of the most renowned benefac-
tors of the University today are
Sidney and Frances Lewis of Rich-
mond. Lewis Hall was built along
with the Law Center with their
generous gift. In the exhibit is a large
portrait of the couple done by the
renowned photorealist Jack Beal.
The Lewises have one of the most
comprehensive collections of con-
temporary art in the country and
much of the art hanging in Lewis Hall
was made possible by their generosi-
ty.

The woman who donated the gift to
make the University art gallery
possible and the building in which it

 

 

By Reade Williams /The Ring-tum Phi
Miniature bed and china doll made by Mary Custis Lee

is housed was Jessie Ball du Pont.
During her association with the
University, she gave over $7 million.
Her place in the school’s history is
even more significant because in 1959
she was the first woman elected to
the Board of Trustees.

Another woman associated with
the University is artist Sally Mann, a
photographer and native of Lex-
ington. After graduating from
Hollins College, Mann became the
University photographer from
1974-80. Her work is included in the
collections of the Museum of Modern
Art and the Hirshhorn.

g

Box office hit ‘Back
to the Future’ not :
to be overlooked |

MOVIEREVIEW

By TIM McMAHON
Movie Critic

 

 

Some movies seem destined for
box office success. ‘Back to the
Future,’ directed by Robert
Zemeckis (“‘Romancing the Stone’’),
produced by Steven Spielberg, and
Starring Michael J. Fox of TV’s
“Family Ties,” is just such a movie,
and deservedly so.

Fox plays Marty McFly, a high
school senior in 1985 who spends his
spare time riding his skateboard,
playing his guitar, and helping local
mad scientist Dr. Emet Brown
(Christopher Lloyd of TV’s ‘‘Taxi’’)
with his experiments.

It is while working on one of
Brown's projects that Marty is ac-
cidentally sent 30 years into the past
in a time machine made from a De
Lorean sports car. Once in 1955,
however, he inadvertantly prevents
his parents’ first meeting and must
try to get them back together before
he fades from existence. (If his
parents never meet, of course, he will
never be born. )

Getting his parents together is
much more complicated than he’d
hoped, though, because instead of
falling in love with his father, his
mother starts to go after him

Fox is the perfect choice as Marty;
he is likable, honest, and a funny
physical actor, much more suited to
this role than the man he replaced,

of ’85 heats up the record industry

welcome breath of fresh air. It cer-
tainly is not the Straits’ best (check
“Love Over Gold’’), but there is no
denying its power. Beautifully pro-
duced, chock full of powerful songs,
and laced with Mark Knopfler’s
beautiful guitar work — the record
simply glistens with craftsmanship.
Repeated listenings bestow great
rewards, as well, since Knopfler’s
songs (lyrically, at least) work on
several levels. Is ‘‘The Man’s Too
Strong” an allegory of the Catholic
Church going to confession or a Nazi
vignette? A powerful record indeed.

R.E.M.’s ‘Fables Of the Recon-
struction’ did nothing for me at first.
It plodded and dragged without that
eccentric edge that characterized
their earlier work. However, it even-
tually clicks. The surreal dissonance
of “Feeling Gravity’s Pull,’ the
jaunty country crunch of ‘‘Driver 8”

and the giddy rockabilly/funk of
“Can't Get There From Here”’ slide
under one’s skin and stick. Now, if so-
meone can only tell me what these
songs are about.

Crawling from the funeral ashes of
Joy Division, New Order has been
trying to shake that group’s gloomy
shadow for five years now. With
“Low-life,”’ they finally did it. Sure,
some of the songs are about death
and rejection, but the music is beau-
tifully layered and intricately craft-
ed. It’s kind of like dancing in a
refrigerator. If you are one of those
types who thinks that syntho-dance
music is passionless (as I did), then
get rid of that prejudice. This record
has every bit as much emotional in-
tensity as a Black Flag album.

If New Order doesn’t exactly sound
like a ton of fun, then check out the
Talking Heads’ ‘‘Little Creatures.”

SG&L making the smooth
transition from SG&G days

 

By COTTON PURYEAR
Editor

 

What’s ina name?

Many spectators may have asked
that question of themselves as they
sat in the Washington and Lee stu-
dent tavern to watch the first band of
the pub’s 1985-86 entertainment year,
Not only were they adjusting to the
pub’s name change from The Cockpit
to The General Headquarters, but
they were getting used to a new name
that marks a change for a familiar
band.

Speidel, Goodrich and Lille made
their Lexington debut last Friday
night, and fans of Speidel, Goodrich
and Goggin certainly learned that
change can sometimes be for the bet-
ter.

Now some of you out there might
be just a wee bit confused keeping
track of all these names, so let’s try
to clear up the picture just a bit.

Let’s go back to the spring of 1983,
to a sleepy little college town called
Charlottesville, home of everyone’s
favorite orange-and-blue-tinted
public institution of higher learning.
More specifically, let’s go to one of its
student hangouts — a place called
Pavilion XI.

If one happened by Pavilion XI at
the right time, one might have seen
three young men entertaining the
local crowd with acoustic guitars.
Two of those young men, Tom Good-
rich and Mike Goggin, were seniors
at the University of Virginia and the
other, Rusty Speidel, had graduated
the year before.

The three of them had been playing
around the Charlottesville area in-
dividually and decided to get
together and do a few numbers. The
manager of Pavilion XI offered the

young men an opportunity to play
there on a regular basis.

Speidel, Goodrich and Goggin was
born.

Of course, every real band needs a
manager and for SG&G it turned out
to be John Livermore, Goodrich’s
roommate, ‘‘They were always keep-
ing me up with their practicing, so I
told them they better give me a job,”
Livermore remembered.

From those faint beginnings, the
band began to develop what Liver-
more called a ‘‘fantastic following”’
among local students. The group got
its first shot outside the Charlot-
tesville area at Phillip’s Waterside in
Norfolk, where Livermore said the
band members really were able to
hone their skills as musicians.

Things have been picking up ever
since, Last year SG&G expanded its
touring area as far north as Balti-
more and as far south as Tampa.
Livermore added that the band had
also been nominated ‘“‘most pro-
mising new act’ in a competition
held by the National Association of
Campus Activities. Two years ago
the national winner was the Police,
and Livermore remains realistic
about his group’s chances.

“We may not win, but at least
we're in the same category as groups
like that,” he said.

While things were going well for
SG&G, they still weren’t well enough
to prevent Mike Goggin from making
the decision to leave the group last
spring to move on to law school. The
decision almost put an end to the
musical careers of the other
members.

‘We thought at first that it might
be the end,’’ remembered Liver
more. *‘We were just about ready to
call it quits.”’

In fact, if it had not been for Mike

Lille, they would have all called it
quits. ‘“‘Mike was absolutely the only
person in the world we could think of
as a replacement,’’ Livermore said.
“If we couldn’t have gotten him, we
would have quit.”’

Lille had met up with SG&G at
Phillips Waterside while playing solo
around his Tidewater area home.
Lille has been playing professionally
for more than 10 years, having
played with members of the Dirt
Band and even an occasional im-
promptu session with Dan Fogelberg
while living in Aspen.

The transition from SG&G has
been a smooth one. “I miss him
{Goggin] terribly,’ Goodrich said,
‘because he was such a good friend.”

‘But we’ve been incredibly lucky
to keep going. Mike Lille is talented
beyond our wildest dreams and
we've created a lot of new challenges
for ourselves.”’

Challenge is a very appropriate
word. The band spent six non-stop
weeks practicing, getting Lille used
to some of the old standard SG&G
favorites plus adding to the group’s
overall repertoire.

Livermore said that Speidel and
Goodrich learned anywhere from 30
to 40 newsongs, bringing the group’s
total to well over a hundred.

While SG&L are well known for
their acoustic guitar playing, the
group is not limited to just playing
“mellow’’ music. ‘‘We play almost
anything from James Taylor to Dire
Straits,’’ Livermore said.

“We play pretty much whatever
we like to,’ he added. ‘‘Most of all the
songs we play came from an album
in one of our collections. That leaves
us open to play just about anything.”

Livermore said that most of the
songs are hammered out by the band
members completely by ear. ‘‘They

The sound is clean and stripped down
and the songs are punchy, thought
provoking, and just plain fun. I listen-
ed to ‘Road To Nowhere’ every
morning last summer on my way to
work and it made my day a bit easier
to bear. A woman floats over her
neighborhood in one song and a little
boy plays with his baby brother in
another. In a nutshell, the album
sounds exactly like the record sleeve
looks.

Sting’s ‘Dream of the Blue Tur-
tles’”’ simply left me cold. Every note
is oh-so-pretty, the playing is im-
maculate, and the songs are all well
written. But who cares? Sting’s best
songs are the ones with the hooks and
the ones that are drawn from his per-
sonal life (in that order). Only “‘Rus-
sians,’’ with its surging string syn-
thesizer and lullaby/protest lyrics,
really moved me. The rest of it was

just ... well, very nice. Buy it on com-
pact dise because the produotion is
the star here.

As for Tears for Fears, well they
just kind of strike me as Wham!
meets Genesis. They seem like
another video-pop package, only this
time with a gimmick; psychiatric
dance music. For instance, ‘‘Shout”
is a song about parenthood with
primal scream therapy as its meta-
phor. Not exactly “Wake Me Up Be-
fore You Go-Go,” but these British
popsters still fall short of that ma-
jestic sophistication of the Simple
Minds.

This is only the tip of the iceberg,
though. With new records from the
Clash, John Cougar Mellencamp and
X waiting in the wings, the record in-
dustry just might become a forum for
artistic expression again. But |
wouldn't hold my breath.

ey
ONCAMPUS

Eric Stoltz (‘The Wild Life” and ;
“Mask’’). Stoltz’s “Wildlife” co-star :
Lea Thomson portrays Marty’s

mother, both in the present and in the +
past, and creates a good contrast be- *
tween a middle-aged prude of a»
mother and a teenager exploring ,
cigarettes, drinking and dating. ™
Crispin Glover (‘Teachers’’) also’
played a dual role as Marty’s father, ,
George, and is the funniest character |
in the entire movie. Lloyd, mean-
while, was competent, if a bit raspy,»
as ‘“‘Doc”’ Brown. :
Perhaps even more entertaining*
than the characters themselves are,
the situations and settings these
characters end up in. The contrast*
between the Hill Valley of 1985 ands
1955 is just the tip of the iceberg as |
Marty must adjust to his new sur-
roundings. Things we consider com-*
monplace today were far from com-
monplace then. After all, imagines
‘Doe’s” reaction when he finds outs
that Ronald Reagan, the actor and
co-star of “Cattle Queen of Mon-
tana,”’ is president of the United+
States in 1985, or the reaction of a
1955 soda shop owner when asked for*
a ‘Pepsi free.” ‘

Indeed, to catch every subtlety”
here, one has to see the movie three+
or four times, but ‘Back to the,
Future’’ is one of those rare movies
one could actually enjoy as much at a*
second showing. =

With the amount of money this film *
has made — weil over $100 million — ,
it seems hard to believe someone
hasn’t seen it, but for the few of you’
left, ‘‘Back to the Future” is not to be, —
missed.

.

<

Thursday, September 19
7 p.m. — FILMS: ‘A Propos de
Nice,’ ‘“‘Rien Que Les Heures,” }
‘““Manhatta.”” Room 203 of Reid
Hall. Admission is free.
7:30 p.m, — AUDITIONS: ‘“Mer- >
chant of Venice.’’ University |
Theatre.
Friday, September 20 ,
7:30 p.m. — AUDITIONS: ‘Mer-
chant of Venice.’’ University
Theatre. .
Monday, September 23 *
9 p.m. — MONDAY NIGHT
FOOTBALL: Los Angeles Rams
vs. Seattle Seahawks. Free pop- |
corn. General Headquarters.
Wednesday, September 25
8 p.m. — CONCERT: Dr. Brian
Silver. Sitar Concert. Lee Chapel. |’
9 p.m. — WEDNESDAY IN THE |,
G.H.Q.: Featuring The Tagetz.

Proper college I.D. required. Ad- |"
mission is $2.50.

 

 

 

 

 

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Mike Lille (left), Tom Goodrich (center) and Rusty Speidel (right) performed last Friday

never read any music,” he said.”’ |
think Rusty might have had one gui-
tar lesson about 12 years ago. But
they can whip up a song in no time.”

Along with its normal touring
schedule, Livermore said the band is
in the midst of working on a six-song
EP. ‘We're really excited about this
project,’’ he said. ‘‘We're going to be
trying some new things.”’

One of the new things the band will
be experimenting with is the addition

of bass and drums to the sound of the
accoustic guitars.

“Half the EP will be with the whole
band and half will be with just the
three acoustics, ‘according to Liver
more,

Steve Riggs, who played bass for

the All-stars, will be helping them out
along with Mike Clark, the drummer
for the Charlottesville-based The
Deal

While Livermore said it is impor
tant to try new things, he added the
band will not be sacrificing the
acoustic guitar format that has
become its trademark.

Livermore said they hope to have
the EP completed sometime between
December and February. ‘‘We have
to squeeze the recording work around
the touring schedule,”’ he said. ‘‘We
like to work more on it, but we also
like to eat, and that requires doing
shows

With a successful transition, an
album in the works and a full touring

schedule, things look fairly stable for
SG&L. .

‘Right now I feel | can concentrate «
my energies on my music,”’ Goodrich
said. ‘This is the perfect time for me *
to take this chance. I’m young, play-
ing musi¢ and singing and making a
living out of it. The fact that people "
come to see us is really important.”’

Goodrich added that while they like
playing the college circuit, there still
is that desire to make it big.

“Yeah, we want to be big stars!” .
he joked

‘We would be remiss not to want to
Succeed,’’ he added more seriously
“We want to try to get a major record
contract and give that a shot and just
see where we go from there.”’

“

*

a

 

 
 

 

 

Laundry quandary

 

Freshman washers

in short supply
Page 4

 

VOLUME 85, NUMBER 3

 

Sports

 

Soccer scores

second shutout
Page 7

 

 

Your Foxfield weather

 

 

Sunny and pleasant;

weekend temps near 80

 

Che King-tum Phi —

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

SEPTEMBER 26, 1985

 

 

General
Notes

 

 

Please do tailgate

A tailgate party sponsored by
the Alumni Association will be
held from 11:15 a.m. to 1:30 p.m.
Saturday on the New Alumni
Field prior to the Centre football
game. The band ‘‘Wildgrass”’ will
play, and hot dogs, chili, soft
drinks and beer will be sold. Fra-
ternities are encouraged to bring
tables, lunches and dates up to the
field.

Brother, can you

The organizational meeting for
for the Big Brother/Big Sister pro-
gram will be next Thursday at 7
p.m. in Fairfax Lounge.

Spare a dime?

The times of organizational
budget hearings will be announc-
ed at Monday’s Executive Com-
mittee meeting. Please direct any
questions to Andrew Caruthers at
463-8588 (office) or 463-9415
(home).

Road trip!

The registration deadline for
the Challenge ’86 program in
Lynchburg is Oct. 1. Please stop
by the Career Development and
Placement Office for a list of em-
ployers and other registration in-
formation.

Candy man-agers
Anyone interested in managing
or working with the varsity bas-
ketball team should contact Coach
Verne Canfield or the Athletic
Department. The varsity team
will begin selling candy to raise
money for its trip to Europe.

Frankly, my dear

“Gone With the Wind,” the
classic 1939 film, directed by Vic-
tor Fleming will be shown at 7
p.m. today in Room 327 of the
Commerce School and at the same
time tomorrow and Saturday
night in Room 203 of Reid Hall.
The movie, part of the Politics
Film Festival, stresses the con-
sensual basis of politics, the pro-
blem of conflicting political loyal-
ties, and critical conditions for
political change — all against the
background of America’s Civil
War era and aftermath.

Commit yourself

Applications for the following
committees will be accepted in
the Executive Committee’s office
until Monday at 7 p.m. Courses
and Degrees Committee, Library
Committee, Student Health Com-
mittee, Faculty Executive Com-
mittee and Athletic Advisory
Committee.

Is |U4U?

The Independent Union will
have a meeting Tuesday at 7 p.m.
in the Student Center. All students
are invited to the short introduc-
tory meeting.

Warner workout

An aerobics class open to all
W&L undergraduates, law stu-
dents, faculty, staff and spouses
— male and female — is being
held Wednesday and Thursday, 5
to6p.m., inthe Wrestling Room in
Doremus Gymnasium.

ODK 1

The ODK Alpha Circle will spon-
sor a panel discussion on the
Honor System featuring past Ex-
ecutive Committee presidents
Tuesday, Oct. 1, at 7 p.m. in Lee
Chapel.

ODK 2

There will be a meeting for all
ODK members tonight at 7 in
Fairfax Lounge. All senior mem-
bers must attend to discuss pre-
parations for the Honor Sympo-
sium next week.

Canoe canoe?

The Washington and Lee Outing
Club will have an important or-
ganizational meeting tonight at 7
in Fairfax Lounge (in the Univer
sity Center near the Cock
pit/General Headquarters). The
upcoming canoe trip will be dis
cussed.

Atwood, Simpson leaving deanships

C-School head plans return
to classroom after year’s leave

 

By MIKE ALLEN
Executive Editor

Edward C. Atwood, dean of the
School of Commerce, Economics and
Politics, will leave that position June
30 and return to teaching after a one-
year leave of absence, the University
announced this week.

“I’m tired of being a dean,’’ a shirt-
sleeved Atwood said with a smile
Tuesday. ‘‘I’m about ready to quit.”

University President John D. Wil-
son announced the change to the
Commerce School faculty Thursday
afternoon and on Monday sent a let-
ter about it to all faculty members.

Wilson said in the letter that ‘“‘it

will be impossible to find a successor
to match [Atwood’s] faithful and car-
ing service to the students and facul-
ty of the School and of the larger Uni-
versity.”

A search committee for a replace-
ment is now being formed.

Atwood, 62, began his Washington
and Lee career in 1952 as an econo-
mics professor and served as dean of
students from 1962 to 1969, when he
was appointed to his present position.

He said he chose to step down after
this year because he has a year of ad-
ministrative leave coming to him and
only two more years of tenure, which
ends at age 65.

The dean said that by taking the
leave now and then teaching for a

‘Animalism’ cited
in effort by faculty

to tighten

By JASON LISI
Siaff Reporter

 

 

The disciplinary policy that took ef-
fect this year was enacted because
the faculty was “‘sick and tired of the
animalism that goes on on this cam-
pus,’’ law Professor Roger D. Groot
told the Executive Committee Mon-
day.

Groot, who served on last year’s
Drug Policy Review Committee and
drafted much of the new code, said
the feeling among professors last
year was, “‘Let’s put our foot down
and stop it.”

The EC invited Groot to address
the meeting in response to concern
by members about the section desig-
nating the use of racial or sexual
slurs as a major disciplinary offense.

Groot defended the policy, noting
that ‘‘there were some who wanted to
make it stricter.”’

He said the committee’s report was
“not hasty and not secret.”’

“There may have been folks not
paying attention, but it was widely
disseminated last spring,” he said.

The committee was quite careful,
Groot said, to avoid blurring the
jurisdictions of the EC and the SCC.

“That came up at almost every
meeting: ‘Will this impinge on the
Honor System?’ and we’d work it
around so that it wouldn’t,’’ he ex-
plained.

Groot noted that ‘tan honorable
person is not necessarily a gentle-
man.”

“If you want to take jurisdiction
over what’s gentlemanly, then I think
that you folks have some real pro-
blems,”’ he said.

TODAY

President John D. Wilson.
3:45 p.m. ‘How
Understood in a

3:30 p.m. Welcome and remarks.

is God to be
Theocentric

discipline

In pointing out that the EC itself
limits the scope of its authority,
Groot noted the committee tradition-
ally does not prosecute students who
steal roadsigns or use false identifi
cation cards.

“One is theft and the other is
fraud,” he said.

Groot said the slurs provision
would still allow students to ‘‘sit
around in your room and tell ethnic
jokes.”’

The section defines the offense as
“use of racial, ethnic, religious or
sexual slurs directly to an individual
or identifiable group and intended to
degrade or dehumanize the recipient
of the slur.”

Junior representative Shayam
Menon asked: ‘‘Professor Groot,
have you every been to a fraternity
party?”

‘No, I haven’t,”’ the law professor
replied.

“It’s kind of scary when many peo-
ple make these comments that a stu-
dent could get kicked out for that,”
Menon said.

‘You say there’s so much of this
that goes on,’’ Groot responded.
“‘Let’s stop it.”

‘Please don’t think I’m condoning
it,’’ Menon said.

President John Lewis asked how
the EC could get the policy changed.

‘‘T don’t think you can,"’ Groot said.

‘How would we try?’’ Lewis per-
sisted.

“T think you’d have to go to the
trustees,’’ the law professor respond-
ed.

Lewis brought the lengthy discus-
sion to an end by saying: ‘“‘We’re
beating a horse here, guys — a dead
one.”

Schedule of events

Robert N. Bellah, Pro-
fessor of Sociology and Comparative
Studies, University of California at

Culture.”’

 

 

 

Ethics?’’ Gordon P. Kaufman, Pro-
fessor of Theology, Harvard Divinity
School.

8 p.m. “Theocentric Ethics As A
Genetic Argument.’’ Ed Farley, Pro-
fessor of Theology, Vanderbilt Divi-
nity School.

TOMORROW

8:30 a.m. “An Ethics of Emergent
Order.”’ Robert 0. Johann, Professor
of Philosophy, Fordham University.

10:30 a.m. “Can A Theology Be Re-
formed Without Being Particular?"
John Howard Yoder, Professor of
Theology, University of Notre Dame.

2 p.m. “The Dependence of
Ethics.’’ John P. Reeder Jr., Profes
sor of Religious Ethics, Brown Uni-
versity

7:30 p.m. “Gustafson as Critic of

 

Berkeley.
SATURDAY
9 am. “Theology, Science, and
Ethics in James M. Gustafson’s

Theocentric Vision.’’ Robert Audi,
Professor of Philosophy, University
of Nebraska.

11 a.m. *‘The Paradox of Human-
ism.’' Mary Midgley, Senior Lectur-
er in Philosophy (retired), Universi-
ty of Newcastle

3 p.m. “A Response.” James M.
Gustafson, University Professor of
Theological Ethics, University of
Chicago.

4:15 p.m. Panel discussion with the
lecturers. Dean of the College John
Elrod, moderator

8:30 p.m. “The Style of James M.
Gustafson.’’ Elmer W. Johnson, Vice
President, Operating Staffs General
Motors Corp

 

EDWARD C, ATWOOD

year, ‘‘that’ll give me a clean shot at
whether I want to teach after 65.”’

“It sets it up pretty well,” he said,
adding that his plans for the leave

C See Atwood, Page 6

 

 

By TED LeCLERCQ
Staff Reporter

 

Coed leader
still will teach

Associate Dean of the College
Pamela H. Simpson, who played a
key role in making coeducation a
reality at Washington and Lee, will
return to full-time teaching at the end
of this academic year, she said
yesterday.

She said Dean of the College John
W. Elrod will announce her successor
at the Oct. 7 faculty meeting.

Simpson, a fine arts professor who
joined the faculty in 1973, was named
assistant dean in 1981 and was pro-
moted to associate dean in 1983. She
said her five years in the position
falls right between the four- and six-
year terms of her two immediate pre-
decessors.

 

 

 

 

PAMELA H. SIMPSON

“This position has a history of be-
ing a rotating position’’ with its oc-
cupants then returning to the faculty,
she said. ‘‘I join a line of distinguish

See Simpson, Page 6

 

to people.”’

By David Sprunt
Freshmen Barbra Byington (center) and Susan Lewis talk at Sigma Chi’s Rush date last night

Women say Rush is ‘great’

Alston Parker also noticed how nice the fraternity
members have been.

 

Rush has been a ‘great experience,’
several Washington and Lee women interviewed this

week in an informal survey.

“It has been a really fun way to get to meet the up-
perclassmen guys,’’ said Alexa Salzman. ‘‘Actually go-
ing out and getting involved let us get rid of some of our
premonitions, because everyone was so nice.”’

Elizabeth Smith agreed. ‘‘I feel like the girls that
either didn’t go or canceled out at the last minute really

missed out on a lot of fun,”’ she said.

“It made it seem like we were part of the freshman
class. It made us feel included,’’ she added. ‘‘Compared
to the weekend Rush, it was a great way to meet and talk

 

James M. Gustatso:

Ethics from a
Theocentric Perspective

FES

 

 

 

 

Gustafson’s
the

James M.
two-volume work is
subject of the conference

at W&L this weekend

 

 

according to

“It has been a great experience to meet the up-
perclassmen and for them to meet us because it had
been ‘no contact.’ The guys were very nice. They went
above and beyond to make sure you felt comfortable and

had met the guys in the house,” Parker said.

“‘The Rush dates do not have a party atmosphere, and
it’s not a classroom atmosphere. It’s really like ‘tea
time,’ "’ she joked. ‘‘They’ve been a lot of fun.”’

Copeland Kapp also noticed how friendly the fraterni-
ty guys had been at the Rush dates.

‘Particularly at the first one, but also at all of them,

the guys have been really nice. It works really well to in-

ty,’’ she said.

By CHRISTOPHER DEIGHAN
News Editor

 

Between now and Saturday even
ing, about 145 leading theologians,
ethicists, philosophers, lawyers,
physicians and ministers from
Canada, Puerto Rico, South Africa
and across the United States will be
on campus. Their purpose: to discuss
what religion Professor Harlan Beck
ley calls “‘the most important work
since Reinhold Niebuhr’s 40 years
previously.”’

The book, ‘‘Ethics from a Theocen
tric Perspective’ by James M. Gus
tafson, is the radical idea of one man
dissatisfied with society's view of
ethics and theology

Gustafson, professor of theological
ethics at the University of Chicago,
asks individuals to look beyond
themselves and their communities,
beyond this generation and even
beyond the human race, Beckley said
this week

Gustafson's two-volume book says
society must move from a human
oriented religious and moral life to

clude us in the Rush dates because we get to know the
upperclassmen in a different way from a class or a par-

nternational panel of scholars gathers here to talk ethics

one with God at the center, said
Beckley, who has helped organize the
event.

Saturday at 3 p.m., Gustafson will
respond to eight of the nine speakers
scheduled for the three-day symposi-
um, which is co-sponsored by the In-
stitute for the Advanced Study of Re-
ligion at Chicago University Divinity
School and by the Department of Re-
ligion at Washington and Lee.

Robert N. Beilah, Ford professor of
sociology and comparative studies
and vice chairman of the Center for
Japanese Studies at the University of
California at Berkeley, is one scholar
scheduled to speak. Bellah will pre-
sent his paper, “Gustafson as Critic
of Culture,’ Friday at7:30 p.m

Another scholar, Mary Midgley,
will discuss ‘*The Paradox of Human-
ism" Saturday morning at 11. Mid-
gley retired as senior lecturer in phil-
osophy at the University of Newcas-
tle in 1980

Gustafson’s theology is ‘crucial
for the ways of shaping questions in
the future,”’ Beckley said Tuesday

See Ethics, Page 6
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OPINION
Responsibility

As the budget process begins again and the Executive
Committee pleads poverty (as oft the refrain may be heard),
organizations will plead their cases and proposals. Important
lessons need to be learned and questions need to be answered
before any money is doled out. Both the EC and the student
body need to pay careful attention to this year’s budget pro-
cess as decisions are made regarding next year’s student
taxes.

This year, more organizations than ever before have asked
the EC for student body funds. Existing organizations,
almost without exception, have begged the EC for more
funds than they received last year. And the EC, for the sec-
ond year in a row and for only the second time in W&L’s
history, is confronted with nearly a $2,500 budget deficit from
last year that must be paid before any new money can be
distributed.

We can learn some valuable lessons in distributing money
from the past years. Last year, the EC decided to allot to the
Student Bar Association a percentage of the student budget
based on the number of enrolled law students and the approx-
imate time law students participated in other traditionally
undergraduate organizations. The EC asked the SBA to be
judicious in its budgeting and required no monthly or quar-
terly reports from them. (The SBA president last year, how-
ever, provided the EC with periodic updates on the status of
the SBA budget.) The system seemed to work well except for
one minor hitch.

In its Sept. 16 issue, The W&L Law News told of the
Women’s Law School Organization, which last year had
received the largest increase in budgeted funds of any law
organization. The group sponsored one seminar of specific in-
terest for women law students on divorce law with their stu-
dent body funds. At the end of the year, like most organiza-
tions, they realized that the budget surplus they held would
not look good if it were returned. How to spend the surplus?
Hold a banquet, of course, and let the members enjoy the
meal at no cost.

Rightfully, then-SBA President John Sicilian vetoed the
plan before the group had a chance to spend the money. But
the situation brings to the surface many questions that need
to be addressed as organizations at the Law School and the
undergraduate level go on their knees begging for money.

Foremost, the EC ought to remember the purpose of each
organization and the agenda each proposes. Will the organi-
zation be open to all students? Does it attempt to limit those
interested by the activities it sponsors?

Secondly, the EC needs to continue the frequent budget
reports it has required of all organizations in past years.
Strict accountability can mean dollars better spent by
organizations with need. ee

Lastly, the EC needs to recognize that many organizations
will inflate their budgets in order to obtain a fraction of their
request. (That fraction will be what they really wanted to
begin with, but they won’t admit it.) Many organizations go
before the EC with bare budgets and have them slashed to
pieces because larger organizations with little propensity to
budget, save or cut corners need their fat budgets to accom-
modate their hefty ‘“‘needs.’’ Being honest in a request should
not hurt an organization.

With the EC beginning the year having to pay for last
year’s deficit, organizations need to pay closer attention to
their dollars. The EC should scrutinize the requests it
receives and the spending plans proposed. We hope that EC
Vice President Andrew Caruthers holds true to his word and
does not allow another year of deficit spending.

 

—NRP

Line forms here

At Davidson College, they pick up dirty laundry outside
dorm doors in the morning and return it by evening all wash-
ed and ironed. Here, laundry piles up in the corner until it is
old enough to walk out by itself. Then it’s time to “Shout it
out.”’

But this year, doing laundry has taken on a new meaning.
Forget ring-around-the-collar. The problem is ring-around-
the-quad. The long wait to get into the laundry room in the
basement of Graham-Lees can be just that — long. Never
mind that, once there, only one of the five machines is work-
ing. Just to be there is an accomplishment.

While there are other laundromats in Lexington, students,
especially freshmen, should not have to cart their clothing
around town to get it washed. Nor should the machine
operators be content in knowing that demand is much
greater than their five machines can handle.

Overcrowding is a problem, and it has a simple solution.
The laundry room is large enough to house a few more
machines. A little work on the plumbing and a few extra
wires for the additional circuits could end the backup. And
just think — no more ring-around-the-quad.

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

WECCUIVG UNI icy Chic es Oi es Mike Allen
ris a a ee Paul Foutch
Cotton Puryear

WERERCINTIEIUNE 6g 5 oct certiyies cars Reade Williams

Sports Editor........ coceceecccsscs ss MO EIRORIND
Editorial Page Editer .............. (hier eevee Nelson Patterson
OO Oe ee ee re ee Christopher Deighan
Jim Strader
UE iv eek 0 ie bia Fence be Cees Cee neLEd abs eteeN aes Chris Bowring
I UN gs a he hen gos as 0 i 0 ee Jeff Kimbell
eg tg ee ae eee Hank Greenberg
Advertising Salesmen ............. Pe VER PELE eee Keri Hinrichs
Matt Coudert
John Feyrer
Jay Reville

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 200 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

‘week’s paper

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, September 26, 1985

 

Cs ogak

 

 

 

The city thet Neer Sleeps

 

>)

YY

4

Se
Tht.

 

 

rk | |
Vy 7X4-
/
~
3 / \
Vv ~

_

\
Mec
X

ff

x

\

/

S

\

fi

 

e room thot’s never em

 

 

 

Rules are killing honor and tradition

To the Editors:

When General Lee was president of
Washington College, a new student
asked him for a copy of the rules.
“There are no rules,’ the General
replied. ‘“‘Everyone is expected to
behave as a gentleman.’’ Beginning
this year, after more than 100 years,
this is no longer the case. You will
find most of our new rules on page 11
of your new Student Handbook, under
“Offenses.’’ The other rule, which is
not written, but which is implicit in
the written ones, goes something like
this: ‘“‘No act is dishonorable, except
for certain instances of lying, cheat-
ing, and stealing, which shall be
punished in most cases by expul-
sion.”

Over the past few weeks, a number
of students, myself included, have
been generating a certain amount of
heat over these new rules, heat which
we have directed mainly against the
faculty, who enacted them. In this, I
am not certain that we have been en-
tirely fair. While we students may be
justly chagrined by the faculty’s
decision to void the first part of the
General’s famous dictum, we must, I
deeply feel, face the fact that we
have brought this action upon our-
selves. For we students have our-
selves voided the second, and vital,
part of our founder’s precept: We no
longer act, nor expect one another to
act, as ladies and gentlemen.

I do not write as a shocked mora-
list, deploring the shameful behavior
of my fellow students, although I am
shocked by some of it, and do deplore
it. Nor do I wish to commit the
heinous crime of “imposing my
morals” on anyone else, although I
might wish that with some morals. I
write, rather, as a lover of this
University, an admirer of its
founders, and a true believer in
honor.

Perhaps I state the case too strong-
ly. I certainly still believe in honor,
and I am sure that many others do.
Yet we see that the bookstore has
ceased to accept a student’s word
alone in giving credit, at least partly
because some students were charg-
ing books to other people’s accounts;
we see that WLUR no longer allows
programmers to bring their own
records to the station, at least partly
because more records were going out
than were coming in; we see the theft
of road signs condoned by an officer
of the Executive Committee (’’Boys
will be boys’); we see that among
the illustrious alumni of this universi-
ty, we must now honor felons and
thieves along with jurists and states-
men; and week after week we see
drunkenness, brawling and debauch-
ery that would have enraged General
Lee. (A certain fraternity, founded
on this campus, still claims to be
dedicated to the principles exhibited
by the life of that great man. I think if
he could see one of its parties, he
would decline the honor.) Last
contained a_ fine
commentary on the state of the
“W&L Gentleman,” although the edi-
torialist found it more important to
mourn the loss of romantic evenings
on the moonlit Colonnade. How many
“W&L Gentlemen” were arrested
over the summer? How many have
been arrested since classes resum-
ed? Ndw ask, how many of those will
be accused of dishonorable conduct?
To how many of them shall we say;
“You have betrayed our trust and
tarnished our name; you do not
deserve the honor of a Washington
and Lee diploma?”’

An honor system is not primarily a
means of enforcing discipline. It is a
way of life, whose adherent says, ‘‘I
shall strive to be honest in all things,
but not only honest: I shall do my
best to be kind, to be courteous, to be
brave; to respect authority and chal-
lenge wrongdoing. I shall harm no
one willingly, and shall help whom |

can. Inall I doand am, I shall work to
be worthy of my fellows’ trust and
honor, not because I fear some penal-
ty for failure, or hope for some
reward, but because right and duty
and love of fellowman will let me live
no other way.’’ Enforcement comes
only when one among us violates
those principles so grossly that we
can no longer tolerate his presence.

Rules are prescribed expressly for
the enforcement of discipline. They
demonstrate the failure of an honor
system. An honor system that is re-
duced to prescribed rules, as ours
seems now to be, is not an honor
system but an obedience system — a

set of rules like any other, regardless
of the single sanction and Executive
Committee talk of ‘‘honor.”’

If all this talk of duty and virtue
sounds archaic, I make no apologies.
Honor is archaic. It is ancient. But I
refuse to believe that it is obsolete,
though this society abandon it. The
honor of Washington and Lee calls us
not merely to be no worse than the
world around us: It calls us to a
higher standard, to be not merely
honest but virtuous. If our cherished
system is to survive, we students
must enforce it. But far more impor-
tantly, we must live it. If we will live
by that high unwritten code, and
guard it jealously from those who

would pull it down, the faculty’s new
rules will be irrelevant. If we will
prove ourselves to be honorable men
and women, we can rightly demand
the rules’ repeal. If not, we need the
rules. If we are unwilling to govern
ourselves by General Lee’s directive,
we do not deserve an honor system
and will not have one, whatever we
may call our set of rules. If we are no
longer willing to dedicate ourselves
to honor, let us at least be honest: Let
us throw away our White Books, and
bury the Honor System with its
founder.

James D. Crutchfield
87 Law

Markham piles it onto ‘Nelpat’

Dear Mike and the boys:

Since John Randolph died, there
has been none so much as the under-
signed who could claim unchallenged
a conservative reputation. My
motives are not open to suspicion on
this count: I am hardly a liberal
frontman. It was therefore with con-
siderable fury I read, on the same
page, the carping of NelPat and the
whine of Chris Carter. Both, I note,
call themselves conservatives. If
either were, it would be the most
disastrous thing for conservatism
since Jenevein.

Now, I’m known as an even-tem-
pered man: I stay mad. But not this
hot, generally. It takes the sancti-
monious bleating of the sons of
stablehands for that. Mr. Patterson’s
editorial was in the main no more
notably illiterate or muddle-headed
than usual. But then he raises again
the matter of the new name for the
University pub. In so doing, he takes
a coward’s swipe at the integrity of
the most generous and honest man I
know here: Mr. Darrell. It has been
my privilege to work with that
gentleman for four years. In that
time, I have found no more honest
soul. Mr. Patterson insinuates, in his
usual reptilian fashion (but then, is
he not a snake handler of old?), that
Mr. Darrell lied in his explanation of
the reasons for the name change
Well, we always knew NelPat was in-
educable; but has he learned nothing
of honor in four years? Mr. Darrell is
perfectly accurate in pointing out
that the change is one of economic
survival. Mr. Patterson’s vicious clip
on the play earns him again my nom-
ination for being caned or whipped
with a quirt on the Chapel steps. I will
allow him a week for the retraction,
and it had better, by God, be forth-
coming. And I suggest that he refrain
from further error. 1 know not where
was pious Nelson when Mr. Darrell
was the necessary pillar of the
Muscular Dystrophy fundraising ef-
fort; but NelPat can at least see the
man is (inevitably) his better, and
should act accordingly.

This new spirit of partisan mean-
ness is disturbing in NelPat’s little
scribble. It is equally damnable in
the sniveling of young Carter. The
two between them are a pair of cas-
trated (gelded, if you'd rather) jack-
asses, braying back and forth to little
point. Last week, for the first time in
my five years’ memory, Nelson
made (albeit poorly) some worthy
points. Mr. Carter has chosen to ob-
ject to the tone only and not the
substance, and has invoked tone
himself. He who lives by criticism of
form and attempts thereby to mis-
direct the debate, having no better
answer, must prepare to die by the
sword. Damn them both for unctious
sons of sotten oversees.

We have coeducation; none fought
it as did I. But we alumni, being at
least older and in these two cases

tend that it work now that we have it.
Mr. Patterson sees the NOW under
every bed (which may be adolescent
wishfulness). Mr. Carter suggests
abject surrender to the excesses of
modernity. Considering the source, it
is no surprise both are wrong. The ex-
ample is, as always, Lee’s: Make the
old enlighten the new, and make the
new to work. The spirit abroad here,
as these two show it, is conducive on-
ly to recrimination. It is the spirit of

the new disciplinary code, that com-
bination of leftist ideological frippery
and law-and-order statism. It is the
neo-abolition spirit. In all three
guises, it must be crushed. Let us see
toit.
I have, gentlemen, the honor of re-
maining,
Quite sincerely yours,
Markham Shaw Pyle
W&L ’84, Law ’88

EC rep’s comment on dorms
shows the absurdity of it all

 

MY VIEW
By Tom Maguire

 

Last week’s issue of The Ring-tum
Phi presented an interesting contrast
between the sometimes make-be-
lieve world of Executive Committee
opinion and the reality of Washington
and Lee student life.

In a front-page article, sophomore
EC Representative Pat Schaefer was
quoted as expressing concern over a
new rule requiring dorm counselors
to notify the dean’s office if a
freshman younger than the legal
drinking age possesses beer. Accord-
ing to Schaefer, this presents ‘‘a very
dangerous situation.”’

A little further down on the front
page, an article appeared describing
the after-effects of partying in the
freshman dorms. The picture one got
from the article was of buildings
laden with hung-over zombies and
smelling of vomit and stale beer.

After reading both articles, I was a
little saddened that so few people
could enjoy their first taste fo the
relative freedom afforded by attend-
ing college without getting drunk.

Soon, however, the absurdity of the
two articles hit me. Why should Pat
Schaefer, or anyone else for that
matter, be worried about the new
rules for dorm counselors? Obvious-
ly, those rules are never going to be
enforced,

First, most dorm counselors (and
mind, I said most, not all) don’t
spend that much time in the dorms.
This is hardly surprising. Dorm
counselors are juniors or seniors, and
their friends don’t live in the dorms.
Also, the freshman dorms are noisy
places as a rule, and thus not con-
ducive to the heavy studying done by
many dorm counselors, who tend to
have good academic records.

Second, most dorm counselors
aren’t that aware of every little thing
going on in their halls. They just
don’t know who put what in their

altogetiic: aii uidcou awe state of af-
fairs. Any dorm counselor who was
familiar with the contents of his or
her charges’ cupboards would be
more like Big Brother than a counse-
lor and friend, and would thus elimi-
nate some of the freedom we present-
ly enjoy as W&L students.

Finally, no one likes to think that
their job description includes the
word ‘‘fink.”’ However, dorm counse-
lors presently are requested to act as
snitches. No dorm counselor with any
sense of loyalty to a fellow student
would turn him or her in to the dean
over the trifling amount of time stan-
ding between the student and the
legal drinking age.

The present situation is not, as Pat
Schaefer would have us believe,
“dangerous.” Rather, it is ludicrous.
It is a rare occasion when I disagree
with our administration, but here,
clearly, it is wrong.

The more I think about it the more
Iam convinced that the enforcement
of the drinking age is none of the
school’s business. Since when does a
University do police work? Certainly
the GHQ (nee Cockpit) should proof
patrons before serving them alcohol,
Otherwise, the school should leave
the enforcement of the alcohol laws
to the state, which so wisely passed
the 21 drinking age bill in the first
place, and which is admirably equip-
ped to deal with violations of this, or
any other, law,

Currently, our administration is at
the nadir of its popularity in my four
years of residence here. This state of
affairs is both unfortunate and, |
think, undeserved. However, ‘‘the
Hill” does itself no credit when it in-
sists upon a policy that is unworkable
and just plain wrong. It is unfair to
the dorm counselors, and unfair to
many of the students, who are paying
for an education, not baby-sitting.

The administration would do well
to act quickly, and thus put an end to
further friction on this issue, this
year and in the future. One memo
rescinding one section of the dorm
counselors instructions would save a

r

>

“

 

 
*

The Ring-tum Phi, September 26, 1985, Page 3

 

 

 

 

AFTER A REST, THE CAPTAIN WAS
VP AND AROUND

 

   

AND AROUND AND
AROVND AND AROUND

 

  

We AS TO PERFORM A TEST,
FIRING A PROJECTILE AT
A USELESS PIECE OF JUNK,

  

    
  

 

 

 
 
 

IT SOUNDED MORE LIKE
“PEE WEES BiG ADVENTURE»

 
 
  

    

 

WE WAS TRYING TO CATCH
uP WITH THE EVIL ONE,
DARTH GORBACHEV, IN THE
ANTI- SATELLITE RACE.

 

 

 

\T

   

   
   

IT WAS THEIR
WATCHES.
TELLING THEM

IT WAS TIME FOR.

 

BATTLE OF “STAR WARS”

w TIME TORE A
FOR A WHILE !

 

LOOKED LIKE THE FINAL

YOU'RE ESCALATING THE
SPACE ARMS RACE.

 

STATESMAN

An independent’s choice
called difficult but important

 

By CHUCK DIFFENDERFFER

 

What is the experience of the
Washington and Lee independent?
What are the reasons for an indepen-
dent being an independent? Does it
hold any advantages and disadvan-
tages? What avenues are open to the
W&L independent? If any of these
questions intrigue you, please con-
tinue reading; if none of this interests
you, keep reading anyway in hopes of
finding a grammatical error.

Most independents are such by
choice, according to a 1979 study,
despite the views of most of my
Greek brothers. There are many
reasons for a person not to go Greek:
financial, since it costs quite a lot to
participate in a fraternity; social,
especially since the ‘‘partying”’
demands of a fraternity in your first
two years can be quite binding;
academic, since some people are
here to study (not me of course, but I
thought I’d bring it up); and finally,
personal reasons. Approximately 35
percent of all W&L students are In-
dependents, and the number is grow-
ing.
» * my dissertation during Rush

 

 

The following editorial is
reprinted with permission from the
Sept. 17 issue of The Daily Tarheel,
the student newspaper of the Univer-
sity of North Carolina at Chapel Hill:

Things are tough all over.

While UNC women grum-
ble...Let’s be careful, here. While
some UNC women grumble about
the decreasing supply of UNC
men — as the percentage of
women in each entering class
hovers around 60 _ percent
— students at a university in
Virginia grumble about having
any women at all.

To be more exact, these grum-
bling students are males at
Washington and Lee University
and they’re not really opposed to
women on campus (legendary pil-
grimages to and from nearby
women’s colleges attest to that),
they’re just opposed to having to
go to class with them. Cooties, you
know.

 

Another view
Tradition, is thy name woman?

You see, for 200 years W&L, a
small liberal arts college in the
Shenandoah Valley, has been an
all-male bastion resembling more
an overgrown fraternity than a
modern university. Yet that’s the
way a lot of the ‘“‘Southern gentle-
men”’ there liked it — sort of like a
kid’s treehouse where signs pro-
claim, ‘‘No Girls Allowed!’’ But
this year for the first time,
women, 111 of them, will join the
1,350-member student body and
many of the traditionalists are
complaining.

W&L’s student body president
put it this way: “They’re making
too many changes too fast. I love
this school ... and I feel betrayed.”’
Awwwww. Does da wittle prezy
worwy dat women will wooin his
wittle school?

Well, he might, but the school’s
administrators think it’s the best
thing to happen there since Sweet
Briar, an all-women’s bastion,
was founded nearby. After the an-
nouncement last year that women

 

would be admitted, applications
shot up 81 percent and the average
SAT scores rose 65 points over the
scores of the preceding class.

One faculty member pronounc-
ed happily: “This is going to be
the saving of this university. Now
we can recruit from the brightest
women in the country.”

Yep. The writing’s on the wall.
Pretty soon their admissions of-
fice will see what they’ve been
missing and start a battle cry like
— “10 percent now, 60 percent
tomorrow!”’

For at least a few years, how-
ever, there’ll be a fair-sized con-
tingent of bewildered males be-
moaning the scrapping of a cher-
ished tradition and watching as
pink curtains and little stuffed
animals make their appearance
on this once-haven for southern-
style gentility. Little do they know
how soon it will be before the
women will be doing their own be-
moaning — ‘“‘What W&L needs is a
few good men.”’

 

 

 

 

 

 

Charge card helps the memory

MY
VIEW

  

»| By John
=.) Pensec

‘Do you have your card?” That
one simple request has upset a great
number of students. The card that is
referred to is the small blue one
issued by the bookstore. Its purpose
is to serve as a charge card; some-
thing to indicate that the bearer has
permission to charge. Some have
suggested that the cards disregard
the White Book. Really!

Supposedly, honor had nothing to
do with making the switch from using
peoples’ memories to a more accur-
ate system. After talking to Book-
store Manager Helena W. Roller and
after having worked there for a year,
I am forced to agree that honor, or a
supposed lack of it, had nothing to do
withit.

What was a factor was trying to
figure out how to best serve both the
students and their parents. You all
remember parents, don’t you? They
are the ones who pay the bills. Well, a
few of these parents have complain-
ed that their offspring did not have
permission to charge, especially
after receiving a bill from the
Business Office. Or, better yet, there
are students who have permission to
charge books for classes, and then
ring up a hefty bill that includes

Playboy and, dare I say it, Christmas
presents!

But we wouldn’t do that, would we?
After all, we are honorable people.

The charge cards may not be able
to solve all the problems. It is a step
in the right direction, however. For
one thing, the cards reduce the
amount of work that has to be done
by an employee of the bookstore, and
this enables that person to have more
time to help customers. Does anyone
know what it is like trying to verify
hundreds of numbers a day? Sure, it
is part of the job of working in the
bookstore. But so is helping the custo-
mers. Have you tried doing both
when faced with 43 pages of student
identification numbers?

Everyone is always commenting
on what a great thing our Honor Sys-
tem is and how our checks are

 

 

Southern
Inn

Welcome
Students
Serving breakfast, lunch
and dinner for over

_ _SsO0years ©
Main Street, Lexington

 

463-3612

 

 

 

 

ODE CAND

Available Tomorrow In
Evans Dining Hall

Join several hundred others in getting a

probable $45 value for only. $8.

* To present Card Users, Sweet Things has
added 10% off on shakes to its stated discount.

accepted all over town. But has
anyone stopped to think why our
checks are accepted? Is it because
we are honorable or is it because we
have a Cold Check Committee that
will cover our checks?

The bookstore does its billing
through the business office com-
puter. I hate to be the one to
break the news to you, but you are on-
ly a number to that computer. Let’s
at least try to connect the right
number with the right students.

Sure, the cards are a nuisance.
However, can you imagine what it
must be like trying to explain to the
computer that you didn’t charge $250
worth of insignia? After all, your
number, 1234, was on the receipts. If
you can’t figure it out, you might con-
sider talking to No. 1243, who “re-
membered” his number.

 

 

 

 

 

 

orientation, I told you of the advan-

tages of going through Rush, and I
hope you followed my advice and the
advice of Associate Dean of Students
Dan Murphy and _Interfraternity
Council President Jaimie Hayne, and
made the most of the Rush exper-
ience. If you did, things are probably
still a little foggy, but try to concen-
trate, focus and finish this article.
Also by now you are considering your
situation in respect to houses, school
and probably your love-life (the lat-
ter, a four-year quest), and I hope
that your are following my advice of
carefully considering the decision
you are about to make.

Consider the fact that you are forc-
ed by the early Rush system to
choose your circle of friends very
early in your college career. They
will not be your only friends, but ask
any member of any house and he will
admit that his brothers are his
primary friends. Also consider the
term ‘‘brother’’; this is how your
relationship with these people as well
as the other freshmen rushing that
house is to be forever framed. If you
are ready to choose that circle of
friends, ready to consider them
“brothers’’ — then by all means ac-
cept the bid. If not, don’t worry.
There are other options.

The option that I am most familiar
with is the Independent Union. The
I.U. is an organization founded with
the hopes of providing the oppor-
tunities, advantages and services of
a fraternity without the obligations
or disadvantages. We hold parties
like our very successful Christmas
party; we provide academic ser-
vices, such as an extensive cold-test
file and academic counseling; and
we organize and sponsor athletic in-
tramural teams that compete direct-
ly with the fraternities.

The I.U. is always open to new sug-
gestions for other services, and I
hope that all of the women and all of
the non-pledging men, and of course
all the independent upperclassmen,
will attend our first meeting next
week and give us a chance. We are
here to serve you, but we need you as
a means to that end.

The Independent Union is not the
only alternative to fraternity life.
With the new party pavilion, the Stu-
dent Activities Board has beefed up
its concert calendar with some fine
entertainment for the year to come.
And in addition, the fraternities here

at W&L are some of the best around
as far as opening their doors to non-
members. I attend a lot of fraternity
parties and have friends at most fra-
ternities, and I have never had a pro-
blem at any fraternity. The members
simply ask that you behave like a
gentleperson (coeducation is
tough! ), and respect their two-a-year
closed-party requests for special oc-
casions like Christmas and Fancy
Dress. (The Independent Union will
attempt to put on parties for the in-
dependents, et. al. on these typically
closed-party nights.) And besides,
you can always rush again next year

So, there are many doors and
avenues open to the person who has
decided not to go Greek this year.
The I.U., the fraternities, the SAB,
and the University itself are all here
to ensure that not only do you grad-
uate with the best education $7,100
can buy, but to be sure you also have
the best time that is legally and
morally possible. Make your decision
carefully. Use reason, insight, a
pocket calculator, a coin — anything
that will help you make the right
decision.

(Diffenderffer, a senior, is the presi-
dent of the Independent L nion.)

 

 

 

 

 

 

STUDENT SPECIAL

These items make the grade for a student’s room,
or for your home!

Folding
Bookcase

 

Student Desk
with Chair

a 599

tt

Dropleaf Table and 2 Chairs

VALUE MART

Component Home & Car Stereos * Water Beds * Furniture * Appliances * TVs * Video Sales & Rentals

=
261-2544 2175 Magnolia Avenue Buena Vista gum

Financing Available -

i

 
 

mon a

 

NEWS

The Ring-tum Phi, September 26, 1985

 

Dorm laundry
is a Quandary
for freshmen

 

By DANA BOLDEN
Staff Reporter

 

The five washers and dryers in the
basement of Graham-Lees dormitory
aren’t enough to serve the 400-
member freshman class, several
students say, but the University is
considering installing more.

About 25 freshmen interviewed this
week said they often have trouble
finding a working or unoccupied
washer or dryer.

Freshman Brett LaPrairie said he
has to set his alarm for 4 a.m. just to
find an open washing machine for his
clothes.

Freshman Jessica Reynolds was
one of several women to express dis-
satisfaction over having to carry a
loaded laundry basket across Wash-
ington Street to the laundry room.

‘The machines are really harsh,
and I wouldn’t wash clothes down
there unless I absolutely had to,”
said Jodi Ringwald.

“We pay $10,000 a year, and we
can’t even get decent washers and
dryers,’ freshman Hunter McFad-
den said.

On Tuesday, all five dryers in the
laundry room took money, but only
two worked. Of the five washers, two
took money but only one worked,

Dean of Freshmen H. Robert.
Huntley said he recognizes the need
for more laundry facilities.

“Right now I would like to have
more washer and dryers in Davis

dormitory, even tnough it would
mean adding more plumbing,’’ Hunt-
ley said.

There are more than 400 students
in this year’s freshman class, an in-
crease of about 30 over past years. In
a survey of 10 freshmen women and
10 freshmen men, it was found that
the women tend to wash their clothes
once a week — about twice as often
as the men.

“There are a lot of changes that
have occurred with coeducation, and
they have created more problems
than we anticipated.’’ Huntley said.
“‘We are doing our best to correct the
ones that we have now and prevent
anymore to come, but we can only
relate to the need as it is expressed.”’

Lee Dudley, technical assistant to
the superintendent of buildings and
grounds, said buildings and grounds
is aware of the problems with the
laundry room, but that every time
they call the firm that operates the
machines — Solon Automated Ser-
vices Inc. — all they get is an answer-
ing machine.

Dudley said they have called every
day since Monday to get the
machines fixed and that there is little
else they can do until their superin-
tendent, James Arthur, returns from
vacation next week.

“Buildings and grounds has found
that women, although there aren’t as
many, occupy the machines more
than the men,”’ Dudley said.

For that reason, he said, plans to
put washers and dryers in Davis
dormitory are ‘‘in the works.”’

 

 

By DANA BOLDEN
Staff Reporter

 

 

Having an honor system really
does cause some interesting
things to happen, but this event
should be placed somewhere in
the category of remarkable.

Last Thursday junior John Rior-
dan washed his clothes in the
basement of Graham-Lees dormi-
tory.

One thing led to another, and the
day’s activities pulled Riordan

 

away from the laundry room
while his clothes were drying.

Riordan, who says he some-
times has a tendency to forget
things, left his clothes drying until
Saturday.

Time didn’t permit him to make
the trip to the dormitory to
retrieve his clothing until Sunday,
when he began what he thought
might be a hopeless search for his
apparel.

To his surprise, when he entered
the basement of Graham-Lees, he
did not find his laundry scattered

Barbers’
agreement
sets prices

By SEAN BUGG
Staff Reporter

 

 

 

 

By Hank Mayer/The Ring-tum Phi
Freshman Joe Lowe.struggles with a washing machine in the basement of Graham-Lees

Laeenneennnneeeeeeeeeee rere

Mad clothes folder hits laundry room

all over the floor. In a corner of
the room, he found his clothes
neatly folded and stacked and his
socks tucked and paired; after a
brief inventory, he discovered
that everything was there and in
the same condition as when he
brought it in, except clean.

Riordan didn’t say whether he
would continue to do his laundry
at Graham-Lees, but he did know
one thing:

“If these are the effects of
coeducation, I’m all for it!”’

 

 

Four barbershops in town have a
“‘gentleman’s agreement” to charge
the same amount for haircuts, ac-
cording to managers of three of the
stores.

Buck’s, Wendell’s, Ideal and the
Jackson barbershops all have a basic
rate of $5 for haircuts.

“We pretty well try to stay
together on prices,” said Robert
Webb, owner of Buck’s.

At Wendell’s barbershop, Wendell
Baker stressed that having the same
prices is a ‘‘gentleman’s agree-
ment.’’ Because there is no barber’s
union, this is the way the local bar-
bers maintain a reasonable income.

Webb said the barbers raise the
prices when they all agree it is time.

The barbershops are not only simi-
lar in prices, but in the hours they are
open.

The Jackson barbershop, located
on Nelson Street, is open from 8:30
a.m. to 5:30 p.m. Monday through
Friday.

Wendell’s, on Jefferson Street, is
open from 9 to 6 Monday through Sat-
urday, but is closed Wednesday.

Buck’s, at 205 S. Main St., is open
Monday through Friday from 8 to 5,
Saturday 8 to 4, but is closed Wednes-
day.

The Ideal barbershop, on Main
Street, is open 8 to 5 Monday through
Friday and Saturday from 8 to noon,
but is closed Wednesday.

For those who feel more comfor-
table in a hairdresser’s than a bar-
bershop, there are options.

The Style Shop at 1 E. Preston St.,
George’s Hairstylists at 135 Varner
Lane, and Marie’s Hairstylists in the
Old Main Street Shopping Mall are
three of the hairstylists in town.

Tax hike to raise prices of bottled liquor, mixed drinks

 

By JIM STRADER
News Editor

 

The new federal excise tax on li-
quor which takes effect Tuesday will
mean little more than headaches, ac-
cording to many of those affected by
it in the Lexington area as well as
across the country.

The nationwide tax affects only
distilled beverages— wine and beer
are exempt — and is the first in-
crease in liquor taxes since 1951.

The most obvious and widely-af-
fected group is the liquor consumer,
who will be affected by the rise ex-
pected in liquor prices. According to
a liquor lobby spokesman, the
average increase expected in a one-
fifth gallon bottle of liquor is about
two dollars.

Gene Paxton, manager of the Lex-
ington Alcoholic Beverage Control
store, said he was unsure how prices
at the store would be affected. ‘“‘We
don’t figure any of that,’ he said.
‘That all comes from the home office
in Richmond.”

Dunbar named to Student Control’s Certification Committee

Paxton said that a new ABC price
book would be available on Tuesday,
but added that he had no other infor-
mation on new prices. ‘We haven’t
received anything in the mail on it,”
he said.

Bob Campbell, manager of The
Palms, said that the measure’s ef-
fects would not immediately be seen
as price increases, but that down the
line he might be forced to pass any in-

‘creased expenses along to
customers,

“It’s the old American way,” he
said. ‘‘Somebody’s going to stick the
consumer.”

Campbell said that while it is too
early to tell how the tax increase will
affect his business, the major pro-
blem he foresees is in the administra-
tion of the new law.

“It’s going to mean mountains of
extra paperwork for the small busi-
nessman,’’ Campbell said. He added
that it might be necessary, in order to
adhere to the new accounting pro-
cedures, to make his bookkeeper
work extra hours or to hire an ac-
countant.

The reporting system to be used in
conjunction with the new law has not
been decided yet, Campbell said.
“It’s still in the infancy stage. They
haven’t decided whether they’re go-
ing to have reports quarterly or an-
nually,”’ he said.

Campbell said he has adopted a
wait-and-see attitude on the change,
but added that he may be forced to
take some action. ‘‘If I get audited, it
will mean that I’ve got to pass that
cost on,’’ he said.

Spanky’s manager David Sorrels
said that the only problem he fore-
sees is a rise in the price of his mixed
drinks, but added that he had not
looked deeply into the matter.

“This is something that I’ve tried
to read about and it is really, really
confusing,”’ he said. ‘‘The ABC board
has sent us some material but they
really haven’t pushed it too hard.”

Bob Sievers, spokesman for the
Distilled Spirits Council of the United
States (DISCUS), explained that the
tax increase came as a result of the
Tax Reform Bill of 1984, which was
designed to reduce the national bud-

get deficit. Federal taxes on cigaret-
tes, which were due for revision this
year, were supposed to drop, he said,
in exchange for an increase in the tax
on liquor. Sievers said that in the cur-
rent plan, the cigarette tax will re-
main the same, and the liquor tax
will go up.

It has been reported by public-in-
terest groups that the tax could cut
the budget deficit by $12 billion a
year. A report by the National Alco-
hol Tax Coalition claims that alcohol-
related problems cost the nation $12
billion a year in health care, law en-
forcement and lost productivity.

The new tax creates some problem
in the alcohol industry, Sievers ex-
plained.

“Since the mid-1970s, when sales
peaked, the industry has been slowly
contracting,” he said. ‘“‘We expect
the trend, which is occurring again in
"85, to continue and maybe acceler-
ate.”

DISCUS reports that there have
been plant closings among distiller-
ies and unemployment is rising. Sea-
gram’s, for example, cut its sales

 

NEWS BRIEFS

force by one-third, Sievers said, and
Jack Daniels has had to lay off work-
ers. Production is down in the liquor
industry, Sievers said, but it has been
forced to bear much of the federal
tax burden.

‘“‘We’re paying more than our fair
share,” he said.

It is especially difficult, Sievers
said, with the problems that the in-
dustry has been experiencing lately,
and because there is a feeling of ine-
quity regarding taxes on wine and
beer.

The industry’s point of view on the
situation was: “‘Why tax a single pro-
duct?” Sievers said. Several distil-
leries have mounted advertising
campaigns to educate the public on
what Sievers called ‘‘the equivalency
of alcohol.” They show that a person
can become equally intoxicated by
drinking different amounts of liquor,
wine and beer, he said.

“The abuse problem is. industry
wide and we're bearing the brunt of
the tax,” he said. There is no current
legislation to tax wine or beer in a

similar fashion, Sievers added.

Figures compiled by DISCUS show
that after the tax increase goes into
effeot, federal taxes on the average
mixed drink will be four times that on
a bottle of beer and 18 times the tax
on a glass of wine. DISCUS says that
the three drinks all contain the same
amount of alcohol.

In addition to the educational ads,
liquor companies have taken out ads
protesting the tax hike. Kahlua, for
instance, had a full-page ad in a na-
tional news magazine several weeks
ago encouraging consumers to
“stock up on Kahlua before that tax-
ing date and you'll save yourself a
bundle.”’

There are no gimmicks in play at
the ABC store in Lexington, said Pax-
ton, and he hasn’t noticed any in-
crease in business lately. He said
that a sign explaining the tax hike is
displayed on the wall, but the re-
sponse has been slow.

“Someone might buy a few extra
bottles,” he said. ‘‘But that’s nothing
to get excited about.”’

 

 

Staff Reports

 

Assistant English Professor Jean C. Dunbar was
named Tuesday to the new student-faculty certification
committee that decides whether the Student Control
Committee will handle a case as a major or minor of-
fense.

Student Affairs Committee Chariman Lewis G. John
and SCC President Townes Pressler automatically are
part of the three-member certifying panel.

Dunbar was elected by her colleagues on the SAC.

“| have a very, very positive feeling about this com-
munity — a community of concerned, considerate and
generally well-behaved individuals,” she said.

“T certainly expect to bring the greatest seriousness
to occasions when my services are needed, but my
belief and my hope is that far from being a standing
committee, the committee will have to meet fairly in-
frequently to judge whether an action is a major or
minor offense against the community’s values.”

Shannon-Clark Lecture nears

Distinguished critic Frank Kermode will present the
fourth annual Shannon-Clark Lecture in English next
Thursday.

The lecture, titled ‘‘Arguments About ‘The Canon’:
What Do We Mean By ‘Literature’?,”’ will be given at 8
p.m. in the University Library’s Northen Auditorium.
The public is invited.

Formerly the King Edward VII professor of English
literature at Cambridge University, Kermode currently
serves as a visiting professor in the department of

English and comparative literature at Columbia
University. He is the author of ‘‘Romantic Image,”
“The Sense of an Ending,”’ “‘The Genesis of Secrecy,”’
“The Art of Telling,”’ ‘‘Forms of Attention’ and a
number of other works.

Two South Africa lectures set

Two lectures on the cur-
rent state of affairs in
South Africa will be given
here this weekend by a
Christian ethics special-
ist, Neville Richardson, a
lecturer in the department
of religious studies at the
University of Natal in
Pietermaritzburg, will
speak Saturday on ‘Being
the Church in South
Africa’ and Sunday on
“South Africa’s Cry and
the World’s Response.”’

Both talks will be at 8
p.m. in the Moot Court
room of Lewis Hall, the law school building.

Richardson, who has dual British and South African
citizenship, holds degrees from the University of Natal,
Rhodes University and Oxford University. In 1977, he
published ‘The World Council of Churches and Race
Relations: 1960-69.”

An ordained Methodist minister, Richardson joined
the faculty of the University of Natal in 1980, where he
specializes in Christian ethics with an emphasis on the

 

   

sy

‘4
ie a
ars

NEVILLE RICHARDSON

 

 

 

relationship betweeen Christian ethics and the Chris-
tian community.

Richardson will preach at Lexington’s Trinity United
Methodist Church on Sunday.

Professor’s book wins awards

A zoology textbook by biology Professor Cleveland P.
Hickman Jr. has won several awards for design.

“Integrated Principles of Zoology,’’ written by
Hickman, Larry S. Roberts of Texas Tech and Frances
M. Hickman of DePauw University, has won awards
from the American Institute of Graphic Arts, the Art
Directors Club Inc. of New York, and Graphic Design.

Published by Times Mirror/Mosby College Publish-
ing, this is the seventh edition of the popular textbook,
first published 28 years ago.

Book calls W&L a bargain

Washington and Lee is one of 221 colleges and univer-
sities featured in ‘“‘The Best Buys in College Educa-
tion,’’ a new book by Edward B. Fiske, education editor
of The New York Times. The book, which mentions 10
other Virginia schools, is a consumer’s guide to colleges
that offer high-quality education at a reasonable cost.

Fiske said students enrolling at W&L ‘‘will receive an
excellent education at a reasonable rate.”

‘“‘The cost of a Washington and Lee education is at the
higher end of a bargain,’ he writes, ‘‘but the outstand-
ing nature of the academic program ranks it with col-
leges that usually cost half again that much.”’

Fiske says W&L’s best academic offerings “‘lie in
English, history, and the professional school of com-
merce, which includes business, economics, and poli-

‘tics departments. This partly explains why it boasts

such high percentages of acceptance at schools of law
and business. Journalism is also strong, as are German
and Romantic languages and chemistry,”

The W&L Honor System and the accessibility of facul-
ty also earned high marks from Fiske.

‘The honor code is taken seriously at W&L

—itsh
the influence of Robert E. Lee — and exams erenapeas:
tored, doors left unlocked, and the library open 24 hours

a day, seven days a week,”’ Fiske writes, “The faculty
members are committed. ‘Their doors are always open
to you, and you can call them at home for help,’ asserts
one English major.”’

Fiske mentions the W&L social life, the “
meals at Evans Dining Hall, active in
intramural programs, and the Unive
the Shenandoah Valley as assets that
quality of a W&L education.

‘For an education that is both distinctive and distin-

guished,”’ Fiske writes, ‘‘Washingto: :
the best.” Bton and Lee is one of

excellent”’
tercollegiate and
rsity’s setting in
contribute to the

Steinheimer named to post

Roy L. Steinheimer Jr., professor of law and for
dean of the Law School, has been appointed rly
Robert E.R. Huntley Professorship in Law by the Board
of Trustees.

Steinheimer becomes the fj
Pegs e first Huntley Professor of

The endowed professorship was created by the W&L
trustees in 1982 in honor of Huntley, who served for 15
years as president of W&L. The Huntley Professorship
was established with designated unrestricted endow-
ment funds the University received during the $67
million development program completed in 1982.

 

 

 

 

A A ae  E

e

*
« e
|
|

< i

. .

 
Governor
appears at

local rally

By JOHN PIPKIN
Staff Reporter

 

Gov. Charles Robb stopped in Lex-
ington for 10 minutes Monday even-
ing to attend a reception for Mary
» Sue Terry, the Democratic candidate
for Virginia attorney general.

About 30 people gathered on Hop-
kins Green, across from The Palms,
for the reception.

Robb described Terry as a ‘‘superb
candidate”’ and said she is ‘‘the kind
of leader that will make a very effec-
tive attorney general.”’

Terry expressed this same confi-
dence when she described her ticket
as having “the edge in experience,
effectiveness and leadership” over
the Republican ticket.

Throughout the evening, Terry
stressed her experience as the major
issue in the election.

A native Virginian, Terry received
her law degree from the University
of Virginia in 1973. Since then, she
has served in the House of Delegates
for eight years and participated on
justice, conservation and education
committes.

 

 

By Hank Mayer/The King-tum Phi

Mary Sue Terry and Lexingtonian Otis Mead (center) listen to Gov. Charles Robb

Terry is also the only candidate for
attorney general who has been a pro-
secutor in the Commonwealth of Vir-
ginia. She takes a firm stand against
drunk driving and cites this as a ma-
jor problem that she will continue to
battle if elected.

Terry said she has received sup-
port from community and profession-
al organizations like the Fraternal
Order of Police and the Virginia Bar
Association. In addition, an un-
precedented percentage of bar presi-
dents have given her their support.

Most importantly, however, Robb
has given the Democratic ticket his
full support in a show of party unity.

Terry was in Lexington to help
raise funds for her campaign. The
reception preceded a $250-a-plate
dinner at the Willson-Walker House.

Olin urges Young Democrats to get involved

 

By DEBORAH HATTES
Staff Reporter

 

At a school where conservatives
seem to outnumber liberals by at
least a 5-1 ratio, a speech by a Demo-
crat congressman doesn’t draw a
huge crowd.

“IT don’t think you ought to be
discouraged here at W&L. It’s not
typical,” said Congressman Jim Olin
of Virginia’s 6th district. ‘Just
because most of the W&L male stu-
dents have been Republicans, that
doesn’t mean it always has to be that
way,” Olin said.

Olin spoke to a group of about 12 at
the first meeting of the year of the
Washington and Lee Young Demo-

crats Tuesday night. He asked for
their help in the upcoming November
election.

“This is a very important political
year in Virginia,” Olin said. ‘‘All the
members of the General Assembly
are running.”’

Olin asked for support for Dennis
Brown, who is running for the Gen-
eral Assembly from the 24th District.

“He is one person you can work for
here,’’ Olin said.

He also threw his support behind
the Democratic ticket of Gerald
Baliles for governor, Doug Wilder for
lieutenant governor, and Mary Sue
Terry for attorney general.

“They represent a most unusual
ticket. It’s the first time any party

has run a woman, and I think, the
first time any party has run a black
person (Wilder) for statewide of-
fice.”

Olin commented that Gov. Charles
Robb seems to be making political
plans for after his term as governor
ends.

“Tt seemed to me he definitely has
aspirations for something else. One
of the things he’s trying to do very
clearly is to position himself so that
he represents the very acceptable
type of Southern Democrat, who’s
fiscally conservative, very responsi-
ble, and very acceptable to all the
Southern states as far as possible so
that he can be available in the event
that the national ticket is looking for
such a person...It’s not inconceivable

 

CRAFTS PLUS, INC.

GAMES, HOBBIES & CRAFT SUPPLIES

Open Mon.-Sat., 10-5
31S. Main St., Lexington 463-3355

 

i a= =

HAIRSTYLISTS

~REDKEN

NE*US

Located at 136 Varner Lane
directly behind Leggetts
with plenty of parking

Phone: 463-3975 or walk in.

 

 

PIZZA

$2 OFF!

SALE:

 

@ Better hurry to your home
town Pizza Hut" restaurant!
It's not often you save this kind
of money on our fresh, hot
and scrumptious pizza. f¥ So
come on in. Bring the whole

“a

 

cm In, Carry Out Or Delivered

ae
Pizza

$9 or

* $2. off any large pizza
or $1 off any medium. In-
cludes Pizza Hut® Pan

a Pizza! Hurry; offer ex-
pires soon. One coupon
per party per visit at

i participating Pizza Hut"
restaurants

Please present coupon when ordering

   

  
 

Hut.

family. @ We'll pile on layers
of pure mozzarella cheese and
all your favorite toppings.
There's no better time to try |
our unparalleled Pizza Hut®
Pan Pizza. See you soon!

 

ons

$gor

600 E. Nelson St.
Lexinatan, VA
433-/000

10-5-85

ke ee ee a ea a NE

To

OR ED

 

 

 

ule
RATION CO

 

For: Lexington

A 3/2 EXAM: Classes
begin 1/22

a 6/15 EXAM: Classes
begin 3/19

B Classes now forming

4 Classes now forming

, Classes now forming

 

that Chuck Robb will be on that
ticket.’’

Looking ahead to the 1986 Congres-
sional elections, Olin said: ‘This is
going to be a very significant election
year. On the average, in the sixth
year of a president’s term, the party
opposite from that of the president
has picked up something like 38 more
votes. That could happen.”’

“There’s a very strong chance that
next time, the Senate can move over
to the Democratic side,” he added.

Olin said he is not sure who will be
the Democratic presidential nominee
in 1988. But at the mention of Lee Iac-
coca, chairman of Chrysler Corp.,
Olin said, ‘“‘Don’t rule him out. He is
extremely popular. He’s caught the
imagination of the public.”’

 

 

1) EAVERS
Ain
ta &

Picssiva
SERVICES

Have you ever:

forgotton an endnote...

misspolied @ word...

found just tho right source

at the last minuto...?

RBLAX - WE HAVE THE SOLUTION

All our “typing” le done on en IBM PC
computer with a letter quality printer.

 

 

 

Additions, deletions, corrections are
For a free brochure call Toll Free: ae aera anak on
CRS
or write: 800-222- TEST 64 x 11 $1.25 per page double spaced
The National Center for Educational Testing 84 x 11 $2.00 por page singlo spaced
me yop NE Suite 526 DATA SERVICES
jants, GA 30326 203 NORTH MAIN STREBT
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
463.9455
: ' te
t
aa
Furniture Dealers
115 S$. Main Street 463-2742

‘For your extra pieces of furniture’

 

ARTCARVE

CLASS ED

IT S URE NO OTHER RING YOU EVER OWN’

A representative for Art-
Carved class rings will be

in the

Bookstore 10:00

-3:00 p.m. on Sept. 26-27.

Come by the _ bookstore
for more details.

 

The Bookstore will also be
open for all home
Football games, Homecoming
and Parent’s Weekend

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, September 26, 1985, Page 5

Rhodes, Fulbright:

Deadlines near
for scholarships

 

By CHRIS APPLEBY
Staff Reporter

 

As October approaches, so does the
due date for applications for Rhodes
and Fulbright scholarships.

The prestigious Rhodes scholar-
ship elections will be held in
December 1985. Washington and Lee
has sent three men to Oxford in the
past 10 years.

The University has had as much
success with Fulbright applicants,
according to program director and
English Professor John Evans. He
said the University has produced one
or more Fulbright scholars each year
for the past several years.

Associate Dean of the College
Pamela Simpson, head of the Grad-
uate Fellowship Committee, said a
spring luncheon is held to familiarize
students with the various scholar-
ships available. These include the
Marshall, Mellon, Luce, Rotary,
Truman and St. Andrew’s scholar-
ships. All students attaining a grade
point average of 3.5 or better are in-
vited to participate.

The Rhodes scholarship was estab-
lished by Cecil Rhodes, who created
a two-year scholarhips program in
which students are allowed to choose
their own course of study, with the
possibility of taking a third year.

In his will, Rhodes put a strong em-
phasis on the character of the
scholar. According to University
President and Rhodes scholar John
Wilson, Rhodes expectations have
been misunderstood. Rhodes’ wish
for the scholars to “fight the world’s
fight’’ is actually a desire for them to
better the world through various
forms of public service.

Rhodes hoped that after the inter-
national study experience, the
scholars would return to their own
country to take positions of influence
and leadership in their professions.
Rhodes’ will outlined courage, truth-
fulness, moral force of character,
leadership instincts, athletic ability
and scholastic achievement among
his criteria for scholarships ap-
plicants.

The basic requirements for U.S.
applicants include American citizen-
ship with a minimum of five years
domicile and at least junior standing

 

 

Handcrafted
Jewelry

Unique designs in silver, gold
and porcelain

Artist’s in Cahoots

Gallery
in Old Main St. Mall
at Main and Henry Streets
Mon.-Sat. 10a.m, to5 p.m.

 

 

 

 

at a degree-granting college. The
students must also be single and bet
ween the ages of 18 and 24. Students
may apply in their home state or the
state in which they are attending
school.

American applicants are chosen in
December by state and district com
mittees. The country is divided into
eight districts of six or seven stale
Each state committee chooses two
candidates to appear before the
district committee, which then ap
points four Rhodes scholars from
among the state nominees

For the Fulbright grants, Evans
particularly encourages foreign
language students to apply. Evans is
on leave this semester, but will be
available for conferences to discuss
students’ applications for thei
Fulbright projects. To apply for a
Fulbright grant, which are limited to
seniors, students must choose a coun
try in which they wish to study and
outline tbe year-long projects they in
tend to follow.

The Fulbright Act of 1946, named
for and initiated by U.S. Senator J
William Fulbright, advocated an in
ternational exchange of students
The Fulbright scholarships are
meant to further international under
standing and promote study by U.S
scholars abroad and foreign students
here.

The Fulbright-Hayes Act of 1961
strengthened the effectiveness of the
program by providing for the stu
dents’ round-trip transportation, tui
tion, books and food for one academic
year, as well as paying for health and
accident insurance. The Institute of
International Education in New York
annually distributes a list of the
available Fulbright awards .
with other foreign study grants

The deadline for F ulbright applica
tions to Dean Simpson is Oct. 15
Potential Rhodes scholars are re
quired to submit their applications to
philosophy Professor Ramsey Mar
tin by Oct. 31.

The Marshall, Mellon, Luce and

Truman applications are also due
next month. The St. Andrews and Ro
tary scholarships are to be submitted
in January and March, respectively

Information on the scholarship pro

grams is available in Simpson’s o!

fice.

     
   
    
   
       
   

Wendell’s
Barber Shop

| need your head for :
my business. 3

 

 

 
 

Bring in this ad for 25% Off

any purchase offer.
Expires 10/5/85.

BECKY’S COUNTRY CASUALS
“Where Good Taste Never Goes Out of Style”

   

2127 Magnolia Avenue
Buena Vista, Virginia
24416

Phone: (703) 261-3140

BECKY FAIRCHILD

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

WALKE

ices EM ie cette

WILLSON- sat: ae

 

=p

fo “wa {

lies = ~"

rr AA G lo ae a
+ eee +4 i ?

 

 

ANNOUNCING
**The Thirty-Minute Lunch’’

Featuring soup of the day, entree, and beverage.
Choose from entrees of fresh spinach salad with
bacon and walnuts, Chesapeake Bay crab cake sand-
wich, or a six ounce rib eye steak.

Accommodating business people with business lunches.

Open For Lunch & Dinner, Tues. — Sat.,
11:30-2:30 & 5:30-10:00
30 N. Main Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 6, The Ring-tum Phi, September 26, 1985

 

Ethics

 

Continued from Page 1

The essential difference of Gustaf-
son’s ideas compared with all other
theological viewpoints in this cen-
tury, he added, is “that you have a
radical challenge both at the popular
level...and at the scholarly level.”’

While spending his sabbatical at
the University of Chicago in 1981,
Beckley audited several courses
taught by Gustafson. He became
very interested in the theologian’s
first volume on ethics and theology,
which was published in the same
year.

Beckley began organizing the sym-
posium three years ago with Robin
Lovin, a faculty member at the Chi-

Atwood

Continued from Page 1

 

 

are incomplete.

A major accomplishment under At-
wood’s leadership was the move to
the renovated Commerce School
Building, which as McCormick Hall
had formerly housed the University
Library.

In addition, Atwood said that ‘‘bus-
iness, economics and politics have
become very popular majors while
I’ve been dean — but not because I’ve
been dean.”

The dean said another pattern he’s
noticed is the decline of interest in
social issues by today’s students
compared to students of the previous
two decades.

Currently there’s a lot of interest
in making a lot of money, which is too
bad,” he said, adding that the bright
side is that ‘‘it’s gotten so at least
some students are interested in
investments in South Africa and that
sort of thing.’’

Atwood said he’l] have much fewer
time demands with his new role of
just teaching classes, including his
well-known ‘Money and Banking.”

The dean said he’ll miss having a
personal secretary, but noted that
Anne S. Zeigler, his assistant, is so
popular with students he has to share
her even now.

As an example, he fetched a post-
card he received this week from one
of last year’s graduates who is now at

cago Divinity School.

“T would know when my telephone
rang promptly at 9 on Saturday
morning who would he on the othe:
line,"’ Lovin said, recalling the
endless details he helped organize.

Lovin called Gustafson’s book the
culmination of his career, a ‘‘bench-
mark work.”’

“Some theologians will write
works early in their career and then
move away from them,” he said.
“Others move away too.”’

But Gustafson’s ideas are so radi-
cal that many scholars are attracted
to them, Lovin said.

Beckley said the Philip Fullerton
Howerton Fund for Special Pro-
grams in the Department of Religion
provided the money needed to hold
the symposium.

the Harvard Business School.

‘Dear Mrs. Z. and Dean Atwood,”’
it began.

‘See — that’s how they come in,”
he chuckled.

Wilson’s letter noted that Atwood’s
colleagues will miss “‘his droll com-
mentary on the passing scene.”’

“Droll,’’ Atwood mused, looking
the very picture of the word in ques-
tion. ‘I’m not sure I know what that
means.”’

“Is that good or bad?’’ he asked
with a glimmer in his eye, getting out
of his chair and padding over to a
deskside dictionary.

‘** ‘Amusingly odd or whimsically
comical,’ " he read.

The verdict: ‘“‘That’s all right, I
guess.”’

Atwood himself brought up the fact
that he’s aware students have two
nicknames for him.

He explained very seriously that
one somewhat unfamiliar to this stu-
dent generation, ‘‘Easy Ed,’’ is gen-
erally meant somewhat sarcastical-
ly.

 

JAMES GUSTAFSON

“T think I grade fairly,” he said.
“There are some students, though
that think I demand too much.... So
the ‘easy’ is the opposite.”’

What few students realize, he con-
tinued with the sort of detail usually
reserved for explaining the float on a
check, is that he’s been called ‘‘Easy
Ed”’ since before high school because
of his first two initials.

“The other name is ‘The Ax,’ ” he
said flatly. ‘‘Eddie the Ax.”

“‘T don’t know why I got to be ‘The
Ax,’ ” he said. ‘I have no idea. It pro-
bably came from when I was dean of
students.”

A visitor noted the appellation was
memorialized last year in the mis-
chievous name of W&L’s team in the
Intercollegiate Business Games and
Conference: ‘‘Edax Telecom Inc.”

“That never occurred to me,” At-
wood said as the light dawned. ‘I
read that, too.”’

Flattered?

“Sure, that’s fine,’ he said.

 

Simpson

 

© Continued from Page 1

ed faculty members in doing that.”
Simpson, 39, downplayed her role
in bringing about the actual change
to coeducation, saying she was ‘“‘just
one voice among many.”’
She acknowledged, though, the
central part she played in the 14-

month conversion process as chair of
the 13-member Committee on Coedu-
cation.

Assistant English Professor Jean
C. Dunbar, who served on the com-
mittee, said Simpson’s position re-
quired “an awful lot of time
and...organizational effort.”’

“T think the community as a whole
owes her a debt of gratitude for the
enormous amount of energy she put
into the opening stages” of the com-
mittee, Dunbar said.

Sophomore charged in shotgun incident

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Staff Reporter

 

Sophomore Drake Fason of Austin,
Texas, was charged with discharging
a weapon, brandishing a weapon and
carrying a loaded weapon in the city
Sunday after he reportedly fired a
shotgun from the third floor of the
Kappa Sigma fraternity house.

Officer G.P. Joines said in a police
report that at 12:15 a.m., he heard a
blast behind the house and a voice
saying ‘‘I got him now.”’

“Don’t do it,’’ someone replied, ac-

110 S. Jefferson St.

 

 
   
  
     
       
     
          
       
     
   
         

Llewellyn Lodge
at Lexington

A Bed and Breakfast
on Main Street, within
walking distance of
The Historic District

463-3235

(703) 463-7440

   

cording to the report. ‘‘It’s going too
far.”

Joines said he then saw two feet of
a gun barrel appear from a second-
story rear window. He called for
assistance, entered the house, and
found two shotguns and a 50-calibre
muzzle loader.

The barrel of one of the guns was
warm, Joines reported, and Fason
said the weapon fired while they
were playing.

“A bunch of brothers raided the
house with firecrackers,’’ Fason
said. ‘It kind of got carried away. I
shot out the window.”

 

Sandwiches (Eat In-Take Out)
Gourmet Items of All Nations

Cocktails® Wine®@ Beer
Subs@Imported Cheeses

Fason said the musket was the
same one used by the Interfraternity
Council to signal the beginning of
Rush.

Kappa Sigma President Bill Hem-
phill said that a few fraternity
members ‘“‘who do not reside in the
house came over for a little late-night
fun.”

“The alleged perpetrator got car-
ried away and acted without think-
ing,” he continued.

Hemphill said Fason will be repri-
manded and that all firearms have
been banished from the house.

  
   

  
   

 

 

Pia

 

 

 

 

|

The Great Hair Caper

Comes To Lexington
Sept. 17

[~~ Our designer Caper Cuts. Reg. $8.00
Opening Special $6.00
e Caper’s fabulous, no fuss, odor free perms.

Reg. from $35.00

NOW $25.00
(includes cut, perm, conditioning and style)
Opening prices through September

/ me:

____. 463-2566
25 N. Main St.

 

 

 

Free color analysis, free gifts
Call for your appointment today!

 

THE NEW OPTICIANS

Contacts - Glasses - Repairs

 

Raybans - Vuarnets

10% OF F

next to Stop-In

 

Rush will end with ‘pledge fever’

 

By PAUL DAVEY
Staff Reporter

 

When the clock strikes 11 tomorrow
evening, the Washington and Lee
campus will be gripped with a
peculiar type of hysteria: “pledge
fever.’’ For some, this will be a grand
occasion, while others will be forced
to ask themselves, ‘‘What did we do
wrong?”’

By now, the majority of the bids
have been given out by the various
fraternities. Unlike previous years,
when many freshmen had a week be-
tween the time they received their
bids and when they could accept
them and formally pledge a fraterni-
ty, the interim period has been short-
ened to two days this year. As well as
delaying the time period, the new
system doesn’t provide the opportu-

nity of receiving a bid “‘the second
time around,” which in years past
has been on a Wednesday evening

Historical facts aside, the end of
Rush — bids and pledging — is one of
the most interesting and electrifying
times of the year. Freshmen are on
the hot seat at first, waiting to see if
they receive bids, while the fraterni-
ty members next sweat it out, wait-
ing to see how many freshmen will
pledge.

The culmination of all this rushing,
waiting and sweating indeed occurs
late Friday night. Across the cam-
pus, amid house chants, the throwing
of beer (to the amazement of well-
dressed and suddenly _ horrified
young women), trickles and then
waves of freshmen will decide to
pledge. Pledging is a most important
part of the W&L experience. Fresh-

men need to look behind the facade of
each house they are considering and
attempt to see the true substance of
the fraternities. One must decide
with whom he wants to spend the
next four years, realizing that a
fraternity is not merely a place to
guzzle beer, watch television and
meet a variety of women. Especially
with such a short Rush, freshmen
must find the true essence of each
house and its members.

Pledge fever is almost upon us. It is
hoped that more people will exper-
ience a grand occasion than will
stand idly, second-guessing them-
selves. But most of all, the hope is
that the goal of Rush, to get the right
people in the right fraternities
through the bidding and pledging sys-
tem, will be achieved.

And remember: Wear old clothes.

IFC reminds houses of rules on freshmen

 

By JIM STRADER
News Editor

 

The president of the Interfraternity
Council Tuesday night reminded
fraternity representatives that they
must take freshmen back to the dor-
mitories immediately after tomor-
row night’s Rush dates. The fresh-
men must return to houses on their
own if they decide to accept bids for
membership, President Jaimie
Hayne said.

In other action at Tuesday’s
meeting, IFC Rush Chairman Sam
Svalina asked that houses submit
lists of their pledges and an estimate
of the number they anticipate get-
ting.

Svalina also asked that represen-
tatives report on how much money
they spent on bands during Rush. The
reports must include the name of the
band as well.

Svalina said that it has been
reported that some houses have ex-
ceeded the $2,700 limit that the IFC

 

SAVE MONEY!

21 W. Washington St.

 

 

TRAVEL UNLIMITED

Going home for Thanksgiving or
Christmas? Plan ahead,

“System One Computers”
“‘Boarding Pass Printers”’
— 3certified travel consultants —

463-7174

 

 

 

     
     
   
   
 
   
   
 

Now Presents

Live Music

Every Thursday
and Saturday Night

9 p.m. - ??

Featuring

Sat., Sept. 28, 1985

Rooster Ruley

and the

New Grass
Connection

 

 

Subway Open Sunday

1 p.m. - 8:30 p.m.

set for expenditures on bands.

“There are rumors that some peo-
ple spent too much on bands and paid
them under the table,”’ he told the
representatives. “If that’s true,
you'll have to suck it up.”’

He also requested a list of other
social expenses during Rush.

IFC Treasurer Mac McGrew read
a list of six fraternities that owe a
total of $1,766 to the IFC and said a
$50 fine would be levied if the money
is not paid promptly.

 

~
116 N. Main St.

(0)
across from Stop-in!) @& J
‘ “t G;

O

The name says it
We’ve got it all...
COME SEE!

G

   
  
 

 

 

 

    
   
  

 
  

 

 
SPORTS

The Ring-tum Phi, September 26, 1985

 

Sarber sparks second soccer shutout

Mier 3* 4!

, By ROB MacPHERSON
_ Staff Reporter

Usually, coaches are pleased if

» their players improve with every

. game. But as far as Washington and

, Lee soccer coach Rolf Piranian is

concerned, one of his players can
* keep doing what he’s been doing.

* Freshman forward Johnny Sarber
* added two more goals to his season
+ total Saturday afternoon to pace the
* Generals to a 2-0 victory over Old
+ Dominion Athletic Conference foe
, Eastern Mennonite. The tallies gave

Sarber four goals in the two games
« W&L has played.

+ Sarber and the rest of his team-
, mates’ offensive output, coupled with

some excellent defensive play in
r each of its first two contests, puts the
, Generals at 2-0 as they head into to-

day’s game with Mary Washington,
* the 17th-ranked Division III soccer
, team in the nation.

The Generals earned their second
victory of the year on Saturday by
* taking advantage of Sarber’s nose for
» the ball. Said Piranian, ‘“‘He has a

knack for being in the right place at
* the right time.”’

At 38:42 of the first half against
"Eastern Mennonite, Sarber found
“himself in “the right place” to
* receive a perfectly placed cross from
, Corky Parkinson. He then managed

to get enough of his head on the ball
+to drive it into the net for his, and
, W&L’s, first goal of the game.

Play continued throughout the half
* at the heated pace that the Generals
, had anticipated. W&L dominated the
offense by employing a time consum-

* ing, ball-control type of play.
+ They waited patiently until 5:11,
, when a missed penalty kick and the
melee following it resulted in a
»General throw-in. The ball came in
_ quickly, confusing the Eastern Men-
nonite defense, and Sarber was there
*to take full advantage of the situa-

,

_., tion.

 

“

After bouncing around for awhile,
“the ball found a temporary home on
,Sarber’s foot. He discarded his newly

acquired property and beat the
*Mennonite goalie for the game’s final

 

iy

4

es
——

, .
By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

 

The Generals used ‘‘heads up” play to defeat Eastern Mennonite on Saturday

tally. It was then just minutes until
half time and, for the most part, the
game was over.

The second half featured two
teams going through the motions and
highlighted the W&L defense. It turn-

ed back whatever offense Eastern
Mennonite could muster and with
some fine goal tending by Chris
Gareis, the Generals were able to
preserve their second shutout in two
games.

After today’s match against Mary
Washington, the Generals go on the
road for games with Newport News
Apprentice School Saturday and top-
rated ODAC rival Lynchburg Wed-
nesday.

Water polo upstaged, eyes Richmond

+ By LEIF UELAND
; Staff Reporter

 

In a weekend that was both
“disheartening and inspiring, the
+ Washington and Lee water polo team
lost two of three matches at the
‘Northeast Varsity Invitational in
, Providence, R.I. The weekend’s play
brought the W&L season mark to 4-4.

In their opening match against the

the Stands as

KAA

 

 

 
  

 

 

"By REED HOWLETT
+ Staff Reporter

 

* Washington and Lee golf coach
. Buck Leslie is certainly a man true to
his word.
+ Just last week he predicted an up-
per-half finish for the Generals in the
“7th Annual VMI-W&L Invitational
+Golf Tournament. The team rose to
, the occasion and put forth a very
respectable effort in carrying W&L
to an eighth-place finish in a field of
, 18 teams.

Elon finished in the top spot with a
+two-day team score of 592 on the par-
a Lexington Country Club course.

Old Dominion followed very closely
rwith a two-day total of 593. VMI fi-

ek Re) rey ~
ew (0
ke ah a

No. 17-ranked squad in the nation,
Bucknell, the Generals trailed by just
a 2-1 count after the first period. But
the Bison came back like a thorough-
bred regaining its stride to rout W&L,
19-1,

“More than us falling apart,” W&L
head coach Page Remillard said,
“they (Bucknell) got their act
together.”’

W&L encountered a similar situa-

kL’

NEN NOES NSE EERE SSR TALES CAL ARNE,
ir Vv Hopefully the Generals Will be as tough in 4
eWs they are on the Field, |

a om ( (
EE

(ee yer yy St
A o

J

  

 
   

 

 

oe
eae a
— so - ee SAS
— eeby John V. Lowe|

 

Golf finishes eighth in tourney -

nished in the 7th spot with a total of
622.

The Generals, though they finished
where they had hoped, thought they
could have played better. Leslie
said: ‘‘We should be scoring 310 or
under for our one-day total instead of
the 320 and 319 that we did, and the
players know it.”

The tournament proved once again
to be a very well organized showcase
of area collegiate golf skill. The play-
ing conditions were excellent despite
one hour fog delays each morning
Coach Leslie had nothing but praise
for the weather and the condition of
the course: ‘‘It was perfect weather
to play. The greens were well water-
ed and they held quite well.’’

‘Harriers to open season on road

By REED HOWLETT
* Staff Reporter

 

+

The W&L cross country team will

* spring into action Saturday as it

+ kicks off the running season against

Washington College and Mary Wash-

* ington College. The meet will be held
+ in Chestertown, Md.

After last year’s dream season in

“which the Generals went 14-0 and

.

won the Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference, one might expect a letdown
for this season. But Coach Dick
Miller, ODAC Coach-of-the-Year last
season, is determined not to let this
happen

The well-balanced team will look to
returning lettermen, captain Ron
Moody, Eddie Goundry, Billy Clark,
and Ashe Andrews in addition to new-
comers Mathew Laws and Michael
Watson to lead the squad

tion in its second game of the tourney
as 15th-ranked Iona was too much for
the Generals, 20-3.

Remillard noted the instinctual
play of both Army and Iona was a
stage better than his squad. ‘‘We’re
still in the learning phase, and we
need to think things out before we ex-
ecute,”’ he said.

“The scores in those games are a
little inflated since we used everyone
once we decided that we could not
win the games.”

Having already lost two matches
and then falling behind by a 7-3
halftime score in its third contest
against Army — a game that started
at 11:30 p.m. — the Generals were in
a decidely unenviable position. But
the team that has been praised for its

abundance of potential was not about
to leave the land of Ivy without serv-
ing notice of its ability.

By the third period, W&L had come
back to tie the Cadets 7-7, and in the
fourth quarter, the Generals surged
to a 10-9 advantage on David Reavy’s
goal with 1:59 remaining in the
game.

In the waning seconds, Kevin
Lederer used his third foul to prevent
an Army goal, but in so doing forced
the Generals into a man-down situa-
tion for the remainder of the game.
The W&L defense rose to the chal-
lenge and preserved the 10-9 victory.

This weekend, W&L travels to

Richmond for the Virginia State
Championships.

 

Holmes: loser

....And Larry Holmes wonders why
he never got any respect as heavy-
TIME weight champion of the world. At
OUT present, one wonders if he deserves
**2° any respect as a human being of the

world.

 

By Mike
Stachura Michael Spinks beat Larry
Holmes Saturday night in Las

Vegas. After the fight, Holmes pum-

 

 

your dead brother.”

are fighting the way they are.”

And I got 99 million in the bank.”’

is no reason to become unruly.

goodness sake.

the year.

representatives of a sport.

* *

treé....

Hmmm...Birds of a feather...?

 

meled into submission any respect he ever had with his words at the
after-the-fall press conference. Here, in case you missed them, are a
few of the gems the eloquent ex-champion tossed out (Note the “the
hell with all of you, my you-know-what doesn’t stink” attitude):

¢ “Rocky Marciano couldn’t carry my jockstrap.”’

* (To Peter Marciano, Rocky's brother) ‘You are freeloading off

° “If I’ve offended you, I’m sorry, but so ----ing what.”’
¢ “There will never be a white champion as long as black champions

* “I don’t need no more boxing. I made me 60-something million ...

« ‘Just give me the money (said three days before the fight)”

Well, Larry, that’s all you got. Boxing is a silly sport played by silly
men. It now appears that the silliest of all is Mr. Holmes. But don’t let
your human compassion run away with you by feeling the least bit of
sorrow or remorse for Holmes. His post-fight comments warrant no
sympathy. You simply don’t get to do that, campers.

Homes disgraced himself. And it isn’t sad or unfortunate that this
once-champion has left the game in such a negative way. The ex-
champ deserves no immunity. Just because the fight was close, there

Holmes perhaps didn’t know how to lose because he had never lost
before. True, he was undefeated in his professional boxing career (un-
til Saturday). Still in all, his inability to handle something as trivial as
defeat makes it perhaps good that he is no longer champion.

Holmes not only hurt himself by his commentary, he cast an unwar-
ranted shadow on Spinks’ excellent performance. And that is another
knock on the displaced champion. Larry, step aside gracefully, for

“This is my press conference, you can just shut up,’’ Holme said
during his press conference. Talk about your intellectual comeback of

Holmes forgot his place at the post-fight press conference. Simply
put, he was out of line. An athlete in his position is not allowed to be out
of line. You can yell and scream all you want, but never in public. It is
something that goes with the territory of being one of the major

Am I saying athletes are not allowed to be human beings? On the
contrary, Holmes behaved inhumanly by defaming Marciano and de-
nying Spinks the acknowledgement of a fight well-fought.

Champions know how to accept defeat. Champions know their place.
Champions know their achievements, and champions know they don’t
have to tell everyone how great they are. Larry Holmes apparently
knew little of this. He was champion by title only, certainly not
character. Apology not accepted...

.... Strolling down the Colonnade, just one note: Saturday’s grid tilt
with Centre will be a great indicator for the rest of the 1985 season.
Question marks are all over the place with this team. Here’s a guess
positive answers are on the way for Saturday afternoon. W&L 22, Cen-

....And then we had Billy Martin showing us why he isn’t next in line
on Michael Spinks’ opponent list. Says Billy the Bruiser (or is it
Peacemaker?), ‘“‘I run into a lot of kooks. They seek me out.”

....For those wondering where the Washington Redskins have gone,
do the words “‘belly up’’ mean anything to you? No, things aren’t that
bad, yet. They will be next week when the Bears beat up on them....

....Finally, from the Woe is Me Dept.: Bill Elliott, who’s won one
over $2 million this season on the NASCAR circuit, after being knocked
out of a race on Sunday, said, ‘‘Who said life is fair?’”’ Tell us about it
Million Dollar Bill. Don’t the loss(es) kind of balance the wins out?
Sounds an awful lot like “‘fair’’ to me...

 

Gridders surrounded in optimism for Centre

By DAVID EMRICH

Staff Reporter

Recall the last time you saw the
Washington and Lee football team in
action. Remember them? They were
the ones on the short end of a 30-0
score. What’s that? You say you’ve
already given up hope for a winning
or even respectable season? Well
don’t despair, because there is
nothing but optimism. surrounding
the squad as they prepare for the
home opener against Centre College
this Saturday.

Coach Gary Fallon saw many good
things in the team’s first game. The
defense, for example, played very
well. They conceded only one of
Emory and Henry’s touchdowns (the
rest came via turnovers) and allowed
the E&H offense but one sustained
drive.

Also, recently converted tailback
Chris Coffland did an excellent job,

  
 
 
 

 

 

  

The Shop for
PAPPAGALLO

 
 

   

Shoes, Clothing

rushing for 61 yards on 16 carries and
gaining 55 more yards on 7 recep-
tions. Said Fallon of Coffland, who
was a Safety until a week before the
E&H game, ‘Chris is a 110 percent
type of guy.”’ In W&L’s opener, the
offense moved the ball well and had
possession almost twice as long as
E&H, but turnovers marred an other-
wise positive performance.

Which leads to the question, If
there were so many good perfor-
mances in last week’s game then
what could be done to improve?
Fallon said, ‘‘We worked on condi-
tioning the offense, we felt they need-
ed it to maintain their fitness after
the off days. (The team was given off
the Sunday after the E&H loss, as
well as the following Saturday.) We
worked on execution and we definite-
ly believe it has improved.”

The defense, which played so well
in the season opener, has its work cut

  

MaXell. uoxc 1 cv
$949 a
ea.-some restrictions apply

Eastern Distributing

463-9703 after 6p.m.

  

      
  

out for it. Last week Mike Couchot,
Centre’s quarterback, threw for 171
yards on 10 completions, while run-
ning back Mike Kenyon ran for 76
yards on 12 carries. Said Fallon
“Centre poses a lot of different pro-
blems for our defense. It has some
fine running backs and a quarter-
back who can throw effectively.”

Running back Kevin Weaver is ex-
pected to return for Saturday’s
game. However, last week’s starter,
Coffland, is listed ahead of him on the
depth chart. Fallon said, ‘‘Kevin has
only been practicing with us once a
week. He’s healthy and he’s okay to
play, but he’s been busy with his
studies and ROTC.”

With both Weaver and Coffland, as
well as fullback Frand Surface, pro-
jected as playing this weekend,
the team culd be expected to run a
great deal. Not so says Fallon: ‘I'd
like to go into the game with a

ee

Manic 's Kain. Srylens

Aa
S

By Appointment 463-9588
f rovin « Peggy *Marie

(| SE RU GE AS SG i

balanced attack, but there are very
few times when I’ve been able to do
that. We'll throw more if that is suc-
cessful, and the same with the run-
ning game. Last week was the first
time I had to go into a game thinking
pass, after all I didn’t have any ex-
perienced running backs.”’

SIDELINES: The two teams have
met 38 times before, with Centre Col-
lege leading the series 22-12-4....The
last four meetings were split, with
each team winning both their home
games...Last year Centre beat W&L
27-12, not allowing the Generals to
score until late in the fourth
quarter...Centre has a 1-1 record
overall (1-0 in the College Athletic
Conference), while W&L is 0-1
overall (0-1 in the ODAC)...Centre
was shut out last week by Maryville,
13-0. Maryville is an ODAC team and
finished fifth in the conference last

SR RC

Old Main St. Mall
Lexington, VA 24450 :

  

 

& Accessories

 

  

23 NORTH MAIN STREET
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

463-5988

 
  
  

  
 
 

 

Shenandoah Office Supplies

Old Main Street Mall, Lexington, Virginia Xerox Sales

463-4062
10 to 5 Mon.-Fri.

College ruled fillers, Accounting paper,
College ruled spirals, Summary margin spirals,
Cross refills, School year calendars,
Typewriter ribbons, Multi-color file trays,

desk lamps.

Xerox Memorywriters - Eagle Computers
We rent typewriters and copiers
If we don’t have it we will order it for you.

 

   
  
 
   
 

 
   

 

 
 
     
    
   

 

 

 

 

  

 
 

EBACK PAGE

The Ring-tum Phi, September 26, 1985

 

 

a)
ee Wee we
ta & thay

ee mei!

‘am Mai

®

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

The SAB sponsored The Targetz last night in GHQ

Romantics and R.E.M. on
85 SAB pavilion schedule |

 

By COTTON PURYEAR
Editor

 

Pavilion concerts featuring the
Romantics and R.E.M. highlight this
fall's entertainment scheduled by the
Student Activities Board, and Ex-
ecutive Director Mike Guerriero said
he hopes the SAB can provide the
school with more non-concert related
activities as well.

The Romantics will be the feature
attraction at this year’s Homecom-
ing concert, Guerriero said. The con-
cert will be held on Friday, Oct. 11
and the admission for the event will
be $8 per person.

While $8 may seem a little high in
comparison to what W&L students
have paid for pavilion concerts in the
past, Guerriero said it is a very
reasonable price considering the
quality of the entertainment.

“It would cost about $15 a person to
see this same show in Roanoke,” he
said, ‘‘we’re barely about to cover
our costs by charging $8.”’

A capacity crowd in the pavilion
with each person paying $8 would
mean the SAB would lose money on
the concert, Guerriero said, but ad-
ded that he doesn’t mind taking a lit-

tle bit of a loss on a concert like this.

“We're providing high quality en-
tertainment at a reasonable price
and we're keeping our losses down,”’
he said. ‘‘We could charge more to
get into a pavilion concert and people
would still show up, but we want to
provide quality entertainment to as
many students as we can.”

In addition to the Homecoming
concert, Guerriero said a Christmas
concert featuring R.E.M. has been
set for Dec. 6. The charge for that
show will also be $8.

The increase in the beer-drinking
age will have some effect on pavilion
activity this year. Guerriero said
that the SAB will really have to tight-
en up its security efforts this year to
ensure that all the drinking laws are
enforced.

“We're going to have to crack
down this year,” he said. “It is very
important that we stay within the
limits of the law. If the ABC thinks
we can’t control crowds at the pavi-
lion, then they'll no longer issue us
beer permits.”

“This year, people who show up
drunk will not be let in and anyone
who we feel has had too much to
drink will not be served anything
else,”’ he said firmly.

Mellencamp a third-rate Springsteen?

MUSICNOTES

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Music Critic

 

 

Bruce Springsteen’s worldwide
dominance certainly has made the
American blue collar worker a ro-
mantic icon. Bob Seger was the first
to jump on Springsteen's coattails;
not only after the floodgates opened
and being out of a job became as hip
as — say — partying all-night-long.

John Cougar Mellencamp has
always been a third-rate Springsteen
— which in-turn makes him a fourth-
rate John Fogerty and an eighth-rate
Woody Guthrie. However, with
“Scarecrow,” the guy just might
make it with the big boys.

Springsteen’s songs take on the
Northeast and Segar’s take on
Detroit. Even Tom Petty seems to
regionalize his music in the South.
Similarly, John Cougar Mellen-
camp’s songs take place in, of all
places, Bloomington, Ind. A quick
listen to ‘Jack and Diane” will lay
testimony to just how boring it must
be to grow up in the middle of these

United States. Unfortunately, most of
Mellencamp’s earlier music reflect-
ed that boredom as well.

However, with ‘‘Scarecrow,’, Mel-
lencamp has found a truly compell-
ing subject to attack: the plight of the
nation’s farmers. The LP’s first
track, “Rain On The Scarecrow,”
opens with the line: ‘“‘Scarecrow on a
wooden cross; Blackbird in the
barn.” By making the scarecrow a
Christ symbol as well as a chilling
metaphor for the farmers’ situation,
Mellencamp pushes his writing to an
unexpected level of sophistication.

On “Justice and Independence
’85,’’ he recounts a parable about a
Boy named Independence who falls
for a girl named Justice. These two,
logically, have a baby named (are
you ready?) Nation. However, as
heavy-handed as this sounds, Mellen-
camp makes it work. As soon as Na-
tion is born, Justice leaves Indepen-
dence, you see, and Nation becomes
a hoodlum. Mellencamp, of course,
ends the song by pleading to Justice
and Independence that they get back
together and ‘‘make this family
whole,”

Well-known impostor
tries again at Emmys

TVREVIEW

By BILL HANNA
Television Critic

 

 

The big news in television this
week was the Emmy Awards, but not
who got what award but rather who
tried to accept one award.

Peter Graves had just announced
that Betty Thomas from ‘‘Hill Street
Blues” had won the Emmy for best
supporting actress in a drama series
and, as usual, the cameras panned
around the crowded hall to find
Thomas, but an unknown man had
already made his way to the podium
to accept the award.

The cameramen, having found
Thomas by now, were panicking. The
directors of the show must not have
been very calm either as they did not
know which acceptor of the award to
have the cameras focused on.

The solution was easy: Go to a
commercial.

When the show returned, Thomas
was ready to make her acceptance
speech and the viewing audience was
left to wonder what went on before
the break

It turned out that ‘The Impostor”
had struck again. Barry Bremen had
been successful in another imper-
sonation. Bremen gained fame as a
sports impersonator and now was
giving it his best shot at the Emmys.

Bremen has succeeded in appear-
ances in the 1979 NBA All-Star game
as a member of the team during
warm-ups.

Bremen then went on to the U.S.
Open where he played 9 holes with
Jerry Pate and Wayne Levi without
being noticed.

At the 1979 baseball All-Star game,
where he was even included in the
team picture ina Yankees uniform

His latest major appearance
before the Emmys was at this year’s
U.S. Open where he played 18 holes
with Fred Couples, Curtis Strange,
Jay Haas and Bob Eastwood

Bremen might have even gotten
away with the stunt except for his

miscalculated information that Betty
Thomas was not at the ceremony.

Now for this week on the tube. It is
premiere week for the networks and
a time that means an end to reruns
for a while and a look at the new
shows.

NBC still has its killer lineup for
Thursday night with ‘‘The Cosby
Show,” “Family Ties,’ ‘‘Cheers,”’
“Night Court’? and ‘“‘Hill Street
Blues.”’ Hopefully, ‘‘Family Ties,”’
will be nothing like its 2-hour movie
Monday night.

Hill Street will also have a new look
with some new characters and the
new executive producer replacing
Stephen Bochco.

Friday marks the season premiere
of a show that was cancelled by NBC
only to be brought back by ABC.
Let’s hear it for “Different Strokes”
Friday at 9.

For those not involved in Rush Fri-
day night or those simply blowing the
Rush Dates off, Friday is a good
night. CBS has ‘‘The Twilight Zone’’
from 8 to 9 then a quick switch to
NBC is rewarded by the 2-hour pre-
miere of ‘‘Miami Vice’’ filmed in
New York.

National Lampoon’s “Vacation”
comes to CBS Saturday at 9 if you
want a laugh or two before the par-
ties start.

Sunday looks good starting with
“Casablanca” at 10:35 a.m. on
WTBS. That night there’s Steven
Spielberg’s ‘‘Amazing Stories’ and
“Alfred Hitchcock Presents’’ follow-
ed by “First Blood,’’ all on NBC
starting at 8 p.m.

Monday provides a tough choice
between ‘‘Newhart” on CBS at 9:30
p.m. or the ‘‘Tonight Show’s 23rd An-
niversary Special” at 9p.m. on NBC.

Tuesday also provides some laughs
on HBO at 8 p.m. with ‘‘All of Me”’
starring Steve Martin and Lily Tom-
lin. Martin is in top form and comple-
plemented as well by Tomlin and a
good script.

Wednesday holds nothing extraor-
dinary aside from Dynasty and the
rest of the ABC nighttime soaps.

The fall season is looking good; so
sit back on a comfortable couch with
a bag of chips and enjoy it

This is a far ery from “‘sucking ona
chili dog outside the Tastee-Freeze.”’
If it sounds like Mellencamp isover-
reaching, then...well, you’re pro-
bably right. He is over-reaching. But
the guy certainly is giving it his best
shot.

The rest of the album explores
more standard themes. In ‘‘Minutes
To Memories,”’ an old man tells a
young bus passenger, ‘‘You are the
young and you are the future.”’ Mel-
lencamp also uses this piece to push
the values of honesty, hard work, and
that good old American way. Similar-
ly, ‘The Face of the Nation’’ wonders
just what has happened to that good
old American Way. ‘The face of the
nation,’’ Mellencamp tells us, “‘is
changin’!”’

The music? Well, the music is what
makes all of this sound sincere
(which is the only way any of this
stuff could work). The basic tracks
evidently were recorded live and the
production bristles with energy and
excitement. Most — OK, all — of the
tunes are standard three-chord rock
‘n roll with a terrific Stones-like
rhythm and blues edge added for
maximum danceability. The single,

   

     

167 S. Main St., 463-3106

Stop by and open up a charge
account for all your grocery needs.

This Week’s Specials are:

span Your... 2 Cups/89*
e Coke & Pepsi 8 Pks.
¢ Kraft American Style Cheese 16 Oz./*1.99

e Chef Boy-Ar-Dee Frozen Pizzas.......... 99°

“Lonely Ol’ Night”’ will probably be
picked up by every high school band
in the country. (When was the last
time you heard a high school band
not play ‘‘Hurts So Good?”’)

The record contains some wonder-
ful jewels as well. ‘‘Rumlesent”’ is a
tender, sincere-as-all-get-out depic-
tion of adolescent insecurity, confu-
sion and boredom. On ‘‘You’ve Got to
Stand For Something,” Mellencamp
makes wry references to Miss Amer-
ica in the nude, the Rolling Stones
still trying to be vital, and ‘Rocky
Stallone” cropping up in an old un-
derground X-rated movie. Here,
here, Mr. Mellencamp.

So, Mellencamp is still a third-rate
Springsteen. However, as long as
there are John Caffertys around, the
guy might just turn out to be a first
rate John Cougar Mellencamp. It his
ability catches up with his aspira-
tions, then our children might ask us
someday what President Mellen-
camp really meant when he said,
“Life goes on, long after the thrill of
living is gone.”’

And I’ll just have to shake my head
and say, ‘Things are tough all over,
kid.”

& 16 Oz. Bottles/*1.69

 

        

ALOHA WOK

409 South Main St., Lexington, Virginia 24450
703-463-9342

 

Serving the W&L community
over 30 years.

a ie

Chinese and
American Cuisine

Exotic Cocktails
Carry-out Service
Available
Open Tuesday through Sunday

Luncheon 11:30 - 2:30
Dinner 5-10

Saturday Open 4 - 10
Sunday Lunch Buffet 12 - 2:30

 

Dressed, and

 

22 W. Nelson St.

 

 

Clothiers for Men and Ladies

eT oe ee

Open Friday nights until 9 p.m.

 

Well Dressed

 

 

     
       
     
      

   
   
       

Cooperation from local students
will make the job much easier for the
SAB. ‘‘It will be up to the students to
learn to be responsible drinkers at
these pavilion parties,’ Guerriero
said.

If the SAB should fail to meet the
standards set by the ABC, the results
could be no more beer at SAB func-
tions. ‘‘If we aren’t careful, the ABC
could stop giving us liquor permits.
That would mean no beer this year,
including Fancy Dress.’’

‘‘But if people act in a mature and
responsible manner, I see no pro-
blem with us keeping the beer in the
pavilion all year long,” he added.

Besides the two scheduled pavilion
concerts, Guerriera said the SAB
hopes to have a smaller scale pavi-
lion concert in November.

The SAB will continue to place
bands in the student pub on Wednes-
day nights as it has in past years. The
pub’s name-change from ‘The Cock-
pit’”’ to ‘“General Headquarters”’ will
not cause any change for the SAB
Guerriero said. ‘It might hurt The
Pit, but it is not going to hurt us,”’ he
said.

Guerriero said he was optimistic
that the higher drinking age won’t
have a drastic effect on Wednesday

night entertainment. ‘‘The Pit has a
very steady following — a lot of the
women’s college students come theré
before hitting the fraternities and it
provides Wednesday night entertain;
ment for independents.” =

“This year we'll be trying to bring
to some new names plus the old
names that people love to see,” hé
added. ‘.

The SAB will be upgrading its non;
band related activities, Guerriero
said. ‘We also want to provide somé
school-oriented trips, like hiking and
rafting with the Outing Club.” Guer-
riero added that he hopes the SAB
can schedule some group beach oF
ski trips as well.

In October, the SAB will be bring”
ing in movies for the campus. ‘We've
had good movies in the past, but
there have been scheduling pro-
blems. We hope to fix those problems
and spark some interest in ouy
movies. The more interest there is
the better movies we will be able to
get,”’ Guerriero said. '

Guerriero said his main goal for
the year is to see the SAB provide
students with a wide diversity of ac,
tivities, especially expanding those
beyond just brining bands to Lex‘
ington. =

 

 

 

~

 

 

122 So. Main

  

HAROW.

E. Nelson St.
463-2186

The Style House

Visit Lexington’s finest hairstylists where we use

NEXUS

and other fine products.
Call or walk-in.

Valley True Value Hardware

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

  

  

463-5954

    
      
 

Mon, - Sat. 8:30-6:00
Sun.1-5

 

 
  
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

HOURS:
Mon. through Fri.
Evenings by appointment

  

107 W. Nelson St., Lexington

BEAUTY
BOUTIQUE «ah

We would like to invite new students to come in for complete
hair care, hair cuts, color, or permanents.,
We also specialize in sculptured nails and manicures.

BEAUTY BOUTIQUE

  
    
    
 
   
     
       

React

OPERATORS:
Mary, Ella Mae, Lynn
and Phyllis

463-2422

   
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OPINION
The fury...

The furor over the supposed codification of the Honor
System took a turn for the worse Monday night as the Execu-
tive Committee attempted to come to some decision about its
position on the new Student Control Committee rules.

The problem the EC encounters with the new rules adopted
by the faculty last spring is one of substance and of style. For
the EC, as they believe for all students, the new rules present
a real and present danger to the health of the Honor System.
They, in reflecting student sentiment, fear it attempts to
remove from the jurisdiction of the SCC the right to decide
each case on its own merits. In reality, the new rules repre-
sent many years of unexacting student disciplining of their
own ranks. The faculty, as they have done before, has decid-
ed that enough is enough; they will tolerate ‘‘animalism’’ no
more. They have, so to speak, told students that they need to
wisen up to the concerns of others.

We students need to regain our sense of perspective on the
privileges of self-governance.

The Washington and Lee environment allows students to
govern their own affairs and to discipline their peers. That is
one legacy left by Lee that remains today. Through the EC,
honor-related matters are tried by peers; the SCC — another
body of peers — considers matters outside of honor, princi-
pally those cases dealing with behavioral discipline. But over
the years, we students have taken both rights to self-govern-
ance too easily, and our often lackadaisical attitude towards
such matters led the faculty and the administration to recon-
sider and redesign the disciplinary structure for the Univer-
sity.

So when the day of reckoning comes and we are told by the
faculty that our ‘‘animalistic’”’ behavior will no longer be
tolerated, we students are upset. We cry foul when a commit-
tee attempts to clarify the old disciplinary guidelines by
creating ‘‘major’’ and ‘“‘minor’’ offenses with suggested
discipline. We fear the new major offenses will spell unmiti-
gated disaster and many expulsions if enacted. We fear that
our friends, in a moment of repose, will utter the inutterable
sexual slur and out they’ll go. We quake as if the Honor
System will be degraded and weakened.

I fear our reaction — as seen in the EC these past few
weeks — is overexaggeration. The challenge to the Honor
System is not in the codifying of the disciplinary code nor can
it be found in suggested disciplinary measures. The chal-
lenge, as some have suggested, is to regain the sober concern
and seriousness that once ruled in all student affairs. It is,
essentially, to try to regain a new sense of honor.

Can we as self-governing students rise to the occasion
again and discipline ourselves? I believe we can. We suffer
from arrogance if we believe that our Honor System can ad-
dress behavioral discipline, for it cannot. Lee’s command-
ment to behave as gentlemen, although a nobel sentiment, at
times fails to address itself to the necessary and proper
behavior of the current student generation.

I agree with SCC Chairman Townes Pressler that the new
rules deserve a try. They do not challenge nor do they
threaten the current Honor System. They provide appropri-
ate guidance to matters with which the SCC has little exper-
ience, most notably drug-related matters. Despite the reser-
vations of some EC members, the new rules uphold the very
traditions we cherish. They should be tried.

 

—NRP

... and the sound

One of the advantages of going to school in the peaceful
Shenandoah Valley is that you can hear the sounds of nature
at night — owls hooting, squirrels scavenging, wind rustling
the leaves outside your window. And there are other sounds
of nature — town folks testing their cars’ accelerators and
brakes, garbage trucks backing into your driveway at five in
the morning to the gentle chirping of “beep, beep, beep” or
even the shrill whine of the police and fire trucks as they re-
spond to the latest calls much earlier than sane people should
ever get into trouble. If these people — and we mean those
who live around us in the City of Lexington — would only
quiet down, maybe we could concentrate on the sounds of
nature around us, like fraternity parties.

Fury about the sound

The freshman class gathered Monday night in Lee Chapel
for a symposium on the Honor System that featured past and
present EC members. Most of the freshmen, however,
couldn’t have cared less. Their murmuring throughout the
hour-long program, shredding of index cards into confetti
(which they left behind) and stretching out in the aisles as if
preparing for bed displayed behavior expected of three-year
olds. Their lax attitude and immature behavior reflect poorly
on the University.

Che Ring-tum Phi

TOE ac iii thecceribatiiiies steams Mike Allen
REE iiss cas ccsereeticrsabinceccesseccscethebemieniieen Paul Foutch
Cotton Puryear
Re ci icine ee Reade Williams
i as ie ieee ters acta encnenen in Mike Stachura
te. de Ee er rr re Nelson Patterson
TO crepe ti cs tcsdtinscesss tie Christopher Deighan
Jim Strader
ee re ree I Chris Bowring
MURIIUE ERAGE oobi 6 chi i hee ka Jeff Kimbeli
DIVE ESE chia. i Hank Greenberg
AMVOEUAMEOAMEIIOE 6 ois ieciiiiiiti ce Keri Hinrichs
Matt Coudert
John Feyrer
Jay Reville

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 200 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, October 3, 1985

‘ Look, I’m goin’ back to the house. I’ve gotta get some studying done!!’

 

 

——— iin

 

 

Antiquated Rush system needs computerization.

MY VIEW
by Steven
Pockrass

 

After viewing another Rush at
Washington & Lee, it seems obvious
that whoever invented sun roofs for
BMWs had sign-carrying fraternity
members in mind.

Yet in this highly technological
age, when even Fords have sunroofs,
Coke machines talk to us and Mom’s
apple pie can be re-heated in the
microwave, isn’t it amazing that we
have maintained this ancient Greek
system of Rush dates, open houses,
and so on?

Perhaps it’s time we computerized
Rush.

Just think of it — no longer will the
Phi Delta Thetas and Zeta Beta Taus
need to worry about having their
names left out of the Rush Book (see
pages 24 and 44, respectively).

And KAs who passed out Rush cal-
endars before the start of freshman
orientation will no longer feel it
necessary to point accusatory,
Southern fingers at those dirty Sigma

Nus, who deplorably broke ‘‘no con-
tact’’ by helping the freshmen move
into the dorms.

To solve such dilemmas, we could
computerize Rush in either of two
ways. One is to have self-reported in-
formation, similar to the college
search. The questions weuld be much
more fraternity-oriented, however,
such as ‘‘How would you rate your-
self as a partier?”’

Because of W&L’s honor code, we
would not have to worry about any ly-
ing, but due to the subjective nature
of the questions, there could be some
discrepancies.

I might describe myself as ‘‘an
animal,’’ but you may have seen me
party and consider me ‘a super
animal,” or on the other end of the
spectrum, ‘‘a big goob.”’

So the second (and more effective)

method of computerized Rush wotfld ”

be to form a judging committee,
similar to those found in Oly
synchronized swimming.

Perhaps this austere body could be
made up of the Interfraternity Coun-
cil members, who I am sure would
cherish the opportunity to do some-
thing this constructive during the
opening week of school.

Alcohol could be served to loosen

OUR VIEW
by Mike McAlevey
and Mike Henderson

 

I'll get tons anyway!

O do not ask what is it

I go to all my classes.
I haven't missed a day.

I’m bound to get an F.

 

Let us go to the keg spigot!

The written image on the wall,

As is the shadow of the form.

Futile, he just can’t halt the fall

He’s far below the humdrum norm.
O, O, O, what does the professor say?

So much for being a doctor
I'll just be a Micki D’s chef,

 

 

O, Athena thou still unravished bride of academic quietness
Shed your grace and illuminate these our views.

Descend from the lofty heights of Parnassus

And wield your staff of enlightenment against the evils of Bacchus.

O, Gray, distantly addressing our college while eatin’
Did you ask that overwhelming question?

Is the ignorance as that of a cretin,

Better than wisdom and its digestion?

Why should we work, and get good grades?

This is the drudgery of squares and tools.

Give me my D’s and Ray Ban shades!

Who gives a hoot if I’m an unlearned fool.

All too much this permanence and change.

Give me my gun, shells, and skeet range.

Who cares if I’m chairman of AT&T or the Grange,

O, Socrates, bring this Meno to his senses
Or from them, him deliver.

He knows not of his lies or pretenses,

But surely does and dooms his liver.

Let us go then me and you

When the evening is still young,

Study diligently then go spew

Whether in alabaster, porcelain or on paper our heralds sung
I do all right, I’m no idiot or fool

Next term I'll do better, you wait and see.
But for now, I just want to be cool.

Why do you care? My future is me.

But his diction, my mind harasses.

So we have this boy in cooking
Since he was so weak at booking.

. uc us us Of the oracle, the Crysta:
It’s not how much you know, but the way you look
So it goes with the pseudo-intellectual pistol.
He’s picked up the text and from it a few phrases shook,

up the freshmen and to prevent those
nerve-racking and sometimes fatal
caffeine overdoses caused by ‘‘dry
Rush.” After obtaining the students’
personal information (name, age,
hometown), the committee would
have them perform various skills
tests, such as the timed imbibing of
beer from a funnel-and-hose appara-
tus, joke-telling, name-passing,
class-oversleeping and mantle-div-
ing. Scores would range from one
(goob) to 10 (animal — will probably
be thrown out after one semester),
with the highs and lows being drop-

Candidates’ scores would be scaled
for each fraternity, depending on the
houses’ needs, characteristics and
desires.

Freshmen would be expected to
pledge at the houses where they have
the highest scores. Those who de-
pledge for whatever reason could go
through a deferred Rush during the
winter after they have seen the
houses for a semester.

Such a system would match the
freshmen’s strengths with the frater-
nities’ needs and characteristics. It
would also divide the freshmen fairly
among houses, so that the rich do not
necessarily become richer while the

poor become poorer. With some crea-
tive mathematics, each house would
have about the same number.
Perhaps computerized Rush is not
as personal as not allowing contact
with the freshmen for five days, par-
tying with them for two, giving them
those well-edited, once hard-covered

the same photos as when I rushed in
1983) after they register for Rush and
then cramming eight open houses in-
to a 33-hour period that sandwiches
the first day of classes.

When Robert E. Lee was president
of this university, it was the most
progressive in the country. Compu-
terized Rush would be a step in that
direction.

Considering the exemplary job
done by many universities in match-
ing roommates by computer and our
new computer mainframe, we have
the technology.

W&L does an excellent job of room-
ing jocks with people who are not
even athletic supporters, steak
lovers and vegetarians, big goobs
with party animals and alcoholics
with workaholics, so at least com-
puterized Rush will shield our frats
from that one horrible fate — a lack
of diversity.

0 ee ee en
A Valediction: Forbidding learning

He can recite from memory many fools baffle

He speaks of distant prospects, urns, love songs, and waste lands
Employing quotes like prizes won in a raffle

He loses his audience with his cuntident stanus

I’ve paid close attention
To each and every tuition.

Of all the greats, I’ll in passing mention
I’ll make sure all my learning comes to pointless fruition.

To the Cocktail party, he loves to go
Often making casual reference to Michelangelo.

Eight o’clock, time to get up now, eight o’clock...

And it’s off to another day of informational packing.

This student of disinterested self-sacrifice makes no idle talk
His life in all respects, but academia is lacking

Spirit, there’s none we’re a tabula rasa

Fill it with gobs of facts, figures and dates,

The mere thoughts of fun evokes fear and nausea

To nothing else but his books he relates.

Look, I’ve got a future, med school or the like

Literature, art, music — It’s bunk

You and your culture can go take a hike
This humanities stuff is non-empirical junk.

And witha cynical laugh he shuffles to lab
Flunks out on life and ends up driving a cab.

Behold, Philistine, From Colonnade to Lee Chapel,
It’s a pilgrimage to knowledge then heaven

Shoddy parchments, tests, papers — Mink can’t spell.
Sure, drink and be merry, You're on Year Plan Seven.
That Danish egghead Soren sure knows

Introspect buzzhead, ‘‘You’re in despair!”’

Papers tutured by Crickels are sactimonious shows
Hark, Let’s admit there are a few in disrepair.
Tomorrow his belly hanging, sipping tonic and gin,
Poor ex-mink has nothing, nothing within.

A splendid opportunity lost — damn what a sin

Pick up a book, too late, Can’t see over his/her double chin.

So, it is what is sown is what you reap
Too bad you're just macho instead of deep.

Alas, out of the ashes of Phoenixian consummation

Rises the erect figure of our quintessential man.

He has voraciously seized without hesitation

The bodies of knowledge; the grand master plan

C-school is a breeze to this master of wit

As are the sciences and humantties endeavors of joy

He has time on the weekend to party a bit

Never does he allow admission to Sans foy or Sans Loy.

Like Apollo he roams east to find his patron

He casts the spear of curiosity to the clouds of Olympian glory.
A true mixture of Dionysius & Athena has matron

Our Ubermensch in his highest form and thus ends our story.

And so are the poets the unacknowledged

legislators of W&L.

 

 

‘

‘

4

4

.¢€

*

Rush Books (complete with many of

:

‘

‘

+

(o— =!

 

ee

 

 

—
a ia « «

9
-

aa
- «

a —
. ° -

-
°

 

_ a et
a a
» *
 

Article in Washington Post
appalls former W&L student

To the Editors:

Forgive me, but my mind is still
reeling from the latest assault
wrought upon our beloved alma
mater by way of “‘the only newspaper
in Washington,”’ and, though I had
previously contracted this time to
Corporate America, I am nonethe-
less compelled to air my views most
vociferously and with all due haste.

First of all, the very implication
that Dr. Coulling empathizes with
those who would use the surrounding
lady’s colleges as receptacles for
their shameless improprieties leaves
me aghast. There is no doubt in my
mind that the referenced quote was
but a fragment of a lengthier reflec-
tion wrested from context to suit the
vulgar designs of The Washington
Boast — its head still swollen from
the Watergate witch-hunt.

Though this barb was undoubtedly
meant as an assassination on Pro-
fessor Coulling’s singular character,
nonetheless the wound is borne by all
those who have through the years en-
gaged in the pleasantries of conver-
sation and wholesome social inter-
course at our sister institutions. O
sweet civilization, your inbred re-
straint leaves you all too vulnerable a
target for the encroachment of vul-
garity!

And so my plea is carried to those
who, with horror and disdain, have
witnessed the deep inroads carved in
recent years by the purveyors of il-
liberality. Hold fast, dear W&L!
Though your modesty precludes you
from grasping the sheer enormity of
your role, be assured that you are in-
deed one of the last great institutions
whose worth exceeds the purview of
the net income statement.

Remember also in these darkened
days that, above all else, yours is a
task of vigilance. As the Great Philo-
sopher himself so sage counseled,
democracy excels only at fostering
mediocrity, and the war against the
platitudinous hordes is most effec-
tively waged through demonstrations
of excellence and achievement.

Finally, it is to your credit, dear
school, that the wisdom of age did in-
deed triumph over the natural rigidi-
ty that invariably shadows an institu-
tion of extended years. By this, I am
referring to your concession, nobly
rendered, that the pursuit of excel-
lence observes no gender, (nor, will I
believe, was this latter-day admis-
sion driven solely by economies of
scale! )

There can be no shame in a deci-
sion enfranchising half the popula-
tion with the opportunity to pursue a
superior education, although certain-
ly the inclusion of a few home econo-
mics courses can’t hurt at this point
and can only broaden the vistas and
career - aspirations of future grad-
uates. But frankly I fail to see the
point in dwelling on minor cur-
riculum changes when the very
fabric of Washington and Lee has
been challenged by outsiders!

Nor will I condescend by proffering
a response to the preposterous obser-
vation that W&L students of previous
years have been found lacking in
either intellect or ambition. Who
dares to make such a claim! OK,
maybe the class of 1959 or even 1981
(that was a dull one!), but as any
wine connoisseur is quick to assert,
even the more legendary vineyards
are unable to boast a consistently
superior product year after year.

Moreover, the price of a good meal

today is such that no one wouia stoop
to deny a gentleman the small plea-
sure gained from exhorting ‘‘Ah yes,
1946, that was a good year,”’ that is to
Say in 1945 the ravages of war were
still being felt in sourthern Europe,
and 1947 saw witness to a terrible
drought. Gentlemen, while such se-
lective condescension is the spice of
life, wholsesale disparagement is
positively unseemly!

As for the generally perceived
statures of The Washington Post
among gentlemen of distinction, let
me just say that I beg to differ with
said gentlemen in that I’m an avid
reader of the Post. Certainly their
fictions rival those of The New
Yorker, and in fact, it wasn’t long
ago that one of their staff writers
temporarily won a Pulitzer Prize for
her work.

All mud-slinging aside, there can
be no doubt that Washington and Lee
has more than its pretty facade to
thank for the longevity and ongonig
success it has enjoyed. A study in
tenacity, the school, in one form or
another, ahs survived the Revolu-
tionary War, the Civil War, and two
world wars, not to mention that ulti-
mate, and far more recent, test of in-
stitutional mettle euphemistically re-
ferred to as ‘‘the sixties.”’

In the context of such an illustrious
past, then, let us relegate this latest
media assault to an analogous histor-
ical parable — perhaps the detection,
by General Robert E. Lee, of lint on
the sleeve of his battle greys as he
mounted the charge at Antietam — a
rmaild annoyance for such a perfidious
gentleman, to be sure, but infinitely
perpheral to the task at hand.

Norman Ball
Class of ’83

Pyle’s sludge bores reader

To the Editors:

I thought something of a blight had
been lifted from Washington and Lee
with the graduation of the class of

’ 1984 and the departure of one Mark-

_ ham Shaw Pyle. No longer, I thought,
would his odious commentaries lurk

‘ on the pages of The Phi, waiting to
bore and offend any who might come
near.

Evidently I was wrong, for the

_ portly, pompous, pipe-smoking,
pear-shaped. Pyle has joined the
' ranks of the Law School, despite

 

Thanks
to you,
it works

An appeal to all members of the
Washington and Lee community:

The United Way campaign for
the current year is now beginning
and I write to ask you to contri-
bute as generously as you possibly
can. Our last year’s effort was tru-
ly remarkable, for the goal was
exceeded by some 25 percent. In
fact, special efforts by two of our
fraternities (Delta Tau Delta and
Sigma Nu) played key roles in
boosting us so consipicuously over
our budgeted target.

This year ie :aculty and staff
volunteers are being led by Mr.
Darrell and they have been given,
on behalf of us all, yet another
target to aim for. It is $22,500, a
seven percent increase over last
year’s record-breaking effort. I
know we can achieve this if we all
take thought about the increase
each of us must commit — and if
others who were not able to join in
last year’s effort are able and will-
ing to do so this time.

I have special enthusiasm for
this annual campaign, not only
because it gives each of us a
chance to help others in the com-
munity who need our help, but
also because it represents a col-
lective effort of the Univesity
family. There are too few occa-
sions when students, faculty and
staff are brought together in a
worthwhile enterprise. The
United Way is one such, and I
hope we can joyfully come togeth-
er to make a major gift to our own
community. Your generous sup-
port, I know, will be deeply ap-
preciated.

Sincerely,

John D. Wilson
University President

 

 

 

 

avowals never to go to law school ac-
companied by disparaging com-
ments about the folks in Lewis Hall.
Amazingly, the would-be seminarian
(God wasn’t hiring) took until the
third issue of The Phi to grace us with
one of his sermons. But when he did,
it was a legendary ‘“‘pile.”’

Apparently Markham didn’t like
the opinions of Mr. Patterson and Mr.
Carter in an earlier Phi, and Pyle felt
a need to vent his polysyllabic fury.
This is fine and well, and I guess part
of The Phi’s purpose, but, Markham,

your “‘carping”’ ad hominen attacks
in your “‘little scribble’ are definite-
ly in your “‘usual reptilian fashion,”
and totally unwarranted.

Whether or not the Texan bard ac-
tually had anything to say, I don’t
know, because I didn’t want to dig
through the sludge. I merely hope
Pyle will spare us his tirades, per-
haps sending his views to the Law
News, where he can expose a totally
new audience tohis oratory.

I pity them.

David W. Johnston
Class of '86

Mechanical villains
exacting high toll

To the Editors:

While I am ecstatic over the inclu-
sion of Washington and Lee in Ed-
ward Fiske’s book ‘‘221 Best Buys in
College Education,” I believe Mr.
Fiske has overlooked one minor
detail that has borne heavily on the
pockets and pocketbooks of many a
student at W&L, one whose impor-
tance cannot be overlooked. I speak,
of course, of the ravenous vending
and drying machines on campus.

I realize that I speak only from per-
sonal experience, but I find that fi-
nancial outlay on machines (working
or otherwise) that won’t return my
money is far outpacing my tuition
costs. It will be hard to explain to Mr.
DeCourcy of Financial Aid that I
need another job because the Coke
machine in the Commerce School

lounge is employing extortion. I’ve
cajoled the ‘Lance’s’ machine in the

Commerce School, I’ve pleaded with ”

the dryers in Graham-Lees dormi-
tory, and I’ve about torn out my hair
over the aforementioned Coke
machine in an effort to get them to
listen to reason. I find that they are
closed to all further discussion.
Either they are out-of-order, or they
are Republican. I like Republicans; I
do not like these machines.

Please remove them, or fix them
as soon as possible. I cannot over-
state this enough. If this can be
achieved, we can spend our time
tackling the easier problems, such as
coeducation.

Thomas Brickel
Class of ’89

Name change aids
student body unity

 

By DANA BOLDEN

 

As the students of Washington and
Lee get settled, the changes around
campus have become more and more
obvious. There is one change that has
occurred that may not be noticed as
rapidly as the fact that we are now
coeducational. The Student associa-
tion for Black Unity has changed its
name. Before revealing the name, I
would like to say this is a move that
should be heartily applauded. The
name SABU really discouraged peo-
ple from participating in activities
that the house sponsored. The deci-
sion to rename SABU proved to be
quite serendipitous; students of all
races expressed a sincere interest in
helping the brothers of SABU. There
were many reasons for the change,
the main one being the words ‘‘black
unity.” Those two words made it
seem as if the blacks in the W&L
family were uniting against someone
or something. In speaking with Der-
rick freeman, president of SABU, I
found that not only does this organi-
zation want to attract blacks, but all

minorities, including women.

In the past SABU has invited black
speakers to speak with black stu-
dents. It is now the policy of SABU to
invite any speaker who has a valid
topic of interest for all students. This
is a very smart move, because in
order to achieve racial harmony in
the W&L community, we must all
come together, not just to organize
groups to promote one thing.

One of my reasons for attending
W&L is that there is a family at-
mosphere among the students. Re-
gardless of what fraternal organiza-
tion you’re in, the bond that exists
between alumni, faculty and students
is always there and is used to correct
any existing ‘“‘wrongs.’’ The change
by SABU demonstrates this feeling.

Now that this change has come
about, maybe the Student Activities
Board will work closer, not only with
the Minority Student Association, but
with all organizations on campus. To
campus. To the newly formed gov-
the newly formed government and
members of MSA: Hats off!

The Ring-tum Phi, October 3, 1985, Page 3

 

 

 

Wk CAN BOTH USE
FoR THt DEFENSE
Of THE PLANET 9

 
 
  

 

  
 

 
  
  
   

COME ON,
MIKHAIL,
TAKE IT
FOR A

TEST
SPIN.

   
 

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

wd

s_44 a

TM NOT SURE 1 FULLY EXPLAINED it fa
TWE ‘DEFENSE ONLY PROVISIONS... Lg

 

 

 

Rush slanders are not tolerable

To the Editors:

A rumor is an ugly thing. More
often than not its element of interest
exceeds that of truth. Its origin is
dark and its growth and mutation is
the result of many particulars of cir-
cumstance involving personal pre-
judices and regrettable pettiness.
Yet, certainly unfortunately, a
rumor may have some influence
(and that over mostly small minded
people, to be sure) which may have
inconvenient effects. The goal of he
who has been taught to admire honor
and truth then is, to seek to expose
rumor for the travesty it is and re-
store trust to those whose tongues
have erred and whose ears have been
tainted.

Recently, during Rush, there have
been quiet (and no doubt ill-advised)
mumblings by some which cannot
but shock one (as they did me) in
their blatant unfairness to those
properly chosen to advise and

counsel freshmen. These poisoned
utterances, in various forms, have
suggested that those very advisors
— men and women — placed to help
freshmen, have chosen favoring cer-
tain fraternities over others, in their
discussions with freshmen, in the
dorms and elsewhere.

This is, | suppose, a predictable but
disappointing accusation to come out
of Rush and I would like to see it, and
all such venom, put indisputably
down. It is understandable that dur-
ing Rush concerns of many sorts
arise, but blatant slander should not
be tolerated, and allowed to exert its
influence, if only over the gullible
and naive. A school concerned with
honor must concern itself with truth
and not protect, even by default, cer-
tain ideas which are pleasing, if they
arise from considerations outside of
truth. Mistakes must also be allowed,
and recognized as such ad provision
must be made against unwarranted

 

attack. Perhaps then, we can for-
give rumor-mongers while guarding
against their annoying folly in the
future by showing inequivocally that
those they accuse have been made
explicitly aware of the limits of what
they may say to freshmen and affirm
after all that they have not exceeded
those boundries.
Erik Curren
Class of '87

Plastic is not
good enough

To the Editors:

In response to your Sept. 19
editorial, the flowers are silk,
Nelson, not plastic. Only silk is good
enough for W&L.

Jerry Darrell
Director of Food Service

 

  

LAST EPISODE THE CAPTAIN HAD GONE TO Moscow} [ He LAS NERVOUS | f HE WAS ALSO NERVOUS ABOUT BEING
TO SHARE HIS STAR WARS TECHNOLOGY,

¥00 HOO, MR GORBACHEV.
ARE YOu FINISHED TRYING
MY STAR CRWISER YET 2

THAT THE EVIL
MR. GORBACHEV
HADNT COME
BACK YET.

   
 

  
   

 

   
        

 
   

ALONE AT THE BIG KREMLIN DESK.

  

 

 

   
   

   
  
 

    
   

fTwere was Twe-BuTTON fir ns enrRancin. HE uAD ) (Ano TucRe) (HELLO HELLO! I'M
THAT COULD DESTROY THE J | A WEAKNESS FOR BUTTONS. |] WAS THe
HOLE UNITED STATES. worune [fA US.CITIZEN, GET

 

HE WONDERED
IF THERE WAS
A SEPARATE

BUTTON Just
FOR THE US.
CONORESS

 

   
    
    
 
    
 
 
    
 

     
  

ME OUT OF HERE!

 

   
  
  
 
  
  

 

GOT SOME BAD NEWS FOR You
CAPTAIN. ANOTHER CRITICAL REPORT.
iT SAVS SHARING STAR WARS WITH
TWE RUSSIANS MIGHT NOT BE SUCH

  
  

  
  

IT ALSO SAYS THAT WHILE IT
MIGHT LOOK GOOD SUPERFICIALLY,
AFTER SPENDING BILLIONS AND
BILLIONS WE COULD WIND UP WITH
GREATER INSTABILITY THAN EVER.

THE CAPTAIN HAD)
TO THINK ABOOT
THAT

    
  

    
   
 

WAIT A MINUTE YoU SURE
THEY'RE NOT GETTING iT MixED UP
WITH MY ECONOMIC PROGRAM

   
 
   
  
 

    
  
   

 
 

THERE YOU ARE, MIKHAIL!
WOWD You LIKE TO TRY
REAGANOMICS NOW? J

 

 

110 S. Jefferson St.

 

 
 
 

Catering

 

Sandwiches (Eat In-Take Out)
Gourmet Items of All Nations

Cocktails@ Wine@ Beer
Subs@Imported Cheeses

  
 

   

 
     

 

 

23 S. Main
Lexington, Va. 24450

Lexington Hardwure
463-2242

 

 

 

Llewellyn Lodge
at Lexington

A Bed and Breakfast
on Main Street, within
walking distance of
The Historic District

463-3235

 

 

   

HOUSE ba_

Rectaurani, ;

 

, 88

WILLSON-
WALKER]

ANNOUNCING
‘*The Thirty-Minute Lunch’”’

Featuring soup of the day, entree, and beverage.
Choose from entrees of fresh spinach salad with
bacon and walnuts, Chesapeake Bay crab cake sand-
wich, or a Six ounce rib eye steak.

Accommodating business people with business lunches.

Open For Lunch & Dinner, Tues. — Sat.,
11:30-2:30 & 5:30-10:00
30 N. Main Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450

  

 

 
  

 

|
|

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

22?”
‘ee"ere
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

By STEVEN POCKRASS
Special to The Phi

 

When Washington and Lee officials were studying the
costs of maintaining the school’s 24-hour library last
January, they could have gone to Luis Sa and found just-
ification for keeping the building open around-the-clock.

Perhaps few people on campus know Sa by name. But
almost everyone who has ever entered the library’s
main reading room during the past two years recognizes
him as the bespectacled, Brazilian student who is either
reclining with a book in one of the comfortable chairs or
poring over papers behind a reference-book fortress he
has erected on top of one of the round, wooden tables.

A thin student with short, wavy brown hair and a pre-
maturely receding hairline, Sa is also recognized by his
brightly colored clothes.

“‘T don’t like much of the [clothes] styles here,” Sa
said, clad in a lime-green pullover shirt, khaki-colored
pants and gray, high-topped sneakers with purple laces.
“T prefer colors, happy colors,” he said.

Since he entered W&L in the fall of 1983, the 22-year-
old exchange student from Rio de Janeiro has literally
lived almost half his life in the library. He estimates that
he spends at least 12 hours per day there.

“‘T just leave the library for my meals,”’ he said in his
soft, simple, somewhat hesitant English.

The son of a factory manager, Sa came to W&L to
study politics in a highly democratic society. While a
portion of his library time is spent on regular assign-
ments, much is spent on research papers.

“The thing I like most is to write papers,” said the
Robert E. Lee Research Scholar.

Sa said he prefers papers to tests because tests do not
allow a student enough time to think.

 

Luis Sa, a student from Brazil, Studies in the University Library

Brazilian exchange student uses
24-hour library to his advantage

 

 

By Eric 8. Obeck/The Ring-tum Phi

He finds that the library is where he works best.

“‘T have very high standards to evaluate my work,”
said Sa, who will graduate in December because of cre-
dits he was able to transfer from 2!2 years of higher edu-
cation in Brazil.

He then plans to put his W&L education to good use as
a member of the Brazilian foreign service.

Sa is the only member of his family who has traveled
to the United States. During the summers, he visits his
parents, two older brothers and one younger sister in
Brazil. For his other vacations, he has visited Washing-
ton and New York, but prefers the beauty of Rio de
Janeiro.

While Lexington and Rio are very different — Rio had
a McDonald’s long before Lexington — Sa has not found
it overly difficult to adapt. He has made some friends

.here, and although he is often in the library, he always

spends his Saturday nights out at parties, movies or with
friends.

Most Brazilians Sa’s age listen to contemporary
American music, but he prefers European classical
music. Soccer is his favorite sport and he also enjoys
watching basketball. He said he cannot understand

baseball or football, two sports that seem to stop all the
time.

Sa said he has always found the W&L community
polite and friendly, and he has cherished his experience
here.

The most satisfying moment of his W&L career was
when he was named to Phi Beta Kappa. Sa said he was
proud because it reflected a confidence the University
had in him.

It also reflected his highly disciplined work in the
library, which has helped him maintain a grade point
average higher than 4.0.

4

 

The Ring-tum Phi, October 3, 1985

Minister describes

 

cry of

By SEAN BUGG
Staff Reporter

 

 

The Rev. R. Neville Richardson, a
British and South African citizen who
spoke in the Law School Sunday and
Monday nights, said his greatest
sadness ‘‘is having to live where I
live.”’

“Everything you do is judged by
the fact that some will prosper while
others suffer,’’ Richardson said Sun-
day night in a speech titled ‘‘Being
the Church in South Africa.’’ His
Monday night speech, which drew
about 50 people, was ‘‘South Africa’s
Cry and the World’s Response.”’

Richardson gave a number of stati-
stics Monday night about South Afri-
can political policy.

South African whites account for 15
percent of the total population of
31,112,000. African blacks are the
huge majority of the country, com-
prising 73 percent.

People of mixed race are placed in
a category called coloured, which
makes up 9 percent of the country’s
people, Richardson said.

The remaining 3 percent are of
Asian or Indian origin.

South Africa’s present racial trou-
bles, not the first in the country’s
history, are a result of the policy of
legislated racism, or apartheid,
Richardson said

In 1936 the Land Act gave blacks 14
percent of South Africa’s territory
for homelands. This land is all that
blacks can own.

In 1961 South Africa left the British
Commonwealth and became a repub-
lic. A ‘‘resettlement’’ program began
moving blacks living in white areas
to the homelands. That program was
taken a step further in 1970 with the
Homestead Citizenship Act, which
required all blacks to live in the
homelands.

Richardson said the land set aside
for the blacks is not good for farming
and contains no gold or diamonds,
which form the basis for the South
African economy.

In the years since that act was
passed, the country has been racked
by unrest. In 1976 there was a revolt
in Soweto, in which black leader
Steve Biko died while in “police
care.”’

School boycotts in 1980 resulted in
65 deaths. South Africa declared a
state of emergency in July of this

Sout

 

 

 

 

 

R. NEVILLE RICHARDSON

year.

In 1983 the white government
began to make changes to try to calm
the unrest in the country. A new con-
stitution was passed that gave the
coloureds and Indians each a house
in the government. However, Rich-
ardson said, the government is struc-
tured so that even if the two
groups team up, they can not outvote
the whites.

Even with the concessions to those
racial groups, the vast majority of
the country — the African blacks —
are still denied a say in government.

Other ‘‘concessions’’ Richardson
described are the opening of restau-
rants and trains to blacks. But, he
said, most blacks are too poor to be
concerned with restaurants, and the
high cost of first class on trains
guarantees continued segregation.

Richardson charged the Rev. Jerry
Falwell with undermining the
church’s work in South Africa.
Falwell recently made a visit to
South Africa and caused an uproar
by calling Nobel Peace Prize winner
Bishop Desmond Tutu a “‘phony.”’

On the subject of boycotts, Rich-
ardson said, ‘‘They can be a very ef-
fective but very dangerous weapon.”’

Richardson did not support a com-
plete boycott of South Africa, saying
that people might be tempted to

Africa

leave the problem when they thought
it was solved.

Instead, Richardson gave exam-
ples of boycotts that “hurt where

hurt is needed.”’ Recently, New Zea. .

jand banned its rugby team from tra-
veling to South Africa, where rugby
is a passionate national pasttime,
Also, South Africa has not had a team
in the Olympics since 1960.

On economic sanctions, Richard-
son said, ‘‘No government can stand
by and watch its economy go down
the drain.”’

Richardson was asked if he could
have given his speech in South
Africa. He said he could have
because in his speech he did not
directly support sanctions against his
country.

Under broad South African laws,
any direct support of disinvestment
could result ina charge of treason.

Richardson remarked that many
people are surprised by South
Africa’s free press. But, he said,
while the press is free to criticize the
government politically, it can say
virtually nothing about such things
as police action and the military.

Speaking Sunday night of the chur-
ch’s role in South Africa, Richardson
gave seven virtues the church
must have in order to fight apar-
theid: truthfulness, responsiveness,
endurance, penitence, faithfulness,
unity and hopefulness.

At the end of his speech Sunday
night, Richardson said he “could
have had this address literally drip-
ping in blood.”’

Shunning that tactic, however,
Richardson said he tried to give a
truthful view of South Africa both
through the eyes of a citizen and a
minister.

Richardson said his greatest aspir-
ation is that ‘tone day we will see a
South Africa that is free and harmon-
ious.”’

Richardson said he enjoyed his
stay in the United States, adding that
he had gained about “‘about a pound a
day” and was wondering how he
would explain that to his wife.

While speaking in Alabama earlier
in his visit, Richardson was taken to
see an Alabama Crimson Tide foot-
ball game. He compared the enthu-
siasm at that game with South Afri-
cans’ passion for rugby.

Law, donation prompt access changes for handicapped

 

 

By DANA BOLDEN
Staff Reporter

 

The wooden ramps that are spring-
ing up around campus are the result
of a federal law and a donation from
the father of a deceased, handicap-
ped student, according to Assistant to
the President Frank A. Parsons.

Washington and Lee has built the
ramps to comply with a federal law
that requires that institutions make
public places accessible to the handi-
capped.

Some of the funds to pay for the
ramps come from a donation from
the father of a handicapped student

who died after he graduated. Parsons
said he couldn’t reveal the donor or
the amount he gave.

A recent landscape architect’s
comprehensive study outlined where
ramps for stairs and curbs should be
placed to serve disabled people best.

Some of those places included the
Commerce School, Graham-Lees
dormitory, the Law School, the Uni-
versity Library, Howe Hall and du
Pont Hall.

Last year Anthony Cornealius, a
disabled student, took a group of
Buildings and Grounds engineers on
a walk around the campus and show-
ed them each place where he en-

countered difficulties getting in and
out of buildings, Parsons said.

Ramps have been built near Baker
dormitory and in front of the Law
School, and Parsons said ramps are
planned for the other locations.

‘Although a few places still remain
inaccessible, they will be corrected
over a short period of time,’’ Parsons
said.

Not only have ramps been installed
to accommodate the handicapped,
but a strobe light has been installed
in the room of a deaf freshman in
place of a doorbell.

The older buildings on campus, like

another problem. Since most of the
buildings on that section of the cam-
pus are historical landmarks, it
would be virtually impossible to in-
stall elevators and ramps in these
buildings.

“It’s like the case of the barn with
the leaky roof,’’ Parsons said. ‘‘When
it’s raining we do all we can to fix it,
but when it’s not it doesn’t real-
ly pose a problem.”’

The law does not state how hard or
easy it should be for a disabled stu-
dent to get to classes, but the classes
must be made accessible to the stu-
dent.

“In several cases throughout the
years we have relocated classes in
order to make these programs acces-
sible to the disabled students on cam-
pus,” Parsons said.

James L. Arthur, superintendent of
Buildings and Grounds, said the cost
for the wooden ramps that have been
built was approximately $75.

The permanent ramp to the back
door of the Commerce School cost
about $100,000, according to Parsons.

Arthur also said the wooden ramp
in front of the Law School will be
replaced with a cement one by the

Evan J. Kemp Jr., a 1959 graduate
who is executive director of the Disa-
bility Rights Center in Washington,
said building ramps for the handicap-
ped is helpful but not as important as

-overcoming the mental barriers that
exist between disabled and nondis-
abled persons.

Kemp is a staunch opponent of the
Muscular Dystrophy Association’s
telethons because they ‘‘demean the
disabled.”’

He said barriers need to be remov-
ed because they are society’s way of
saying to the disabled: ‘‘You’re not

 

 

 

 

Staff reports

 

Student Body Vice President Andrew Caruthers said
Tuesday at an Honor System symposium that use of a
false identification card by an underaged student to buy
alcohol would be a potential honor offense.

The statement came in response to a question at a
forum sponsored by Omicron Delta Kappa, the honor-
ary leadership organization. Attendance at the pro-
gram was mandatory for freshmen.

“‘] disagree with the law of 21,"’ Caruthers began after
asked the question by moderator David Lewis. “I think
it’s stupid.”

He pointed out that ‘the [Executive Committee]
doesn’t go out and look for honor violations’’ but that in
a case of use of a false identification card, ‘‘the EC will
consider it as a possible honor violation.”

“TI cannot predict the result,’ he added. “‘I would
refrain from using them because this is also a commu-
nity of trust.... I would refrain from that and I would
find upperclassmen to purchase it.”

Morgan Griffith, a lawyer from Salem who was the
EC’s senior law representative in 1981-82 and its vice
president from 1982-83, said Caruthers’ guarded re-
sponse showed the difference between different student
generations.

“If it was blatant that someone had used a false iden-
tification, I think our committee probably would have

found them guilty,”’ he said.

Another question raised at the symposium was:
“What if I tell my boyfriend I love him and I really

don’t?”’

 

 

those along the Colonnade, present

end of the year.

 

“If it’s me, you’re outta here,” said Waller T, Dudley,
an Arlington attorney who was student body president
in 1978-79.

“Where are you going to be next weekend”? is what I
want to know,”’ Caruthers added.

“Can we go now?”’ a young woman loudly asked her
companion.

Team to debate British style

Washington and Lee’s debate team will host an
audience-style debate with a touring British team
Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. in Lee Chapel

The topic for the debate will be ‘“‘This House Con-
demns U.S. Missiles in Great Britain.”’

Representing W&L will be freshman Bill Webb and
junior Rick Graves. Graves gained experience in Bri-
tish debating as a member of the team that travelled to
Great Britain last year. Webb has extensive experience
in high school topical debating.

The British team, which is touring about 20 schools in
the United States, will be represented by Michael Hall
of New College, Oxford, and David Lock of Jesus Col-
lege, Cambridge.

Professor’s article published

An article by assistant law professor Brian C
Murchison was published in the July issue of ‘‘Federal
Communications Law Journal.”

Titled ‘‘Misrepresentation and the FCC,” the article
studies the Federal Communications Commission's at-

NEWS BRIEFS
Fake identification cards called potential honor violations

titude toward individuals and companies that give it
false information in contests for lucrative broadcast
licenses. Murchison suggests the FCC has a contradic-
tory policy toward misinformation, threatening to pun-
ish it with disqualification from, *he airwarves, but at
the same time ‘bending over ba¢«wards to find that no
lies were ever told.”’

“As a result, lying to the government in order to ob-
tain a television license may be a risk some are not
afraid to take,” the article says.

Murchison received both his bachelor’s and his law
degrees from Yale University. He joined the law faculty
in 1982.

Davenport to deliver lectures

Guy Davenport, an award-winning poet, critic,
author and translator, will deliver the English Depart-
ment’s Glasgow endowment lectures, Tuesday through
Thursday afternoon.

Davenport, the Alumni Association Distinguished
Professor of English at the University of Kentucky, is
the author of two works of criticism, six books of trans-
lations, five books of poetry and seven collections of
short stories and novellas. He is also a book illustrator
anda painter.

Davenport's lectures will deal with the role of the
critic in literature. His Tuesday lecture is titled ‘‘The
Artist as Critic.” On Wednesday, he will lecture on
“The Scholar as Critic.’’ Thursday, ‘‘The Critic as Ar-
tist’’ will be the topic of his lecture

All three lectures will be at 4:30 p.m. in Rm. 327 of the

wanted here.”’

Commerce School Building.

Davenport will give a reading of his works Thursday
at 8:15 in Northen Auditorium in the University Li-
brary. All Glasgow lectures and readings are free.

The Glasgow Endowment is financed by a bequest
made in 1960 by Arthur Graham Glasgow “to promote
the art of expression by pen and tongue.” It is adminis-

tered by a faculty committee appointed by the Universi-
ty President.

Hodges named to board

Religion Professor Louis W. Hodges has been named
to the editorial board of the ‘Journal of Mass Media
Ethics.”’

A New publication sponsored by Brigham Young Uni-
versity and Utah State University, the ‘Journal of Mass
Media Ethics”’ will provide a forum for ideas on moral
developments and ethics education for both scholars
and media practitioners. The journal, which will pub-
lish its first issue next month, will attempt to bridge the
gap between academic and philosophical approaches to
ethics and the pragmatics of dealing with day-to-day
problems in the professions,

Since its inception in 1974, Hodges has directed W&L’s
distinctive program in applied ethics, “Society and the
Professions,’’ which is for pre-professional undergrad-
uate students in business, journalism, law and medi-
cine.

A native of Mississippi, Hodges received his bachelor
of arts degree from Millsaps College and both his bach-
elor of divinity degree and Ph.D. from Duke University.

 

 

Sear |

> gone

* mm

* .
eal

bs ?
+ tb
* €
©
=

e *
* ®
4
oa a4

a4 >
‘ +!
« ¢!

© ®
i
‘ ©
|

 

 

a +
¢ ‘
« ‘
1
e 5
1
© s
i
4 .
* 4
e 4
‘ s
. 4
‘ ‘
‘ a
‘ ‘
A 4
‘ i
4 1
4 i
« ‘
‘ 4
4 i
“
€
‘
*
as
‘ =

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi, October 3, 1985, Page 5

 

Jomino’s
charges 20¢
for checks

ty BERT PARKS
itaff Reporter

 

Pizza lovers can expect to pay 20
rents extra if they are writing a
theck to Domino’s.

In late June, Domino’s implement-
ed a policy of charging 20 cents for
payment by check to cover the cost of
bad checks and the cost of depositing
checks, said Domino’s manager Tim
Camden.

He added that the owners of the
Domino’s chain made the decision
and he has to enforce it.

A retailer loses between $5 and $20
when a check bounces, according to
assistant manager Lee Frazier and
Washington and Lee’s cold check
committee Chairman Peter Ben-
north. In addition, the bank levies its
own charge to Domino’s for deposit-
ing checks.

“I’ve delivered pizzas and had
three or four students chipping in on
one pizza, each writing a check,”
Camden said. ‘‘With that many
ehecks, we need the charge or we
lose money.”

Camden said he favored the 20 cent
charge over raising prices.
~ “Nobody would have said anything
‘if we had raised prices instead of ad-
ding a 20 cent charge,” he said.
“Nobody's going to go broke over 20
‘cents, but students can go to the bank
and get cashif it’s a problem.”’

Bennorth’s committee, formally
‘known as the Student Financial Rela-
tions Committee, covers students’
bounced checks for local merchants
‘and then can fine the students.

Domino’s receives about four or
five bad checks a week, Bennorth
‘said, and since most of its business is
,from college students, almost all
these checks are written by students.

Bennorth was glad to learn that the

sextra charge for a check to Domino’s
is not levied solely because of stu-
‘dents’ bad checks.

* Hestill isn’t happy about it, though

,~ he has paid the 20 cents too — but
he is ‘glad to see it wasn’t directed at
»students.”’

 

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

Steve Losquadro takes a practice LSAT Tuesday ni ght

Former student’s larceny charge goes to grand jury

By CHRISTOPHER DEIGHAN
News Editor

 

A grand larceny and breaking and
entering case involving former
Washington and Lee student Alex
Benedetto will go before the Rock-
bridge grand jury after witnesses at
a preliminary hearing Tuesday said
he broke into the Phi Kappa Sigma
fraternity house June 11.

In the same incident, Benedetto
pleaded guilty to charges of public
drunkenness and was fined $10.

Lexington District Judge Joseph E.
Hess dismissed arson charges filed
against Benedetto in a separate inci-
dent at the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity
house because prosecutors were un-
able to present sufficient evidence.

The grand jury, which meets Nov.
4, will decide whether Benedetto will
be indicted on the charges of grand
larceny and breaking and entering.

Benedetto, a Pika, was a member
of the class of ’87 but quit school in
December of last year.

Two Virginia Military Institute
cadets said they were the only resi-

 

|| Frustration?

Would-be attorneys make
sacrifices for LSAT test

By JIMSTRADER
News Editor

 

 

Three weeks of preparation and study will be put toa
test Saturday, when about 10 Washington and Lee
students will take the Law School Admissions Test.

Tonight some of the students will complete a course
designed to prepare them for the test. The course is
directed by the National Center for Educational Testing
and is taught by third-year law student John Cooley.

The class met Tuesday night to take a sample test,
designed to prepare the students to take the actual one.
The six sections of the test and the writing sample exer-
cise will take more than four hours to complete Satur-
day.

Is the LSAT just another admissions test? Not really.

“You reach a point of frustration where you want to
scream,”’ said dormitory counselor Ted LeClercg, a stu-
dent enrolled in the course. ‘‘It helps to scream, and I do
scream.” The course work is trying, according to senior
Dave Nave. He estimated that he spent about 12 to 14
hours a week attending the classes and studying the
LSAT material. By the time Saturday classes let out, he
said, ‘‘Everybody was so burned out that we couldn’t do
any more.”’

Bob Strickland said the class work in the LSAT course
was so demanding that he couldn’t do his regular assign-
ments even on days when the class didn’t meet.

Not only was the work difficult, but the time spent stu-
dving for the LSAT kept the students from activities like

regular course work, fraternity Rush and a social life.

In spite of the problems, students said the course was
helpful.

“It gives you organization,’’ Strickland said. ‘‘It fore-
ed me to prepare for the test. If I'd done it on my own, I’d
have blown it off until the last week.”

Specific questions and teaching techniques were also
beneficial. ‘‘The course gives you the correct approach
to each type of problem on the test,” Nave said.

“It mentally prepares you to deal with the mountain-
ous obstacle you’re up against,” LeClercq added.

One student said it was suggested to him and other stu-
dents that they find a quiet room, like in a motel, to sleep
in the night before the test. This didn’t seem like a good
idea to everybody, though.

“T don’t want to put myself in an unnatural environ-
ment like a motel room,’’ Nave said. ‘‘That would make
me uncomfortable. I'd be more at ease in my apart-
ment.”’

LeClercq agreed. ‘‘I think it’s more important to be in
familiar surroundings,” he said. ‘‘That’s more relax-
ing.”

Cooley said the test results, along with a student’s
grade point average, are the most important factors
considered in the law school admissions process.

The 32-hour course, which costs $295, runs for three
weeks before the testing date. It met Tuesday and
Thursday evenings and Saturday mornings last month.

The NCET schedules the test four times throughout
the academic year.

If you’re up for it, the next testing date is in December.

dents of the Phi Kap house June 11,
when they found Benedetto climbing
down a fire escape with a bag filled
with $348 worth of sweaters.

Before leaving Lexington for the
weekend of June 9, cadets James F.
Bean and John C. Nagle IV testified,
they locked and secured the house at
11 N. Jefferson St., where they were
living while attending summer
courses at VMI.

Their testimony listed the follow-
ing events:

When they returned about 11 p.m.
Sunday, they found several doors on

the second and third floors forced
open. A search of the rooms indicated
that no property was missing, so they
went to the first floor to study.

About 1:30 a.m. Nagle heard noises
from the third floor and saw Benedet-
to through the railing on the fire
escape. The defendant was carrying
a bag of clothing, according to Nagle.

When Officer Gordon P. Joines ar-
rived, he found Benedetto with ‘‘a big
knife strapped on the side of his right
leg and a strong odor of alcohol about
his person.”

In court Tuesday, sophomore Paul

Wiman, owner of the clothing that
was found in Benedetto’s bag, testi-
fied that the clothing was worth
about $348.

Benedetto’s lawyer, Robert N.
Joyce Jr., asked Hess to reconsider
the value of the clothing, calling
Wiman’s estimate ‘“‘shaky at best.”
He also asked that the court reduce
the charge to one of petty larceny,
which involves property valued at up
to $200.

Hess denied the requests, saying
Wiman’s judgment was ‘‘as good or
as bad as mine.”’

   
 

 

CRAFTS PLUS, INC.

._ GAMES, HOBBIES & CRAFT SUPPLIES

Open Mon.-Sat., 10-5
31S. Main St., Lexington 463-3355

Lexington Bike Shop

130 S. Main 463-7969
Open 9-5, Mon.-Fri. and 9-12 Sat.

Advertise in The Phi 463-8581

Se giee ow

 

 

 

 

 

VARNER & POLE

Furniture Dealers

115 S. Main Street
‘For your extra pieces of furniture’’

463-2742

” REDKEN

a, a a ul

 

 

 

 

 

fone om

Located at 136 Varner Lane
directly behind Leggetts
with plenty of parking

Phone: 463-3975 or walk in.

arte tga errant tne rn

Marie's Kain. Fiylers

By Appointment 463-9588 Old Main St. Mall
‘ Lexington, VA oe

¢ Cannondale accessories

¢ Camp trails packs

¢ Complete repair service

¢ Road or trail route information

¢ Motobecane
¢ Shogun

e Ross

e Eureka tents

aeeee
NS ae

Robin« Peggy Marie
LPL A A) A) A) A ) ED ()

 

 

 

 

 

 

Chinese and
American Cuisine

 

 
  
 
 
 

pence
qite Front Ma rhe;

‘ A : 0 Exotic Cocktails _ its Bee 443-2105 DI IKE
LOKA W K Conroe Saeasee 167 S. Main St., 463-3106
409 South Main St., Lexington, Virginia 24450 Available

 

   

703-463-9342

~

THE FUQUA
SCHOOL
OF BUSINESS

MBA

The Fuqua School of Business at Duke
University offers one of the finest available
opportunities for unsurpassed professional
management training. We are interested in
men and women who have proven aca-
demic, leadership, and social abilities.

Open Tuesday through Suaday
Luncheon 11:30 - 2:30
Dinner 5 - 10
Saturday Open 4 - 10
Sunday Lunch Buffet 12 - 2:30

Stop by and open up a charge
account for all your grocery needs.
This Week’s Specials are:
¢ Kraft Mayonnaise

¢ Cheer Detergent
¢ Coor’s Beer

-

 

 

 

oe

 

  

 

 

4
Qt. Jar/ $]

79
42 Oz. Box/ $]

59
6 Pks. & 12 Oz. Bottles/ $2

15 Oz. can 3 *1

 

 

 

60606080656 £864 6%

EM ec
a

Serving the W&L community
over 30 years.

  

 

 

 
 
 

 

A Sunday Place -

 

 

 

 

‘ 463-3614
e / :
a And Midweek, Too: Michael Hostetler
ql 4 Director of Admissions
‘i Good Luck Generals a The Lexington Presbyterian Church
K 4 welcomes you. Our Sunday morning col- rt
a lege class meets at 9:45. Worship is at 11. or the Fuqua School
; g

4 Hewers For AU Occasions a . ill b

* 5 : Genie ss lie: will be on campus
1 “OW OW. Powers un f Join the choir. Attend fellowship din
a es or 8 ners. Use the library. A friendly congre- Thursda Ootcher 24
al : gation and two ministers (Randy Harri- Ys
a son and Sally Robinson) want to know ;
a THE FLOWER CENTER : you and serve you. Appointment information may be obtained

EXINGTON. VIRGINIA so : :

, a a” a ‘“‘Lex Pres” has been on the corner of by contacting:
pi / Main and Nelson Streets for 200 years,
‘ Surprise your Homecoming date with a corsage : aga program of outreach is always Office of Career Development
' — $1.00 off with coupon. , eoiet and Placement
Page 6, The Ring-tum Phi, October 3, 1985

 

Scholars
question

Gustafson

By CHRISTOPHER DEIGHAN
News Editor

 

 

Most of the scholars who came to
Washington and Lee this weekend
were empathetic with James M. Gus-
tafson’s radical ideas about theology
and ethics, said Harlan Beckley,
associate professor of religion and
one of the organizers of the sym-
posium

But, Beckley said, ‘‘No one simply
agreed with his ideas. All raised criti-
cal questions.”

Paul Ramsey, a professor of reli-
gion at Princeton University, en-
gaged Gustafson in what Beckley
called a heated exchange at a final
question-and-answer session.

From the audience, Ramsey
questioned Gustafson’s abandon-
ment of Christian tradition. In an
emotional five-minute response,
Gustafson said many people possess
a sense of natural piety but can not be
reached through the language of the
church.

Gustafson’s theology places a
great deal of emphasis on the
sciences. His book, ‘‘Ethics from a
Theocentric Perspective,” says peo-
ple must realize that the whole of
creation is not for the benefit of man.

One scholar, Robert N. Bellah,
questioned whether Gustafson was
simply a critic of the fundamentals of

culture. Bellah is Ford Professor of:

Sociology and Comparative Studies
and vice chairman of the Center for
Japanese Studies at the University of
California at Berkley.

Discussion following the lectures of
nine scholars focused mainly on the
theoretical rather than on specific
issues, Beckley said.

President John D. Wilson welcom-
ed about 180 theologians, philoso-
phers, ministers, sociologists, law-
yers and physicians to the sympo-
sium Thursday afternoon. Dean of
the College John W. Elrod moderated
the question-and-answer session Sat-
urday.

The symposium was sponsored by
the Department of religion and by the
Institute for the Advanced Study of
Religion at the University of Chicago
Divinity School.

Beckley said video and audio tapes
of each session are available in the
University Library.

 

 

 

1

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Post Office clean-up

A workman Cleans a side of the Lexington Post Office this week as part of
the periodic maintenance of the 72-year-old building. Postmaster Robert G.
Moore said the work will go on for another two weeks and will include spray-
ing sealant on the building to keep the dirt out,

New minority affairs dean }
looks to broaden horizons:

 

By CHARLES T. GAY
Staff Reporter

 

One of several new faces on the
faculty at Washington and Lee this
year is that of Anece McCloud, who
fills the slot of director of minority af-
fairs.

As McCloud points out, the title of
the office has been changed to the
more-encompassing ‘‘associate dean
of students for minority affairs.’ As
a result, McCloud will, in her own
words, ‘‘work with all students, with
an emphasis on minority students.”

McCloud replaces John White, who
was fired at the end of last year by
President John D. Wilson.

Originally from North Carolina,
McCloud comes to W&L with a great
deal of experience in her field.

During the past nine years, she
served as director of minority affairs
at the University of Nebraska after
having served as assistant registrar
there.

McCloud said that during her
tenure as director of minority af-
fairs, her department “accomplished
a great deal.’’ Minority enrollment at
Nebraska doubled over that period.
period.

McCloud’s functions at her old post
were with minority students’ matric-
ulation, advising minority students
on academic and social concerns and
generally helping minority students
adjust to a new environment.

The desire to ‘‘broaden horizons”’
led McCloud from Nebraska to W&L’

 

 

 

By Eric $8. Obeck/The Ring-tum Phi,

Anece McCloud in her Payne Hall office :

and she anticipates a much more
diversified role here.

Thus far, McCloud has termed her
job as ‘‘busy”’ though she is quick to
add, “‘I’m enjoying it very much.”

Upon arrival, McCloud was involv-
ed in training dorm counselors and
meeting minority students as well as

becoming acquainted with the newly
renamed Minority Student Associa
tion.

McCloud said she was “impressed
by the people of the community, and
especially with the students — they
seem to have a good feeling about
education.”

a
'

Candidates for governor are walking narrow political path

 

By R.D. GERSH
The Associated Press

 

RICHMOND — The race for gover-
nor in Virginia is a campaign waiting
for something to happen.

Republican Wyatt Durrette and
Democrat Gerald Baliles are gener-
ating neither heat nor emotion as
they walk a narrow aisle of mid-
stream conservatism that leaves lit-
tle room for risk.

“Our political culture restricts
their room for movement. You have
to stay pretty close to the norm in this
state,’ said Thomas Morris, a gov-
ernment professor at the University
of Richmond who keeps close tabs on
Virginia politics.

‘And both candidates are pursuing
the traditional practice of going right
down the middle. That political cul-
ture restricts the manueverability of
the candidates.”

Last week, both candidates used
surrogates, former Gov. Mills God-
win for Durrette and Richmond Del.
Frank Hall for Baliles, to argue their
man was more in step with the
majority of Virginia.

Only two of the six statewide can-
didates sought a labor endorement.
Only one, L. Douglas Wilder, the De-
mocratic nominee for lieutenant gov-
ernor and the candidate with the
least to lose, got it.

“In a sense a great deal of the poli-
tical spectrum has been closed off,”’
Morris said. ‘‘You can’t accept an en-

 

HOMECOMING
CONCERT ’$9

AT
WIASHINGTON § LEE

FRIDAY, OCT 11-8:30

PRESENTED BY THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES

BOARD AND CELLAR DOOR CONCERTS

TICKETS: $8.00 @ DOOR: $6.00 @ BOOKSTORE*
“IN ADVANCE)

 

 

 

 

 

dorsement from labor. You can’t talk
about tax increases and you can’t
talk anything but a hard line on law
and order.”

Wilder, the senior black state legis-
lator, has mentioned his endorse-
ment from the Fraternal Order of
Police more often than the AFL-CIO
backing.

The campaign also lacks the star
quality that Democrat Charles S.
Robb brought to his successful guber-
natorial race in 1981 or the fast-
draw comments Marshall Coleman
brought to the opposition.

‘Neither one of them captures the
imagination. They just simply don’t
have that spark or pizazz that is real-
ly necessary to excite,” said’ Larry
Sabato, a University of Virginia gov-

Health center

 

By DEBORAH HATTES
Staff Reporter

 

Coeducation has prompted many
changes in the Student Health Ser-
vice this year, including renovations
to provide privacy for women and a
name change, according to head
nurse Josephine H. McCown.

The infirmary section of the health
service was renovated this summer
to accommodate both men and
women. :

“It used to be two big wards, but it
is divided into compartments,”’ Mc-
Cown said. One room can house five
men and another has room for two
women.

The name. change from the Infir-

ernment professor who also special-
izes in Virginia elections.

“On one hand, we’ve got two very
competent candidates and either one
of them would make a good governor.
But when all is said and done, for a
campaign to be interesting, the can-
didates have to say something inter-
esting, and we’re still waiting.”’

On however many issues the can-
didates differ — and they are not all
that many — they are similar men.

“They are both white male subur-
ban lawyers and may differ from one
another on specific issues but not all
that much.” Sabato said. ‘‘My guess
is if you could set up two parallel
universes and make one governor in
one and the other governor in the
other, 95 percent of their decisions

.

would be the same.” 4
The candidates also know each
other too well. They faced each other
in the 1981 race for attorney generab.

“It’s like two fighters who have.
fought each other often. They know
so well their ability to counterpunch
they are afraid to throw a knockout
punch,” Morris said.

The race could get racier if a can
didate starts slipping and is forced tg
take risks that could push him out of
the coveted narrow center into the
wings if his party. ®

Durrette so far has resisted report-
ed efforts by more conservative
forces in his camp, led by Godwin, tq
forego generally positive media ad-
vertising for harder-hitting and moré
negative commercials. >

gets new name, services’.

mary to the Student Health Service
was made ‘‘because we would like to

promote the whole concept of health
care rather than just being a place to
go when you get sick or injured.”

As part of this idea, the health ser-
vice is distributing literature and
posters to stress the idea of ‘‘well-
ness, a positive state of health, which
involves the health of the whole per-
son, body, mind and spirit,” accord-
ing to one of the service’s handouts.

Also, the health service is making
more information available on var-
ious health topics and new services.

“The newest things in lab work are
a pregnancy test and a 10-minute
strep throat culture test’? McCown
said,

Another registered nurse, Mary
Schambach, has been added to the

 

ID

 

 

 

 

 

 

Corsages -
with care!

Florist to the Homestead
103 N. Jefferson
Lexington
463-9841

 

eS

 

 

 

 

.

staff for night duty, McCown said.

McCown believes a record number,
of students — 82 — went to the Health
Service on Monday. ’

“We're really busy for this time of

year,” she said. >

Programs on health topics, includ-
ing birth control information sessions
offered by the local health depart+
ment and an alcohol program for the
upcoming Alcohol Awareness Week,
are in the planning stages. ’

“T think alcohol’s a very bad pro+"*

blem here,’’ McCown said.

The Student Health Service, lo-
cated in the basement of Gilliam’
dormitory, is open 24 hours a day,
with a registered nurse always on du-
ty. :

    
 
 
 
 
 
  

Get your
~ message to
1,500 students
through
The
Ring-tum Phi

463-8581

gaegggggeangonnnnnnngnnNnngnne

 

 

Phase IL] Integrated 250 |
Watt Amplifier, 7 Band Con- |
trols Stereo, Graphic |
Equalizer with Frequency
Spectrum Display.

$6995 w/installation available

a use to be $219.95 i
5-day in car satisfaction or money

refunded” Eastern Distributing {*
463-9703 after 6 p.m.

 

Stockbroker
Trainee:
Opportunity in Virginia
Beach, Richmond or Wash-
ington D.C. area [please

specify] for hardworking,

enthusiastic
Send resume to:
P.O. Box 8814
Virginia Beach, VA 23450

individual.

t

Lo eee =

FOF at 9 oo Rg eR Oe ©

* *

*

*

* ~*

“mk

~
nee

Jobs

Continued from Page 1

 

seniors, he hopes to see many under
classmen present to take advantage
of the insight they might gain into
possible careers or fields of study

The 11 panels will include profes

 

Career Day schedule

The Ring-tum Phi, October 3, 1985, Page 7

Library

 

Continued from Page |

 

“unfortunate” because now ‘“‘there
won't be that interaction between
W&L students and VMI cadets.”

“I think it'll add to the misunder
standings and -misconceptions bet

work sionals from the fields of health care, Health care 3215 ween W&L students and VMI
tn : : : government, hospitality, chemistry : Gaines said that while “it’s not cadets,’ he added.
This is the second year the Univer- Government I: Senior Sandy Whann took a differ-

sity has sponsored the program. Last
year’s Symposium was geared to bus-
iness, while this year’s has been
designed to appeal to a wider range
of individuals by including such
careers as chemistry and biology.

Placement Adviser Stephen P.
Bredin has been assisted in planning
the conference by seniors John Hen-
schel and Chris Komosa, both of
whom worked on the symposium last
year.

‘“‘We were extraordinarily pleased
with last year’s results and hope that
the students this year will take ad-
vantage of this opportunity to make
contacts,’’ Henschel said.

Komosa said that although the con-
ference is designed primarily for

and biology, advertising and public
relations, computers and telecom
munications, sales and marketing,
real estate and development, com
mercial banking, investment bank
ing and financial services, and jour-
nalism and media

Corporation representatives will
discuss their companies and their
roles in industry, and what they look
for in prospective employees.

Each panel will be presented at 2
p.m. and at 7 p.m. The panels will be
approximately an hour in length and
will be followed by a question and
answer session

A W&L professor from the appro-
priate department will moderate the
discussions

 

Hospitality
Chemistry/Biology

Advertising/Public relations
Sales/Marketing
Real estate/development

Commercial banking

Journalism/Media

7 o'clock

Computer science/Telecommunications 2 0’clock and 4:30

Investment banking/Financial services 3:15 and 7 o’elock

2 o’clock

2 o’clock and 4:30

2 o’clock and 4:30

3:15 and 7 o’clock

20’clock and 4:30

3:15 and 7 o’clock

 

 

Washington and Lee’s responsibility
to provide space for cadets,”’ ‘‘at the
same time, their feelings are a bit
hurt.”’

He said the University Library’s
appeal to cadets was understand-
able

“You've got air conditioning and
good lights and comfortable seating
and it was an opportunity to be away
from it all for a while.’

He said the VMI library is avail-
able to the W&L community at any
time until “Taps” at 11:30 p.m. “We
have things you all don't have
and vice versa,”’ he said, citing the
Preston Library’s extensive engi-
neering collection

Student Body President John
Lewis said he felt the change was

ent view. “I think it’s awesome,” he
said. ‘It was literally a problem to
find a room to study.... They used to
cluster around the audio-visual
area.”

Lt. David B. Spears of Fairfax, the
president of VMI’s first class, said
the response at the Institute has been
“outrage.”

“Basically we feel it was kind of a
slap in our faces,” he said, adding
that cadets have been asking him,
“Why doesn’t W&L want us over
there?”’ and saying ‘‘We haven't
done anything wrong.”’

Spears said the Corps would re-
spect the rules. ‘It’s vour school,” he
said. ‘‘Here at VMI your student
body is welcome.”

 

fp & B Uffece Supply

RT STATIONARY GIFTS

Southern
Inn

Welcome

Students
Serving breakfast, lunch

AIDS victim
Hudson, 59,

eulogized

Valley True Value Hardware

 

23 WEST WASHINGTON STREET * LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

a
L
i
a
g TELEPHONE: (703) 463-3432
€
&
a
i

HARD

 

 

 

 

and ype for over Extra 10% Off In Stock Items Hardware, Paint & Related Items
‘ , years When You Present This Ad. ae
By The Associated Press Main Street, Lexington Sale Sl ee a St. Mon, - Sat. 8:30 - 6:00
LOS ANGELES — Actor Rock 463-3612 HO a EO Es UT ARE A RE mie cera

 

 

Hudson was a ‘‘white knight in shin-
ing armor’’ whose courage in ac-
knowledging before he died that he
had AIDS may be the catalyst that

spurs worldwide efforts to find a

cure, colleagues say.

Hudson, 59, who starred in 62 films,
including the epic ‘‘Giant,” and in
such television hits as “McMillan
and Wife” and ‘Dynasty,’ died at
home in his sleep yesterday morning
and was cremated, publicist Dale
Olson said.

“Please God, he has not died in
vain,” said Elizabeth Taylor, his co-
star in ‘“‘Giant”’ and co-host with Burt
Reynolds of a gala AIDS benefit last
month to which Hudson donated
$250,000.

Hudson’s last public statement was
read at the benefit:

“T am not happy that I am sick. I
am not happy that I have AIDS. But if

. that is helping others, I can, at least,

know that my own misfortune has

had some positive worth.”’

Taylor said yesterday: ‘I love
him, and he is tragically gone.”

Hudson’s wish was that donations
be made to the American Foundation
for AIDS research in lieu of flowers
and because he did not want a funer-
al, Olson said.

Producer-director Ross Hunter,
who worked with Hudson on such
films as ‘‘Pillow Talk’”’ and ‘‘Magnifi-
cent Obsession,’ said he spent most
of Tuesday with Hudson and that the
actor had been mostly unconscious in
his last days.

| “Stardom never changed him,”
' Hunter said, weeping throughout a
telephone interview. ‘‘He never
realized how truly great he was.

“He gave the world so much. He
was the white knight in shining ar-
mor. In all the years I have known
him, he has never said an unkind
word about anybody. I shall miss him
more than anyone will know.”’

“Life is eternal, and I know I will
see him again,” said Doris Day, who
co-starred with Hudson in romantic
comedies like ‘Pillow Talk’ and
“Send Me No Flowers.”

In July, Hudson went to Paris for
treatment and was hospitalized after
collapsing at a hotel there. He came
home July 30 for his final hospitaliza-
tion at UCLA Medical Center, where
he was released Aug. 24. He died at 9
a.m. yesterday, and his physician,
Dr. Rexford Kennamer, was sum-
~ moned, Olson said.

' Kennamer pronounced him dead,
but the cause of death was not releas-
ed, Olson said, Kennamer’s office
said he was not available for com-
ment.
r AIDS, or acquired immune defi-
ciency syndrome, attacks the body’s
immune system, making it unable to
,  Tesist disease.

Many of Hudson’s friends said it
' . was his condition that drew a na-
. tional response to AIDS. As of Mon-
©, day, the National Centers for Disease
+ ¢ Control said there have been 13,611
“ AIDS victims, 6,944 of whom died. No

one has recovered from the disease.

Hudson’s autobiography, ‘‘My
Story,” will be published by William
Morrow, spokeswoman Sherry Arden
Said yesterday in New York.

ea
ous Bud eise er f
ewer whic h costs so much to: no brang » ~~

wood Aging produces a tas),

u will find in no othe, beep ;
Qa

John D. Eiland, Your
Local Budweiser
Wholesaler Is Pleased

To Introduce

J. J. Buquet
As Its Young Adult Coordinator
For The W&L Campus.
Please Feel Free To Contact J. J.
At 463-2191 For Information

 

Co

Concerning All
Your Party Needs.

| CBN to broadcast
+ Hudson show

 

‘l By The Associated Press

 

VIRGINIA BEACH The Chris-
«# tian Broadcasting Network, channel
2on the Lexington cable system, says
it will air an episode of a new Doris
«— Day series in which the late actor
Rock Hudson appears
1 CBN officials decided to broadcast
*}. the program after Hudson, 59, died
»}. Wednesday in Los Angeles. He had
been suffering from acquired im
mune deficiency syndrome, or AIDS
Hudson, who gave his last public
performance when he taped the pro
“gram June 18, will appear on “Doris
+ Day’s Best Friends” at 7 p.m. EDT
\. Oct. 13

ANHEUSER-BUSCH, INC. ¢ ST. LOUIS

-

 

©
ae

 
 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, October 3, 1985

 

 
   

*

ww ta ee ie

ae a!

ee

YS ett

we
a

 

 

 

 

The Generals’ defense breaks through to trap Centre’s Bill Kenyon

Ruggers split first games,
face Tech squad Saturday

Staff report

The Washington and Lee rugby
club split its opening contests of the
1985 fall season, defeating the Uni-
versity of Richmond Law squad 23-15
on Sept. 21 and losing to Mary Wash-
ington 15-8 last Saturday in Lexing-
ton.

The Richmond contest was an up-
and-down affair with W&L taking an
early 12-0 lead on tries by captain
David Arthur and P.J. lerardi. The
law team came back in the latter
part of the first half to bring the score
to 16-9 by halftime.

The W&L ruggers stiffened when
they had to in the second half and a
late-game three-pointer from Bill

 

Jones sealed the victory.
Fall view
Staff report

 

Sixteen men are trying to earn a
spot on a team that last year finished
eighth in the nation, won its confer-
ence and ran up 14 wins over such
notables as Virginia Tech and
Emory.

It is a task that could be more diffi-
cult this year than it was last year.

Simply put, the 1986 Generals may
‘be a stronger squad than the 1985 ver-
sion. W&L lost only one starter from
last year’s team (all-American Andy
Haring). The five returning letter-
men are all 1985 Old Dominion Athle-
tic Conference champions and two

Arthur was pleased with the team’s
first-game play. ‘‘With just one week
of practice our team was a little out
of shape. The first game jitters seem-
ed to affect everyone. Everyone is
enthusiastic about the victory,
though.”’ he said.

That enthusiasm was not enough to
get W&L the victory in its second out-
ing. Mary Washington, clearly bene-
fiting from having a coach (W&L
does not have a coach), were too
much for W&L at the end of the
game, Arthur said.

“It was close all the way up until
the end,’’ he said. ‘‘The second part
of the second half we ran out of gas.
We weren't fit.”

Arthur and Jones again led the

W&L scoring effort. Arthur also cited
the play of Jake Squiers, Earl Gla-
zier, P.J. lerardi and Nick Berents.

The team captain and club presi-
dent stressed the team’s need to get
in shape, especially in view of its
game this Saturday at Virginia Tech,
a squad Arthur called ‘‘the best team
in the state.”

He said W&L should have a shot at
the Tech squad, but ‘‘this is probably
the toughest game on the schedule
this year and the toughest W&L has
had in at least the last four years.”’

Arthur encouraged all those inter-
ested in rugby to join the ruggers at
practice on Mondays, Wednesdays
and Thursdays on the Law School
field.

yV4enoug

WOne touchdown:
h to down

stymied Centre

 

By DAVID EMRICH
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee football
team’s second game of the season
was similar in many respects to its
initial effort two weeks ago. Both
games featured outstanding efforts
by the General’s defensive squad
contrasted with solid, but turnover
marred play by the offensive team.

There was one extremely impor-
tant difference, however, between

 

the two games. This time Washington
and Lee walked off the field with a 7-3
tally over Centre College. The win
evens the W&L record at 1-1.

The Colonels opened the scoring in
the second period with a 26-yard field
goal. Neither team scored before the
end of the second quarter and Centre

took a three-point lead into the lock-
er room.

Then, in a fourth-and-five situation
late in the third period, quarterback
Jon Thornton hit Chris Bleggi for 27
yards and a touchdown, B.J. Sturgill
added the extra point and the
Generals took a 7-3 lead into the
fourth quarter. The win was sealed
when defensive back Scott Hender-
son intercepted Centre quarterback
Mike Couchot with only 30 seconds
left in the game.

W&L’s offense doubled the Col-
onels in time of possession, and gain-
ed 77 more yards than Centre, in-
cluding 100 yards on 21 carries by
recently returned tailback Kevin
Weaver. But turnovers plagued W&L
once again. They coughed up the ball
four times (two fumbles, two inter-
ceptions). It was only the impressive
play of the defense that kept the Col-
onels from capitalizing on the
miscues.

Coach Fallon sees the W&L turn-
over problem in a practical sense.
“Anytime you have to live by the
pass, there is a greater chance of
turnover. You risk the interception,
there’s the chance that your quarter-
back might be blindsided and fumble
the ball. That’s just something that
you have to accept when you pass the
ball.”’

But can the defense continue to
hold the opponent out of the end zone

 

or will they eventually “‘burn out”
from the strain of having to contin-
ually deal with the turnovers? “A
good defense will not ‘burn out,’ ”
said Fallon, ‘they will accept the
challenge and work harder at it. I
don’t see any problem with our
defense, they’re a bunch of guys who
are very hungry and who have a lot of
character, They look at it as a chal-
lenge.”’

The Generals’ next game is Satur-
day in Ashland against Old Dominion
Athletic Conference foe Randolph-
Macon. The Yellow Jackets return
one of the strongest squads to the
ODAC, led by sophomore running
back Remon Smith and wide receiver
Keith Gilliam.

Fallon has great respect for his
foes this weekend.

“Randolph-Macon has a_ good,
experienced defense and a very po-
tent offense. [Tim] Landis is a
talented passer and Gilliam is a
great receiver, who is dangerous

from any point on the field. They also |,
have a great running back in Remon |

Smith,” Fallon said.
The key for the Generals, Fallon
explained, is to ‘eliminate offensive

mistakes and give Randolph-Macon |

a good football game.”

SIDELINES: The W&L defense
allowed Centre only 8 passing
yards....R-M has a 2-1 record, includ-

ing a Sunday win over Iona....W&L |

game will be R-M’s first conference
tilt....Generals lead series with the
Yellow Jackets 17-14-2....Last year R-
M defeated W&L 49-9 as all-Ameri-
can quarterback Cody Dearing threw
three touchdowns....Game will be
broadcast by WLUR-FM (91.5) be-
ginning at 1:20 p.m.

 

¢ a ee)

By Hank Mayer/The Ring-tum Phi

W&L and Mary Washington ruggers struggle for the ball Saturday

for Franke is promising

starters, sophomores David McLeod
and Chris Wiman, earned all-Ameri-
ca status at Chris Wiman, earned all-
America status at last year’s na-
tional championships.

Jack Messerly, one of the returning
starters, believes this year’s compe-
tition for the top spots on the team is
much tougher than last year’s owing
to the extra year of experience that
last year’s young group (four of the
starting six in 1985 were sophomores
or younger ) now has.

So far in the team’s fall workouts,
head coach Gary Franke said only
one freshmen should break into the
W&L starting lineup, as opposed to
the three that earned starting roles

last season. Franke said he believes
that Bobby Matthews will greatly
contribute to the W&L program dur-
ing his first season.

Last weekend, W&L traveled to
Harrisonburg for a quadrangular
meet at James Madison. The Gen-
erals won one of their three matches
on the weekend, defeating George
Washington (6-3) and losing to Guil-
ford (5-4) and the hosts (7-2).

Tuesday, W&L traveled to Lynch-
burg, traditional ODAC foe, and beat
the Hornets. The win was all them
ore impressive as the Generals ac-
complished the feat minus starters
Mize, McLeod and Adams.

Franke said the fall schedule pro-

vides intercollegiate experience for
as many players as possible (some-
thing he cannot do in the spring).
Also, he said he gets a better idea of
his players’ abilities to perform in
match conditions. He noted that not
all players who play practice match-
es well, play well in an intercolle-
giate match.

This weekend, the Generals host
the W&L Fall Classic. Teams from
Virginia Tech, Ohio University and
Atlantic Christian College will par-
ticipate in the two-day flight-format
tournament. Competition will be held
in four flights of singles and two
flights of doubles and 32 players are
expected to compete.

Polo doused by Richmond in finals again.
Southern League play this weekend

By LEIF UELAND
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee water
polo team finished second in the Vir-
ginia State Championships, losing in
the finals to their weekly nemesis,
the University of Richmond. The
Generals’ record now stands at 6-5.

The Generals had little difficulty
reaching the finals, defeating op-
ponents Virginia Commonwealth
University 26-5 and Lynchburg Col-
lege 27-5.

The Generals’ smooth sailing ship
ran aground against the Spiders,
however, 13-4, in a match reminis-
cent of the Generals’ 16-6 loss to Rich-

mond in the W&L Fall Classic.

Though they were playing to win,
the Generals’ primary goal against
Richmond, according to head coach
Page Remillard, was not to be beaten
by as wide a margin as in the pre
vious meeting

While the margin was lessened,
once again Richmond dominated the
team from Lexington.

Remillard was objective about the
team’s position in the tournament
“We are just a better team than Com-
monwealth and Lynchburg. Similar
ly, Richmond is a better team than
we are. We are either blowing our op
ponents out or being blown out.”’

Remillard commented on the over
all weekend, ‘I was pleased with the
weekend. We are improving and
could be one of the best W&L teams
ever by the end of the year. We are
young, but we have been playing one
of the most difficult schedules in
W&L history.”

In W&L’s effort to improve upon
performances against Rich
mond, they will be altering their of
fense in an effort to force the Spiders
to change their defense, which Rem
illard hopes will, in the end, decrease

past

‘the mistakes made by W&L

Finishing behind W&L’s “A” team
with an impressive third-place finish

was W&L’s ‘‘B” team. The team saw
many shining performances includ-
ing those of Moose Herring, Chris
Westergaard, and Matthew Brady

“Those young players are our
future and the experience they
receive on the ‘‘B”’ team will pay off
later,’ Remillard said.

This weekend the Generals travel
to George Washington University for

the first round of the Southern
League Tournament

Strong competition for the
Generals will likely come from

George Washington as well as Rich-
mond, and as Remillard pointed out,

If we are only concerned with Rich
mond, we could end up third.”

 

 

enn
i b

y John V. Lowe

 

 

 

-. @®.

 

 

A At ne

pl

 

ieee

He a a i ee ee

~.

 

#
d
:
=
‘
,
;
4
4
’ i
i
J

 

 
ae

f
E

;
1

f
%

t FPO IH EOI IE III III III IK HII III II KIKI KKK KK

 

 

 

 

 

x
*

Bu

with boosterism

 

 

 

Attitude change

is real problem

...It’s so bad in college sports that
Sports Illustrated is telling the
NCAA how to run its railroad. The
NCAA took the right initial steps in
June at its special university
presidents’ convention when the pre-
sent strict guidelines were installed.
SI is saying — and we all have to
agree — that if we’re going to take a
couple of steps in the right direction,
why not go all the way?

The suggestions in SI are a start and should be genuinely considered
by the NCAA. (They include an emphasis on education, a tie between
number of scholarshins received and number of graduated scholar-
ship athletes, and an outlawing of boosters offering money to college
athletes.) But something more must be done.

It might be difficult for us Division III purists to understand how big
money from the outside has come to take such a place in the college
game, but the sad fact is that it has. Winning has surmounted any
sense of what college education, in or out of the classroom, is intened-
ed to be. Only such a frame of reference (win at any cost) can explain
these comments from Richard Lowe, one of the nabbed Texas Chris-
tian boosters:

“What we did was a stupid mistake. We shouldn’t have done it but
we did. We did it because it was obvious that everyone else was doing
it and we were getting our butts kicked....””

With the rash of accusations criss-crossing the Southwest Con-
ference in the past week, there seems to be little doubt that ‘‘everyone
else was doing it.’’ What’s critical to the NCAA’s next move (next
week in Denver) is to develop legislation that is aimed at stripping the
college game down to its roots. Ultimately, that means examining the
reason for the athletic scholarship and whether that two-edged sword
is a controllable entity.

There are, of course, those who say the athletic scholarship is the
root of all evil and that the Division III philosophy is the only one that
works. Not so fast. The financial aid boondoggles some Division III in-
stitutions are able to pull off would make the most arrogant oilman-
booster blush.

TIME
OUT...

By Mike
Stachura

 

 

» .No, the real malday is an attitude problem. It’s an attitude that you

cah see every so often here at W&L. ‘‘If they’re not winning, then ob-
viouSly they’re doing something wrong,” would be the sentiment, I
believe.

Getting rid of such an attitude is an impossibility. But in the end, the
goal of the NCAA has to be to return college athletics to a place where

to W&L assistant athletic director Chuck O'Connell. Good to see quali-
ty rewarded...

...Back on the Colonnade, we’re still looking for the W&L offense.
Believe me, it’s there. Trip to Ashland will be a stern task for the
Generals, especially defensively. A strong performance from the ex-
plosive W&L offense spells upset here...Polo players must be seeing
Spiders (Richmond) in their sleep. Spiders have been tough, but as ac-
quatics boss Page Remillard notes, it’s not who’s ahead at the beginn-
ing or middle of a race, but at the end that counts. Word to the wise: Be
watching for W&L at the end,..And before we go, a congratulatory note

' to W&L assistant athletic director Chuck O’Connell Good to see quality

rewarded...

....1 keep hoping for some sort of divine intervention on a Monday
night that will remove The New Three Stooges from the booth...I heard
the federal government has declared Knoxville, Tenn., a national
danger zone to be avoided by any college team that thinks it’s any
good. Vols are a guaranteed Top 20 team and may be even better than
that...Speaking of the college game, Big 10 fans should circle Oct. 19
and Nov. 2. Those are the scheduled showdowns (Michigan at Iowa
and Iowa at Ohio State) in one of the two best conferences in the nation
in 1985. The other? See above (SEC)...

....And finally, a note to our misguided neighbors next door: There
was no reason to feed your young men to the Tar Heels over the
weekend. Nothing like scheduling a confidence builder. Only game
report I have ever seen that included a hospital report...

 

 

 

:
m
*
*
‘
*
*
*
*

¥,

+

x
2
%
«
«
ue
*«
*
«
*
*

x
x

K
i

7
*

7

+

*

«
«

io

The Ring-tum Phi, October 3, 1985, Page 9

 

 

ae

W&L’s Ken Randby dives for the ball against Mary Washington

Kickers’ winning wave bottoms out

By ROB MacPHERSON
Staff Reporter

Any surfer knows that no matter
how good the waves are, they’re not
all going to be 20-footers. And on that
‘rare occasion when he does happen to
catch the good wave, he rides it out
for all it’s worth. The Generals’ win-
ning soccer wave just ran out.

Their two consecutive shutout vic-’
tories were wiped out by a pair of
losses in the last week. The W&L
booters were outscored 7-1 in two
games with Mary Washington and
Lynchburg.

For the first time all season, the
W&L detense showed signs of being
human. The tight marking style that
the Generals had used in the first two
outings was upstaged by the superior
offenses of Lynchburg and Mary
Washington.

Yesterday, the Hornets of Lynch-
burg scored twice in both the first
and second half to hand W&L its first
Old Dominion Athletic Conference
loss of the season. Peter Van Son
tallied the lone General score in the
4-1 defeat.

Last Thursday, the quick, precise
passing of Mary Washington was too
much for the W&L defense, and when

Goundry paces runners

 

By REED HOWLETT
StaffReporter

Running on the flat 5-mile course of
Washington College last Saturday the
W&L cross country team took advan-
tage of a beautiful fall day to dispose
of botli Mary Washington College and
Washington College.

The Generals’ 23 points bested the
performance of Mary Washington
(37) and the hosts Washington Col-
lege (69).

Eddie Goundry led the way, run-
ning the distance in 26:49 for a first-
place finish and a new course record.

Goundry got plenty of support from
teammates Scott Rippeon, Ash An-
drews and Michael Friedman, who
recorded the third through fifth
places, running the course in 28:11,
28:14, and 28:59, respectively

Despite the fact that the course at
Washington College was not as chal-
lenging as the one at W&L, Coach

SATURDAY

Wa&L vs. Randolph-Macon

Catch all the action beginning at 1:20 p.m.

Your station for
Generals’ sports

Dick Miller was very pleased with
the results ‘considering we were
without two of our seven top run-
ners.’’ Coach Miller indicated that,
though Washington College ran about
as he had anticipated, he was expec-
ting alittle more of a challenge from
Mary Washington.

Running against Norfolk State and
Roanoke at home on Saturday the
Generals will not have to wait long
for a challenge. Roanoke is supposed
to be very tough at this time, Miller
said, and with two of W&L’s’ top run-
ners taking the Law School Admis-
sions Test, the Generals will have to
rise to the occasion.

The W&L harriers have now re-
corded 16 straight victories dating
back to last season. Coach Miller is
very pleased with where the team is
and feels that they are running faster
than last year at this time.

Saturday’s race begins at 11:30
a.m.

| SEERA RATA ES ee IKI IKI IKK KKK KEK IK KKK KA,

WLUR-FM 91.5

goes on the road with Generals’ football

 

KK

Be TORO ROT TORT ROTI OR DOT A tA A A A A A I IK

Se

KKKK

the Generals tried to mount an offen-
sive threat, they seemed to do noth-
ing more than prompt the opponents
to counter-attack.

In the early stages on Thursday, in-
dividual heroics by the W&L defense,
despite injuries to starters Tem
Meyers, John Coll and Mike Drusa-
no, kept the Scots off the scoreboard.
However, one can only rise to so
many occasions, and at 31:26,
the W&L luck ran out. MW forward
Shawn Carson found himself all alone
ust outside the W&L goal area and
launched a rocket that raced by W&L
netminder Chris Gareis.

Santo

In the second half. the Generals’ of-

 

By David Sprunt

fense looked very much like the one
that had tallied nine goals in two
games. The 11-man attack was quick
ly installed and it created some goal-
scoring chances. Unfortunately, this
good fortune didn’t last very long. At
40:34 of the second stanza, MW’s
Chris Peck took advantage of an
overshifted W&L defense and knock-
ed home a beautiful cross for the
game’s second goal.

Trailing 2-0 and unable to assert
themselves offensively, the Generals
continued their frustrated assault on
the MW goal. But to add insult to in-
jury, MW added its third goal on a
penalty kick.

XA

W&L Bookstore

Josten’s

Ring Representative

will be on campus

October 11 - 12

The bookstore will also be open
- 4:00 p.m.
Homecoming Sat., Oct. 12.

9:00 a.m.

sm

  

 

PIZZA

$2 OFF!

SALE:

 

@ Better hurry to your home
town Pizza Hut" restaurant!
It’s not often you save this kind
of money on our fresh, hot
and scrumptious pizza. FB So
come on in. Bring the whole

4

 

  
 

$9 oF

$2. off any large pizza
or $1 off any medium. In-
cludes Pizza Hut® Pan
Pizza! Hurry; offer ex
pires soon. One coupon
per party per visitat
participating Pizza Hut*
restaurants

Please presen spon when ordering Not valid nmbi
cash redempt TYAD Praze Hut Ine tone

fm 6 A te
Eat In, Carry Out Or Delivered

en

nat “ her tte 20ve
vyithrougt

family. QP We'll pile on layers
of pure mozzarella cheese and
all your favorite toppings.
There's no better time to try
our unparalleled Pizza Hut"
Pan Pizza. See you soon!

/
|

a

1
fae ees nad a a Fa

$a

600 EF. Nelson St.
Lexinatan, VA
452-/000

)

10-12-85

kee cameo

EEUU

$

=

  
EBACK PAGE

The Ring-tum Phi, October 3, 1985

 

Willson-Walker fills
needed dining niche

FOODREVIEW

By JAMIE BERGER
and CHRIS KOMOSA
Food Critics

 

 

For the past few years, Lexington
has had a lack of what I would call
‘fine’ restaurants. Although the
Palm’s, Spanky's and the Southern
Inn have always had good food, there
seemed to be a niche to fill. For
tunately, the Willson-Walker House
has come to fill that gap

Nattily dressed, we arrived for our
5:45 p.m. reservation, which had
been made to afford maximum chow
time. All the time management had
spent renovating the place had not
gone to waste. The interior was very
stylish and according to Chris, a vast
improvement over the old White Col
umn Inn that used to be there

We were immediately seated and
then just as quickly attended to by
one of the most polite waiters in Lex
ington. We were given menus, but at
first I was more interested in the
napkin on my plate, it was so com-
plexly arranged I thought it was one
of the senior sculpture projects.
Chris suggested they might be door
prizes, but being the savvy food
critics we are, we eventually put
them on our laps.

All the appetizers sounded good but
the most interesting of the group
were the sauteed frog legs at $3.7
We both knew our public would want
us to try them but the — was
which one of us would take the dare
The only appetizer that did not in
terest me or Chris was the soup de
jour, Pepper and corn chowder may
be wonderful, but we weren't about to
find out. If we ever get a raise, we'll
go back and try it. When the waiter
came to take our order, out of sheer
bravado | the am
phibians while Chris chose the stuff
ed mushrooms

Aside from the sauteed veal liver
(yucky), all the entrees true
blue American in origin. Therefore,
the sophisticated Washington and
Lee gentleman or lady can ‘‘chow
down” (as we sophisticates call it)
and feel patriotic all in one meal
Some of the more interesting dishes
were the roast half duckling, $10.00
pan fried chicken breast, $9.00; broil
ed boneless mountain trout,
and the pan fried crab cakes, $8.75.
Chris decided to order the Lemon
Linguini (all right, so maybe this one
wasn't quite American, but Chris
always was a little iffy), and I decid
ed on the veal chop, Virginia ham
and Gouda cheese because it sounded
so intriguing.

After we ordered we were supplied

volunteered to get

were

$11.25;

vith freshly baked cornbread sticks.
These were absolutely fabulous, but
just to make sure, we ate three
baskets of them throughout the night.
lhe appetizers arrived and were both
very good. The frog legs tasted like
very tender chicken and there was a
nice tangy taste from the sauteeing.
Chris informed me that the mush-
rooms were also excellent.

After the appetizers came our
house salad, which came with the
funky salad dressing of your choice.
Chris picked the honey and bacon
dressing while I got mine with the
cucumber and sour cream dressing.
lhe salads were fine, but I personally
didn’t think there was enough dres-
sing; when I get a funky dressing on
my salad I expect to taste it. Also, for
those of us spoiled by the all-you-can-
gorge-on salad bar at Evan's dining
hall the size of the salad was a little
disappointing. Fortunately I was
able to console myself with a fresh
basket of cornbread sticks.

When the main dish came all was
forgiven. Chris’s linguini was light
and cooked just-right with a delicious
lemon sauce. My dish was a veal
chop, excellent Virginia ham and
plenty of rich Gouda cheese all cook-
ed up inside a light pastry shell. Both
entrees had enough for the biggest of
Mank appetites. Afterwards, we en-

‘Hill Street Blues’ falls short

TVREVIEW

By BILLHANNA
Television Critic

 

 

Network premier week has come to
an end and most every television
show has had its “spectacular”
season starting episode and can now
settle down until next fall.

Most of the returning shows mea-
sured up to expectations, but there
was one that left me disappointed.

I had been waiting for the first
episode of ‘Hill Street Blues’’ to find
out if Hill and Renko would be com-
fortably be riding together again,
what becomes of Furillo’s returning
drinking problem and if Joyce can
deal with her return to the public
defender half of the court.

Instead the show opened with the
night shift roll call. None of the usual
faces were in the room. This episode
was going to show what the charac-
ters did after they got off work.

This might have had some success
except for all the surprises thrown in.

Some of the characters were hav-
ing a drink at a bar and out of no-
where an unknown man gets a knife
in his chest. No explanation is of-
fered.

LaRue and Renko plan a race to
work after they ?oth argue about
which route is faster.

While this is going on, Henry goes
out to stop someone he seemed to
know from disturbing the peace.

WLUR

Continued from Page |

 

 

Washington and Lee radio was
born.

The program was called ‘‘Home
Edition,” and it continued to ride the
WREL and WLUR airwaves for
years tocome.

Working conditions in those days
were a far cry from what the staff of
WLUR enjoys today. ‘‘To get ‘Home
Edition’ on the air,’’ explained Rie-
gel, ‘students had to prepare the
copy in Payne Hall and take it every
night, usually on foot, from Payne
Hall to the WREL studios, which in
the early years were on the second
floor of the First National Bank
building on Main Street.”

A listener survey in 1950 found that
“Home Edition” rated first in radio
listening preference among residents
of Lexington and Rockbridge County
and in 1952 a telephone loop connec-
ting Payne Hall to WREL eliminated
the need for footwork.

By 1962, Riegel reported, the pro
gramming was expanded to two
hours every night over WREL, re
mote from Payne Hall.

In 1964, the move was made into
the newly remodeled Reid Hall, and
by 1966 W&L President Fred Carring-
ton Cole gave the ‘green light’ to
build a radio station.

Riegel wrote that many months of
detailed planning followed, but the
planning came to a happy close at 7
p.m., Feb. 27, 1967, when WLUR sign
ed on the air *

In these early days, WLUR was on

After talking for a minute or so,
Henry is forced into the building and
has explosives attached to him

1 uon t know why Henry was work-
ing while everyone was at the bar,
but he should have chosen the drink
after work instead of a little over
time.

Frank and Joyce aren't left out
either, as they have a dinner engage-
ment with some friends or collea-
gues. This wouldn't have been so bad
except that a new character accuses
her husband, also a new character, of
cheating on her. Frank and Joyce are
saved from her ranting and raving by
a phone call about Henry's capture.

With the reduction of the Hill Street
cast, chances are these dinner com-
panions will not be on the show again
so why even bother with the arguing
couple. Just make it a norma! dinner

We are also introduced to some
other new characters. Belker’s
mother is shown, but dies in her first
appearance on the show.

The character Lucy, played by
Emmy Award winner Betty Thomas,
is also involved in the introduction of
a new character. She meets a man
who operates a kind of pottery studio
and becomes involved in what could
be the start of some kind of weird kiln
love affair.

All these scenes may have given
the show a little more of a nighttime
drama look which could increase rat-
ings, but there is also a lack of reality
which helped to win the show popu-
larity and many Emmy Awards, in
previous years,

among the first group to play rock
music on WLUR. ‘‘They created a
late-night time slot for rock so as to
not scare away any regular listen-
rs,’’ Hinely said.

“We named the show ‘Chunga’s
Revenge’ after a Frank Zappa al
bum,” Hinely said,” and the show
ran 10 to midnight, five nights a
week.”’

In 1975, the radio station made
some technical advances. Tom
Tinsley, director of technical servies
and a 1975 W&L graduate, said it was
during this period that the old 10-watt
transmitter was replaced with a 175
watt transmitter, and the switch was
made from mono sound to stereo
sound

Today, WLUR is designed to serve
two purposes, According to faculty
station manager Robert deMaria.
WLUR’s mission is to train students
in broadcasting and provide alter
native programming for the Lexing
ton and Rockbridge County area

To meet both the educational needs
of the students and the listening
desires of all Rockbridge County

residents, WLUR provides a wide
range of programming
Student station manager Brian

Oliger explained the different pro
grams available to WLUR listeners

The major areas are rock, jazz
classical, bluegrass. folk and blues
music, as well as news, sports and

public affairs programming
ROCK WLUR has three daily
rock shows during the week
some special programs on the week
end, Oliger said
‘Morning Magazine’ plays a wide
variety of light rock that appeals to a
wide number of folks,’ he said. “‘It’s

and

th any luck, the reality people
h come to expect from “Hill
Street Blues” will return in the next
episode

Enough whining for this week.
There are some good shows to talk
about.

A few good movies with ‘‘Deliver-
ance’ on channel 5 at 6 Sunday night.
“The Long Hot Summer’”’ also comes
to NBC Sunday night, starring Cybill
Shephard and Don Johnson.

Specials this week include a 5-
episode tribute to the 25th anniver-
sary of “The Andy Griffith Show’
featuring the favorites of Andy,
Barney, Goober, Gomer and Opie.

And now for the big news for this
week. NBC is holding another profes-
sional wrestling extravaganza Satur-
day night at 11:30.

The matches include Hulk Hogan
defending his World Wrestling Fed-
eration Heavyweight title against
Nikolai Volkoff and Rowdy Roddy
Piper trying to end Paul ‘‘Mr. Won-
derful’’ Orndorff’s wrestling career.
Also shown will be Uncle Elmer’s
wedding and tag-team match featur-
ing Andre the Giant and Tony Atlas
locking up with Big John Studd and
King Kong Bundy. This one will pro-
bably be in stereo no less.

One last thing. Anyone who saw the
first episode of Steven Spielberg’s
‘Amazing Stories” should agree that
a show featuring a train running
through a house when there have
been no rails there for 50 years is not
much fun. Get a grip on at least a
touch of reality, buddy.

“Moving to the afternoons, we
have “The Rock Show.’ During this
time we're trying to get away from
playing the same old cliched songs
over and over again,”’ he said. To
help accommodate this, Oliger said
that afternoon disc jockeys are re-
quired to play half* of their music
from the playlist, which contains
WLUR’s newest albums.

The other daily rock program is
“Third Ear.” Oliger described it as
“eclectic” and said it ‘draws from a
number of different sources’’. He ad-
ded that while ‘‘The Rock Show’’
- on a tune-by-tune basis, “Third

Ear” has more of a flow to it and the
show should be taken as a whole.

Other rock programming includes
Sunday night's “Blast From the
Past,” featuring music of the 50s and
60s

There is also Saturday night’s
‘“‘Anti-Headache Machine,”’ the only
WLUR program that is on year
round. Doug Harwood started the
show as a W&L student in the mid-
70s and has been doing the show on
Saturday nights since then. Oliger
said the show has a strong folk in-
fluence, but added that Harwood
plays everything from Bach to the
Beatles

IAZZ WLUR’s jazz program-
ming includes everything from the
oldest big band sounds like Glenn
Miller to the newest sounds of Pat
Metheny, Oliger said.

Jazz Is A Four-Letter Word’’
highlights a lot of the older music
while ‘Skyline’ features newer
material, including fusion, and on the
weekends a mixture of rock and jazz
is featured on “Horizons.”

CLASSICS “Our classics pro-

 

 

 

 

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi 4

The Willson-Walker House, located at 30 N. Main St., opened in the spring ‘

joyed our tea and waited on our bak-
ed while-u-wait fresh fruit cobblers
for desert. By this time, we were too
stuffed to take notes but I can assure
you that these too were equally
delicious.

Overall, we would recommend the
Willson-Walker House to anyone who

Room 203, Reid Hall.

ty Library.

Lewis Hall. Admission is free.

Lewis Hall.

Hall.

merce School.

 

 

ONCAMPUS

Thursday, October 3
7 p.m. — JOURNALISM FILMS: ‘‘Nanook of the North’ and ‘‘Rain.”’

8 p.m. — SHANNON-CLARK LECTURE IN ENGLISH: ‘‘Arguments
About ‘The Canon’: What Do We Mean By ‘Literature’?’’ Professor
Frank Dermode, Columbia University. Northen Auditorium, Universi-

Friday, October 4
8 p.m. — FILM: “The Night of The Shooting Stars.” In Italian with
English subtitles. Sponsored by the W&L Film Society. Classroom A,

Saturday, October 5
8 p.m. — FILM: ‘The Night of The Shooting Stars.”’ Classroom A,

Monday, October 7
9 p.m.—FOOTBALL: St. Louis Cardinals v. Washington Redskins.
Free popcorn. General Headquarters.

Tuesday, October 8
3:30 p.m. — FILM: “‘Clavigo.”’ InGerman. Room 203, Reid Hall.
7&9 p.m. — JOURNALISM FILM: “The Gold Rush.” Room 203, Reid

Wednesday, October 9
7 p.m. — POLITICS FILM: “‘All the King’s Men.”’ Room 327, Com-

9 p.m.—WEDNESDAY in G.H.Q.: Featuring Spark Plugs. Sponsored
by the Student Activities Board. General Headquarters. Admission is

enjoys a fine meal, great service and
relaxing atmosphere all for a rela-
tively reasonable price. The Willson-
Walker would be especially good for
Parent’s Weekend or for anyone who
like to really impress their dates (I
guess that leaves me and Chris out).
With an excellent meal and equally

 

 

good dinner conversation, Chris and I
both though it worth the fifty dollars
tab. Open Tuesday through Satur-
day, and requiring a reservation, the*
Willson-Walker House is a welcomes
addition to the Lexington restaurant,
scene and we wish it a prosperous’
future. ’

1985 marks .
Film Society’s
8th season:

‘o

The Film Society opens its eighth,
season this weekend with “The Night
of the Shooting Stars,” a 1983 Italian‘
film. ‘

Directed by Paolo and Vittorio Ta-s
viani, ‘““The Night of the Shooting
Stars” is one woman’s recollections’
of the latter days of World War II in*
her village in Tuscany. The woman,
recounts the courageous escape of
the townspeople from avenging Fas-
cist sympathizers as American,
troops draw near. The film is in’
Italian with English subtitles. ’

Showings of “The Night of the«
Shooting Stars” will be Friday and |
Saturday at 8 p.m. in Classroom A of
Lewis Hall. Admission is free. ‘

Other films scheduled for this fall+
are Diane Kury’s ‘Peppermint ,
Soda” (France, 1978), to be shown’
Oct. 25-26, and Ingmar Bergman’s+
“Fanny and Alexander’’ (Sweden,
1983),
films will be announced later. ‘

At7 p.m. before each night’s show- *
ing of ‘‘The Night of the Shooting ,

Stars,”’ the Film Society will host a ©
coffee and cookie reception in the *
Lewis Hall lobby for those interested ,'

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

$2.50. in discussing films and making sug- «&
gestions for future film showings.
\
i
SUNDAY MONDAY-FRIDAY SATURDAY?!
.
MORNING MAGAZINE F
6:30-9 a.m. 2
A.M. A.M. OVERTURE MORNING [+
OVERTURE 9-11:30 MAGAZINE |!
9-Noon PUBLIC AFFAIRS 11:30-Noon 9-Noon .
MERIDIAN REPORT Noon-12:30 <ENE 5 |
HORIZONS GENERALS 7
Naas JAZZ IS A FOUR-LETTER WORD FOOTBALL
Noon-3 ‘
12:30-3 AND
‘
BLUEGRASS see A
THE ROCK SHOW ROCK ‘N :
AND 3-5
OLDTIME ROLL ‘
3-530 EVENING EDITION 5-5:30 .
Noon-6 i
CLASSICAL CLASSICAL SHOWCASE Pt. I ‘
SHOWCASE 5:30-8 SHADES t
5:30-9 OF BLUES |,
: CLASSICAL SHOWCASE Pt. Il 6-9
‘
SPORTSTALK 8-10 ANTI-
——— q
BLAST FROM SKYLINE HEADACHE |,
THE PAST “TAT
10-Midnight 10-Midnight MACHINE |,
THIRD EAR _ THIRD EAR $1 a.m, ’
Midnight-2 a.m. Midnight-2 a.m. ‘
r

in the mornings and ‘Classical Show-
case’ in the evenings. ‘‘These shows
are very popular with the townspeo-
ple and W&L professors as well as
students who study to classics in the
evening,” Oliger said.
BLUEGRASS/FOLK/BLUES —

style, New Urieans rhythm and
blues.

NEWS/SPORTS — ‘‘News is look-
ing the best that it has looked in
years,’’ Oliger said. ‘‘We've got a lot
of freshmen involved in news — in
fact, more than any other depart-

 

 

 

' ’
Wii ' Web

football games and also will be

presenting ‘‘Sportstalk’’ on Sunday *

night,
Besides the additions to the broad-

cast schedule, WLUR will be picking *

up some addtional power output.

to be shown Dec. 6-7. Other’.

 

 

 

 

i

|

 

four hours a day, with just classical music that’s easy to get up to and ming has been dramatically ex- “The old-time folk and bluegrass are ment.” Plans are under way now to increase
music and news. In fact, it was not — easy to deal with panded this year,’ Oliger said. very popular here and it’s a shame WLUR has two half-hour news from the 100 watts of output to about '
until the 1970-71 school year that Oliger said that these are the most ‘Classical programs are our highest- we don’t have time to schedule shows and updates at 2:55 and 7:55. 450 watts. According to Tinsley the
WLUR had its first sanctioned rock personality related shows of the en- rated shows and it’s the kind of pro- _more,’’ Oliger said. On Sunday you ‘‘We try to provide everybody in Lex- power increase won't let the atin
programming tiie day and add ne sports and gramming we get the most feedback —_can catch “Bluegrass and Oldtime”’ ington with the national headlines as reach Roanoke, but it will make the *

University Photographer Patrick features along with musical pre- on and Saturday you can tune in for  wellas the local news,” Oliger said. signal stronger in the Lexington
Hinely. a 1973 W&L graduate. was gramming WLUR features ‘A.M. Overture’ “Shades of Blues’’ featuring old- In sports, Oliger noted that WLUR Rockbridge vicinity

'

 

tn ee a + en nl NN sink nian eotintearsmintseetbt tt Oraceabete ae

'
a é w

*

-

*

 

 

 

 

 

 

Sports

Gridders sting

Yellowjackets
Page 9

 

Ouch!

ROTC holds

 

Bloodmobile title
Page 8

 

 

Your Homecoming weather

 

 

Che King-tum Phi

VOLUME 85, NUMBER 5 WASHI

NGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Cloudy tomorrow, chance
of showers Saturday, Sunday

 

OCTOBER 10, 1985

 

 

Generai
Notes

 

 

Frameup?

On Tuesday, Oct. 1, someone
removed a limited edition water
polo poster, given by the Aquatics
Program, from the wall in the
GHQ Tavern. If this poster is
returned by Saturday, Oct. 12, no
questions will be asked. Food Ser-
vice Director Jerry Darrell says
that if the poster is not returned,
appropriate action will be taken to
learn the identity of the person
responsible and the necessary
disciplinary action will be taken.

Arachnids

A biology film presentation of
“Spiders and Their Webs’’ will be
shown today at 5 p.m. in Parmly
Hall, Room 305. The film will be
followed by a 10-minute discussion
led by Professor L.R. Emmons.
Refreshments sponsored by the
Washington and Lee Biology
Forum, will be available at 4:45
p.m.

Parking info

Buildings and Grounds asks all
students attending the Romantics
concert to enter the pavilion area
from Route 60 by way of Liberty
Hall and park in the grass fields.
When the concert is over, please
exit via the Woods Creek road.

SR-C and SRO

Sophie Roper-Curzon, the re-
cent winner of the British Piano
Makers’ trophy for the outstan-
ding young pianist in Great Bri-
tian, will make her American
debut in a concert at Lee Chapel
at8 p.m. on Oct. 17.

United effort

The second annual United Way
Concert, organized by the Delta
Tau Delta fraternity, will be held
in the General Headquarters
Tavern on Friday, Oct. 25 at &
p.m. The concert, featuring sever-
al Washington and Lee graduates;
will include music by Tim Eddy,
Wildgrass, Heinsohn and Day,
Rooster Ruley and the New Grass
Connection, and the Stains. There
is a $3 cover charge. All the musi-
cians are donating their time, so
all proceeds will go to the local
United Way Chapter.

Two for Who’s Who

Anyone who wishes to nominate
a member of the current under-
graduate senior class for selection
to ‘‘Who’s Who Among Students in
American Colleges and Univer-
sities’ may do so by submittin
the name and qualifications o:
that student to the Office of the
Dean of Students in Payne Hall,
Room 6, by Oct. 14.

Criteria for selection to ‘‘Who’s
Who”’ include scholarship, par-
ticipation and leadership in
academic and extracurricular ac-
tivities, citizenship and service to
Washington and Lee, and poten-
tial for future achievement.

The invisible hand

All Students are invited to the
introductory meeting of the
Association of Collegiate En-
trepreneurs of Washington and
Lee Monday at 7:30 p.m. in the
Commerce School, Room 321.

Smile now, please

Any seniors who have not made
an appointment for a Calyx photo,
please sign up in the Co-op. Pic-
tures will be taken Oct. 14 through
Oct. 25

Freshman elections

Freshman elections will be held
Monday from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. in
Graham-Lees quad and Davis
quad.

General info

“General Notes” are run as a
public service by The Ring-tum
Phi. To publicize your non-profit
organization’s event, fill out a
“General Notes” request form
and return it to the Ring-tum Phi
mailbox, upstairs in the Universi-
ty Center, by 1 p.m, Tuesday of
the week it is to be run. Forms are
available in Carol Calkins’ office
(Carole Chappell’s old office) in
the University Center,

 

 

By CHRISTOPHER DEIGHAN
News Editor

 

When he becomes associate dean of
the college next fall, Thomas Wil-
liams will spend less time in the
classroom — and that will be the
least attractive part of his new job,
the associate professor of physics
said Tuesday.

What is most attractive, Williams
said, is the chance to work closely
with some ‘‘very impressive ad-
ministrators,’ President John D.
Wilson and Dean of the College John
W. Elrod.

On July 1, Williams will assume the
title now held by Pamela H. Simpson,
who will return to teaching art

ABC planning
a spot-check

By MIKE ALLEN
Executive Editor

 

 

An Alcohol Beverage Control
board agent plans to spot-check
Saturday’s pre-game Homecom-
ing party for ‘‘blatant” liquor law
violations, a University official
said.

Sponsored by the Alumni Assoc-
iation, the ‘“‘Pre-Game Warmup”’
will be on New Alumni Field from
11:15 a.m. to 1:15 p.m.

“Pm coming,’ ’’ Food Service
Director Gerald F. Darrell quoted
an ABC agent as saying by tele-
phone this week. ‘‘ ‘I will be there
or one of my agents will be
there.’ ”’

Joseph R. Hall, assistant spec-
ial agent in charge of the 17-coun-
ty ABC district that includes Lex-
ington, said he was unable to con-
firm the report.

“We don’t normally notify peo-
ple that we’re going to check on
them, if we’re going to do it,’”’ Hall
said.

Hall said the banquet license is-
sued for Saturday’s event states
that only beer may be sold and
that no other alcoholic beverages
may be brought onto the field. “In
other words, no brown bagging,”’
he said.

Darrell said the school will sell
Miller and Miller Lite beer for $1 a
can and that the age of purchasers
will be checked.

“T think he’s trying to make it
work for us,’’ Darrell said of the
ABC official. ‘‘I don’t think they
want to find anything, but they’re
not going to turn their heads,
either.’’

“They've been very fair,’’ he
continued. ‘‘What they’re looking
for is blatant violations of the
law,’ such as bottles of hard li
quor or beer being purchased for

 

 

underage students

      

Take a number

About 50 freshmen packed the Executve Committee Council representa
room in the University Center Monday night for a meet-
ing of candidates for freshman class offices. A total of 49
freshmen are running for four positions: EC representa-
tive, class president and vice president, and University held Thursday.

Williams to succeed Simpson

history full time.

Williams, who said he enjoys work-
ing in the classroom, will continue to
teach one physics course each term.

Williams said the responsibilities
he takes on for three years will be dif-
ferent from those Simpson has. ‘I
think there will be some shifting of
duties,” he said.

For example, students who want to
transfer credits from other schools
next fall probably will deal with Scott
Dittman, who became University
registrar in August. The associate
dean nowhandles such request, '
Williams said, but Dittman has ex-
perience with the procedures and will
most likely begin handling them.

Williams said the University’s two
new assistant deans, Anece McCloud

 

Freshmen David Grove, Dale Haines and Mike Me-
Clung (left to right) work on a hall’s banner for Satur-

Inside...

~Photographs of the candidates
Homecoming Queen plus brief profil
each by Jim Strader. Page 6.

yw The 1986 Honda Civic that will be ra

beginning this weekend. Tickets for the d

Page 7.
best-decorated bedsheet at Saturday's

Alumni Association. Page 7.
~The “Five-Star Generals’ in town

Page 7.
~A preview of the Romanitics’ “

Our critic finds Romantics’ latest al

 

off at January’s Superdance will be on display

~ The freshman dormitories are gearing up
for a contest to see what hall can display the

ball game. The prize: Domino’s Pizza on the
weekend don’t have anything to do with the

Virginia Military Institute — they belong to
Washington and Lee and have for a long time.

powered rock-and-roll show” in the Student
Activities Pavilion tomorrow night. Page 11.

‘Rhythm Romance,” has neither. Page 11.

 

 

By David Sprunt

tive. The 49 — 13 of whom are women

— represent about double the amount that ran last year,
according to Voting Regulations Board Chairman John
Scannapieco. Elections are Monday and run-offs will be

and Anne Schroer, might also take
over part of Simpson’s responsibili-
ties.

Shifting duties will leave time for
Williams to focus on other projects,
“The job wiil evolve...and build itself
in a certain way while I’m there,” he
said.

In particular, Williams said he will
begin securing grants for faculty
development from national institu-
tions. Professors will have access to
these funds for research that ad-
ministrators approve.

Counseling students interested in
Fulbright Scholarships, Rhodes
Scholarships and similar programs
is also the responsibility of the

OSee Dean, Page 8

NCAA proposal

could decide
Wa&L lax status

 

By MIKE STACHURA
Sports Editor

 

The perennial question of whether
Washington and Lee lacrosse should
drop from Division I to Division III
may become moot if an NCAA propo-
sal to prohibit institutions from com-
peting in more than one division is
adopted.

The legislation, which faces a pre-
liminary hurdle Tuesday and could
be passed as soon as January, would
force W&L and all other National Col-
legiate Athletic Association member
institutions to commit across-the-
board to one division by September
1989.

Under present rules, a school com-
petes in one of three divisions, but
also may play in a higher or lower
division in one sport.

W&L Athletic Director William D.
McHenry said that if the proposal is
adopted by the NCAA, W&L ‘“‘would
look to develop a Division III pro-
gram as quickly as possible.’’ The
normal yearly evaluation of the pro-
gram would remain if the resolution
is not adopted, he said.

McHenry Said he has already re-
ceived several letters from college
presidents urging his support in the
upcoming debate.

“There is a lot of opposition,” he
said. ‘Personally, it would probably
be the best for us.”’

Under its Division III philosopy,
W&L offers no athletic scholarships
in any sport, but its lacrosse team
still chooses to compete in Division I,
where scholarships are allowed.

Three consecutive losing lacrosse
seasons have kept alive the debate
over whether W&L is out of its league
by competing in Division I.

The proposed legislation was tenta-
tively sponsored in August by the
NCAA Council, a 44-member rule-
making body that reviews proposals
for consideration by the full member-
ship at its annual January conven-
tion.

The Council will review its entire
agenda of sponsored legislation dur-
ing meetings next week in New
Orleans, according to Division III
Steering Committee Vice President
Elizabeth Kruczek, a member of the
Council and the NCAA Administra-
tive Committee, which brought the
a to the attention of the Coun-
cil.

“Nothing is in cement until the Oct-
ober Council meeting,’ Krucek said
adding that arguments are being
made on both sides of the proposal.

See Lax, Page 4

Correction

The cumulative amount of

deficit spending by student
organizations last year was mis-
stated in last week’s issue of The
Ring-tum Phi. The Student Activi-
ties Board and five other organi-

zations overspent their budgets by
more than $14,000, but a combina-
tion of Executive Committee
reserve funds and surpluses by
other groups limited the overall
shortfall to $2,365.

 

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

day’s Homecoming football game. All the freshman
halls compete for a $75 pizza feast. See story, Page 7.

 

Homecoming lineup

for TOMORROW

es of

4:15 p.m. The John Randoph Tucker Lecture by Robert B. Stevens,
president of Haverford College, at Lewis Hall.

ffled 5 p.m. Concert by acoustic guitarists Eric Heinsohn ('84) and Roger

Day (85) on the lawn in front of Lee Chapel, sponsored by the Minority

raw- | Student Association. In case of rain, will be held in General Head-

ing will go on sale at the Homecoming game. quarters.

9 p.m. Student Activities Board Concert, Picture This and the
Romantics, at the Student Activities Pavilion. Tickets $8 each

foot- SATURDAY

9:30 a.m. The Lee Chapel bells toll 19 times in recognition of the

this | 115th anniversary of Robert E. Lee’s death.

high- | Field.

bum, Pavilion

 

10:30 a.m. Student concert in Lee Chapel: Rob Vienneau (’87),
piano; David Andrews (’87), violin; William Runzer (’89), clarinet;
Bruin Richardson (87), baritone; Cathleen Tiernan (’89), soprano

11:30 a.m, Cross country meet against Catholic University. Wilson

11:30 a.m, to 1:15 p.m. Pre-game party with Dixieland band ‘‘Easy
Listening.’’ New Alumni Field. In case of rain, in Student Activities

1:30 p.m, Football game against Maryville College. Wilson Field

Homecoming: Pre-game, mid-game and more

19 in running
for ’85 crown

By JIM STRADER
News Editor

 

 

Each autumn one woman comes
to Lexington on a certain Satur-
day afternoon and leaves with the
glory of the crown and. the title
that accompanies her selé&tien as
Homecoming Queen. \

This fall, 17 candidates Will
come to Lexington the same as
always, but two will already be
here — they are registered as
Washington and Lee students, one
a freshman, the other an ex-
change student.

One of the candidates has
graduated from college, four are
seniors, five are juniors. There
are six sophomores and _ three
freshmen. Hollins leads the way
among area women’s colleges
with eight students as candidates,
Sweet Briar is next with four
followed by Randolph-Macon
Woman's with two. Mary Bald
win, Wake Forest, and Tidewater
Community College each have one
candidate entered

The competition for the crown
will be conducted in the same
manner as it has been in the past
— a five-member panel will inte:
view the women on a variety of
topics

The panel members are Pro
fessor B.S. Stephenson, chairman,
Carole K. Chappell, M. Kirkland
Follo, Agnes K. Gilmore, and Pro
fessor Edward B. Hamer. They
will meet tomorrow afternoon in
the Student Center for about three
hours to question the candidates

The questions will range from
academics to each _ potential
queen’s background, said Chap
pell. The answers themselves are
not as important, she said, as are
things such as the candidate’s
poise in answering, her sensitivity
and intelligence

 

 

L- neeses coca erties entices
OPINION
SAB & GHQ

At Monday night’s Executive Committee meeting, Jerry
Darrell, food services director, asked for help. Not just a lit-
tle help, but a matter of life and death for one of the campus’s
main attractions — the GHQ (formerly Cockpit) Tavern.
Specifically, he asked the EC to do whatever it could to urge
the Student Activities Board to sponsor bands more frequent-
ly in the GHQ. But along with his plea for assistance came a
bleak prediction of things to come.

Darrell’s case is well-reasoned. The GHQ has fallen on
hard times in recent years. While it once was the “happy”
place on campus where every hour seemed to be a “‘happy
hour,”’ the changes in drinking laws have put a damper on the
festive spirit. Highly profitable alcohol sales no longer ac-
count for as great a percentage of the tavern’s revenues as
they once did. Few freshmen can drink this year, and next
year, no freshmen will be able to consume alcohol at the GHQ
without running the risk of the GHQ losing its license.

With the decrease in overall revenue from the sale of beer,
the tavern has had to emphasize and upgrade its restaurant
atmosphere. Its menus — both lunch and dinner — have un-
dergone drastic changes, and just this past week the GHQ in-
stituted its contract dinner plan allowing students to eat
there instead of in the Dining Hall. Judging by the first
night’s crowd taking advantage of the plan, it should prove
profitable.

But the concern Darrell addressed to the EC went further
than the changes so far in the GHQ. He predicted that the
Alcohol Beverage Control Board would be enforcing drinking
rules more strictly this year, especially during the GHQ’s
heaviest traffic time Wednesday nights, when a live band is
featured and students are ‘‘packed and stacked’ into the
small tavern area. The fire chief, concerned with overcrowd-
ing, has asked that the number of students allowed into the
GHQ on Wednesday nights be lowered. The bottom line ac-
cording to Darrell: With fewer students on Wednesday nights
at the GHQ and with even fewer of the students entering be-
ing able to drink, prospects for profitability look bleak. His
solution: ask the SAB to sponsor bands on Friday or Saturday
nights once or twice a month and help the GHQ while also
providing entertainment for the student body. As Darrell
commented, “‘The GH@Q is no longer a one-night-a-week bar.”’

But Darrell’s appearance at the meeting Monday evening
also raised another point that must be addressed. Despite in-
creased enforcement by ABC officials of the drinking laws,
more and more students — especially freshmen — are going
to fraternity parties to get their alcohol — free alcohol, since
most fraternities do not check their identifications to ensure

compliance with drinking laws. Thus, they are not drinking .

at the GHQ, where IDs are checked and beers cost money.
This problem, Darrell warned, might mean the closing of the
GHQ.

Several steps need to be taken. First, the interfraternity
Council and its adviser need to clamp down on fraternity
checking of IDs. As the ABC steps up its efforts to discover
violations, fraternities will come under closer scrutiny.
Secondly, the SAB ought to get together with Darrell and the
GHQ management to sponor more entertainment. The GHQ
is too much a part of the campus to let it slip away without a
struggle.

All or something?

It is one of those situations everyone dreads — all or
nothing. Unfortunately, some student groups are getting
nothing, and it is hurting the school as well as the individuals
involved.

The controversy centers around the requests for student
body funding by four athletic clubs — the Fencing, Rugby,
Ice Hockey, and Ski clubs. The Executive Committee, in
handing down its budget allotments, asked the groups to ap-
proach the Athletic Department for additional funding or
support in the form of old uniforms, equipment, practice
areas or money. Athletic Director William McHenry has
been helpful in providing support in the past, but his hands
are tied in the extent of that aid by a curious rule granting full
aid (i.e., the club becomes a varsity sport with a coach
and regular practices) or nothing (no shirts, no equipment).

The problem the rule creates is obvious. Many clubs face
great expenses in their schedules. Referees need to be paid;
uniforms need to be acquired; equipment must be bought.
Clubs can and do raise some funds on their own. Some re-
quire dues to cover fixed costs for the clubs, and some, like
all of the athletic teams, hold fundraising events. But the ex-
penses cannot be met all the way around despite the effort.

Therein lies the rub. Students who have taken the initiative
to form a group, create a schedule with other area clubs or
teams cannot complete their plans because the school cannot
back them. Because the team is not a recognized athletic or-
ganization, it cannot be covered by school insurance, coach-
ed by a school-paid coach, or given school equipment. In the
long run, that means fewer people will hear of the school.

The current ‘‘all or nothing’’ rule needs examination. It
stands out as an unnecessary obstacle for campus organiza-
tions that need some help but who cannot, for mostly finan-
cial reasons, stand on their own. It is the University that is
hurt by the rule — at the expense of students’ talents going
unnoticed and even wasted. The University Athletic Commit-
tee, in setting its agenda for this year, must consider this rule
pall hurts the school and students too much to go un-
noticed.

Correction

An author of ‘‘A Valediction:
Forbidding learning’ on last
week’s Opinion page was

misidentified. The writers were
Scott Henderson and Mike
McAlevey.

 

The Ring-tum Phi, October 10, 1985

 

 

 

 

4

*

s+ >-_*

 

 

 

Yet another view on coeducation

 

MY VIEW
By Maureen Murphy

 

Now that we are settling into our
second month here in Beautiful Lex-
ington, getting into the grind of

 

MY VIEW

By Tom Maguire

 

Two weeks ago I picked up a
copy of The Ring-tum Phi, eagerly
looking forward to a column (that
I had written) on the editorial
page. Alas, my ego was not to
receive the boost I had thought it
would. Instead, my eye was ar-
rested by a letter to the editor by
James D. Crutchfield, a second-
year law student.

Crutchfield’s letter was on a
subject important to us all
— namely, the Honor System. He
theorized that the Honor System
was being choked by a set of rules
imposed by the faculty on the Stu-
dent Control Committee. How-
ever, Crutchfield said, we stu-
dents had brought these rules
down on ourselves, thanks to our
continuing toleration of behavior
clearly contrary to the Honor
Code.

I was disturbed by Crutchfield’s
statements, and at first I thought
he must surely be wrong. The
more I ponder his ideas, though,
the more I become convinced that
he is absolutely correct. The
Honor System is dying, and we
are doing nothing to prolong its
life.

We all know of dishonorable
things done on this campus that,
for one reason or another, were
never reported. No honor system
can hope to root out all offenses
that may occur. However, our
Honor System has come to be
plagued by cases where large
groups of people, such as frater-
nities, will fully violate the Honor
System and excuse their behavior
with the oft-heard expression,
“Boys will be boys.’’ I know of
several examples of this kind of
behavior, but the most telling
occurred three years ago, when I
was but a freshman.

As part of a fraternity scaven-
ger hunt, a pledge drove to Wash-
ington and stole one of the fifty
flags flying around the Washing-
ion Monument, When he recut ucu
to Lexington, with purloined Old
Glory in hand, he was treated as
the Man of the Hour.

If our Honor System were a tru-
ly healthy one, this student would
not have been encouraged to com-
mit such a crime, and other stu-

 

academics (or avoiding it, as the
case may be), I, too, join the ranks of
those who feel compelled to analyze

our somewhat unique situation.

In my opinion, coeducation is going
rather well. Not perfectly, but rather
well. One of the problems around
here is that no one is willing to admit
that things are not perfect. The facul-
ty and staff have gone to great ex-

 

Honor System:
Rest in peace?

dents would not have cheered the
carrying out of this fraternity mis-
sion.

This incident is representative
of the kind of behavior that has
prompted the faculty and the SCC
to promulgate all the new rules.
After all, if we can no longer be
trusted to behave properly on our
own, somebody must do it for us.

Apparently, then, our Honor
System is on its deathbed. But
there is still a short period of time
left in which we can save it. All we
have to dois reform. If our behav-
ior on weekends is no longer like
that of demented 15-year-olds
downing their first six-packs; if
instances of theft and other misbe-
havior are reduced; if we take the
convicted among us, whether 4.0
students or star football players,
and throw them the hell out of
here so that they no longer dishon-
or us or this institution by their
presence, we just might convince
the faculty that we are capable of
acting like gentlemen and
gentlewomen after all.

It is said that the danger of a
permissive society is that people
will keep pushing the limits of
behavior, wanting ever more free-
dom, until the liberty they have
enjoyed is snatched away before
their very eyes. I think we are in
that position right now.

We have long had the freedom
to make our own rules and behave
as we pleased within the bounds of
the only stricture placed upon us:
that we would act like gentlemen.
Now, we live under a set of rules
just like those of any other
college. In other words, we have
lost the freedom that made us ex-
ceptional amongst universities.

Crutchfield’s letter made me

angry that we could all have been ,

so blind and so insensitive that we
could not see where the Honor
System might end up. At last I
was jolted out of the apathy with
which I have long observed dis-
cussions about the Honor System.
For this I thank him.

Crutchfield laid out the pro-
blems besetting our Honor System
far more eloquently than I. How-
ever, perhaps this repetition of the
dangers can force some people to
face facts: The Honor System is
almost gone, and we must act now
or see it die. A tine iegacy for
future classes that would be.

Given our past failures, our past
apathy, and our past behavior
you will forgive me if I hold out
very little hope for recovery.
R.LP.

 

tremes to see that coeducation is in-
stituted as perfectly as possible, and
we are both appreciative and grate-
ful. At the same time, we are being
given an enormous role to fill: the
perfectly happy, well-adjusted first
year coed. Not much to ask for, is it?
I wonder.

In general, coeducation is a tre-
mendous success, but the pressure to
be perfectly coed keeps us from open-
ly voicing those problems (large or
small) that we do encounter. We are
wary of upsetting our One-Big-
Happy-Coed-Family appearance. I
will use for example the problem con-
cerning the women’s bathrooms in G-
L dorms on weekends. Or more
specifically, the problem concerning
the use of these bathrooms by per-
sons from neighboring girl’s schools.
The main controversy arises over the
use of the showers, the “‘borrowing”
of soap and shampoo, and the length
of time these girls spend in front of
the mirrors, trying to beautify
themselves.

Now, to some people (especially
those of the male persuasion) this
may seem a petty complaint. Indeed,
if this is a major problem, we are do-
ing particularly well. When mention-
ed in mixed company, the common
response is, ‘‘Aw, poor babies, can’t
take a few more girls in your bath-
room?’’ OK, I realize that road-trip-
ping in for the weekend is one of
many long-standing traditions at this

fine institution, and yes, we can take

have to take it! These girls are not our
weekend guests — we are under no
social obligation to them. I have been
nothing less than polite to them, in
spite of their attitudes towards us,
but I don’t feel that I should have to
wait twenty minutes to take a shower
because these girls are helping them-
selves to our facilities.

So I will break this new tradition
and admit that things are not perfect
in my floor’s bathroom on weekends.
As a rent paying resident of Graham-
Lees dorm, I feel that we have the
right to be possessive about our
bathrooms and we should be able to
shower at our convenience, not a
weekend guest’s.

It may seem a small problem, but I
have heard the same complaint
among others and I am wondering
what can be done about it. It seemed
to annoy enough people to spark in-
terest of a Ring-tum Phi reporter as a
possible story, but when investi-
gated, no one was willing to be quoted
— again, the fear of not being the
perfectly content coed.

I think that we are doing a wonder-
ful job as the first coed class, break-
ing new ground and all that, but let’s
please be realistic and acknowledge
our problems and deal with them di-
rectly instead of denying their exis-
tence.

Burying tradition, social life
not reasons for coeducation

To the Editors:

I think that I speak for almost all of
Washington and Lee’s freshman
women when I say that we have been
very fortunate to receive a warm
welcome here at W&L. We are happy
to be here and we are beginning to
learn of the love that so many upper-
classmen have for this institution.
However, I would like to point out
that the 107 of us that are here did not
decide for Washington and Lee to go
coed; that decision was made by the
Board of Trustees. We did not hound
the administration into letting us
come; we applied and we were ac-
cepted.

Unfortunately, since our arrival,
there have been incidents to remind
us that we are not welcome by all. I
am not complaining; people, stu-
dents and faculty alike have bent
over backwards to help us and we are

the student body that we women have
come here to attend one of the na-
tion’s finest universities. We did not
come here solely because of the
men/women ratio. Surely you would
agree that W&L has more to offer
than that. Nor have we arrived witha
desire to smash tradition. Granted,
our mere presence marks the end of
a tradition, but we are not trying to
make this university into something
it is not. If it is your wish that the
time-honored traditions of the Uni-
versity be cherished, then share
them with the freshmen. We are
eager to learn about W&L, to feel a
part of this special place that you
take so much pride in.

Lastly, I thank you for all the sup-
port you have given this freshman
class in its first few weeks on cam-
pus.

‘ , Jennifer Bray
grateful. I only wish to gently remind Class of ’89
2 *
Che Ring-tum Phi
Beets ONE soos ks se se ectcic, Mike Allen
TI on ini cert Neh ese Cee cts t cesses eset estetiesiiiaccedics Paul Foutch
Cotton Puryear
Managing Editor ..........cccccccccsscccceesecsesesssssssesssases Reade Williams
Sports HAMOP ... 6. ccs cccccerseeccececcecesseescescncscseestevecsece Mike Stachura
Editorial Page Editor .........:.ccecrsescevescececssessssccseeees Nelson Patterson
News Editors 0... cccccsecscrrsrcccesececcereceeeeeesesessecs Christopher Deighan
Jim Strader

CRPIBIIIEE. oes cece sete g hehe cect edeivesesctssestecccscccsccce Chris Bowring

SAPO CCN UE CUES eS SLETS Ce sete tee es eeseeaseecssscc., Jeff Kimbeli
OOP C ee er eee eee ee ee eer eee eseetestiesesee, 4 Hank Greenberg

DEERADR PROT URES IE CTLES 1 8808 eri sy 55 ee Keri Hinrichs
Matt Coudert

John Feyrer

Jay Reville

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia, Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business man, but n Phi
is otherwise independent. ——

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The R

are wr
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they Se me

are to be run. This newspaper

 

 

observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

 

4

5

*

it, but my point is that we shouldn’t ,

¢

&

«
&
4

%
4

«
t

r

‘
e
a
°
oi
,
4

t

 

 

iT = -@

* 42 rR FF’ Of

~_ = ™ TP

i ei ee eile

 

 
 

   
  

 

   

 

BY JASON LISI
Staff Reporter

‘he Student Activities Board was
aWarded $44,000 of the student body
bytiget Thursday night, as the Ex-
ecttive Committee gave out nearly
$i%}0,000 while slashing the budget re-
qésts of several athletic clubs.

‘The EC’s report on budget deci-
sitns said the Fencing Team, Rugby
Ciaib, Ski Club and Hockey Club
regeived lower allotments ‘‘because
“e EC intends to approach the
A@letic Department and insist they
pigk up the difference.” But in Mon-
day night’s meeting, the EC reported
théit the Athletic Department can on-
ly give money to varsity teams.

UC ‘need’
in review,
dean says

 

Ry SYDNEY MARTHINSON
Staff Reporter

 

»Dean of Students Lewis G. John
said this week that the ‘“‘need”’ for the
University Council will be reviewed.

sThe council’s power is only to
review and to make recommenda-
tions to the faculty. Last year, the
council served as a ‘‘sounding
board”’ for opinions and ideas for the
change to coeducation, he said.

sAlso, in the past, the council set up
the fundamental rules for student
discipline. This year, however, the
faculty has taken back the ultimate
authority of discipline, although the
Student Control Committee handles
‘dividual rulings.

One duty that is still in the Coun-
cil’s hands is the awarding of the Pin-
ney Prize, an annual undergraduate
scholarship.

At the UC’s first meeting Thurs-
day, John and senior representative
David Sprunt were elected co-chair-
men of the council. The council also
voted to support the faculty’s propo-
sql for next year’s academic calen-
dar

‘The newly-elected chairs of the
equneil, which serves as a forum
among the administrators, the facul-
ty and students, will share the posi-
tion by alternating months.

The proposed calendar was de-
seribed by Dean of the Commerce
School Edward C. Atwood Jr. as
having “no significant changes”
from this year’s. The only difference
is, that classes will begin one day
earlier in September.

*That will move the final day of fall
term exams from Dec. 20 to Dec. 19.

‘Politics Professor Craig W. Mc-
Caughrin, a faculty representative
made a counter-proposal suggesting
that classes begin two weeks earlier
with exams beginning the Monday
following Thanksgiving. That way,
he said, ‘Thanksgiving could serve
ata reading period.”

John pointed out that would mean
12 straight weeks of classes.

‘The University Handbook says the
Ug’s purpose is to give students an
involvement in the governmental
pfocess of the University and to deal
with matters concerning student af-
fairs,

‘The committee has five adminis-
tration representatives, nine faculty
representatives, and twelve student
répresentatives.

.
*

+

The EC’s attempt to find another
source of funds for athletic clubs was
sparked by a tight budget and re-
quests for about $50,000 more than
was available. Besides the SAB’s
$44,000, the other student organiza-
tions received the following:

eThe Ring-tum Phi, $15,000.

¢The Calyx, $12,000.

«Contact, $8,000.

eThe W&L Political Review, $2,400.

eThe Ariel, $2,400.

eThe Mock Convention, $200.

¢The Independent Union, $500.

eThe Minority Student Association,
$800.

*The Film Society, $1,000.

eThe Fencing Team, $500.

eThe International Club, $800.

 

The Rugby Club, $800.

eThe Ski Club, $400.

*The Hockey Club, $400.

eThe Journal of Science, $800.

*The EC’s Reserve and Expenses,
$9,605.

These amounts must be voted on
again at Monday’s EC meeting
before they become final.

The EC explained to Senior Mike
Berg, a representative from the
Fencing Team, that his group’s re-
quest of $1,500 was reduced to $500
because the EC had planned to ask
that the Athletic Department help
pay the athletic clubs’ costs.

Vice President Andrew Caruthers -

said Athletic Director William Mc-
Henry told the EC that his depart-

 

 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, October 10, 1985

ment must abide by an ‘‘all or noth-
ing’ policy regarding the funding of
athletic clubs.

That policy — which says a club
must be a full varsity sport with total
funding or receive no funding at all
— ensures that the Athletic Depart-
ment’s insurance protects the team
from liability.

Caruthers told Berg that the stu-
dent organizations that had the
highest allotments were the ones that
affected the most people.

He said the SAB, The Ring-tum Phi
and the Calyx — the three groups
receiving the most money — reached
almost every student at some point
during the year. A group like the

Megabytes

New computer provides more memory

 

By Eric Obeck/The Ring-tum Phi

Freshman Tracy Williams works at a terminal on the new system in Tucker Hall

C asks athletic department for club help

Fencing Team, on the other hand,
would include 15 to 20 students at the
most.

Sophomore Representative Pat
Schaefer mentioned that some
teams, like lacrosse, sold hot dogs as
a way to produce more revenue.

The EC reported that the Athletic
Department made an offer to all of
the clubs to become varsity teams
and therefore receive total funding
pending a vote by each of the teams.

Berg said the team might vote to
become a varsity sport.

Second-year law Representative
Joel Johnston furthered the senti-
ments of the EC by saying that the
existence of these athletic clubs is

 

By HOLLY WILLIAMS
Staff Reporter

 

Washington and Lee replaced its
computer system over the summer
with a $350,000 system that has 16
times more memory than the old

system.

The new Prime 9955 replaces the
old Harris H100, which Ruth Floyd of
the Computer Center called ‘‘ob-
solete.”’

The University had ‘essentially
outgrown the size and capacity” of
the old system, Floyd said this week.

The $350,000 price tag represents
all the hardware and software pur-
chased for the new system, but more
may be added because the system is
still in the ‘experimental and devel-
opmental stages of use by the facul-
ye

Floyd stressed that the new system
is “strictly for academic use, for
classroom use and academic resear-
ch.”’

The French Department is one of
the first academic departments to
take advantage of the new system.

“We're very excited about it,” said
Language Professor Russell Knud-
son. He and instructor Kathy Jo Ko-
berstein developed a totally inte-
grated computer program now used

 

proof that there is an athletic need
that is not being met by the Athletic
Department and therefore these
clubs should receive funding from
that department.

In other EC action, Food Service
Director Jerry Darrell asked the EC
to recommend that the SAB sponsor
more entertainment in the General
Headquarters tavern as a way of
stimulating more business for the fi-
nancially struggling tavern.

“We're going to fail down there if
we don’t get some help,” Darrell said
this Monday.

The EC responded that it would
talk to the SAB with the intention of
recommending Darrell’s request.

 

by the intermediate French class.

“We designed the exercises as a
sort of reinforcement of classroom
activities, but we’re finding that it’s a
good learning tool also.”

He credits the new programs with
changing his students’ attitudes
toward classes: ‘‘It’s fun for me to
walk in because they know that we’re
going to do something creatively,” he
said.

“There’s a difference between
communicating and acquiring skills
to communicate. The new system
gives the student the opportunity to
develop his own study habits and it
frees up class time so we can use the
language creatively.”

Knudson said he hopes to be able to
expand the program so that quizzes
can be done in the computer room on
the students’ own time.

“‘We’re making study time infinite-
ly more efficient,’’ Knudson said.

The system is also helping students
more directly. Senior Chris Lion took
advantage of the system this sum-
mer.

“IT worked a lot with politics
utilities research,”’ he said. I unders-
tand that the new system is much
better than the old configuration.”

Another student user said, “It’s
better, it’s quicker, but it takes a lit-
tle more effort’’ to learn.

 

By Eric Obeck/The Ring-tum Phi

Student operator Rob Brown works in the Computer Center

 

 

 

 

NEWS BRIEFS

Student committee appointments almost at end for EC

 

 

" Staff reports

» The Executive Committee has nearly finished mak-
ing student appointments to various student/faculty
‘committees.

Applications are being accepted in the EC room until
"Monday for membership on the Drug and Alcohol Edu-
‘cation Committee and for student representative to the

Faculty Executive Committee,

Most of the committees are created by the University

+administration, and the student body government fills
the student spots. Two new committees this year are

"the Parking Lot Committee, which will look into the
possibility of more University parking, and the Drug
and Alcohol Education Committee.

The following students have been appointed to these
‘committees:

«Student Health Committee, Pat Ferguson, Jim Au-

gustus and Paul Davey.

eCommittee on Freshman Admissions, Chris Carter
_and Bruin Richardson.

University Committee on Athletics, Chris John, Pete
’ Braden and T.J. Finnerty.

, ‘Library Advisory Committee, Alex Lopez-Duke,
Mike Aarstol and Andy Shaffer.

*Financial Aid Committee, Phil Hodges and Pat Fer-
+ guson.

*Parking Lot Committee, Paul Davey and Phil

| ' Hedges
» Faculty Committee on Courses and Degrees, Bart
Smith and Richard Hobson

 

‘
Tom

 

Durrette elected in poll

The Washington and Lee Political Review held a
mock election this week that found overwhelming sup-
port for the Republican ticket in this year’s state gover-
nor’s race.

The election, which drew 90 participants, gave
Republican candidate Wyatt Durrette 97 percent of the
vote compared with 3 percent for Democrat Gerald
Baliles.

First-year law rep chosen

First-year law student Biliy Senft was elected to
represent his class on the Executive Committee in an
election Monday, according to Student Bar Association
President Julie Gregory.

Senft joins two other law students on the committee
—second-year representative Bill Thompson and senior
representative Joel Johnston.

Lex. unemployment rate rises

The August unemployment rate for Lexington rose 1.2
percentage points over last August’s rate, according to
the preliminary report from the Virginia Employment
Commission.

Out of a workforce of 3,171 in Lexington, 2,976 were
employed, for an unemployment rate of 6.1 percent,

compared with 4.9 percent in 1984.

The Lexington-Buena Vista area, with a work force of
14,183, had an unemployment rate of 6.5 percent, up
from last year’s 6.3 percent.

Those increases compare with Virginia’s increase of
0.9 percentage points to 5.3 percent, and the national
decrease of 0.4 points to 6.9 percent.

Fiji raises $300 for cancer

The Phi Gamma Delta Fraternity raised $300 in its In-
nings for Cancer softball game last year, house Presi-
dent Gary Appel said this week.

The house took donations for a 100-inning softball
game with Pi Kappa Phi in May and recently presented
a $300 check to the American Cancer Society.

‘Taxes and University’ lecture set

Robert B. Stevens, president of Haverford College,
will deliver the 37th annual John Randolph Tucker lec-
ture at Washington and Lee on Friday.

The title of Stevens’ lecture, which is open to the
public, is ‘Tax Dollars and the Idea of a University.”
The lecture will be at 4:15 p.m. in the Moot Courtroom
of Lewis Hall.

A graduate of Oxford University with bachelor’s and
master’s degrees, Stevens received his law degree from
Yale University. He taught law at Yale from 1959 to
1976, when he was named provost and professor of law
and history at Tulane University. He was named presi-
dent of Haverford College in 1978.

Stevens is the recipient of grants from the Ford Foun-

dation, the National Endowment for the Humanities
and the Russell Sage, Rockefeller and Nuffield founda-
tions. He is the author of several books, including ‘‘In-
come Security,” ‘‘Welfare Medicine in America,” “In
Search of Justice,’’ and ‘‘Lawyers and the Courts.”

The John Randolph Tucker Lectures were establish-
ed in honor of the first Law School dean.

The Tucker Lecture series began in 1949 and has
brought many of the nation’s eminent jurists, practic-
ing attorneys and legal educators to campus. The first
Tucker Lecture was delivered by John W. Davis, the
well-known Wall Street lawyer who was also former
ambassador to. Great Britian and the 1924 Democratic
presidential nominee.

Chapel bell to toll for Lee

Washington and Lee will again honor one of its
namesakes, former University President Robert E.
Lee, on the anniversary of his death.

On Saturday at 9:30 a.m., the day and time Lee died
115 years ago, the tower bell in Lee Chapel will toll 19
times — the equivalent of 19-gun salute that Lee would
rate by today’s standards. This year’s ringing of the
bell coincides with W&L’s annual homecoming activi-
ties.

This is the second consecutive year Lee has been ho-
nored by such a fashion. The idea, proposed last year by
Lee Chapel Director Robert C. Peniston, is a deviation
from University policy that says the Chapel bell should
not be rung except on Sundays, since it might disturb
classes and study.

 

 

 
Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, October 10, 1985

 

 

Ticked

Clock systems not on time
so neither are the students

 

By JOEL MILLER
Staff Reporter

Students who are released from class by a bell at three

minutes until the hour, then, have less than the allotted
five minutes to get to their next class until the Lee

 

Washington and Lee students have been disproving
Einstein’s theory of relativity in the first few weeks of

school.

Instead of finding that time slows down as they in-
crease speed, students are finding themselves running
faster between classes and having less time to get there.

Fortunately, the problem is explainable without a
single formula. The answer, according to Assistant
Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds W. Scott
Beebe, is that W&L has two separate systems of bells.

The class bell, which has been observed to be ringing
at three minutes until the hour rather than five minutes
until, is separate from the bell in Lee Chapel, which tolls

the hour.

harder to adjust.

Chapel bell rings to mark the hour

“This is the first we’ve heard of it,’ Beebe said this
week. ‘‘We’ll look into the matter.”

He said it would be a simple problem to fix if it is the
class bell that is off, but the Lee Chapel bells would be

“The Lee Chapel clock uses its own system, and it’s a
very old system,”’ Beebe said.

University Proctor Charles ‘‘Murph’’ Murray said the
bells have been set electronically since he has been at
the University — more than 26 years.

The bells are set in Washington Hall, Murray said, and
are taken care of by W&L electricians.

Murray said he had not noticed a problem with the
bells because he is usually too far away to hear them.

 

oe

i

Sa |

a

|

\ A
=

, {He
) Whe

Ps

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Freshman Bill Webb was one of two students debating on the American side yesterday

British debaters blast U.S. missiles

 

By SEAN BUGG
Staff Reporter

 

Two British debaters called U.S.
nuclear missiles located in Britain an
“affront to our sovereignty,” in an
audience-style debate last night in
Lee Chapel. :

Michael Hall of New College, Ox-

* ford, and David Lock of Jesus Col-
lege, Cambridge, are part of a Bri-
tish debate team that is touring 20
U.S. schools.

Arguing against the British propo-
sal were junior Rick Graves and
freshman Bill Webb.

Much of the British argument cen-
tered on the fact that they had no con-
trol over the U.S. missiles in their
country.

“We are tired of being an Ameri-
can vassal,” Hall said.

Two other reasons were also given
for the removal of the missiles. .

' According to Lock, the missiles en-

courage the notion that a limited

nuclear war is possible, which endan-
gers the United States, as well as the
entire European community.

‘‘We cannot have a limited nuclear
war,”’ he stressed.

Lock’s third reason was that Bri-
tain has a multitude of Soviet spies
who would have easy access to Amer-
ican technical secrets.

“If you want to tell the Russians
your secrets, ship them to Britain,”
he said.

On the opposing side, Webb accus-

ed the Britains of wanting ‘‘to have,

everything both ways.” He said that
the English want the protection the
United States provides, but that they
do not want to accept the conse-
quences.

Graves made the point that if the
U.S. presence in Britain and Europe
were removed, each European coun-
try would be left on its own. Russia
would then be able to take over the
continent one country at a time.

In trying to find fault in Britain’s
reasoning, Graves reminded the au-

dience of British Prime Minister
Neville Chamberlain, whose strategy
of appeasement before World War IT
looked great on paper, but was disas-
trous in actual use.

The debate was very humorous at
times, and heckling from the au-
dience was encouraged.

While speaking of the flow of Amer-
ican culture into Britain, which is
generally disliked by people there,
Hall said, “‘If we get rid of missiles,

we would like to keep ‘Dynasty.’ ”’

After referring to a quotation from
W&L History Professor Jefferson D.
Futch, Graves asked, ‘‘And who’s go-
ing to argue with Futch?”’

Both British debaters made light of
Graves’ question, with Lock saying,
“Between Lenin and Futch, we’ve
kind of got the spectrum covered.”’

Hall followed later with, ‘I have to
disagree with so honored a professor
as Jefferson Davis Fletch III.”

“Futch!’’ yelled several members
of the audience.

E

-_— a eee ee

House restoration

The Joella and Stewart Morris House, located just off
the Colonnade, is being restored with a $250,000 donation
from the Morrisses, of Houston, Texas. The house, which
was built in 1842 at an approximate cost of $3,500, will be

 
   

 

By Eric Obeck/The Ring-tum Phi

used as a University guest house, a seminar center, and
a location for some University artwork. Ben Chapman,
progress coordinator for the Reeves Center, has been
named director of the Morris House.

 

Lax

 

() Continued from Page 1

Kruczek said she expects the Coun-
cil to vote on its reconsideration of
the proposal on Tuesday. She indi-
cated that although there is a chance
that the proposal will be voted down
by the Council, it still could come
before the convention in January if at
least six member institutions decide
to sponsor it.

Kruczek said she has received cor-
respondence from a number of
schools with such an interest, but
said she was not sure if they would
still be interested if the proposal
were voted down by the Council.

Tom Kinder, athletic director at
Bridgewater College and district
representative to the Division III
steering committee, said the Council
can decide not to bring up the pro-
posal at the convention.

“Tt depends on the lobbying that
has been done,” he said. He indi-
cated, however, that he thinks the
proposal will be presented to the
whole convention in January.

Of those interviewed, only Univer-
sity of Virginia Athletic Director
Dick Schultz speculated on the fate of
the proposal. “I feel the chances of
this passing are very slim. I'd really
be surprised to see it pass,” he said,
indicating that many strong Division
I basketball programs take advan-
tage of the NCAA’s multi-divisional
opportunities and would be unwilling
to relinquish those opportunities.

At Johns Hopkins University,
where lacrosse is played on the
scholarship level in the middle of an
otherwise Division III philosophy,
Athletic Director Robert Scott said
he hopes the proposal never even
reaches the convention floor.

“It could, in effect, kill our pro-
gram,” Scott said, explaining that a
forced move in either direction would

 

 

 

 

DUKE

THE FUQUA
SCHOOL
OF BUSINESS

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Fuqua School of Business at Duke
University offers one of the finest available
opportunities for unsurpassed professional
management training. We are interested in
men and women who have proven aca-
demic, leadership, and social abilities.

Michael Hostetler
Director of Admissions

of the Fuqua School
will be on campus

Thursday, October 24

Appointment information may be obtained
by contacting:

Office of Career Development
and Placement

 

 

  

 

 
 

BECKY’S COUNTRY CASUALS
“Where Good Taste Never Goes Out of Style”’

2127 Magnolia Avenue
Buena Vista, Virginia
24416

Phone: (703) 261-3140

BECKY FAIRCHILD

25% Off

Oct. 10-12

 

 

 

 

ed

a
[_————

 

 

—Presents

 

-— Homecoming Special

 

--$1.00 off every service

 

Cuts, Perms, Shampoo,
i eee

 

| -$1.00 off all nucleic A shampoos,
|____ conditioners, glaze.

 

jones A,

the luxury shop
_— without the luxury price.

 

 

 

 

 

 

1 block from W&L, 25 N. Main St.,
Open Tues.
Thurs. evening by appointment
Sat., 9-2
463-2566

-Fri., 9-5

 

 

  
        
   
    
   
 
  
   
 
   
   
 

misplace one or all the teams in his
program.

The proposal has encountered such
heated words ever since the Council
announced its sponsorship of the
legislation in August. But this is
nothing new, according to Virginia’s
Schultz.

“‘Whenever there’s been talk about
restructuring,” he said, ‘‘it’s always
been a very emotional issue,’ he
said. Schultz pointed to the forma-
tion of the College Football Associa-
tion, an organization of college foot-
ball coaches and teams that broke
with the NCAA in 1983 to negotiate a
separate television contract, as an
example of the tension such debate
can bring.

McHenry sees a problem with the
present system, which allows Divi-
sion III institutions to give scholar-
ships and compete in Division I in one
sport. This system actually restricts
a student-athlete’s right to choose, he
said.

Under NCAA regulations, McHen-
ry explained, athletes under scholar-
ship can only participate in the sport
for which they receive financial
assistance, a situation he calls unfair
to the outstanding, multi-sport stu-
dent-athlete.

“That’s simply contrary to the Di-
vision III philosophy,” he said. He
explained that unlike most institu-
tions that choose to ‘‘play up,’ W&L
maintains a Division III, no-scholar-
ship philosophy even in Division I.

Kruczek echoed that ‘Division III
philosophy” sentiment. ‘‘Some are
saying that this is preferential treat-
ment for these athletes,” she said.

McHenry said that across-the-
board Division I programs “are sick

and tired of having Division III peo-
ple come up in one sport.... Anybody
can sink all their money in one
sport,”’ indicating that while the
NCAA does limit the number of schol-
arships per sport, it does not regulate
the total amount of money spent by
the school on the sport.

Kruczek noted, however, that
money comes into play as a reason to
keep things as they are.

She said that if passed, the mea-
sure ‘‘would be detrimental to many
of the institutions affected,’’ pointing
to the fact that in many instances the
one Division I sport a college spon-
sors is often the only revenue-produc-
ing sport at an institution and actual-
ly ends up supporting the other sports
in the program.

Kruczek also explained that an
across-the-board reclassification
might cause some logistical pro-
blems for an institution. For exam-
ple, if W&L were to commit to Divi-
sion III, and therefore have to sched-
ule more than half its games with
Division III programs, the lack of
worthy opponents in the immediate
area could force greater travel ex-
penditures than W&L has as a Divi-
sion I program.

Scott of Hopkins also noted that
when the NCAA took over control of
women’s sports from the Association
of Intercollegiate Athletics for Wo-
men, it provided for multi-divisional
opportunities for women. The
possibility that these would be taken
away has provoked opposition from a
number of women’s programs.

Scott sees no hope for tbe resolu-
tion.

“There have been a half dozen or
so arguments used to support this
proposal,’’ Scott said, ‘‘but none are
really right, where you can say,
‘Hey, this is an unfair advantage.’ It
just doesn’t seem like there’d be a
real advantage in having it.’’

Schultz at Virginia called the pro-
posal ahead of its time. He said he ex-
pects that within three to five years,
the NCAA will adopt a ‘‘federation”’
system, where instead of one body
ruling over three divisions whose
interests often conflict, the NCAA
would change to a system of three
separately governed bodies with the
NCAA as an umbrella body over all
three.

Co-op’s trivia contest
promises a free lunch

 

By JOHN PIPKIN
Staff Reporter

 

Is there such a thing as a free lun-
ch?

A. Yes.

B. No.

C. Only in the co-op’s weekly Trivia
Quiz.

If you guessed “‘C,’”’ you may have
a chance at winning your own free
lunch. Three students already have,
as the Trivia Quiz is in its fifth week.

Snack bar manager Richard An-
derson came up with the idea for a
trivia contest as a way to generate in-
terest in the co-op while teaching
students a little about their school.

   
      
     
       
       
   
      

 

au

1675S. Main St.

  

te Front Ma),

167 S. Main St., 463-3106 9
Stop by and open up a charge
account for all your grocery needs.
This Week’s Specials are:

e Stroh’s Beer...
© Richfood Peanut Butter

Bea eee 6 Pks. — 1207. Cans

bese. . 8 Pks. — 16 Oz. Bottles $ 1 -

¢ Campbell Tomato Soup... uct”

Serving the W&L community
over 30 years,

Questions ranging from sports tri-
via to W&L history (Jerry Darrell
was W&L’s first food service direc-
tor) are offered, and the student who
can answer all five first wins a free
lunch from the co-op,

Anderson said he has noticed an in-
crease in business this year, but he
did not attribute that to the Trivia
Quiz as much as to the presence of
women on Campus and changes in the
c0-op’s menu.

The weekly quizzes will continue
through this term and their topics
will be geared toward the seasons.

Anderson said he will decide at the
end of this term whether the quizzes

generate enough interest to keep
them going.

   

453-3105 ter
Se

+1,"
+1,"9

oo 18 Ox. Jar.

*

~

-

-

-

~

 
The Ring-tum Phi, October 10, 1985, Page 5

 

Loan defaults

W&L’s low default rate can’t solve student loan problem

 

By CHRISTOPHER DEIGHAN
News Editor

 

Washington and Lee graduates are not contributing to
a nationwide problem of student loan defaults that has
Education Department officials wondering how they will
pay administration costs, Financial Aid Director John
DeCourcy said Tuesday.

But DeCourcy said the problem with the Guaranteed
Student Loan program is not the nation’s relatively low
default rate on such loans. The volume of loans given to
students in the first place is a more accurate cause of the
program's trouble, he said.

About 2 percent of W&L students who get GSLs de-
fault, DeCourcy said. The nationwide default rate is cur-
rently 10.7 percent, but education officials expect it to
jump to 11.7 percent this year.

“It ain’t students. It’s Americans,’ DeCourcy said
about defaulters, ‘‘These guys are accountants, doctors
and lawyers.”

About three weeks ago the Education Department told
Congress that it did not intend to pay administration
allowances to the state agencies that guarantee student
loans or to provide advances to help new agencies build
their reserves.

In a letter to leaders of congressional education and
appropriations committees, Gary L. Bauer, Under Sec-
retary of Education, said the department could not af-
ford to make these payments. Congress set aside $55.5
million for the allowances this year.

In August, the department released a study predicting

the dollar amount of student loan defaults to increase
about 45 percent this year, from $749 million to $1.08
billion.

DeCourcy said the problems facing the assistance pro-
gram today are rooted in the Carter administration's
middle income assistance act, which opened up GSLs to
almost everybody.

“People who hadn't even thought about getting a loan
decided it was a good idea,’’ DeCourcy said. And that
same attitude has carried over to today, he added.

For the 1984-85 academic year, 304 W&L undergrad-
uates received $700,000 in guaranteed student loans, and
193 law students got $900,000 under the program.

As a taxpayer, DeCourcy gave his personal opinion on
the student loan program: ‘‘I don’t think your mother
and father should help my wife get a master’s degree in
business.”’

But, he added, “‘It’s there. It’s easily accessible.”’

The Education Department has realized that fact.

Officials are pushing for a major revision of regula-
tions that DeCourcy said may take effect next fall. The
regulations will provide for a much more comprehen-
sive evaluation of a student’s financial need, he said.

Under current regulations, any student whose family
income is below $30,000 qualifies for a GSL. Assets are
not a consideration.

Students whose family income lies in the $30,000-
$75,000 range can take a needs test based on adjusted
gross income, the family size and the number of children
in colleges. A needs test for the student whose family in-
come is over $75,000 evaluates the family’s entire finan-
cial circumstances.

DeCourcy called these standards ‘‘too simple.”’ “It’s
not looking at the picture out there,’’ he said.

Glasgow lecturer Guy Davenport says

art is its own

best historian and critic

By CLARE KAYE
Staff Reporter

 

Guy Davenport, this year’s
Glasgow Endowment lecturer, told
his audience Tuesday that “‘art is its
own historian and critic.”

It was the first of his three-part lec-
ture series in the Commerce School.
His lecture, titled ‘‘The Artist as
Critic,’ was introduced by Professor
James Boatwright of the English De-
partment.

Davenport, a Distinguished Pro-
fessor of English at the University of
Kentucky, was educated at Duke
University, Harvard, and as a
Rhodes Scholar at Oxford. He has
presented lecture series at Yale,
Princeton, and the University of
Toronto. He taught at Washington
College and Haverford College
before establishing his position at the
University of Kentucky in 1964. He is

 

Subway

Serving
New York

Style Subs
Now open Sundays,
1:30-8 p.m. :

463-5752

 

 

Dick Emrey (703) 463-4362

 

 

GUY DAVENPORT

six books of translation, and five
books of poetry. Davenport is also a
noted painter and book illustrator.

 

 

 

 

 

<0

 

 

 

 

BORDEN
COMMONS ©

Lexington's First Condominium Community SS

 

At Borden Commons we haven't stopped with our first success!

Phase | of Borden Commons enjoyed a successtul welcome from the community and quickly sold

out. Now, with some new designs and interior layouts, we are introducing Phase II of Borden
Commons
These new and beautiful condominiums are designed to fulfill your every need, and they re located
just a short distance from Washington & Lee, V.M.1. and the historic Lexington community.
Isn't it time you considered the ease and financial rewards of condominium living?
It you have any questions about Borden Commons, we have a brochure available and repre
sentatives to help you

Baker Real Estate

Post Ottice Box 723
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Ottice (703) 463

fevenings)

 

Tom Baker (703) 463-2510 (evenings)

His objective Tuesday was to
clarify the artist’s role as a critic of
past works. He stressed the idea that
all works are reflections of, or are in-
fluenced by, the finished products of
other artists.

He referred to Joyce’s statement
that “‘all stories are the same anew.”’
“The spontaneous generation of
literary works is as unpredictable as
the spontaneous generation of
nature,’ Davenport said.

He cited several examples of the
reiteration of past ideas in literature.
Comparisons of works and authors
helped illustrate this point.

Davenport also gave a lecture titl-
ed ‘The Scholar as Critic’ on
Wednesday, and concludes his series
this afternoon with “The Critic as Ar-
tist.”’

Davenport’s final appearance at
the University tonight is a reading of
his personal works at 8:15 in the
Library’s Northen Auditorium.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

|

The Reagan administration’s solutions have not pleas-
ed DeCourcy either.

In eight years, Reagan could gradually have solved
the nation’s higher education problem by studying long-
term effects and trends, he suggested. ‘‘Instead it’s been
these crunches.”’

The government is not being realistic when it attempts
to solve the problems of the GSL program all at once,
DeCourcy said. He said his biggest fear right now is the
possibility that the higher standards expected for next
fall will be as dramatic as Carter’s plan to “get the
money out there.”’

“A lot of middle income people will be forced to turn to
State universities because of their lower costs,’ DeCour-
cy predicted. “‘We’re gonna bite the bullet one way or
another. We’re gonna pay for this.”

DeCourcy said he agrees that the Education Depart-
ment needs to measure student needs more rigidly, but
he says other changes also could help.

“Banks are making good money on these loans,” he
said, suggesting that profit margins be cut back. ‘‘The
danger is cutting too deeply or going too quickly and
creating a major shakeup,’’ he added.

“‘T don’t think a lot of long-term thought goes into the
planning of the nation’s education finances,’ DeCourcy
said. ‘‘And that’s unfortunate.”

The government should warn people of how they will
be affected by new student loan regulations, DeCourcy
said. ‘‘Don’t just drop those people, bingo.”

New regulations should be phased in but with a grand-
father clause for those students who are eligible for a
loan but would not be under stiffer regulations, DeCour-
cy suggested.

To cope with increasing expenses, the Education De-
partment is suggesting a number of revisions.

By reducing the federal government’s liability on the
loans to 90 percent, lending agencies would have a great-
er incentive to collect delinquent loans.

Education officials also have been urging Congress to
extend the statute of limitations for collecting bad loans
to at least six years. Some states have only a two-year
statute of limitations.

The Education Department also wants the authority to
disburse loan money in installments rather than making
one payment to students each academic year.

DeCourcy said the rationale for this proposal is the
fact that many students in state institutions do not at-
tend classes on a continuous basis.

Another change the department is seeking is to re-
quire state loan agencies to report defaulters to con-
sumer credit bureaus.

Some states are responding to the federal govern-
ment’s proposed cutbacks by initiating their own loan
programs.

Pennsylvania has one such ‘‘tag along’”’ loan option,
DeCourcy said.

The Student Loan Marketing Association has also de-
veloped a loan program for families whose traditional
sources of income cannot meet education costs. Family
Ed Financing makes available loans up to $10,000 and
more without requiring collateral. The plan also pro-
vides for extended repayment periods.

DeCourcy said several law students this year are fund-
ing their costs with FamilyEd Financing, which sets no
income cap on eligibility.

 

 

 

 

 

Did You Know That....
it’s almost too late???

Don’t get stranded for
Thanksgiving or Christmas

Call Today

Herring Travel Services, Inc.

Lexington’s “Main Street” Agency
41 South Main Street
463-2197
A fully computerized agency.

 

 

With all due regard tol’V Christianity,

haveyoueverseena
Sony that gives Holy Communion?

if TV Christianity makes you want to switch channels, come and join us this Sunday in
Christian fellowship and worship without commercial interruptions. The Episcopal Caurch

R.E.LEE MEMORIAL CHURCH

EPISCOPAL SERVICES
SUNDAY

Eucharist

Church School

Ewcharist,

lst and 3rd.

Morning Prayer 2nd&ath
Evensong followed by
Canterbury club and dinner

WEDNESDAY

t2:1s

Ewcharist,

Starting Oct 16th

JOIN US !

The Rev.
The Rev.

Arthur LL. Dasher,
Nancy R.

Rector
Taylor

Assistant and Chaplain

 

 

 
 

OMECOMING

The Ring-tum Phi,

October 10, 1985

 

iH

iH

BETA THETA PI

Lia Cerminara

Mary Baldwin College *85
Hometown: Glencove, NY

Majored in Communications

Escort: Kirk Breen

Works for Gray & Co., Washington,
D.C. public relations firm

Your guide to the

 

 

 

MINORITY STUDENTS
ASSOCIATION

Stephanie Coleman

Washington and Lee ’89

Hometown: Louisville, KY

\iajor: Sociology

Escort: Derrick Freeman

Plans: Travel to Europe this sum-
mer

Ambition: Sociologist

 

PHI GAMMA DELTA

Kimberly Kay

Tidewater Community College ’89
Hometown: Virginia Beach, VA
Major: Psychology

Escort: Coalter Pollock

Plans: Return to Newfoundland for
‘he summer. Transfer to Virginia
lech.

Ambition: To become a psychologist.

  

>HI KAPPA SIGMA

‘irginia Burke

iollins '86

fometown: New Orleans, LA

fajor: General Art with Business
oncentration

tscort: Ed Barnes

*lans: Applying to graduate school
yr art

.mbition: To get involved in adver-
sing and design

I KAPPA PHI
isa Wagner
ollins '88
ometown: Houston, TX
ajor: History and English
seort: Rich Hobson
Hollins

abroad program to

n January. Attend graduate
hool for journalism.
nbition: To be a writer or a jour

list

CHI PSI

Kirsten Taylor

Sweet Briar ’88

Hometown: Kansas City, MO

Major: Art History and French
Escort: Matt Harrington

Plans: “I’m hoping to spend my
junior year in Paris studying at the
Sorbonne.

Ambition: Graduate School for Art

A kiss, a crown, a queen,
with Shillington as the prize

 

By JIM STRADER
News Editor

 

In a year which has seen tradition
after tradition fall by the wayside at
Washington and Lee, there is at least
one event performed annually on
campus that will be replayed this
year — the crowning of the Home-
coming Queen by a colorful chemis-
try professor.

And if all goes well, Professor
James Keith Shillington will ride on-
to Wilson Field in a golfcart at half-
time of the Generals’ game Satur-
day, prepared to bestow upon the
lucky young lady her royal title and
trappings, which include a tiara, bou-
quet anda kiss.

As a tradition, the coronation has
sketchy beginnings, according to
Shillington, who has been crowning
the queen, he said, for as long as
there has been a ceremony.

Though that has been his chore for
many years, he admitted he can’t
quite pin a date on the first corona-
tion he presided over. Nor does Shil-
lington know the how and why of his
selection for the task.

“T never was told why,” he said
with a wink, ‘‘but I think I know.”’

Shillington alluded to his acting ex-
perience as a reason and said those
who selected him apparently were
thinking of his theatrics when they
chose him.

“TI think they thought it would be
hilarious,” he said. ‘‘And I sure have
enjoyed it myself.”’

Shillington’s sole duty in the Home-
coming festivities is the actual
crowning, but it has not always been
this way. During the first few years
Shillington was involved with Home-
coming, he participated in the choos-
ing of the queen as well.

But there were complications.

“T was dining at the [Kappa Alpha]
house,’’ Shillington explained. ‘“‘And
every once in a while the KA’s would
win and I'd be accused of tipping the
balance. I didn’t, certainly. So I quit
judging and I just crowned her.”’

Passing up the judging process on
the way to crowning the queen did not
seem to bother Shillington too much.
“I might as well have the cream off
the top,”’ he said.

The judging of candidates, which
takes place the day before the Home-
coming football game and includes
an interview by a five-member
panel, used to be done strictly from
photographs, Shillington said. That
technique once left the Homecoming

 

DELTA TAU DELTA

Rena White

Hollins °86 (W&L exchange, Fall
term)

Hometown: Baltimore, MD

Major: Political Science

Escort: Ned Richardson

Plans: Intern in the office of Senator
Paul Sarbanes

Ambition: Work as a paralegal and
then attend law school

 

rincesses

   

KAPPA ALPHA

Alycia Wood

Wake Forest '87

Hometown: Charlottesville, VA
Major: Business

Escort: Pat Ferguson

Plans: Continue to work in a bank in
the summer

Ambition: Financial field

 

 

 

  

 

(i

LAMBDA CHI ALPHA

Merriman Ross

Randolph-Macon Woman’s College
"88

Hometown: Richmond, VA

Major: Undecided °

Escort: Ross Darling

Plans: Considering studying abroad
Ambition: To be successful, happy
and enjoy life.

 

KAPPA SIGMA
J.A. Ward
Hollins ’86
Hometown: Ashland, KY

Major: Math and Economics

Escort: Paul Schlimm

Plans: MBA study

Ambition: Financial Planning and
Investment Banking

Shillington arrives for the ceremo-
ny in a golf cart that carries him up
the hill from his house in the valley
along Woods Creek. Shillington said ; aS
that because of a recent operation, he py, pELTA THETA
may have to crown the queen from Bebe Bromberg
the cart. His left knee was replaced Hollins College ’88
and has not completely healed. Hometown: Birmingham, AL

Just prior to placing the tiara on Major: History
the queen’s head, Shillington said he xscort: Bourke Harvey
reads a short speech thathe has writ- pjans: Interning for

   

Senator

ten. He attempts to write a fresh Jeremiah Denton in January

Ambition: To get a good education
and to work in public relations.

speech for each year, but said that
the task is becoming increasingly dif-
ficult. He said he occasionally in-
cludes parts of old speeches when he
writes and has even begun ‘‘taking
advantage of the four-year cycle.”

The speech contains ‘‘witticisms,”’
Shillington said, although he admit-
ted these sometimes are not humor-
ous to everyone and sometimes only
to himself.

The real crowd-pleaser in the
ceremony is the moment when Shil-
lington places the crown on the
queen’s head, and favors her with a
kiss. Shillington said that for him,
that moment is the festivities’
highlight.

“Smooching the queen is very
nice,” he said witha grin.

 

Asked whether the feeling has
always been reciprocated by the
queens, Shillington said he couldn’t
remember one who escaped the kiss.

“Some of them have sure tried,”’ he

 

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Ph

Chemistry Professor Keith Shillington sits in his office

committee a little red-faced come
game day.

One year, Shillington recalled, the
Beta Theta Pi house sent in a photo-
graph of ‘‘a gal when she was 19.”
The panel of judges named her
queen. The problem came when it
was discovered that the Betas had
submitted a 15-year-old photograph.
The woman was over 30.

‘“tuat was a surprise year,”’ Shil-
lington said. “‘She was quite married
and quite well-along in years.”

“It was done partly as a joke,
because the choosing had always
been done from photographs, and

nothing live on the hoof,” he con-
tinued. ‘‘From then on they have de-
finitely had it live on the hoof. They
have spoken to the candidates, at
least, so that they would know that
they were getting what was advertis-
ed.”

For the presentation of the crown,
Shillington dons an outfit, which he
described simply as ‘“‘suitable.’’ He
usually tops off his attire with a red
lame tie, he said, among other
things.

“T try to dress for the occasion,”’ he
said. ‘“‘We of the theater try to give
you a theatrical performance.”

 

 

 

 

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON

Mary Royall

Hollins '88

Hometown: Camden, SC

Major: Undecided

Escort: Lee Hollis

Plans: Hollins abroad program to
Paris in January.

Ambition: Graduate from Hollins

 

SIGMA CHI

Holly Davis

Hollins 86

Hometown: Virginia Beach, VA
Major: Social Science

Escort: Pete Braden

Plans: Sales or Hotel Management
Ambition: To have a good career and
travel to places I haven't

been
before.

said with an impish chuckle. ‘Every
once in a while there is one who’d
rather not.”’

A bouquet is given to the queen, but
Shillington said that since he has
about all he can handle with the

 

“PHI KAPPA PSI

Polly Paton

Sweet Briar College ’87

Hometown: Winter Park, FL

Major: Biology

Escort: John B. Lewis

Plans: Work in a hospital at home in
physical therapy in January.
Ambition: Eventually I'd like to go to
graduate school for physical therapy
in rehabilitation area.

crowning and kissing of the queen
and her attendants, someone else
presents the flowers.

The afternoon’s activities are fair-
ly tightly scheduled, but Shillington
said he may have a card or two up his
sleeve:

“‘Maybe I’ll lean over like the Lone
Ranger and swoop her away on the
golf cart.”

oe. 2 4:
INDEPENDENT UNION
Katherine Needle

   

Randolph-Macon Woman’s College
87

Hometown: Atlanta GA

Major: Psychology, minor in French
Escort: Erich Anspach

Plans: Would like to travel to France
to study. Maybe get master’s degree Escort: Mark Slack

in education. Plans : To go to medical school
Ambition: Counselling in social Ambition: Become a Surgeon, possi-
sciences bly plastic Surgery or orthopedics.

PI KAPPA ALPHA

Ellen Satterwhite

Mary Baldwin College ’87
Hometown: Richmond, VA
Major: Biology

 

 

SIGMA NU

Leslie Bauman

Hollins '88

Hometown: Easton, MD

Major: Psychology

Escort: Steven Sadler

Plans: Teach English in Japan next
summer
Ambition
practice

Establish a_ psychiatric

   

 

   

SIGMA PHI EPSILON
Tami Trebus

Sweet Briar 87
Hometown: Warren, NJ
Major: International Affairs
Escort: Chris McGowan

ZETA BETA TAL
Amy Jenkins
Sweet Briar ( Ollege '89
Hometown Buckingham, VA
Major History and Religion

hip in W Escort: Gregory Bonn
S: arnship in Winter term lans: Spend i,
Plans: inter P ' ‘min Plans: Spend junior year in France.
international trade with AT&1 sent Z
AmbDition

Ambition: Would like to work

frei 'o do research on the role
; : mi see Of rehigion in Middle East polities and
in the foreign service overseas government

+> age ag en Bi et Di tat ae a

 

A Aen me

rage si
 

|
|

a ft me

i

“Your civic duty

7

The winner of a 1986, two-door Honda Civic like this
me will be drawn on the Saturday night of this year’s
éuperdance for the Muscular Dystrophy Association, to
ve held Jan 24-26 in the Student Activities Pavilion.
Tickets for the drawing, which cost $1 each, will go on
sale at this weekend’s Homecoming football game. The
ear, which was donated to the Superdance, is now being

itself.”

MORE HOMECOMING

King or queen?

Freshmen vie for best banner

 

driven here from Selma, Ala., and will be displayed at
Saturday’s game. Senior Sandy Whann, who with senior
Paul James is co-chairing the Superdance, said it’s
uncertain how many tickets they'll sell. ‘Being a new
thing, we don’t know, even to make estimates,’’ Whann
said. “I think it’ll depend on the effort of the committee

Five-star Generals

 

"By TED LeCLERCQ
»Staff Reporter

 

* Some 60 “five-star Generals” are

ecoming to Washington and Lee for
Homecoming weekend to join the re-
"turning contingent of alumni.

* Although these men are not neces-
sSarily military generals, they are
members of W&L classes that have
“already held their 50th reunion.

” “We realized that the five-star
«General reunions were not getting
,the attention they deserved, so we

moved them from the spring to
i vitemaocnine weekend,”’ said Assis-
{ant Alumni Secretary Leroy C.

“Buddy” Atkins.

‘“What we are trying to do in terms
of the reunion is put a little more life
into Homecoming weekend,” Atkins
said. ‘‘We are using Homecoming for
special-type reunions like the one we
had for the 1934 college football team
last year.”” Atkins was particularly
encouraged by the large number of
returning five star Generals.

“In the eight years that I have been
here, the most that we have ever had
has been in the high 20s. This year
will easily be double any attendance
we have had in the past.”

Atkins said the University will hold
a special Friday night dinner as well
as a Saturday morning coffee for the

part of Homecoming

five-star Generals. He added, how-
ever, that a Lee Chapel concert at
10:30 a.m. will be open to all.

The Alumni Office has been spon-
soring the bands for Saturday’s pre-
game parties and will continue to do
so this weekend with ‘‘Easy Listen-
ing.’’ Atkins said that the band could
be classified as a “‘Dixieland”’ band.

Last week’s turnout, Atkins said,
was good, and he is hoping for a big-
ger one on Saturday.

“Considering the fact that last
week’s pre-game was the morning
after pledging, it was a good turnout.
We hope that more fraternities will
come and identify themselves so
alumni can come up and talk to the
current members.”

 

$15 for the year

Attention alumni
Keep in touch with Lexington

Subscribe to the Ring-tum Phi

Write: P.O. Box 899
Lexington VA
24450

  
 

  
 

 

 

 

 

Rambling Rose Weaving Studio
Nessa Scannell Degen

 

16 W. Washington St.. Lexingion, Va 24450 703-463-4427

Handwoven
Originals
by
Nessa

 

 

 
  
 
 

110 S. Jefferson St.
Le on
463-3538

Hours:

Mon.-Sat. 9am to lam
Sunday 10am to lam

 

The Shop for
PAPPAGALLO

Shoes, Clothing
& Accessories

23 NORTH MAIN STREET
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

463-5988

 

 

Sandwiches (Eat In-Take Out)
Gourmet Items of All Nations
Cocktails® Wine®@ Beer

Subs@Imported Cheeses

Catering

Lexington
Shoe Hospital

| need your shoe repairs in my
business.

3 West Nelson St.

 

 
     
      
      

 

 

———— 4

SAVE MONEY!

 

21 W. Washington St.

 

Going home for Thanksgiving or
Christmas? Plan ahead,

“System One Computers”
“‘Boarding Pass Printers”’
— 3certified travel consultants —

463-7174

 

 

By TED LeCLERCQ
Staff Reporter

 

They have been planned this week.

Most will be crafted today and
tomorrow.

And Kathekon, the sponsoring
organization, thinks it can be the
beginning of a new “Homecoming at-
titude.”’

The competition: The hall that
creates the best banner on a single
bedsheet will win a $75 pizza feast.

The banners will be displayed at

«Wilson Field during Saturday’s
game.

“It’s a way to build class unity and
be competitive, too,” said Kathekon
President Jim Kerr. ‘We want this to
be the beginning of a tradition.”

   
 
 

  
 

Welcome
WE&L Alumni

Wendell's
Barber Shop

| need your head for
my business.

Car Burglar
Alarms

  

Installation Available

Eastern

Distributing
463-9703 after 6 p.m.

  

   
 

OUR "TYPING"

Is

DATA SERVICES
203 N.

463-9455

You must si

 
  
  
 
 
  

   

WordPerfect»

MAIN STREET
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

The Ring-tum Phi, October 10, 1985, Page 7

*““We want more of a ‘Homecoming
attitude,’ ’’ he continued. “It’s sucha
simple idea, but it has a lot of poten-
tial.”’

His organization is a group of about
20 student leaders with the goal of im-
proving participation in W&L ac-
tivities while working through the
Alumni Association.

“The Homecoming Queen,” con-
tinued Kerr, ‘‘kind of gets the frater-
nities to compete against each other,
and this is a project in which the
freshmen can compete against each
other, too.”’

“Tt will mean a lot to people who
see it, particularly alumni. We also
thought it would be an easy, inexpen-
sive way to have fun and show some
more enthusiasm,”’ Kerr said.

The dormitory counselors are mov-

ing into action too. The challenge has
been issued from the third floor of
Graham-Lees. Their goal: domina-
tion — superiority over every other
hall. And they have already had one
planning session more than everyone
else.

Dorm counselor Sydney Marthi-
son’s hall had this notice on the
bathroom door for last night’s
meeting:

“The meeting is located at Pizza
Hut and the only thing on the agenda
for the evening is the all-you-can-eat-
special that will be happening.

“The purpose of the meeting is to
create unity on our superior hall, so
everyone please try to come! (Also
we'll be discussing the banner we
need to make for the football
game.)”’

 

 
   
     
 
  
  

 

Imagination

165 South Main Street

   

    

463-9152

 

 

  
    

   
      
  
 

SENIORS

You Are Now Late

Senior pictures will only be taken from
October 14 through October 25

gn up in the Co-op for an appointment
This Is Your Last Chance
* Seniors who do not have their pictures taken by
the 25th will be penalized or excluded from the book.

    

 
 

The Jackson
Barber Shop

“The Valley’s Oldest’

15 W. Nelson Street
Lexington, Virginia

 

 

  
    
       
   
   
   
   

the CALYX

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Soporte ce ces ag

 

 

 

 

a

 

 

<a a ee Se Se ae See ee oe cee oe ee oe ee oe oe oe ol

DOMINO'S
PIZZA
DELIVERS
FREE.

1 $1.00 off any one

a item or more pizza
One coupon per pizza
Expres 10 16 85
Fast, Free Delivery”

Not good with any

other offer

Name
Address

 

 

$2.00 off any Deluxe
or Price Destroy-

OURO OF Sr ccmes wren
xpres 10 16 85
Destroyer ‘“ :

Fast, Free Delivery”
Not good with any
other offer

Name
Address

wo
bee ee
Pizza

 

 

Domino's Deluxe 5 items for the price of 4
Domino s Destroyer 9 stems for the price of 5

Anytime after 4
p.m., order a large
z-item pizza and 2
Cokes and get $1.00
off. One coupon per
pizza. Expires:
10/16/85.

Fast, Free Delivery”

Not good with any
other offer

Dinner
Special!

Bil

Mone.
Address _

 

463-7375

23 S. Jefferson

 

 
 

Page 8, The Ring-tum Phi, October 10, 1985

 

Dean

 

Continued from Page 1

associate dean. Williams said the
University’s last Rhodes Scholar was
a physics major, whom he counseled
a great deal.

For other counseling tasks, Wil-
liams said he is ‘‘prepared as much
as the faculty-adviser system can
prepare me.”

Williams joined the faculty in 1974.

In 1967 he earned a doctorate in
physics from the University of
Virginia. He then worked for two
years at the National Bureau of Stan-
dards on a National Science Founda-
tion post-doctoral research fellow-
ship. A one-year research project
followed at the Universitaet
Erlangen-Nuernberg in West Ger-
many.

Williams became an assistant pro-
fessor of physics at Virginia Military
Institute for one year before moving
to Colorado Springs to take a job as
staff scientist at Kaman Sciences.

His appointment as associate dean
may be partially answered by his
special working relationship with
Elrod, Williams said.

“‘We nearly always see things in a

 

THOMAS WILLIAMS

slightly different perspective,’’ he

explained.

Their supplementing points of view
have been useful when they are solv-
ing problems associated with the
Faculty Advisory Committee, which
Elrod chairs, Williams said.

Williams also said his particular
background will help balance the
range of disciplines administrators
have. He believes his science orienta-
tion will work well with Elrod’s
humanities background.

Police cite five houses

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Staff Reporter

 

Five fraternities were issued noise
violations last Friday night, and as a
result Lexington Police Chief L.O.
Sutton is telling the University’s fra-
ternities to ‘‘cool it.”’

Delta Tau Delta received its noise
violation at 12:35 a.m. The other four
houses — Kappa Sigma, Phi Kappa
Psi, Sigma Alpha Epsilon and Phi
Kappa Sigma — were issued their
noise violations between the hours of
1:15 and 3:20a.m.

Sutton said Delt received its noise
violation so earlv hecause they had

Most freshman halls vote for

 

By DANATHA HOFFMAN
Staff Reporter

 

“Enough is enough,” said some
freshmen women, and after the
three-week trial period most of the
woman’s halls have voted to extend
visiting hours on their halls.

“T got tired of people banging on
the doors if they accidently closed
during the day or early in the morn-
ing,’ said freshman Patience Jones,
whose hall voted to have 24-hour vi-
sitation. ‘Since my door is on the

neglected to apply for a noise permit.

“The spirit of cooperation goes
when the fraternities don’t bother to
get a noise permit. If they violate
that cooperation, then all the guide-
lines don’t count,” Sutton said.

According to Sutton, there have
been more problems this year with
the noise at fraternity parties than
usual. He said that there are fewer
parties and that those parties are just
too big for the houses.

‘“‘When the party gets too crowded,
they open all the doors and windows.
Then the crowd starts to move out-
side. By 12 o’clock — with the effect
the alcohol has on their hearing —

end, I was always forced to let people
in.”

The freshman halls voted on visit-
ing hours at the beginning of the
year. The male halls all voted for 24-
hour visitation, but female halls had
varied hours.

Now, after the three-week trial
period, all the halls but two — the
second and third floors of Graham-
Lees — have 24-hour visitation privi-
leges.

Dormitory counselor Dandrea
Miller agreed with her hall’s new 24-

 

 

 

 

By DANA BOLDEN
Staff Reporter

 

For the second year in a row ROTC
cadets have been the top participants
in Chi Psi’s biannual American Red
Cross blood drive.

“The cadets usually have the
highest percentage of donors,” said
senior Jake Squiers, Chi Psi’s coor-
dinator of the blood drive.

Major Doug Smith of the Military
Science Department said, ‘‘We do en-
courage the guys, but it’s not man-
datory for them to give blood.”

Squiers said the school fell about 25
pints short of its 150 pint quota.

“We're expecting a lot better turn-
out in February,” he said. ‘Last Oc-
tober the turnout was fairly low, but
in February we went over quota.”’

Red Cross Executive Libby At-
thowe said, ‘‘Actually the process is
quite painless and quick.’”’ ‘‘There
are six stations you must go through.
The whole process takes about 45
minutes and when you're done you
get homemade sancwiches.”

Atthowe joked that ‘‘that alone is
worth the giving of blood.”

“There were only two people to
faint this year,” she added.

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

 

 

,

ROTC cadet Mike Carter gives blood to the Bloodmobile in Warner Center Tuesday ‘

for noise violations

they are oblivious to just how loud
they are,”’ Sutton said.

Sutton feels that the problem could
be alleviated if the parties could be
kept inside the fraternity houses and
the windows could be kept closed. He
also asks that the sound simply be
kept down.

“No one deliberately sets out to
disturb people. It just happens,” Sut-
ton said.

Still, he feels there is a problem
here that needs to be addressed.

“The truth of the matter is that the
presidents are not receiving the co-
operation of their guests and there-
fore have been thus far unable to con-

trol them,’’ Sutton said.

Sutton plans to talk with the presi-
dent of each house that received a
violation.

He also talked to an entire house
Monday night to discuss problems
and remedies. He said he will do the
same for other houses if the need
arises.

“Through cooperation, we can do
it,” Sutton said. ‘‘There are several
other alternatives, but I would rather
not speculate on them.

“Basically, the noise needs to be
brought under control. I would much
prefer that the fraternities handle it
themselves. I don’t like to work from
7a.m. to3a.m.”

24-hour visitation policy

hour policy and said she felt her
freshmen were responsible enough to
handle any hours.

According to head dormitory coun-
selor Tom Mack, the purpose of the
trial period was to give students a
chance to get to know the personali-
ties on their hall and adjust to new
living conditions.

Once again, the voting was by
secret ballot, so students felt no
pressure while voting.

Sydney Marthinson’s freshmen
changed from their previous position

of the strictest visitation rights and
decided to have restricted visitation
only from 6 to 9a.m. on weekdays.

Sophomore Gil Lackey reflected
the general reaction on campus when
he gave support for 24-hour visita-
tion.

“I’m really up for it,” he said.

“Last year, everyone had 24-hour
visitation and there were always
girls in the dorm. I honestly don’t feel
that will be any different with guys
on the girls floor regardless of the
policies voted on.”’

 

 
  
  

oe

4 By Appointment 463-9588
Robin« Peggy * Marie

Advertise in The Phi

REDE GES SES RE OEP 0 GRIESE OSE RD PEE a) ee

Mins Mei Saye

463-8581

 

 

CEE | > <eNE

Old Main St. Mall
Lexington, VA so

SA) EG OD) AE ED RE) REO <ER- « <ett « a () <emmat

 

PIZZA

$2 OFF!

SALE:

 

® Better hurry to your home
town Pizza Hut" restaurant!
It’s not often you save this kind
of money on our fresh, hot
and scrumptious pizza. $9 So
come on in. Bring the whole

 

 
   

J

a
ca
:
i

  
  

  

Nie,
on,

 
 

a i ee
: $9 OFF
s $2. off any large pizza
or $1 off any medium. In-
cludes Pizza Hut® Pan
e Pizza! Hurry; offer ex-
pires soon. One coupon
a per party per visit at

participating Pizza Hut®
restaurants.

Please present coupon whenordering Not valid in combination «
a cash redemption value © 1983 Pizza Hut. Ine Good wily through

  
    
   
 

Eat In, Carry Out Or Delivered

en
Pizza
Hut.

  

family. () We'll pile on layers
of pure mozzarella cheese and
all your favorite toppings.
There’s no better time to try
our unparalleled Pizza Hut®
Pan Pizza. See you soon!

 

PY
128 fs me Ue wy

Sad
Pa
zi

600 E. Nelson St.
Lexinatsn, VA
452-/000

thany otherofter © 20cent po

10-12-85

we rrrTs tts st

Freshmen
Vote Anne Geary
for
University Council

 

 

 

130 S. Main

e Cannondale accessories
¢ Camp trails packs
¢ Complete repair service

 

Lexington Bike Shop

Open 9-5, Mon.-Fri. and 9-12 Sat.

© Road or trail route information

463-7969
¢ Motobecane
* Shogun —
¢ Ross

¢ Eureka tents

 

 

Just Arrived!
(Finally)

The Reorders Of:

¢ Duckheads

e Ruffhenn Pants
e Dirty Bucks

e Suede Jackets

 

College “oun Shop

111 W. Nelson St.

SHOP

117 West Nelson Street

a

ee

Lexington, Virginia

Enlarged Stock Including:
Blank Cassettes and Newspapers

Albums and Cassettes

$6°-$7

 

—

 

 

1 SHERIDAN
R SHERIDAN

Corsages -
with care!

"ant fterson

Florist to the Homestead

103 N. Jefferson [—-|
Lexington '

463-9841

11 W. Nelson Sf.
463-2022

Watches and Jeweiry Repairs
Gifts for All Occasions

Located at 136 Varner Lane
directly behind Leggetts

with plenty of parking

  
 
 

 

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

We have class rings as well as watch and jewelry repair.

Phone: 463-3975 or walk in.

 

>

 

 

 
 

 
   

 

 

HOUS

Restaura

American cuisine. Cockt

Open for

The.

WILLSON- faut
WALKER @

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(a0 a
} MUO | AH | A
. “er || Wee 7 TTT TP ry ret '
E YAO) A SM.
Sf —
Re ‘as t ee
’

lunch and dinner,

vations requested for dinner.

30 N. Main St.

Lexington, Virginia 24450

703-463-3020

ails, beer, and wine.
d 11:30-2:30, '
5:30-10:00, Tuesday-Saturday. Closed Sunday '
and Monday. Banquet room available. Reser: '

,

¥

 

pnd
-

.

~

~

*

er oe ee

le

*

’

’

*

SPORTS

Gridders quadruple
‘season point totals

against ODAC rival

 

By DAVID EMRICH
Staff Reporter

 

Until Saturday, W&L’s offense
could have been best described as
stagnant. They had given up 10
sacks, committed 11 turnovers, and
scored a total of seven points in two
previous efforts. But in last week’s
game they more than quadrupled
their season point-total en route to an
easy 31-19 victory over conference-
rival Randolph-Macon.

Things didn’t look good in the be-
ginning of the game when, after tak-

® ing a 3-0 lead on B.J. Sturgill’s 30-

'

s

‘

‘

'

f

4

'

'

yard field goal, quarterback Jon
Thornton threw his eighth intercep-
tion of the season, giving Randolph-
Macon the ball in W&L territory. The
Yellow Jackets then proceeded to
march 36 yards for the 7-3 lead with
10:19 gone in the first quarter.

However, on W&L’s next posses-
sion, Thornton hit Senior Chris
Bleggi for 45 yards and a touchdown,
giving the Generals a 10-7 lead that
they never relinquished.

Tailback Kevin Weaver chipped in
two touchdowns, and Bleggi caught a
13-yard Thornton pass for his second
touchdown of the day to round out
W&L’s scoring.

But why the sudden explosion on of-
fense? The Generals certainly had
shown signs in the past two games
that they were capable of moving the
ball, but turnovers and mistakes had
prevented them from reaching the
end zone as often as they would have
liked to. What was it this week that
enabled them to score so often?

“We executed well,’’ said Fallon.
“The offensive line allowed Thornton
time to throw, the receivers did
great, Jon had a great day — every-
thing just gelled.”’

The outstanding play of the offen-

’ sive line was a big factor in Satur-

day’s victory. In the two preceeding
games, the line allowed 10 sacks, but
against the Yellow Jackets it did not
give up any. Previously, the runners
could only average 172 yards per
game behind their blocking; this

. week the Generals rushed for 253

yards.
“We made some adjustments on
the offensive line during the week;”

W&L coach named to

 

By CHRIS APPLEBY

Staff Reporter

 

Washington and Lee Assistant
Athletic Director George “Chuck”
O’Connell will return this weekend to
his alma mater, Denison University
for homecoming. But it will be more
than just a reunion for the former all-
America lacrosse player. Friday,
O’Connell will be inducted into
Denison Sports Hall of Fame.

Pride surfaced as he imaginea
himself among the 55 superior
athletes he will be honored with Fri-
day. ‘‘I am extremely grateful to
receive this recognition. To think of
all the athletes who have played at
Denison, it is a great honor to be
selected.”

A 1965 graduate of Denison, he will
be honored for four outstanding
seasons as a lacrosse player for the

Harriers see
first defeat
since 1983

By REED HOWLETT
Staff Reporter

 

 

Saturday, Oct. 5, was a disappoint-
ing day for the Washington and Lee
cross country team.

The Generals suffered their first
regular season loss since 1983, ending
the string of 28 consecutive victories,
when visiting Roanoke College, the
last team to defeat W&L, scored a 17,
compared to the General’s 45 and
Norfolk State’s 101

Roanoke nailed down the first
three spots with times of 28:17, 28:18,
and 28:18. Sophomore Scott Rippeon
was W&L’s lone representative in the
top seven, running the course in 28:39
for a fourth-place finish.

Although W&L was not victorious,
Coach Dick Miller noted, ‘Everyone
ran well and continues to show im-
provement.’’ The General’s
effectiveness was hampered by the
absence of both Eddie Goundry and
Ash Andrews, occupied by taking the
LSAT. Goundry set a course record
in the Generals’ first race

The loss, however, does not elimi-
nate W&L from contention for the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference t-

 

explained Fallon. “They executed
well and stopped Randolph-Macon’s
blitz early. Once we were able to get
them out of [the blitz] they couldn’t
surprise our kids any more, and our
kids were able to control their kids up
front.”’

But the offense wasn’t the only
story this week. The defense turned
in their third consecutive excellent
game, holding the Yellow Jackets to
19 points, the last six of which came
with no time on the clock. They had
been averaging 27 points a game.

The officials allowed that last
touchdown to stand despite a state of
general confusion on the field and
claims that the play had been blown
dead.

“The defense did very well again,”
said Fallon. ‘‘We saw a lot of aggres-
siveness out there and they forced a
number of turnovers. They held R-M
very well, and didn’t give up the big
score. Also, the kicking game did
well this week.”’

Saturday, W&L returns to Wilson
Field for its Homecoming game with
Maryville. The Scots come to Lexing-
ton rated the top passing squad in the
Old Dominion Athletic Conference,
averaging 319.8 yards per game.

But the Generals come into the
game ranked first in the conference
in pass defense, yielding only 89.3
yards per contest.

Fallon is wary of the Maryville air
show. ‘They have an offense that will
mix things up and keep us off
balance,” he said, indicating W&L
will have to be ‘‘totally prepared”’ to
beat the Scots.

SIDELINES:...The R-M win raises
the Generals’ record to 2-1 (1-1),
while the Yellow Jackets fall to 2-2
(0-1), ... Thornton had his best game
of the season, going 14 of 29 for 196
yards and two touchdowns...Tailback
Kevin Weaver has had 100-yard ef-
forts in both of his games since retur-
ning to the lineup, last week running
for 114 yards in 25 tries...Maryville
signal-caller Pat Moyer threw for 396
yards last week in the Scots’ 33-23 win
over Cumberland...The Scots are last
in the conference running the ball,
averaging under 70 yards a game on
the ground...W&L linebacker Tom
Skeen intercepted a pass and was in
on 11 tackles last week...W&L has not
lost to Maryville in four years....

Big Red. He was distinguished as an
all-American twice, in 1962 and 1965,
and received all-Midwest recognition
four straight years among competi-
tion that included Army, Navy and
Johns Hopkins. He held Denison
records for most carreer goals (101)
and points (151) during his lacrosse
career. He led the Big Red as a co-
captain his senior year, was selected
as the team’s MVP and participated
in the North-South All-Star game.

His great success as a collegiate
athlete has carried over into his
career as an assistant coach at W&L.
In his 13 years here he served the
lacrosse team as offensive coor-
dinator and goalie coach from 1974-83
and is presently the defensive coor-
dinator for the Generals’ football
team, a position he has held for the
last seven years,

During his 10 years as assistant
lacrosse coach he led the team into

The Ring-tum Phi, October 10, 1985

q;
a i en
; ‘3 a. \ 1 a
iT fi ay?
Bh oe,

 

 

By Mark Mandel/W&L Sports Information

‘Something special’ about the game

 

By DAVID NAVE
Staff Reporter

In 1948, the Generals’ football team faced
Virginia. An old press release reads, ‘“‘Might be
Old Dominion’s ‘game of the year.’ Both teams
offense-minded, both pack scoring punch. First
game between old rivals in Lexington since 1942.
Homecoming game for Big Blue and sellout ex-

.pected.”’ The Generals forgot to throw their scor-

ing punch that day and suffered a 41-6 loss to the
Cavaliers
It’s no longer Division I football, but it’s still a

‘big weekend. The Romantics, pre-game tailgate

parties, a new Homecoming Queen and Saturday
night cocktail parties all surround the big event
Saturday afternoon: the game. This Saturday the
Generals will host Maryville when the two teams
kick off Washington and Lee’s 1985 Homecoming
game.

Just as students look forward to big concerts,
dates and parties this weekend, fans and players
believe there is something special about the
Homecoming game,

Generals’ tri-captain Tim Janyska agrees.
“There is a different atmosphere,” Janyska said,

“A lot of the graduated players come back to
watch the game,”’ he said. ‘‘It’s nice to put ona
good performance and make a good impression.”

When asked if he takes a special approach to the
Homecoming game, head coach Gary Fallon said,

Denison Hall of Fame

“T tend not to, because I am nota part of the festiv-
ities.”

But, he added, ‘I am sure.that the athletes do,
because there is a much larger sporting crowd
supporting the team.”’

Fallon, well aware of the weekend’s activities,
warned that there is always the possibility that
Homecoming could have an adverse effect on his
team.

“If the kids aren’t watching, it could be disrupt-
ful to their concentration,” Fallon said.

In addition to the game on the field, there is also
a different atmosphere in the stands at Homecom-
ing. The fraternities cheer for their nominated
queens. The students who watch the game are in-
volved in a busy weekend schedule: ‘‘concert last
night, tailgate this morning, and party tonight.”’

Senior class president Townes Pressler enjoys
“everyone being there and having a good time.”’

“It seems that people are more excited to watch
the game and see who the queen is going to be,”’
Pressler said.

The records show that the W&L football team
usually enjoys Homecoming. The-files reveal that
since 1948, the Generals have posted 21 wins, 13
losses and two ties in the Homecoming game.

W&L has earned some great Homecoming vic-
tories since 1948. In 1950 and '52, the Generals
defeated Virginia Tech by scores of 25-7 and 34-27.
The Generals then avenged their ’48 loss to U.Va.
when they turned back the Wahoos, 27-13 in 1953.

The nation’s 1951 Gator Bowl team (the

Generals, of course) enjoyed a 34-0 Homecoming
win over Davidson. Davidson might have enjoyed
that game more than its previous Homecoming
appearance at Wilson Field, when the Generals
recorded their most lopsided Homecoming victory
since 1948 by running up a 53-0 score.

The 1961 undefeated and untied W&L team that
was featured in Sports Illustrated earned its sec-
ond most overwhelming Homecoming victory, a
43-0 handling of Randolph-Macon.

Sewanee has made more Homecoming appear-
ances at W&L than any other team since 1948. The
Tigers have made it to Lexington for the big
weekend six times. The Generals have sent them
back to Tennessee with five losses.

W&L’s biggest current rival, Hampden-Sydney,
has played in four Homecoming games. W&L
hasn’t handled these Tigers too well on Homeom-
ing. H-SC has won three of the four games. The
other game was a scoreless tie in 1968.

W&L’s other post-1948 Homecoming tie came at
the hands of Randolph-Macon, 20-20, in 1974.

Although the Generals have won only five otf
their last 10 Homecoming games, they have won
four of their last five. During this 10-year span, the
Generals suffered their worst Homecoming de
feat, 43-0, in 1977 at the hands of this weekend's op:
ponent, Maryville.

The Generals look to avenge that ‘77 loss and
possibly write another chapter in W&L Homecom
ing football history this weekend.

The game will kick off at 1:30 p.m.

 

six Division I playoffs, producing five
all-American attackmen and two C.
Markland Kelley award-winning
goalies. Nationally, he served as the
President of the U.S. Lacrosse
Coaches Association from 1976-78.

Six all-conference defensive
players have come out of the last five
winning football teams under O’Con-
nell’s guidance.

Reflecting, O’Connell said he was
“raised as a lacrosse player who
played football’? at St. Paul’s in
Baltimore, and lacrosse remains his
favorite sport. At the suggestion of
the school’s headmaster he took a
detour to Denison during a planned
trip to Kenyon College. He admitted
to considering W&L and UVa but
decided on Denison, knowing it was
his place as soon as he saw the
school, he said.

Favorably

recalling Granville,

W&L harriers race in tandem in Saturday’s competition

tle. ashe icague champion is deter-
mined at the conference meet on
Nov. 9. At this time the Generals will
get another shot at Roanoke, this

time running against them at full

strength.
This weekend W&L will take on vi-
siting Catholic University Although

Ohio (home of Denison) O'Connell
said he always noted Denison’s only
difference from W&L in the fact that
it admitted women. This no longer
true, he holds the schools to be
similar in all aspects.

Coaching for the Virginia Lacrosse
Club, whom he led to an undefeated
championship season last spring,
kept him from attending his 20 year
reunion. From a coaching standpoint
he expressed a desire to resume col-
legiate lacrosse coaching duties ‘‘if
the right opportunity came along.”
He looks forward to the opportunity
to return to Denison for the first time
in 10 years. Homecoming at Denison
will enable him to see many of his
former classmates and coaches. But
O’Connell must forgo the homecom-
ing activities at Denison in order to
return to Lexington by Saturday for
the Generals’ football game with
Maryville.

 

 

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

Miller knows little about the caliber
of the team, one things is for sure
W&L will be anx ious to rebound from
its loss last weekend

 

By LEIF UELAND
Staff Reporter

 

 

The Washington and Lee water
polo team won four out of five match-
es last weekend in the first round of
the Southern League tournament
play at George Washington Universi-
ty, bringing their season record to
10-6.

The Generals had decisive vic-
tories against Lynchburg, 20-6,
George Washington, 18-8, the Univer-
sity of North Carolina-Wilmington,
11-3, and Virginia Commonwealth
University, 24-3. The Generals then
lost to Richmond, 13-7, where they
began to show signs of breaking down
the gap between the two teams

Narrowing the goal-margin to six
points, the Generals proved that they
can play with the Spiders, who have
twice previously controlled them.

A noticeably more confident and
controlled team, W&L was taking
more shots on goal on offense and ap-
plying more pressure on defense in
the Richmond game.

Coach Page Remillard was pleased
with the team’s improved play, ‘In
the past, Richmond was dictating the

T ‘

fame ‘

 

Phi file photo by Cotton Puryear

Chuck O’Connell instructs his football charges

Water polo wins
4 of 5 in round one

green. The second time, the level of
officiating was so far below the leve!
of play that, though the right team
won, the game was a mystery. The
third time, we were able to make
changes in our game — we had them

playing our game.”
The Generals’ success in furthe:
narrowing the gap between the

teams will depend, in part, on thei
ability to continue to increase the
defensive pressure, with the desired
result of cutting down on Richmond
goals.

W&L’s goaltenders will accrir
their share of this responsibility
“Our goalies are not doing the job
They are not playing on par w ith our
other players,’’ Remillard comment
ed. “I am optimistic about them
though. They have the ability

This weekend the Generals will
compete in the Southeast Varsity In
vitational, which is a combination of
the top ten teams in the East. The
team hopes to improve upon las!
year’s ninth-place finish. Key mate!
es will be with MIT and Harvard

The team will then look to th
Southern League play, climaxing 0
Parents’ Weekend in the +
Page 10, The Ring-tum Phi, October 10, 1985

 

 

 

TT

D & a &
....Quite a quandary, this proposal
limiting colleges to participation in
one NCAA division across the board.
Kind of a case of ‘“‘We’re not gonna
take it anymore” from the full D-I
programs vs. ‘‘Don’t take away our
favorite toy” from the one-sport D-I
teams.

Let’s put the deal in its simplest
terms: The full scale D-I institutions
find it unfair to compete against those schools that compete in D-I in
just one sport, thereby allowing them to dump all their funding into
that one sport while the full-scale programs must distribute scholar-
ships and funding evenly to all their sports. These single-scholarship-
sport schools feel that they would be forced unnecessarily to lower
their level of competition, a level they have earned.

lhe problem is very real. Johns Hopkins would clearly feel left out
in the cold if it were forced to drop down to a lesser world of lacrosse in
Division IL. Randolph-Macon runs stellar programs in Division II
basketball and Division III football. Forcing the institution to make a
choice that would misplace one program or relegate an entire system
is certainly an unpleasant choice.

However, we are not dealing with what is unpleasant or difficult.
The pending legislation is aimed at clearing up a discrepancy in the
existing divisional setup. Situations like those existing at Hopkins and
Macon are the result of this fault, a fault that never should have ex-
isted

‘he gripe many have with the college game today is that athletes,
except in — fingers crossed? — Division III, are removed from the col-
legial experience. Certainly, it is a valid one. What is worse are
across-the-board Division III programs that are Division I. Here, they
have created a greater gap between the type of students as well as the
participatory type of athletic philosophy in Division III institutions.

(he scholarship athlete is restricted to participation in only the sport
he receives the scholarship in. )

lhe real problem is that multi-divisional status invites trouble by
altering a school’s athletic philosophy for a select few. Such a practice
is unnecessary complexity.

{t's a case of not-belonging. Hopkins must embrace Division III ful-
ly. And those schools that drop down to play D-III football when in fact
they are D-I institutions simply will have to be reoriented. Perhaps dif-
ficult, but necessary all the same.

At W&L, where the impact of such legislation is as great in its own
way, we can pass over all this hoo-ha about divisional status. We are
Division I in lacrosse in name only, not in practice (and here I refer to
scholarships). Therefore, the cost of a forced drop in divisional level is
merely a change of venue. It is not so much the loss of that elusive
brass ring of a Division I championship, but the gain of a new brass
ring. As well, it would serve to eliminate the annual banter about divi-
sional change and set the frame of reference toward athletic perfor-
mance and appreciation of that performance for its own sake....

..Coming home to the Colonnade it’s good to see that first impres-
sions aren't lasting as far as the W&L gridders are concerned. Could
be this =<greus is just coming into. its

own, which would make winning season No. 6 clock. Meanwhile, this
week’s Maryville affair is no easy pickins. ODAC’s best pass defense
W&L vs. ODAC’s best pass offense. It is my understanding to go with
defense in these situations... In polo, take note that the Richmond-
W&L goal difference has been cut in half...Good chance the cross coun-
try loss on Saturday was a fluke. Two top runners missed the race with
LSAT. They will be there at conference meet. Enough said....
....Weekend college suggestions: Texas over Oklahoma, Penn State
\big) over Alabama, Florida over Tennessee...Not only does Gerry
Faust’s coaching strategy escape Keith Jackson (’’These plays just
defy my logic’), but also they spell the rapidly approaching end of a
failed experiment at the Golden Dome. Candidates? God knows...
....Well, it’s that wily baseball playoff time of year. No guesses as to
who will do well, but I must say that the switch to seven games seems
to sound an awful lot like so much cash register noise to me...Speaking
of noise, Commissioner Ueberroth’s proclamations on ‘‘60 Minutes’”’
while punctuated in the right direction, are guaranteed to run into a
brick wall as far as Donald ‘‘And you thought Stephen King was
scary’ Fehr is concerned. Good thing for the commish that the public
is on his side. They also pay the checks...

...And, of course, the Redskins won on Monday night. Cut to Joe G.
Talking to Joe T.: ‘‘Now, how do we get the rest of the division to play

as bad as we did? Anyway, we got The Post off of our backs. Now,
about that punt....”’

TIME
OUT....

By Mike
Stachura

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
   

   
 
 

    
 

   
 

 
 

Valley True Value Hardware

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

  

E. Nelson St.

463-2186 Sun. 1-5

 

(703) 261-2373 NIGHT
(703) 463-2826 DAY

POPLAR HILL EXXON

24 HR. WRECKER SERVICE

Foreign & Domestic
Car Repair

ROUTE
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 244

 

  

Mon, - Sat. 8:30 - 6:00

ay

EXIT 51 ROUTE 60 1-81
#
50

 
 

  

A pair of 7s (Chip Landis, W&L; Charles Rynex, Messiah) battle for the ball

Messiah Falcons down Kickers, 1-0

 

By ROB MacPHERSON
Staff Reporter

 

It is only natural to assume that the
more support a team has, the better
its chances of winning. And heaven
knows that catching an occasional
lucky break never hurt anyone.

On Saturday, the Washington and
Lee soccer team could rely on neither
nature nor heaven in its efforts to
defeat the Falcons of Messiah Col-
lege.

Although they were never out of the
game, the Generals were unable to
generate enough offense and lost the
contest 1-0.

The W&L game plan of using all 11
men at both ends of the field was

SALE SALE

    
 
 
      

SALE SALE

SALE SALE SALE

   

SALE

   
 

SALE SALE SALE

 

1 a]

i

  
         
  
    
    
     
     

Books On Sale

20% to 50%
OFF Original Retail Price

Starts Friday,
October 11

W&L Bookstore

LE SALE SALE SALE SALE SALE SALE SALE

established early and enabled the
Generals to dominate the first half of
play. The crisp passing that was seen
in their previous two victories had
returned.

This meant that W&L would be
able to work the ball-control attack
that had been so successful earlier in
the season. The Generals did exactly
that for the majority of the first half
and regulated the offensive flow of
both teams.

Everything climaxed when, with
just four seconds left to halftime,
junior forward Ken Randby lofted a
beautiful cross into Messiah’s goai
mouth. Neither of the W&L players in
position to receive the ball, senior
Billy Holmes and freshman Johnny
Sarber, was able to score, and the

SALE SALE SALE SALE

     
 

J1VS 31VS

     
   
   

PPL Le Dk ME A A A A B'S

 

 

  

half ended in a 0-0 tie.

On the play, Sarber was knocked to
the ground by a Messiah player, yet
no penalty was called, Coach Rolf
Piranian questioned the call, but said
Tuesday that the officials told him
they did not see the play. Had an in-
fraction been called, W&L would
have had a penalty kick and an excel-
lent opportunity to take the lead.

The W&L team that took the field in
the second half was a perfect exam-
ple of a team that had just seen the
wind taken out of its sails. They im-
mediately relinquished control of the
game and at 37:57, Messiah junior
midfielder Doug Martin deposited
the ball just below the W&L crossbar,
thus completing the transition of mo-
mentum.

 

By David Sprunt

Messiah was now able to play
enough strong defense to keep the
Generals off the scoreboard, and
aside from a couple of Holmes’ long
throw-ins, the General’s offense was
done for the afternoon.

Despite the loss, Piranian praised
his players. ‘“‘Our kids played their
hearts out,”’ he said.

Commenting on the rest of the sea-
son he said, ‘“‘We have our sights on
improving to a position where we can
win.”

The Generals look to get back on
track with a Tennessee weekend road
trip. W&L plays the University of the
South in Sewanee on Friday after-
noon and then a conference contest
with Maryville on Saturday after-
noon.

 

   
 
 

116 N. Main St.

(across from Stop-in!)

H From
Animals to

G any way you letter it
E —we’ve got it all!!!

PODGE

  
 

The store every student needs!

D = Zoo goo...

Southern
Inn

Welcome
Students
Serving breakfast, lunch
and dinner for over

50 years
Main Street, Lexington

 

 

463-3612

 

 

Jill’s a Lady

126 S. Main St.

Come in and browse,
All famous name brands
in Jr. and Misses sizes

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

WELCOME ALUMNI

College “lown Shop

111 W. Nelson St.

We look forward to your visit and want to remind
you that we still have the largest selection of

e Sportscoats

¢ Suits by Corgin & J. Press

e Sero Oxford Shirts
e Dirty Bucks

e Unbelievable Tie Selection
e Duckhead & Ruffhenn Slacks
e Everything for your Gal—Sweaters,

Skirts & Dresses—

 

 

 

Dresses
Sweaters
Sportswear
Accessories

 

 

 

 

Llewellyn Lodge
at Lexington

A Bed and Breakfast
on Main Street, within
Walking distance of
The Historic District

463-3235

 

 
   
   
   
    
     
  
  

 
    
    
  
 

Oa aaa ara

‘ee ee setae ee,

Cwwwstoanwonan es anew hy

 

 

 
-

7

«

 

#BACK PAGES

The Ring-tum Phi, October 10, 1985

11

 

The Romantics: ’60s rock and ’80s style

Friday night pavilion concert promises to be
‘high powered rock-and-roll show’

CONCERTNOTES

By JOHN HAYWOOD
Music Critic

 

 

It will be ’60s rock and ’80s style
this weekend when the Romantics
and Picture This kickoff Homecom-
ing weekend Friday night at the Pav-
ilion.

The Romantics, who should deliver
their usual high-powered rock-and-
roll show. The ’60s style of the
Romantics has often been labeled
revisionalist instead of revivalist, but
the influence of ’60s bands, such as
the Rolling Stones and the Beatles,
shows clearly.

Formed in 1977, the Romantics
rose to national prominence in
1980 on the strength of their first

About You.’ Then came, in succes-
sion, the albums ‘“‘National Break-
out,’”’ “Strictly Personal,’ and “In
Heat.’”’ The success of the fourth
album in 1984, which included the hit
“Talking In your Sleep,”’ produced
the band’s first certified gold record,
and sent the band on its first major
our

The recently released follow-up to
“In Heat,” ‘Rhythm Romance,” has
failed to produce any hits, though
several tracks, including ‘‘Mysti-
fied’ and a remake of the Coasters’
“Poison Ivy’’ are worth listening for
this Friday.

Guitarist Wally Palmar now han-
dles all lead vocals, joined by bassist
Mike Skill, guitarist Coz Canler, and
new drummer and Detroit transplant
David Petratos. Seven of the 10

penned by the team of Palmar, Can-
ler and Skill.

Because the original members of
the Romantics grew up in Detroit,
the band’s roots lie deep in Motor Ci-
ty sounds. They were powerfully in-
fluenced by the sounds of Motown
and the original British Invasion, as
well as a host of local legends in-
cluding MC5, the Rationals, and the
Bob Seger System. The Detroit roots
still influence the band heavily, as
shown by the “Test of Time’’ track
from the recent album.

Despite the strong roots, the Ro-
mantics have failed to develop a
strong personality. This should be of
little concern, however, to the Home-
coming crowd. Romantic’s hits, such
as ‘‘What I Like About You,”’ are still
popular frat party fare, and the band
has retained its ability to produce an

stage. In addition, the band displays
seamless teamwork, powerfully re-
stating rock-and-roll themes and im-
ages.

“Picture This,’’ which was formed
six months ago and includes a former
member of the Phonecops, has a mo-
dern rock style. The band has recent-
ly been packing clubs, such as the
King’s Head in the Virginia Beach
area, and is beginning to perform at
area colleges. Picture This’ per-
formance should consist of mostly
original pieces because of their open-
ing act position, though this band
should not be missed. This will be a
good opportunity to see the true col-
ors of a band which is already sched-
uled to return later this year.

With Picture This followed by the
Romantics’ hour and fifteen minute
set, you'd better buy your ticket in
advance. You don’t want to be stand-

 

album and the hit single ‘‘What I Like

tracks on ‘“Rhythm Romance”’ were

absolute rock-and-roll

fervor on__ ing inline when this show starts.

 

CUISINESCENE

By JAMIE BERGER and CHRIS KOMOSA
Food Critics

 

 

Many times ever-upwardly-mobile Washington
and Lee gentlemen or ladies will find themselves
hungry, but unable to leave their penthouse
suites; whether due to intensive studying, or
possibly amorous activities. That is the time cur
W&L sophisticate will call for a delivered pizza.
Prepared to sacrifice our stomachs for the sake of
journalistic excellence, Chris and I decided to find
out which delivered pizza at W&L was the best
overall.

With our verification officer Walt Devine and
assistant referee Stephanie Smith, we placed sim-
ultaneous orders with Frank’s Pizza, Pizza Hut
and Domino’s at precisely 9:08 p.m. Sunday even-
ing. All the calls went through, but Pizza Hut had
the audacity to put us on hold. (Obviously they
didn’t know who was calling.) When they finally
deigned to speak with us, they told us they would
need to call us back at our number to verify our
order. Normally we would not mind this except
that the verification call would delay the making
of our pizza another 30 seconds. And as we all
know, when the W&L sophisticate is craving a
large with extra cheese and Iranian caviar, 30
seconds is an eternity.

Domino’s was the winner of the speed test,
clocked at a respectable 27 minutes, 23 seconds
from call to delivery. We only had a minute to
congratulate Robert the delivery man when
Frank’s arrived, timed at 28:38. Todd, a close se-
cond, was able to confirm that Frank’s is the only
pizza in Lexington made by real Italians and that
the dough is actually spun in the air. For the
status-conscious Mink, that could be a real plus.

Our éyes fixed longingly on the two pizzas; we
waited and waited for the Pizza Hut delivery to
come. After 30 minutes we called Pizza Hut to
make our own verification call. They told us the
delivery man had ‘‘just left,”’ which is the culinary
equivalent of ‘‘the check’s in the mail.’’ Finally,
after a whopping 45 minutes, 23 seconds, the Pizza

 

Putting take-out pizza to the test

Hut man jaunted into our room. We paid him and
slammed the door, because tardiness just isn’t re-
warded in the life on the razor’s edge of a pizza de-
liveryman. Chris noted that aside from Pizza Hut,
the only organization to employ such a dastardly
slow pizza delivery service was the Bast German
secret service, as a way of torturing dissidents.

The taste test was a blind one, with Stephanie
handing us the slices as we averted our eyes. Each
pizza ordered was half plain and half pepperoni
and onions, We would taste a slice of each pizza’s
plain half, then move on to the heavy stuff. We
decided to rate the pizzas on a scale of 10 to 20
since we had never met a pizza that wasn’t at least
a ten. The ratings were as follows:

Domino’s — The plain Domino’s pizza was quite
good. The crust was thick and chewy but there
wasn’t really enough cheese. The pizza was not at
all oily, which can be good or bad depending on
your preference. Another problem was the low
elasticity factor on the Domino’s. The elasticity
factor is when you bit into the pizza and a lot of
cheese strands stretch from your mouth to the piz-
za. A status symbol.

Jamie’s rating—16; Chris’ rating—17

The Domino’s with pepperoni and onion was also
consistently good. The pepperoni was good and
spicy, and best of all, on top of the pizza so you
could count them or pick them off and eat them.
(Although some social pariahs prefer their pep-
peroni under the cheese, I’ve always preferred it
being on the top.) The only problem was the gen-
eral sparsity of onions.

Jamie’s rating—18; Chris’ rating—16

Pizza Hut- At first, this pizza seemed like it
would be good due to a very high elasticity factor,
but, alas, we were tricked. The paper-thin crust
was pre-fab at best, tasting like a bad combination
of pie crust and corrugated cardboard. The cheese
was merely average. A good post-party pizza
when you couldn’t care less what you are eating.

Jamie’s rating—15; Chris’ rating—14

The Pizza Hut with onion and pepperoni won the
worst pizza of the night award. It was the same
bad crust with hardly any pepperoni or onions to

be found. And possibly worst of all, the pepperonis
were under the cheese.
Jamie’s rating—12; Chris’ rating—15

It was about halfway through our taste test that
we began to feel the effects of our sudden ingestion
of so much pizza. Mr. Komosa was even forced to
turn on the fan as the pizzas wreaked the gastro-
nomical equivalent of the Charge of the Light
Brigade. But even with bulging tummies, we
found the courage to finish the taste test.

Frank’s— This pizza rated the best with us in the
plain category. It was a thick, healthy pizza with a
lot of cheese. The crust was very good and the
sauce was mild without being bland. A real melt-
in-your-mouth pizza.

Jamie’s rating—18; Chris’ rating—18

Frank’s pizza with pepperoni and onions was
good, but there were some problems. It was
basically a messy, unevenly distributed pizza.
Chris’ slice had received all the pepperoni. My
slice, on the other hand, redefined the phrase
onion overkill. It had enough onions on it to keep
all but the most brave at bay for a 65-foot radius.

Jamie’s rating—17; Chris’ rating—19

Our one complaint with all three pizza com-
panies was that no napkins were provided. Chris
made quite a mess of himself, and we even had to
resort to using toilet paper to wipe our mouths.
(Some may find that appropriate. )

In taste, Frank’s seemed to be the winner, but
there was one more deciding factor. Twelve hours
later, at 9:33 Monday morning, I arrived at Chris’
room for the final test: the day-old pizza test. Ap-
prehensively, we opened the box, revealing a slice
of each pizza that had been left on the desk over-
night. After a careful tasting, we found that once
again Frank’s was the clear winner. The Frank’s
pizza still tasted fresh and chewy. The other two
did not fare as well, but neither was a clear second
or third place.

Mission accomplished, I had to hurry off for my
C-period class. As I walked down the hall towards
the stairs, though, I could have sworn I heard
Chris sigh to himself, ‘‘This job is hell, but some-
body’s got to do it.” Amen to that.

 

 

CRAFTS PLUS,

GAMES, HOBBIES & CRAFT SUPPLIES

Open Mon.-Sat., 10-5

31S. Main St., Lexington 463-3355

BEAUTY

       
     
  
    
     
     
    

hair care, hair cuts, color, or permanents.

107 W. Nelson St., Lexington

   
   

Buy The Phi

See Page 7

 

 

Handcrafted
Jewelry

Unique designs in silver, gold
and porcelain

Artist’s in Cahoots
Gallery

in Old Main St. Mall
at Main and Henry Streets
Mon,-Sat. 10 a.m, to5 p.m.

       
   
   
   
    

 

  

 

 

 

BOUTIQUE

We would like to invite new students to come in for complete

We also specialize in sculptured nails and manicures.

HOURS: OPERATORS:
Mon. through Fri. Mary, Ella Mae, Lynn
Evenings by appointment and Phyllis

BEAUTY BOUTIQUE

Visa

   

 

INC.

      
 
 
  

      

il,

mY

 
 

 

Tape Sale

TDK - D90 - $1.49
Maxell - UDXL2 - C90 - $2.49
Some restrictions apply
Eastern Distributing
463-9703 after 6 p.m.

Modern Dance

Technique Workshop

with
Cynthia Schrat-fletcher
Oct. 16-Dec. 1 1
Wednesdays, 6:30-8:00 p.m.
Call 463-4910 or 463-7444

 

 

 

 

 

463-2422

   

 

Come Play the Games At

The ‘“‘New” Gameroom

located in General Headquarters
Video, Games, Reconditioned Pool Tables, Ping Pong, ete.

Come get a release of energy and challenge yourself.

GENERAL

GHG

My. ye
Mg pauant®®

 

 

M/C

Aluin-Bennis
Welcome W&L Alumni

Alvin Dennis has expanded and invites you to
come in and view our fall clothing.

Our lines features:

Sero Shirts, Woolrich, Izod, and Dean’s Sweaters, Woolrich

outerwear, Dress Corduroys, Duckhead Khakis, Bass,

Clark & Topsider Shoes.

102 N. Washington St.

   

 

 

THE ROMANTICS
Coz Canler, Dave Petratos, Wally Palmar, Mike Skill

So don’t let their

new album fool you
MUSICNOTES

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Music Critic

 

You know, I really hate to do this.

What with the Romantics coming
into town tomorrow and everything,
it seems almost blasphemous to say
anything bad about them.

However, there is no getting
around it. Their new record,
“Rhythm Romance,’ is pretty
worthless.

Well, perhaps not completely
worthless. I suppose ‘‘innocuous’’
might be a nicer term. At any rate, I
sat and listened to this entire record,
and when it was over I said
something like, ‘‘What time is it?”

The album starts off with about as
standard a guitar riff as any Roman-
tics fan could ask for. I, personally,
did not ask for it.

This riff eventually turns into a
song called, ‘‘Let’s Get Started,”
which, in the event that I missed
something, could be the Overture to
this new Romantics Rock Opera.
Sounds like a pretty typical song to
me, though.

I guess ‘‘Mystified,”’ the next
track, is the single, since it steals its
bass line primarily from their last
hit, ‘Talking In Your Sleep.” If im-
itation is the sincerest form of flat-
tery, then quit flattering yourselves,
guys.

The rest of the record is full of in-
stantly forgettable tunes like ‘I Got
It If You Want It’’ and ‘Make It
Last.” (Actually, I really can’t quite

remember what I thought of the rest
of the record since all I hove in my
notes is something like ‘‘pfft!”’

If one is inclined to look, there are
some interesting things on this plat-
ter, though. For one, I’m willing to
bet anyone $50 that the Romantics
come up with the titles to their songs
before the music.

Here’s some more.

e‘‘Be My Everything” marks the
seventh time in their career that the
Romantics have rhymed the word
“chance” with ‘“‘romance.”’

eThey rhymed the word ‘‘mine”’
with the word ‘‘time’’ twice on this
record — in separate songs. They
rhymed ‘“‘time’’ with ‘‘kind’”’ twice,
as well — again in separate songs.

¢‘‘Never Thought It Would Be Like
This’ is particularly interesting
because it allows the listener a prime
opportunity to experience lead singer
Wally Palmer’s endearing lisp.
Check out this chorus: ‘Never
thought it would be like thith/Not like
thith, one look, one kith.’’ Yipes!

eThe addition of new drummer
David Petratos means that there are
only two original Romantics left.

And that just might be the pro-
blem. When the Romantics’ first
album came out, the gimmick was
that they sounded just like the early
Kinks. Now, however, they just
sound like one of those groups that
got bumped off the charts by the
Kinks back in 1964.

At any rate, I personally am still
going to the show and I am also going
to enjoy it. As stupid as they may
seem, they just might also be a whole
lot of fun.

 

presents

The Bomber

by

     

BRITISH KHAKI
by Robere Lighion

22 W. Nelson St.,
Lexington, Va.

 

M.C.-Visa
American Express

 

 

 

 

Frank’s Pizza

‘Best Pizza in Lexington”’
Free Delivery for

W&L Students
463-7575 or 463-3133

$1 OFF Large Pizza or
50° OF F Medium or Small

 

ek eee
—
—
—
 

Page 12, The Ring-tum Phi, October 10, 1985

 

Pee Wee: more than a stand-up comic

MOVIEREVIEW

By TIM McMAHON
Movie Critic

 

 

The age of the big-screen cartoon is
not dead; it just took Pee-Wee Her-
man to give it some new life. “Pee-
Wee’s Big Adventure’’ found its way
into movie theaters this summer and
put this off-beat comic squarely on
the map as one of America’s newest
stars. His world is surrealism and
satire and his movie is a success.

Anyone unfamiliar with Pee-Wee
might be put off by his quirky man-
nerisms and off-the-wall humor, but
once the audience’s initial shock
wears off, what the audience sees is a
talented and cerebral comic, a
grown-up child whose very life pokes
fun at popular trends of the last 30
years.

The movie, however, is not merely
a standup comic routine; it is a ‘‘big
adventure” that begins when Pee-
Wee’s most prized possession, his
bike, is stolen. He suspects his rich
neighbor Francis, but when Francis
denies any involvement in the crime,

Pee-Wee must turn to his assortment
of friends for help in his search. He is
so distraught, however, that he alie-
nates them and must continue the
quest on his own. This sets the stage
for his adventure as he sets off on a
cross-country search for his bike.

The script by Paul Hartman, Paul
Reubens and Michael Varhol is
brought wonderfully to life by direc-
tor Tim Burton. Pee-Wee’s world is

as much removed from our own as it
is a reflection of our stereotypes. It is
a child’s paradise with good and bad,
toys and magic tricks, and Speck the
dog. The only adults here are simple-
minded and friendly or devious and
evil.

The laughs come constantly. Some
are chuckles; some are roars; and
some are quite simply ‘‘I-can’t-
believe-I’m-laughing-at-this’’ ’s.

Some sequences, like his initial
search for his bike, start subtly and
then slap you in the face. Still, I defy
anyone to go to this movie and not
laugh

‘“‘Pee-Wee’s Big Adventure” is a
romp. It is farce. It could never be
considered a great motion picture,
but it is a good movie that I recom-
mend highly.

‘Compromising’ but not too heavy

Suppose your dentist was murder-
ed. Imagine news comes out that he
had had an affair with just about
every one of his patients but you. Pic-
ture evidence possibly linking one of
your neighbors to the killing, and one
of your friends as one of his frequent,
um, visitors. You’d find yourself, as
Susan Sarandon did, in ‘“‘Compromis-
ing Positions.”

Susan Isaacs adapted her book
about the murder of the lecherous
Long Island dentist Dr. Bruce Fleck-
stein to the screen and has given us a
refreshing, if sometimes slow, com-
edy/mystery story in suburbia.

Perhaps most refreshing is that her
hero is a heroine who has to loosen
the noose of stay-at-home mother-
hood to participate in the investiga-
tion of Fleckstein’s death.

Sarandon is the former-journalist-
turned-housewife who decides this
case is too big a story to pass up. She
bungles her way through the early
part of her investigation enough to
upset and gain the attentive eye of
the homicide lieutenant assigned to
the murder (Raul Julia). Together
they work to solve the mystery, much
to the chagrin of her staid husband

(Edward Herrmann, no relation to
Pee-Wee).

The script has dry humor and a de-
cent mystery to boot. Director Frank
Perry sets the pace a bit slow ‘in
spots, but creates two or three really
good moments of tension as the my-
stery winds its way to the end. And
Judith Ivey is given a number of
great lines as Sarandon’s wise-crack-
ing neighbor.

“Compromising Positions’ is not a
heavy movie by any means. It is,
however, entertaining and worth at
least a casual look.

—By Tim McMahon

School.

Hall.

 

 

ONCAMPUS

Thursday, October 10
2-8 p.m. — Career Symposium, University Center
7 p.m. — Journalism Films: ‘Housing Problems and
Room 203, Reid Hall. 4 :
7 p.m. — Politics Film: ‘‘All the King’s Men” Room 327, Commerce

8:15 p.m. — Glasgow Endowment Lecture: Reading by Guy Daven- 4
port. Northen Auditorium, University Library >

Lee Chapel. 4
11:30 a.m. - 1:15 p.m. — Pre-Game Luncheon. Adults: $5, Children: $3,
New Alumni Field. (Rain: Student Activity Pavilion). ’

1:30 p.m. — Football: Generals vs. Maryville

Friday, October 11 - Homecoming
4:15 p.m. — John Randolph Tucker Lecture: ‘Tax Dollars and the *
Idea of a University” Robert Stevens, President, Haverford College. 5
Moot Courtroom, Lewis Hall. i
5 p.m. — Concert: Eric Heinsohn '84 and Roger Day 85 acoustic :
guitarists. Lee Chapel Lawn. (Rain; GHQ)

Saturday October 12 - Homecoming ’
10:30 a.m. — Student Concert: Rob Viennau ’87, David Andrews '87, '
William Ranger '89, Brian Richardson '87, and Cathleen Tiernan '89. »

Tuesday, October 15 a8
7 & 9 p.m. — Journalism Film: “Tol’able David’ Room 203, Reid

Wednesday, October 16
9 p.m. — Wednesday in GHQ: Featuring ‘Locals Only.” Sponsored by
the Student Activities Board. Admission is $2.50.

~~

‘Man of Aran” ,

 

i

 

 

Wendy's. Not vali

FREE

hamburger,

chicken sandwich,

baked potato, or

Pr" ae

FREE

| 44 Ib. Single
fechas

with purchase of any hambu
! chicken sandwich, baked potato or

Garden spot" Salad Bar. Good at participating

with any other offer Please present coupon when
ordering. One coupon per customer Cheese. tomato, bacon extra and
tax extra where applicable.

OFFER EXPIRES: 10/20/85

i CHOOSE FREE. CHOOSE FRESH. CHOOSE WENDY'S. :

“Net weight before cooking

° ‘Net weight before cooking.

 

 

 

HAMBURGERS.

CHOOSE FREE. CHOOSE FRESH. CHOOSE WENDY’S..

 

 

 

A.
al Bes
ws

    

 

(Cuan

Wendy's. Not valid with any other offer Please present coupon when
ae a. ordering. One coupon per customer Cheese, tomato, bacon extra and
zi tax extra where applicable

FREE

    

*Net weight before cooking. |

OFFER EXPIRES: 10/20/85 u

CHOOSE FREE. CHOOSE FRESH. CHOOSE WENDY

r
S&®

1/4 lb. Single
Hemburget

with purchase of any

| 4 lb. Single
ger | Hambur

with purchase of any urg
i chicken sandwich, baked potato or jp
Garden Spot™ Salad Bar. Good at participating |

Ne

© 1985, Wendy's International, Inc. All rights reserved

It's a fresh, hot-off-the-grill offer from Wendy's.

 

Garden Spot Salad Bar.

And while you're wrapping your hands around this delicious offer—
remember that all Wendy's hamburgers are made fresh —never frozen
like those other burger places.

Fresh food. Fresh savings. The choice is even better when you
choose Wendy's.

=

 

 

‘MacGyver’

borders on
ridiculous »

’

TVREVIEW

:

 

By BILL HANNA
Staff Reporter '

 

“Hill Street Blues’? came back
from a poor premiere episode and
this week returned to the style that
has been a trademark of the show
since its beginning. Ve

The cnaracters were once again,
realistic and the crimes were believ-
able. The show left off where it usual’
ly did last year, with the viewer wons
dering what will happen in the next
episode. ;

There was another high point to’
last week’s line-up. ‘‘The Twilight:
Zone”’ on CBS is interesting and done
well enough to compare to the shows'
first run on television under the hand,
of Rod Serling from 1959 to 1964.

“The Twilight Zone”’ should also do
well in its Friday night 8 o’clock slot?
as some good pre-party entertain-,
ment.

Now for the disappointment of the’
week. I figured “‘“MacGyver’’ would,
be a good warm-up for the football
game Sunday night. Both were on’
ABC so the energy needed to change;

the channel could be saved. ;

The plot of the show consisted of an
evil Southeast Asian drug farmer’
forcing people to take care of his?
crops. MacGyver, who is on a mis-
sion to recover some a cannister of
toxic gas from a downed plane for the +

Army, stumbles into the camp. ;

He then convinces the villagers to
revolt against their captor. The show
vame down to the exciting climax *”
and MacGyver employs the skills he ;
had learned in Army special forces
and used ordinary objects to set up a *
defense. The most impressive part of ,
his plan was using a flare, tire and a
jeep to build a bomb. ’

His plan invariably works and *
MacGyver is left to catch the villian ,
as he attempts to fly away in his heli-
copter. MacGyver attaches the hook '
from a hand winch connected to a
jeep and cranks down the helicopter
by himself. '

This sort of heroism, especially the ,
winch segment, is ridiculous. Nobody
could take the scenes or the show ?
seriously with actions obviously im-
probable, if not impossible.

From what I’ve seen of ‘Amazing '
Stories” on NBC and ‘‘MacGyver’’ on
ABC, CBS should clean up on the Sun-
day night 8-9 ratings with ‘“‘Murder,
She Wrote.”

Now for some of the week’s spec-
ials. “Rio Grande’ starring John ¢
Wayne comes on WTBS at 10:05 Sat-
urday morning for something to do '
before the tailgate parties. ;

‘The Deer Hunter” also comes on
Saturday night at 11. Even if you stay :
out late, you can probably catch the 4
end of this 4-hour production.

On Sunday afternoon at 2, channel
13 has the classic, “The African +
Queen” starring Humphrey Bogart
and Katherine Hepburn.

Charles Bronson fans also have one
of his classics on Sunday afternoon.
Channel 5 will broadcast ‘The Me-
chanic’’ at 4,

There isn’t much else out of the or-
dinary going on for the rest of the
week aside from Burt Reynolds mov-
les Monday through Thursday on
channel 12. Shown will be ‘The
End,” “Fuzz,’’ ‘Semi-Tough” and
“White Lightning.”

One last bit of news for anyone
tired of the announcing during the
ABC Monday Night Football games,
and any other night they may be on.
ABC is continuing in its efforts to pull
John Madden away from CBS to liven
up the ABC coverage

 

 
 

“at

v*

-
me -

.

 

 

 

Sports

 

Panel turns down

NCAA proposal
Page 6

VOLUME 85, NUMBER 6

 

  
    

 

 

 

Delegate race
Candidates square

off in debate

 

Page 3

 
  
   

 

 

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Your weekend weather

Partly cloudy all weekend with
temperatures in the low 70s

 

King-tum Phi

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

OCTOBER 17, 1985

 

 

General
Notes

 

Get a job

The Career Development and
Placement Office plans to offer
businesses and alumni a book of
resumes in an effort to increase
the number and variety of jobs
available to Washington and Lee
seniors. There will be sections for

all disciplines and an indication of Dr. Joseph L. Goldstein, who on v Editorial, page 2.

regional preferences. Monday was named co-winner of the ~ Discovery diagrams, page 4.
If you wish your resume includ- 1985 Nobel Prize in medicine, is a ~ Goldstein biography, page 4.

ed in the book, it must be finished 1962 Washington and Lee graduate ~ Hanna meets winner, page 4.

and into the University Center Of- remembered by his professors and Plagiarism prize?, page 4.

fice by Oct. 25. classmates as a campus leader who

Soviet cinema

“The Cranes Are Flying,” a
1957 film directed by Mikhail
Kalatozov, will be shown Friday
at 7 p.m. in Room 327 of the Com-
merce School. A winner at Can-
nes, this marked the Soviet ‘‘new
wave” after Stalin, in which Rus-
sian cinema became more ‘‘West-
ern” in theme and content, yet
revived its earlier revolutionary
penchant for cinema to graphic
experimentation. It is best sym-
bolized by the most breathtaking

  

By MIKE ALLEN
Executive Editor

wins Nobe

 

Inside...

 

    

was involved in numerous activities
at the same time he was racking up a
4.0 grade-point average as a pre-
medical student.

The Dallas resident and his part-
ner, Dr. Michael S. Brown, were
honored by the Nobel Institute of
Stockholm, Sweden, for the team’s
work at the University of Texas that
has led to advances in the treatment
and prevention of hardening of the
arteries.

Goldstein, 45, was class valedic-
torian, Calyx editor, a Zeta Beta Tau
officer and recipient of a slew of

     
   
     

 

Phi Eta Sigma.

“You can’t beat that, can you?”
said James H. Starling, an emeritus
biology professor who was Gold-
stein’s academic adviser, after reel-
ing off a list of his student’s awards
and offices.

“Pre-medical students had their
minds on getting into medical
school...and to hell with the rest of
it,’ Starling said. ‘‘But he did the rest
of it...He’s one of the smartest boys
that’s been through W&L.”’

Goldstein was awakened with the

 

death scene ever filmed in mon-

University of Texas Health Science Center at Dallas

honors and prizes, including Phi Beta

 

tage. This film also marks the
debut of Russia’s first interna-
tional film starlet. Bring your
date and your handkerchief.

SR-C and SRO

Sophie Roper-Curzon, the vc-
cent winner of the British Piano
Makers’ trophy for the outstan-
ding young pianist in Great Bri-
tian, will make her American
debut in a concert at Lee Chapel
at 8 p.m. tonight.

United effort

The second annual United Way
Concert, organized by the Delta
Tau Delta fraternity, will be held
in the General Headquarters
Tavern on Friday, Oct. 25 at 8
p.m. The concert, featuring sever-
al Washington and Lee graduates,
will include music by Tim Eddy,
Wildgrass, Heinsohn and Day,
Rooster Ruley and the New Grass
Connection, and the Stains. There
is a $3 cover charge. All the musi-
cians are donating their time, so
all proceeds will go to the local
United Way Chapter.

Caps for cash

The baseball team has royal
blue mesh and pro-style baseball
caps for sale. Contact any base-
ball team member or Coach Mur-
dock in Warner Center.

Make your day

The Student Activities Board
will sponsor a Clint East-
wood/‘‘Dirty Harry’’ Film Festi-
val this Thursday, Friday and
Sunday nights in Room 108 of the
Student Center. ‘Magnum Force’’
will be shown at 7 p.m. Thursday
and Sunday and 9:30 on Friday.
“The Enforcer” will be shown at
9:30 Thursday and Sunday and 7
on Friday. Admission is $2.

Radio gaga

WLUR-FM (91.5) will broadcast
Washington and Lee’s Saturday
football game from Hampden-
Sydney College in Farmville

beginning at 1:30 p.m.

Poems and stuff

Ariel, the literary magazine of
Washington and Lee, is now ac-
cepting art and literature for the
fall issue. Work may be submitted
to Carol Calkins in Room 104 of the
University Center. For more in-
formation, please contact Bob
Strickland at 463-9815.

General info

“General Notes’’ are run as a
public service by The Ring-tum
Phi. To publicize your non-profit
organization’s event, fill out a
“General Notes’ request form
and return it to the Ring-tum Phi
mailbox, upstairs in the Universi-
ty Center, by 1 p.m. Tuesday of
the week it is to be run. Forms are
available in Carol Calkins’ office
(Carole Chappell’s old office) in
the University Center.

Joseph L. Goldstein, Class of ’62 (left), and Michael S. Brown work in their Dallas lab

50 percent of freshman class pledge fraternities

 

By JIM STRADER
News Editor

 

This year’s percentage of freshmen men who
pledged fraternities dropped to 62 percent from
last year, and for the entire freshman class the
figure was 50 percent, according to Interfrater-
nity Council President Jaimie Hayne.

The figures, which the IFC released Tues-
day, show individual fraternities’ pledges
ranging from 24 for Phi Delta Theta to two for
Sigma Phi Epsilon.

At this time last year, 70 percent of the
freshmen had pledged a fraternity. That figure

“ pepresented’a jump-from .63--percent the pre~

vious year.

Of the 315 men in the freshman class, 288
registered for and participated in Rush, said
Sam Svalina, IFC Rush chairman. He added
that within that group, 197 pledged a fraternity.
Those numbers break down to these percen-
tages: 92 percent of the freshmen men regis-
tered for Rush, and 68 percent of the rushees —
or 62 percent of the freshmen men and 50 per-
cent of the class — pledged a fraternity.

The total number pledging fraternities fell
from 265 last year to 197 this year, the first year
of coeducation.

Phi Delta. Theta. reported 24 pledges. last
week, Sigma Nu, 23; Phi Kappa Sigma, 21; and
Phi Kappa Psi, 15. Sigma Alpha Epsilon has 14
pledges, Kappa Alpha has 13, and Chi Psi, Pi
Kappa Alpha and Sigma Chi are tied with 12.

Kappa Sigma has 11 pledges, Pi Kappa Phi
nine, and Lambda Chi Alpha eight. Delta Tau
Delta and Zeta Beta Tau reported six, Phi
Gamma Delta five, Beta Theta Pi four, and
Sigma Phi Epsilon two.

While these numbers do not represent a drop
from last year, Hayne said the IFC had hoped
the percentage of men that joined fraternities
would increase this year.

Last year’s Rush was shortened from pre-

Kappa, Omicron Delta Kappa and

 

 

Misspellings on ballots prompt
reruns of two freshman elections

 

By JASON LISI
Staff Reporter

 

Two misspelled names on the
ballots for freshman elections forced
a rerunning of elections for two of-
fices yesterday, in order to have the
results ready for today’s runoffs.

Freshman Executive Committee
candidate Abb Jones and University
Council candidate Rosalyn Thomp-
son appeared as Art Jones and
Rosalyn Thomas in their respective
sections on the ballots used in Mon-
day’s election.

They protested the results of the
elections to the EC Monday night,
and the committee decided to rerun
those two races.

In Wednesday’s reruns, neither of
the protestors gained enough votes to
get into today’s runoffs, which are
limited to the top two vote-getters.

To add to the confusion, two can-
didates who made the runoffs Mon-

day were forced out in the re-
elections, sparking further cries of
foul.

In the race for EC representative,
Matt Bryant and E. Wright Ledbetter
participated in today’s runoff, and
Gregory Dale and Frank Sands made
the UC runoff.

Ledbetter and Dale bounced Mark
Newman and Anne Geary out of the
runoffs they had made in Monday’s
balloting. Both Newman and Geary
were within seven votes of the
runoffs in the rerun election.

Newman has voiced his complaints
to the EC, which decided to let the
runoffs stand as they are now.

“They handled it very poorly,”
Newman said of the EC and the
Voting Regulations Board last night.

“T don’t think misspelling his first
name would make much difference,”’
he said.

When asked what he will do about
the situation, Newman said, ‘I’m
not going to whine and complain as

Campaigns cover campus
in the year of 1,000 posters

 

By HOLLY WILLIAMS
Staff Reporter

 

The reason for the Voting Regula-
tions Board’s rules on campaign
posters became evident this week,
when the 50 candidates for freshman
offices each put up 20 posters around
eampus

The posters were limited to legal-
size and could be hung only in Davis,
Gilliam and Graham-Lees dormitor-
ies and Evans Dining Hall. Cam-
paign expenditures were limited to
$20 per candidate,

According to VRB Chairman John
Scannapieco, when there are no
regulations, ‘some candidates spend
extreme amounts of money and the

campus looks like a litterbag.””’

“The same with bed sheets,”’ he
said. “It doesn’t do the school any
good. And 20 posters are more than
adequate to get the message across. ”’

In fact, the record-breaking par-
ticipation of this freshman class may
prompt reexamination of the current
limit, as upperclassmen have observ-
ed that the campus does resemble a
litterbag.

The elections, which were held
Monday, were for the offices of Ex-
ecutive Committee and University
Council representatives, class presi-
dent and class vice president.

‘I’ve never seen this many run,”

See Posters, Page 5

(See Nobel, Page 4

vious years and this year Rush followed a simi-
lar Schedule.

“Last year was a strange year,”’ Hayne said
““Because Rush was not as long as it was two
years ago, I think there was apprehension
about making a quick decision.”’

Hayne said the shortened schedule may have
prevented the percentages of freshmen pledg-
ing fraternities from rising.

Hayne said that he has no figures from pre-
vious years about the number of freshmen that
waited to pledge or were still looking at frater-
nities, but said he thinks the houses who had a
slow starts this year will probably pick up
some of the stragglers later on this year.

 

others did.”’

In the races for class officers Mon-
day, Mike Forrester and John
Hamilton made the runoff for presi-
dent and Ross Singletary and Tom
West made it for vice president.

Monday’s election was marked by
a huge 80 percent turnout. Last
year’s freshman elections had a turn-
out of 51 percent.

Jones, who came in eighth out of 22
in the EC election, presented his rea-
sons for his request for a re-election
by saying that he had spoken to ‘‘at
least 10 people’ who had mentioned
that they would have voted for him if
they had seen his name on the ballot.

John Scannapieco, chairman of the
VRB, opposed a rerunning of the
election because he felt the voting
wouldn't change significantly.

“T don’t think enough votes would
swing to Abb Jones,”’ he said.

Bryant’s winning total was 36 votes
and Newman’s was 26. Jones finished
eighth with 17 votes,

‘“‘We did make a mistake,’’ Scan-
napieco said, but added the VRB had
voted and decided not to rerun the
election, one of the reasons being that
there was little important difference
between the names Abb and Art.

Jones said that since his last name
was so common he was relying on his
unusual first nan.e to help him stand
out in the minds of voters.

Senior EC Representative Pat
Hayden stated his opposition to a re-
election by citing the fact that
although some people may have told
Jones they would have voted for him,
any politician knows that that is an
unreliable vote

In the UC race, Thompson came in
third with 33 votes, just three votes
out of the runoff. The committee felt
that her case was more clear than
Jones’, and that she should either get
a re-election or be placed automati-
cally in the runoff

President John Lewis made a mo-
tion that both elections be re-run
yesterday, and it passed 10-1, with
Hayden against

 

 

 

 

Vy
wt

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Ph

Good chemistry?

Washington and Lee’s 1985 Homecoming Qyeen Ellen Satterwhite kisses
chemistry Professor Keith Shillington at halftime of the Generals’ football
game against Maryville College. For a story on Satterwhite and her court,
see Page 5. Also, details of the 42-17 victory over Maryville appear on Page 6

 
OPINION

The Ring-tum Phi, October 17, 1985

 

Shelf sex

Ah, the perks of being a member of the ranks of academia.
Professors can set their own schedules, rise late, write
scholarly works on the side for journals of intellectual
thought and receive the praises and kudos of their peers for
work well done.

But this last bastion of the leisured class must also have its
pitfalls. The nights spent trying to decipher Johnny’s and
Joan’s scribblings on the last exam, listening to the whinings
of countless students who cannot possibly take tests on the
assigned day because it is Aunt Josephine’s birthday (sorry,
the excuse just doesn’t fly), and praying that the request for
a sabbatical next term will be returned with ‘‘Granted”’ writ-
ten atop the paper.

Where can a professor find peace? Surely not in the latest
work on Kierkegaard’s last thought or the stirring article in
the last science journal that claims quarks do not exist.
Rather, according to the newest addition to publications at
Washington and Lee, Colonnade, a ‘“‘W&L Faculty-Staff
Newsletter,” faculty who are interested in seeking intellec-
tual repose may do so by searching the ‘McNaughton Shelf
(otherwise known as the Sex and Violence shelf!) in the library.”
(Quote theirs; emphasis ours). Ah, so they like that kinky
stuff. Marquis de Sade, Sheldon, Collins, Jong, and the other
novelists of those books with covers most suggesting? Really,
I expected more of the faculty than that. At least they could
include Barbara Cartland.

So the library considers some shelves within its walls to be
worthy of such titles. I have no problem with that. Just be
sure to let the students know when you get in the latest slap
and tickle volumes so we too can enjoy ‘‘sex and violence”’ in
the library. See you there, faculty. I hope this doesn’t consti-
tute sexual harassment.

—NRP

A Nobel effort

Washington and Lee made national news this week — and it
wasn’t even about coeducation.

Now that’s progress.

Early Monday, word leapt through Lexington that one of
our own — a fellow Traveler — had attained the medical
mecca, the academic acme: the Nobel Prize.

Never had Norse code been as clear: The studs in Stock-
holm had smiled on Washington and Lee — alma mater to the
king of cholesterol, the archduke of arteries. Like the jubilant
father in the delivery room, we looked proud enough to have
done it ourselves.

While it’s true that we actually don’t get even a milligram
of the medal to gloat over, still we feel that somehow a part of
it is ours — an Oscar by osmosis, gilt by association.

Appropriately chastening in our orgy of pride, then, was
the headline that greeted us when, bleary-eyed and gripping
toast slathered with cholesterol, we pawed through Tuesday
morning’s Washington Post.

“School Basks in Nobel Win,” the type trumpeted.
It was referring to the University of Texas.

Gulp. We're left feeling a bit like the poor bloke who sold
Shakespeare notebook paper.

This fleeting vortex of visibility, though, has the potential
for being a stupendous shot in the arm for Washington and
Lee in its ongoing effort to burnish its cachet of quality, its
mantle of merit.

Think of it as manna from Sweden.

A top-flight national reputation for General Lee’s college
isn’t out of reach — as long as it isn’t out of mind. We aren’t
there yet, but we’ve taken some crucial steps in that direc-
tion, and have among us many with a bold, unwavering com-
mitment to that vision.

The Nobel notoriety could be the start of something
awesome.

Strike that.

It could be the continuation of something awesome.

Hike the tax

Two weeks ago, organizations made their pleas before the
Executive Committee for student body funds for the year. No
request escaped the cutting edge of the EC’s budget subcom-
mittee. The proposed allotments for over $150,000 were pared
to under the nearly $100,000 limit. It was no easy task.

No budget was in perfect form when it was submitted to the
EC. There was, as there always is, room for cutting. But cut-
ting and cutting until a limit is reached is neither necessary

&

ce

a Ench Kiss burned...”
l

  
      
   

“Additions to ‘Sex

Faculty-staff newsletter headline:

 

A"
1 ye acreDne

ia, OT "The body leaked
fll Ps 7a as foun “a
Me ig Uy Yat 4
Bsy &e “ e te
Ove ny 7 hg shy

and Violence’ shelf in library.”’

Sti ©
TT +: fF =
ee o- nan names -

 

 

 

MY VIEW

By John Pensec

 

Students who feel that their pro-
fessors are a little too liberal now
have a place to turn. There is an
organization in Washington that
wants students to notify them of
any questionable teaching on the
part of their professors. The name
of this self-styled public service
organization is Accuracy in Aca-
demia.

Accuracy in Academia was set
up about six weeks ago as an off-
spring of Accuracy in Media. The
group hopes to notify the taxpay-
ers of these objectionable teach-
ings through a newsletter. To
date, no publication has been
printed.

What they are hoping to hear
are examples of propaganda, in-
doctrination and misinformation.
These terms seem too strong, and
they have dangerous implica-
tions. One would expect a profes-
sor of attempting to brainwash a
student. I have trouble accepting
that.

Another thing that does not sit
well is the title of the organization.
Who decides what is accurate, and
what criteria do they use? Les
Csorba of the agency used the
term ‘“‘propaganda,”’ but what one
person terms propaganda is
another person’s belief. AIA
claims to want to make the class-
room an open forum where ideas
can be debated. Aren’t they
hindering that by determining
what is proper and what is not. Do
they have a right to do that?

After receiving information
from a student, the agency will
contact the particular professor
and hear his version of the story.
If it turns out that the student took
something out of context, the mat-
ter is dropped. Otherwise, the pro-
fessor’s name and teachings may
be used in a newsletter. Such
publicity would have adverse ef-

 

fects on the professor.

 

No filters for
classroom bias

It is interesting to note that at no
time does the student have to iden-
tify himself. The agency encour-
ages him to, but there is no obliga-
tion. In the preliminary stages of
an investigation, anonymity is not
bad. If, however, there will be
publication of the incident, I be-
lieve it is in the best interest of the
agency and the professor to re-
lease the name of the student.
Otherwise it could turn into an
honor trial, where the defendant
can be tried and convicted without
knowing his accuser.

I can agree with the basic prin-
ciple of Accuracy in Academia.
Classrooms should be open to de-
bate. They should become a place
of learning for both the students
and tbe professors. If, however, a
teacher presents an opinion that is
contrary to that held by the stu-
dents, the student can report him.
What can the professor do? He
was doing his job by attempting to
open the eyes of the student. If
they are blind to that, what is to
happen?

According to Csorba, no one at
Washington and Lee has been re-
ported. I am glad. It would be a
sad day here at the University
when a student felt that he could
not confront his professor.

There are problems at every
school. If there weren’t the school
would not go anywhere. Problems
force people to examine a situa-
tion and improve upon it. That is
the way schools and people grow.
But any rough edges should be
worked out within the confines of
the educational institution. To do
otherwise is asking for trouble. It
would almost be like asking one
small group of people to deter-
mine, according to their value
system, what should and should
not be taught in our schools.

I was told that Accuracy in
Academia has received many let-
ters in praise of its operations.
There have probably been enough
to fill several garbage cans. That
is where they belong. Let’s leave
the business of education, and all
the problems that come with it, to
the schools.

Captain America

HIS PARENTS WERE ALWAYS TELLING
HIM HIS STAR WARS WAS TOO EXPENSIVE.

I'M GOING TO
WPL WHERE THEY DON'T

THE CAPTAIN DECIDED TO RUN AWAY
FROM HOME.

r

 

 

 

 

 

PAST MARS...
JUPITER...

 

 

Debater ‘bugged’ by

‘uninspired’ article

To the Editors:

evident; that of Mr. Bugg is some-

We?
foiews wear \ AROUND HERE Sri \ |

Che Ring-tum Phi

 

 

 

 

j i i WeaeaGes  .. e hawa era is Mika Klien 4
_— wn nt. Nor should every group receive every penny it re- Th b oe what more difficult to discern. SS ee eo ON .. Paul F sink ’ 4
Mees. e piece by your reporter sean Richard Graves Cotton Puryear '
. =e : Bugg titled “British debaters blast Class of '87 Managing Editor .... Reade Williams 4
Many organizations, needless to say, were a bit upset by ys. missiles” was a real gem. His sports Edler, vas ~ Mik Stach j
the low funds they received. Some groups had worthwhile re- _ rather uninspired account of that : aac amiies ae ‘
quests that, because of insufficient funds, went ungranted. lively contest was no doubt the result Corrections ee Jim Strader a
ee : of his not having attended — or let us Cartoonist... . «+ Chris Bowring
Last year, we thought the student activities tax did not hope that was the case. How else - a 28 >
need to be raised, despite the Board of Trustees’ recommen- _ could he have claimed that gees mente Bed - bo Advertsing Manage asia
dation to the contrary. This year, the budget process showed ee aaeth —_ = . =< = sauiink tata en I onaaier slanen Advertising Salesmen . ++ Keri Hinrichs
. : ‘ + ‘ : Mg oude
that a tax increase might be necessary. Just a $5increase inf. ider our opponents’ keen wit, | from the Athletic Department. Aion

the student tax would bring in $8,500 in additional money, jt Lock had no opportunity to doso, | Last week's Ring-tum Phi incor-

Jay Reville

enough to cover the budgets allowed for the Political Review, as he had no speeches following | Tectly reported that three other | | 7¥: hingw thiispunianed ever Turade during ihe undergraduate schol ear
Ariel, Mock Convention, Independent Union, MSA, Film Soc- __ mine. To err is human, but Bugg’s clubs also had that option. denne privity irom bverilsing sad bom 3 partion cf ote eee Pw
iety Fencing Team. and the International Club for this year. next snafu is divine: He supported Due to an editing error, last Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring es Pa
A tas ‘ Po . ified ially to meet his incorrect statement with a quote week’s issue misidentified the is otherwise independent SS J

X raise Seems imminent and justi 1e ’ especi y snipped out of context from one of my Snack Bar manager. He is Ri- Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 200 of

 

 

the requests for many groups next year. We hope the EC and
The Board of Trustees will consider such a move.

the Student Center, by 5 p.m, Tuesday of the week they are to be run. Thi

own speeches! The professionalism chard L. Armstrong. oa -ee new

of our opponents in that debate was

Paper

 

 

 
NEWS

The Ring-tum Phi, October 17, 1985

 

Four clubs
give practice
in languages

By DEBORAH HATTES
Staff Reporter

 

Students who want to use their
foreign language skills outside the
classroom have several clubs to help
them accomplish this.

Four language clubs are preparing
for this year’s activities — the Chi-
nese-Japanese Club, the French
Club, the German Club and the Span-
ish Club.

The Chinese-Japanese Club is ‘‘not
really a formal one, but it’s for peo-
ple interested in Asian countries,”
two founding members, George
Chang of Hong Kong and Yukie Kuri-
hara of Japan, said.

The club hopes to promote the ex-
change of information about differ-
ent cultures among the three stu-
dents from Hong Kong, four from Ja-
pan, and other students on campus.

Although there is no formal French
Club, students are meeting on Wed-
nesdays from 4 to 5 p.m. in the Gen-
eral Headquarters tavern to practice
speaking, Professor Adoracion Cam
pis said.

Tim Thomas, president of the In-
ternational Club, is helping organize
the German Club this year,

Kirk Follo, a German professor
and the club’s adviser, said, ‘‘It’s go-
ing to be very informal.”’

“The group has been in existence
for two to three years now, and has
been composed mainly of students
who have come back from Germany
and who want to keep their German
current,” Follo said.

The Spanish Club had its first
meeting Tuesday, and seven people
attended.

Paul Vail, a junior, hopes more
people will come, and he wants the
club to remain casual.

The club plans to meet every week
on Tuesdays from 4:30 to 6 p.m. at
the Alumni House.

 

 

The campaign trail

Republican gubernatorial candidate Wyatt Durrette
(center) shakes hands with senior Gerald Shepherd at
Saturday’s tailgate party before the Homecoming foot-

By W. Patrick Hinely/W&L

ball game. Durrette graduated from Virginia Military
Institute and the Washington and Lee Law School in
1964. On the right is Jim Jones, a 1977 W&L graduate.

Girard given
work release

 

By PAUL FOUTCH
Editor

 

Senior Gene Girard has been plac-
ed in the Rockbridge County Jail’s
work release program after Circuit
Judge George E. Honts III said he
had no objection to Girard being out
of jail during the day.

Honts’ decision, which came in a
hearing last Wednesday, put the final
decision of whether Girard would be
on the work release program in the
hands of Sherrif S.M. Reynolds, who
runs the county jail

Reynolds said yesterday that
Girard is being released each work-
day from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. and on
Saturdays when necessary.

Girard’s lawyer’ Laurence Mann,
filed a motion asking for work
release for Girard, who pleaded guil-
ty in Augu.st to cocaine possession

and received a six-month sentence

Girard has about four months left
in jail. He is still registered as a stu-
dent at Washington and Lee, where
he was a star running back for the
football team.

Mann said Girard’s time on work
release will include working on a
thesis for W&L and on Access, a local
public service program that locates
areas that need to be modified for ac-
cessibility for the handicapped

“That was a prerequisite’’ for the
work release, Mann said.

Honts said in his ruling that work
release for Girard would be in line
with similar cases involving stu-
dents.

Clerk of Court Bruce Patterson
said, ‘‘He is of the opinion that once
he’s in jail, it’s up to the sheriff
whether or not he lets him out on
work release.”’

EC finishes budget matters with $400 adjustment

 

By JASON LISI
Staff Reporter

 

Although the Executive Committee
Monday voted to increase the budget
allocation for one organization, it
declined to increase the budget for
the Film Society, whose advocates
had complained to the EC about its
allocation.

The EC voted to reduce the $2,400
allocation for the Ariel, Washington
and Lee’s literary magazine, to
$2,000 and give the extra $400 to the
Mock Convention. The reason for the
increase in the budget of the Mock

Convention, which is in the planning
stages for 1988, was to counter last
year’s $366 debt that was not report-
ed with the budget request.

EC President John Lewis said he
had received letters protesting the
Film Society’s allocation of $1,000 in-
stead of the $1,600 requested.

“We didn’t cut them as much as
some of the others,”’ Vice President
Andrew Caruthers noted.

He commented that the Film Socie-
ty was “‘very successful and very
good,’’ but he objected to the socie-
ty’s policy of paying projectionists
$20 a night for setting up the film for
viewing.

Delegate challenges opponent’s

 

By CHRISTOPHER DEIGHAN
News Editor

 

The Amherst School Board vice-
chairman who is challenging Repub-
lican Delegate Vance Wilkins Jr. for
the chance to represent Virginia’s
24th District declined at a public
meeting Tuesday to offer an ex-
planation of why his locality was one
of only two in the state to deny its
school teachers a 10 percent raise
this year.

Democrat Dennis Brown met Wil-
kins in Virginia Military Institute’s
LeJeune Hall Tuesday evening for a
question-and-answer session, which
the League of Women Voters spon-
sored.

Brown ‘has been on the school
board for six or seven years, and he
has not developed enough rapport
with the [Amherst County] super-
visors, or at least three of them — a
fair majority — to get them to put the
money where he wanted them to put
it,” Wilkins said in his opening state-
ment.

Brown made newspaper headlines
when he accused Wilkins of being
responsible for the Amherst County
supervisors’ decision to withhold
from the county’s schocl board part
of the money that was to pay for the
higher salaries of its teachers.

‘*Now I think the school board may
have played a few games with the
supervisors and got the supervisors a
little upset,’’ Wilkins said. ‘‘And the
supervisors decided not to put all the
money we sent them from Richmond.

“Mr. Brown says that somehow for
some reason because I didn’t speak
up soon enough that it was my fault. I
showed a lack of leadership,’’ Wil-
kins said. Brown’s role in the situa-
tion has to be put in perspective, he

suggested.

Wilkins then offered his opponent
the chance to answer his questions in
place of his prepared opening state-
ment.

Brown declined the offer and in-
stead outlined his reasons for seeking
office.

“Tt want to bring to this office a
positive and aggressive approach to
government,”’ Brown read from his
statement.

A “philosophical concern that
things should be done in a different
manner to achieve the best results
possible for all those involved’ is one
of the bases for his campaign, he
said. ‘“‘When I personally do not
agree with a certain situation or how
something is done, I either need to
get involved with it or keep quiet.”’

“I want the people of my district to
know who I am,” Brown said. “‘AndI
honestly and sincerely want to know
their feelings. I want to provide

responsive answers to their ques-
tions.”’ :

In response to. the question of
whether school board. members
should be elected or appointed,
Brown said, “I have no problem with
elected school board members under
one condition. And that condition is
that if I as a school board member
am elected then I would have the
power to tax. That provision must be
made,”’ he said.

Wilkins said localities should be
able to pick which form of selection
to use.

Annexation laws, as they are now
written, are no good, Wilkins said in
response to one question. The legal
process is too expensive, he said.
Also, the people who are most direct-
ly affected have no input in the deci-
sion process.

Brown said he favors the non-politi-
cal and objective features that the
annexation laws have. But he said
some people are making a lot of
money as the process now operates,
and therefore the laws may need
modification.

The Virginia commission on the
status of women has existed for five
or six years, and has usually had a
budget of about $40,000. This year,
the commission’s budget is $84,000.

‘As far as I can see, they’ve pro-
duced a couple of handbooks, a few
pamphlets, and have gone to a few

“We are paying a projectionist to
push a button and watch a movie,”’ he
said and went on to suggest that the
group should adopt a policy to havea
student start the film if he would be
watching it anyway. “‘I think that so-
meone would be more than happy to
push the button and watch the
movie,”’ he said.

Discussion continued about student
attendance at the films. Caruthers
said professors and townspeople are
the majority of the users of the Film
Society.

“The students aren’t using it,’’ he
said.

record

meetings ... and have done little

_, @lse,’’ Wilkins said. ‘‘I think there are
_ probably more important places we

can put our money.”’

Wilkins also said that Virginia does
not discriminate against women in
state government. In fact, women
have the advantage because they are
the majority of the population, he
said. ‘‘They can speak for them-
selves, and they can take care of
themselves.”

Brown said the top priority of the
issue should be eliminating wage
discrimination. He said he supports
equal pay for equal work and also the
state’s proposal to evaluate certain
jobs.

When a member of the audience
asked the candidates how they plan
to keep in touch with their consti-
tuents once in office, Brown said he
promises to organize regular town
visory committee comprising citi-
zens of all backgrounds.
of all backgrounds.

“Going to carnivals and lawn par-
ties is fun,” he said, “‘but there is
generally no serious discussions that
take place as far as we need to get
done.”’

Wilkins said his legislative aide,
Arthur Beeton, is ‘‘a local phone call
from most everybody on this side of
the mountain. He is well known as be-
ing accessible,” he said.

 

NEWS BRIEFS

The budget was passed again with
those two changes

In other EC action

eThe EC voted to create a meeting
space for the cold check committee
by asking the Independent Union to
give up its meeting room and meet in
Fairfax Lounge

Sophomore representative Pat
Schaefer said the cold check commit-
tee, officially known as the Student
Financial Relations Committee, was
being forced to meet in the lounge
because of limited meeting rooms on
the night it meets.

Schaefer mentioned that this seem
ed “‘unofficial’’ and ‘‘just not right”
because the lounge offers little pri
vacy and the purpose of the commit
tee is to discuss students’ money af-
fairs.

eConcern was expressed as to the
progress of the overdue Calyx, which
was scheduled for distribution at ma-
triculation this year but still hasn't
been sent to the publishers.

“This has turned into a horrible
situation,’ Caruthers said.

The EC asked 1984-85 Calyx editor
David Sprunt to give a progress
report next week.

 

 

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Challenger Dennis Brown speaks while Vance Wilkins listens

Future of University Council will be decided later in year

 

 

Staff reports

 

A review of whether the University Council should
continue to exist will not be held until later in the aca-
demic year, according to Dean of Students Lewis G.
John.

John, who with senior David Sprunt serves as co-
chairman of the UC, said that at one time or another
“every organization needs to be reviewed”’ and that a
review of any organization is held to make sure that it is
serving the needs of the University community

The UC is an advisory committee made up of 12 stu-
dent representatives, nine faculty representatives and
five administration representatives. Its purpose is to
give students involvement in the University govern-
mental process dealing with student affairs.

When asked what would be done if the UC was found
unnecessary, he answered: ‘I really haven't given it a
great deal of thought.’ John said he plans to deal with
the matter in more detail when the review is held

—Sean Bugg

University Cleaners owner killed

Townshend D. Fox, 33, owner of University Cleaners,
died Saturday night when his car hit a tree in
Rockbridge County, state police said

Fox was driving on state Route 631 at 8:15 p.m. when
he swerved off the road and hit a tree He was pronoun
ed dead at the scene

Sse

 

Fox is a New York native, and attended Randolph-
Macon College in Ashland

Other items from Lexington Police records:

eJunior Tom Maurer reported that between midnight
and noon on Saturday, an $800 Korg synthesizer and a
$300 Peavey speaker were stolen from his home at 5 Lee
Avenue.

eLaw Professor James Phemister reported his wallet
stolen from his office in Lewis Hall on Thursday.

Another professor, Steven Hobbs, said he saw a suspi-
cious person leave the building.

The wallet contained three credit cards and $100.

«Sophomore Baxter Sharp reported the hood orna-
ment was stolen from his car. The theft occurred some-
time between 10 p.m. Saturday and 11:20 p.m. Monday.

—Marshall Boswell

My Lai trial judge to speak

Col. Reid W. Kennedy, the judge at the trial of Lt.
William Calley Jr., will speak at Lee Chapel Oct. 23 at 8
p.m. The title of Kennedy's lecture, jointly sponsored
by W&L’s Tucker Law Forum and Virginia Military In-
stitute, is ‘‘A Soldier’s Duty to Say No.”’

Kennedy was thrust into national prominence in 1969
when he was selected to preside over the Calley trial.
Calley, a platoon leader in the America 1 Division, stood
trial for the murder of more than 100 civilians in Viet
nam. Evidence indicated that many soldiers in the unit

refused to participate in the killings, although others
shot to death inhabitants of the village of My Lai, in
cluding women and children.

Kennedy is a veteran of World War II, Korea and
Vietnam. He received his law degree from Drake
University in 1946 and now practices law in Marietta.
Ga.

In addition to his lecture, Kennedy will speak to cadet
groups at VMI on Oct. 24.

Student convicted of wine theft

Senior Bill Zola was convicted in Lexington General
District Court Tuesday of stealing a tub of wine valued
at $160 from Spanky’s restaurant in May

Judge Joseph E. Hess fined Zola $50 and gave him a
30-day suspended sentence for the misdemeanor
charge. Zola has indicated that he will appeal, accord
ing to Clerk of Court Juanita Rice.

Chinese art lecture is scheduled

T.K. Yen, professor of history at Soochow University
in Taiwan, will present a slide-lecture titled ‘‘Chinese
Art Treasures in Taiwan’”’ on Oct. 22. The lecture, at 8

p.m. in du Pont Auditorium, is free and open to the
public.

Yen is a 1948 graduate of the Chinese Naval Academy
in Tsingtao. He received his master’s and Ph.D. de
grees in Asian history from St John’s University i

New York and taught for a year at Seton Hall Universi

ty. In 1980, Yen was appointed associate professor in the
department of history at Soochow University, and was
promoted to full professor a year later

Truman scholarship available

Washington and Lee sophomores interested in a
career in government service at the federal, state or
local levels are invited to apply for a 1986 Harry S
Truman Scholarship

Established by Congress in 1975, the Harry S. Truman
Scholarship Foundation operates a continuing educa
tional scholarship program designed to provide oppor-
tunities for outstanding U.S. students with potential
leadership ability to prepare for careers in government
service

Washington and Lee can nominate two students for
the 1986 competition. The scholarship award covers eli
gible expenses up to $5,000 per year for the junior year,
the senior year, and two years of graduate study

To be eligible, students must be full-time sophomores
working toward or planning to pursue a bachelor’s
degree, have a ‘‘B’’ average or equivalent, stand in the
upper fourth of the class, and be a U:S. citizen or U.S
national heading toward a career in government

Interested students should see Dean of Students

ewis G John in Room 6 of Payne Hall as soon as possi

 

Die€
a aoe ee

Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, October 17, 1985

 

 

Nobel

) Continued from Page 1

 

news early Monday in Cambridge,
Mass., where he was attending a con-
ference at the Massachusetts Insti-
tute of Technology.

The co-winners held a brief press
conference complete with a black-
board and toasted each other for the
network television cameras. They
obligingly clinked their champagne
glasses twice for the photographers
that missed it the first time.

Goldstein and Brown then flew to
Dallas, where in the early evening
they greeted 50 members of the press
and 450 well-wishers.

Prior to that, their staff gave them
a champagne party in their labora-
tory, which a spokeswoman said is
“strictly illegal but they did it
anyway and had a great time.”

The spokeswoman, Ann Harrell of
the University of Texas Health
Science Center, said Goldstein is
declining all interview requests.

“They said ‘no’ to everybody,”’ she
said, noting that things had been
“bananas” in the office since the an-
nouncement in Stockholm.

Harrell said Goldstein turned down
invitations to appear on ABC’s ‘‘Good
Morning America,” ABC News’
“Nightline,” ‘The CBS Evening
News’ and other programs.

“‘The ‘Good Morning America’ pec-
ple were very surprised,” she said
with a trace of sarcasm.

Harrell, who has known Goldstein
for 12 years, spoke affectionately but
candidly about’ him, painting a por-
trait of a hermitic workaholic that
contrasts starkly with the image of
the outgoing campus leader his pro-
fessors and classmates remember.

According to Harrell, Goldstein is
“amiable” and ‘‘witty’’ but ‘very

reclusive” and ‘almost painfully
shy.”’

Goldstein has inspired “incredible
loyalty” among his staff, despite be-
ing a demanding boss, according to
Harrell. ‘‘He’s a tough taskmaster,”’
she said. “He drives those peo-
ple...from the secretaries to the
faculty members.”

The prize winner’s interests out-
side academia are limited, Harrell
said. ‘‘All I know that he does for fun
is that I have seen him go to foreign
movies before,” she said.

Harrell added that the main social
outlet for Goldstein, who is single, is
that ‘‘he talks to his colleagues about
science stuff.”

The spokeswoman said the co-win-
ners ‘‘make a real strange couple
and they’re always together.”’ She
said the two are known around the of-
fice as ‘‘the Gold Dust Twins”’ or as
““Jomike” and “Brownstein.”

The $225,000 in prize money will be
split between Goldstein and his part-
ner. USA Today reported that Brown
plans to spend the money on his two
daughters’ education, but Harrell
said she could not speculate about
how Goldstein will use the cash.

“T don’t think he spends money,”
she said.

W. Hayne Hipp, a member of the
W&L board of trustees who was a
classmate of Goldstein’s, said his
work will be “‘a very positive reflec-
tion on Washington and Lee.”’

Hipp said Goldstein was ‘‘a consis-
tent academic leader” who was ‘‘an
enjoyable person to spend time
with.” The trustees said that when he
saw his former classmate on televi-
sion, he ‘‘was surprised to see all the
gray hair he has now.”

Starling, the emeritus biology pro-
fessor, said the vicarious Nobel Prize
was the biggest honor of his career.
“Tf I were physically able to do
{somersaults ], I think I would have,”’
the 73-year-old said.

Hanna gets 5 minutes
with harried Goldstein

Just three hours after hearing
Monday morning that Washington
and Lee might have a Nobel laureate
on its hands, University Publications
Director Jeffery G. Hanna was wing-
ing his way to Dallas to attend a late
afternoon news conference at the
University of Texas Health Science
Center.

tequipped with tape recorder and
camera, Hanna joined the media
horde assembled to greet and grill

W&L alumnus Dr. Joseph L. Gold-
stein and Dr. Michael S. Brown in an

auditorium at the medical school.

Hanna, who returned to Lexington
Tuesday night, said everyone in the
room, including the journalists, clap-
ped when the two entered the room.

‘‘Whether you're covering them or
not, you can appreciate what these
guys did,” Hanna said. “This is
something that deserves applause
from everybody.”

Following the press briefing, Han-
na, who edits the University alumni
magazine “W&L,” finagled a five-
minute interview with Goldstein
before he was whisked away for din-
ner with one of the university deans.

Hanna, who is preparing a profile
of Goldstein for the magazine, quoted
him as saying: ‘Dallas has always
been known for Neiman-Marcus, the
Dallas Cowboys and the TV show
‘Dallas.’ Maybe we added something
to that.”

Hanna said Goldstein’s interest in
W&L seems to be limited. ‘‘He didn’t
seem to retain much, to be honest,”’
he said.

But after talking with a classmate
of Goldstein’s who still talks with him
often, Hanna said he gained a differ-
ent understanding of the Nobel Prize
winner.

“T got the impression that he re-
tains strong memories of his under-
graduate days,’’ Hanna said.

He added that he might have gotten
the wrong impression from Goldstein
because of the doctor’s state of mind
when Hanna spoke with him.

“Considering the kind of day that
Dr. Goldstein had, I would say that
discussing Washington and Lee was
the furthest thing from his mind,” he
said.

“‘T think he was surprised to find so-
meone from the University there. It’s
hard to judge on the basis of any con-

tact under the circumstances just.

what his feelings toward W&L are
now ”’

Hanna said the benefits that may
accrue to the school because of its ¢co-
winner connection are as yet unclear.
“T did tell him we would take full
credit for this,”’ he said, tongue clear-
ly in cheek. ‘‘He did laugh at that.”

“It’s hard to know just how these
things help,’’ he said. ‘I think we
capitalized on it just by being assoc-
iated with it.”

'

NOBEL NEWS

Dr. William J. Watt, a chemistry
professor and former dean of the col-
lege of arts and sciences, observed
playfully that having a student win a
Nobel Prize ‘‘doesn’t happen to you
very often — it’s never happened to
me before.”

The professor, remembering Gold-
stein from a freshman laboratory
course, added that ‘‘he was the kind
of person you would expect that from
if you had any student who was going
to excel in such a way.”’

Watt noted that Columbia Univer-
sity’s Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize, of
which Goldstein and Brown were co-
winners in November, is widely view-
ed as the “next step to the Nobel
Prize.”

The award, according to a New
York Times account, went to the pair
for the ‘‘conceptual brilliance and ex-
perimental elegance’ of its “‘pioneer-
ing”’ research in the field of choles-
terol-related diseases.

Just as Goldstein’s campus activi-
ties spanned the spectrum, his acade-
mic ability also extended beyond the
natural sciences.

‘‘He had a perception of literary
values and literary qualities,’ said
English Professor Sidney M.B. Coull-
ing, who taught Goldstein romantic
poetry. ‘“‘He bridged the two cul-
tures.”

The professor noted that in a pre-
medical program, “‘it’s hard to have
the kind of all-around record’’ that
Goldstein achieved.

“‘He was, in short, a campus leader
and valedictorian — a rare combina-
tion,” the professor added. ‘I think
we all predicted success for him.”

The Calyx of which Goldstein was
editor-in-chief was dedicated to
Coulling and Economics Professor
Charles F. Phillips Jr.

Dr. W. Barton Dick, a Lexington
orthopedic surgeon and classmate of
the prize winner, reflected the com-
petitiveness common among pre-

 

JOSEPH L. GOLDSTEIN, 1961

Fast facts on

Joesph L. Goldstein was born April
18, 1940, in Sumter, S.C. He received
his bachelor of science degree from
Washington and Lee University in
1962 and his medical degree from the
University of Texas Southwestern
Medical School at Dallas in 1966. He
continued his study at the Massachu-

med students with his wry comment
that Goldstein ‘‘wound up valedictor-
ian of my class — that speaks for
itself.”’

Rockbridge Circuit Judge George
E. Honts III, who as a freshman lived
in the same dormitory section as
Goldstein, recalled that the only ‘‘B”’
his classmate ever received was in
physical education, which was not in-
cluded in official grade tabulations.

Honts said that when Goldstein
took an organic chemistry class with
some of Honts’ fraternity brothers,
the future Nobel laureate scored a 99
percent while the next highest grade
was in the 60s.

“He royally screwed the curve for
all the other fellows,’’ Honts said.

Goldstein's father, Isadore E.
Goldstein, said he learned of his son’s
award from a relative who'd heard it
on a television news program. Gold-
stein’s son checked in about an hour
later, at 7:30 a.m.

“We heard about it before he did,”’
Goldstein said Monday from Kings-
tree, S.C. ‘‘Hedoesn’t really get over-
ly excited — not like I would have or
somebody else would have.”

Goldstein, a retired clothing retail-
er, said he’d previously discussed the
possibility of a Nobel Prize with his
son, but “never harped on the sub-
ject.”’

“He said they usually didn’t get
them until they got up there in age,”’
the father recalled. ‘‘Every time J
mentioned it to him, he would dis-
miss it.”’

Goldstein said his son, who first
became interested in pursuing a
medical career during his early high
school years, ‘‘liked Washington and
Lee the first minute he was there and
he never regretted it.”’

News Office Director Brian D.
Shaw said University plans for hon-
oring Goldstein are not yet complete.
“I’m sure something will be done at a
later date to recognize him,’’ he said.

 

JOSEPH L. GOLDSTEIN, 1985

Goldstein

has worked for the National Heart In-
stitute at the National Institutes of
Health in Bethesda, Md., and at the
University of Washington School of
Medicine in Seattle. Since 1977, he
has been a professor in and chairman
of the department of molecular
genetics for the University of Texas

setts General Hospital in Boston and - Health Science Center at Dallas.

 

The Nobel Institute apparently
wasn’t impressed only by Brown
and Goldstein’s laboratory work
— it seemed to like their way with
words, as well.

The last sentence of an article
by the team in the November 1984
issue of Scientific American said
that with an understanding of the

 

Nobel for plagiarism?

LDLs and receptors, ‘‘it may one,
day be possible for many people to
have their steak and live to enjoy
it too.”

The Nobel citation released
Monday echoed the phraseology,
noting that now “it may one day
be possible for many people to
have their steak and eat it too.”

 

 

Confused?

On Tuesday morning, the nation’s newspapers scrambled to explain to
their readers what an “‘LDL” is, how a “receptor” works and what it all
means to us. Here are two publications’ explanations of Goldstein and
Brown’s contribution.

Look from L.A....

bie ee) me el

 

©1985 by the Los Angeles Times. Reprinted with permission.

Detail from Dallas...

Heart

 

Liver Dietary cholesterol is carried into the
bloodstream on water-soluble proteins,
fos known as low-density lipoproteins or
- LDLs, which are produced in the liver.
eo?
ss
se The LDL is enciosed A surplus of

© and pulled into the cell,

4 where enzymes trigger
. the release of

vi cholesterol for the

cell's use.

cholesterol alerts the
cell to stop producing
its own cholesterol, to
begin storing the
unused cholesterol
and to stop forming
LDL receptors.

   

wen

® ©

LDL molecules attach
to receptors in
indentations on cell
surfaces.

 

 

©1985 by The Dallas Morning News. Reprinted with permission.

LONDON INTERNSHIPS

A full term of upper-level courses taught by expert British faculty combined
with a 9-week internship in your future career area. Sessions run Spring,
Summer, and Fall for each Programme listed below:

 

BUSINESS/ECONOMICS

@ Coursework in European Economics and
International Business,

@ Intern in British and Multinational firms, banks,
brokerages

Covering London.

JOURNALISM/MASS COMMUNICATIONS

@ Intern for local British newspapers, magazines, TV
and radio stations, PR and advertising firms

@ Coursework in British Media, Advertising and PR
practices in England, The Foreign Correspondent:

 

 

@ Intern with Members of Parliament, campaign
and local officials, pressure groups

© Coursework in British Government, International
Relations,

POLITICS

 

 

 

LEGAL STUDIES

@ Intern with barristers, solicitors, lobbying groups,
and in legal departments of British and
international firms

© Coursework in British Legal History, Business/
Government Relations, Public Law and Social
Issues,

NAME:

Check Desired Information:

 

ADDRESS:
CITY.

(] LONDON BUSINESS/ECONOMICS
(_] LONDON POLITICS

 

STATE/ZIP:
PHONE: (

(-] LONDON JOURNALISM/MASS COMMUNICATIONS
(] LONDON LEGAL STUDIES

 

 

— January-May 1986 W— May—August 1986 ~—  Sept.—Dec. 1986 — 1987

 

 

 

 

 

+s REPOS pat

Send to: Dean Timothy Perkins, College of Arts And Sciences, 403 ME Northeastern University,

360 Huntington Ave., Boston MA 02115 Phone contact: (617) 437-3980, 437-3970

en RPG EE PIT NO

 

 
 

,

Students
double up
in library

By SYDNEY MARTHINSON
Staff Reporter

 

Some of the locked study rooms in
the lower levels of the University
Library are being shared by two stu-
dents this semester.

Because of the high number of stu-
dents and faculty applying for the
limited number of rooms, University
Librarian Barbara Brown decided to
enlist this new system on a trial
basis.

The library contains 31 of the lock-
ed study carrels but received over 64

_ ‘applications for this term.

There were 10 honors students,
nine professors and nine seniors as-
signed to single rooms, and six addi-
tional seniors paired off to share the
three additional rooms.

Two rooms were left unassigned so
that students in academic difficulty
or experiencing an extremely heavy
workload might be assigned to them
on a weekly basis.

Brown explained that the idea was
“worth trying’ in order to put the
rooms to as much use as possible.
She said it may mean that those stu-

 

2

fa
=

a

 

  
  

  

—

7

cae

 

ee

saa
.
cal

7
<

=

7 Fa

      
 

 

 

 

By Hank Mayer/The Ring-tum Phi

Junior Jeff Mandak (left) and senior Steve Losquadro share a locked study in the library

dents with a study-roommate may
have to ‘‘organize study and research
schedules more effectively.”

Scott Boyd, a biology major who
was assigned a carrell with senior
Chris Komosa, described the system
as a “real hassle.”” He and Komosa
have divided the semester in half,
which Boyd pointed out would leave

him in possession during exam time.

Another senior asked to share,
Paul Davey, had no complaints. He
said that in the time he’d been work-
ing in his study room, he’d ‘‘never
seen the [other] guy. He’s never been
in there.”

The locked study rooms were in-
cluded in the library to give honors

students working spaces near the
materials needed for research.
Honors students who are writing
honors theses are automatically as-

_Signed a space.

Professors are the next to be con-
sidered, and many who are on sab-
batical or working on private re-
search apply.

 

Posters

O Continued from Page 1

Scannapieco said. “I’ve been quite
impressed.”

As the elections approached, pos-
ters popped up on dormitory doors,
street signs and the glass door to the
dining hall.

Inspector J.A. Kirby of the Lex-
ington Police Department explained
that posting handbills on telephone
poles, sidewalks, crosswalks, curbs,
lamp posts, or in any public place
without permission is a violation of
the City Code.

Students who are guilty of these
violations ‘‘can be charged with a
misdemeanor charge and face a
court hearing, in addition to taking
all the signs down if we catch them,”
Kirby said.

David Alderson, manager of Evans
Dining Hall, said that students are
welcome to post bills on the bulletin
boards in the dining hall but are ask-
ed not to put posters on the glass door
so students can see through the door
and will not run into each other.

Originality was not limited to the
posters’ placement. One urged voters
to “‘git your sh-t straight.”

 

 

ART

  

stretch canvass.

Lk Bb Glee Sipply

STATIONARY

Come by for all your office supplies, and
alos all your art supplies. We have
everything you'll need for your artistic
talents including paint, brushes and even

“You always see posters like that,”’
Scannapieco said. “‘They’re not run-
ning on a speech. That’s your choice
if you want to put something on a
poster.’”’

Anne Geary, a freshman candidate
for the University Council, agrees
with the limit on posters ‘‘because it
could get really out of hand.”’

She does, however, think that
speeches or an assembly would facil-
itate the voters’ ability to recognize
the different candidates.

“Tf the VRB would just explain
briefly the duties of each office,”
Geary suggested, ‘‘and say ‘these are
the people running,’ then go on to the
next office. Nothing lengthy.”

Scannepieco agrees that speeches
help the voters know the candidates.
“The Executive Committee position
is very important,’’ he explained. If
you don’t know who they are, how
can you vote?”’

He notes that open forums have
been held in the past ‘‘but attendance
was slim.”

Scannapieco said there haven't
been many campaign infractions this
year, but that he did remove one pos-
ter that was too big.

“T took it down because it was near
the polls and I didn’t want anyone to
have an unfair advantage,”’ he said.

GIFTS

  

 

 

23 WEST WASHINGTON STREET * LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 244S0
TELEPHONE: (703) 463-3432

 

 

 

 

 

 
    
   
    

 
   
 

 

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

A dormitory door is adorned with campaign posters -

The Ring-tum Phi, October 17, 1985, Page 5

Shillington crowns
Pika representative

 

By DANA BOLDEN
Staff Reporter

 

“It was like one of those kisses on a
Certs commercial. It lasted for an
eternity. I was overwhelmed!”’

Those were the words of Ellen Sat-
terwhite after she was crowned
Washington and Lee’s 1985 Home-
coming Queen and received the tradi-
tional kiss from chemistry Professor
Keith Shillington.

Satterwhite represented Pi Kappa
Alpha, which was also represented
by last year’s queen, Kathleen
Plante.

Although she was a little hesitant
at first because her boyfriend, senior
Tim Stanford, couldn’t escort her,
the Mary Baldwin junior said she has
no regrets at all.

When asked how she felt at the mo-
ment she heard her name being an-
nounced, Satterwhite said, ‘My
pulse raced! I’m still in shock from
winning!”

First runner-up Polly Paton, who
called herself ‘‘the one who'd rather
not kiss Professor Shillington,” prov-

    
   
     
 
  
   

 

211 E. 21st, Buena Vista

 
     
   
      
      

Mon. — Sat. 8:30-5:30

 

FUN T-SHIRTS

From infamous international
bars, taverns and saloons.

Free Catalog
Passport Internationale

159 Rutledge
Charleston, SC 29403

His & Hers
Hair Unlimited

Keep Your Tan Year
Round With

Suntana Sun System

October Special
10 Sessions for $29.99

ed this at Saturday’s game. During
their embrace, Shillington whispered
to Paton, “If we’re going to wrestle,
I’m going to win.”’ Paton said, “The
more I resisted, the more aggressive
he got.”’

After the chaos of the weekend sub-
sided, Paton, a Sweet Briar junior,
said, “It’s all in good fun. I really en-
joyed it! Representing Phi Kappa Psi
was a great honor.”

The queen was not the only one
receiving awards this weekend. The
freshmen halls were trying to create
the most creative banner. The con-
test, sponsored by Domino’s pizza
and Kathekon, the student alumni as-
sociation, was planned to create sup-
port for the Homecoming football
game, where the banners were
displayed.

The third floor center section of
Graham-Lees dormitory came up
victorious and was awarded a $75 piz-
za feast from Domino’s.

“‘When we found out that food was
involved we really got psyched!”

said Lucy Anderson, a freshman on
that hall.

  

  

Thurs.—Nightly Appointments

Buy 1 pair of Shoes at Reg. price, and get another at
—_ ae
Friday & Saturday only (Oct. 18 & 19)

23 N. Main St. Lexington, VA

 

(703) 463-5988

 

 

167 S. Main St., 463-3106
Stop by and open up a charge
account for all your grocery needs.
This Week’s Specials are:

eChicken of the Sea Tuna. .611..= 2/$1.00

©Old Milwaukee Beer
©Phillip’s Pork & Beans

©Coca-Cola

 

Serving the W&L community
over 30 years.

 

Apply tor the TIME College Achievement Awards and find
out. TIME Magazine ts searching for 100 college juniors who

ics and, more importantly, exceptional achievement outside
the classroom The top twenty winners will be awarded
Ameri

Time Ine. + The an Expres

The College

 

 

HOW FAR WILL YOUR TALENT TAKE YOU?

$1,000-$5 ,000 and profiled in a special promotional section
in TIME. Eighty finalists will receive certificates of merit. All
100 students will be given first consideration for internships
with participating corporations, some of which are listed

have distinguished themselves by their excellence, in academ-

Iravel Related Services Company, Inc. + Ford Division + U.S. Navy Officer Program

TIME

Achievement Awards

below. () Details at your dean’s office or call 1-800-523-5948,

 

 
SPORTS

 

 

A coach’s life:
|. plain frustrating

.... Everyday, at least half of us come
to the general conclusion that we
have a good deal of unpleasantries in
our comings and goings. Midterms
are coming up, our Homecoming
date says she’s no longer interested,
and that class we were hoping to
slide through suddenly came up and
spanked us in the face. And we’re
saying, ‘“‘Hey, man, I didn’t ask for
all of this. I wish my lite were easier, like maybe if I could switch lives
with one of those coaches over in Doremus or even over at VMI. Yeah,
that would be cool, two hours for lunch and the toughest things I have
to do all week is make third-and-4 decisions.”’

Well, if you think that, you might be surprised by this statement
(perhaps surprised enough to change your mind, maybe”): ‘As usual,
I'll wake up about 2:30 in the morning and start reliving the game. I’ll
still be fussing and grumbling about the mistakes .... I’m already wor-
ried about the next one.”’

That’s VMI’s first-year head football coach Eddie Williamson com-
menting on the joys of coacbing after the Keydets’ 23-19 win on Satur-
day, his first victory since taking the reins next door.

No, frankly, I don’t see the life of the coach as one of ease and
minuscule irritation as we might think. It is not a joyride, campers.
Sentiments like those from Coach Williamson, I’m sure, could be
echoed from all four corners of the world, from every Pop Warner
coach to the best boss in the big leagues.

It’s that mysterious entity called human potential that these
gentlemen (and ladies) deal in everyday. Plain old frustrating, that. A
coach should know everything about his players, and that knowledge
is the cause of his odd habits, like Williamson’s insomnia. He knows
what you can do, and when you don’t do it, so logically he’s got tc
scratch his head and wonder why. (Apparently, Tom Landry hac
much head scratching in his day. )

Much of this sounds like so muck talk about parents rather than
coaches. Well, the analogy certainly works. A coach’s paranoia is cer-
tainly on a par with parental paranoia. No one wonders more about
college-age persons than someone who needs you to carry the ball the
next day.

But the concern, if we are taixing about a coach worth his salt (I
believe there are a few out there), goes beyond carries and whether
you figure in the win. It’s that concern that plagues a coach into the
night: ‘I know they can do it, but why don’t they?”’

The life of a coach is a life of ifs and fine lines. It’s that halftime
speech that isn’t doo discouraging, but not so rah-rah that any positive
effect is dulled. It’s the ability to bring out the best in someone, and in
the end, when that best comes out, it is the special, wordless
acknowledgement, one only coach and player can share, that serves
as a coach’s greatest reward...

....Winding our way back to the Colonnade, it was nice to see a cou-
ple of shutout wins for the W&L soccer squad...Cross country is back
on line after the LSATs. Should be a dogfight come conference meet
time...And the footballers stole the show Saturday afternoon. didn’t
they? No doubt this squad is near the cream of the crop in the ODAC.
However, Hampden-Sydney this Saturday undoubtedly would like
nothing better than to bring the Generals off their high horse. And
anything could happen in Death Valley, especially when that hex sign
of a human being Lisa Birnbach will be in Farmville as the “guest” of
the Squids....

....Heard Lefty Driesell wants the NCAA to get tough before college
athletics are ‘‘really in trouble.”” Thanks, Lefty, you just go ahead and
hop on that bandwagon whenever you see fit...NFL owners are
meeting this week to decide to use the instant replay. Some other in-
teresting ideas will be considered, most notably, a measure to deter-

mine division winners via a playoff. A good thought that (snicker),
playoffs for the playoffs. Do I hear the wailings of the NHL in the

TIME
OUT....

By Mike
Stachura

 

 

....Well, since I didn’t get too many college grid guesses wrong last
week, here are some more to laugh at: Virginia over Va. Tech (and it
will be ugly), Michigan over Iowa and Alabama over Tennessee....

....Finally, not to knock Saturday’s officials or anything, but I will.
The men in black and white didn’t use common sense with their flag-
throwing escapade at the end of the game. Flags were thrown on six of
the last seven plays. The key to good officiating also involves knowing
when not to blow the whistle...

 

 

INCAA Council nixes

The Ring-tum Phi, October 17, 1985

 

 

 

By DAVID EMRICH
Staff Reporter

 

At the outset of the season, despite
a loss to Emory & Henry and a less
than impressive win over Centre, you
couldn’t find anyone involved with
the football program who was not ex-
cited about the team’s prospect for
the rest of the season. Now, with two
impressive victories in a row, in-
cluding last week’s 42-17 drubbing of
the Maryville Scots, it seems that the
optimism shown at the start of the
season is beginning to pay off.

The scoring got started when tail-
back Kevin Weaver ran for 20 yards
and a touchdown in the first quarter.
B.J. Sturgill added the extra point
and W&L led 7-0.

Maryville came right back, how-
ever, and scored when W&L quarter-
back Jon Thornton slipped and fell in
his own end zone, making the tally 9-7
in favor of the Scots. In the second
quarter, Maryville added field goals
of 48 and 43 yards to push the score to
15-7 as the teams went to the locker
rooms.

During the first half, W&L didn’t
move the ball as well as they have in
the past. They were stifled by the
Maryville defense, and often faced
third-and-long situations. The second

Maryville’s Jeff Seagle goes ‘‘belly-up”’ in action from Saturday’s game

Scots ‘kilt? by W&L, 42-17

half, however, was a completely dif-
ferent story. The team came out of
the locker room and immediately be-
gan their comeback.

The defense, although yielding 394
yards through the air on the day,
picked off six passes to give the of-
fense excellent field position. Not
wanting to waste the opportunities,
Thornton threw four touchdowns, two
each to Hugh Finkelstein and Chris
Bleggi, and Weaver ran for another
on the way to a 35-point second half
explosion and the victory.

The team that looked mediocre at
best.in the first half abruptly became
intimidating in the second half. What
was behind the sudden rejuvenation
of both the offense and the defense?

“In the first half, on a couple of
their long receptions, our guys had
‘frozen feet’,”’ explained Coach Gary
Fallon. ‘‘We saw the mistake, made
the mistake known to the players and
they were able to correct it in the sec-
ond half.

“They [the defense] got the turn-
overs, and put us in good field posi-
tion in the second half,’’ Fallon con-
tinued. ‘“That was the most impor-
tant factor in the success of the of-
fense in that half.”’

Tailback Kevin Weaver rushed for
108 yards on 24 carries, giving him
three 100-yard efforts in the three

 

 

multidivisional ban plan

The NCAA Council voted not to
sponsor a proposal that would bar
member institutions from participat-
ing in more than one division in meet-
ings yesterday in New Orleans, ac-

cording to Division III staff liaison’

Ruth Berkey.

The decision puts up a stumbling
block for the proposal’s chances to
come before the full National Col-
legiate Athletic Association conven-
tion, scheduled for Jan. 12-14.

The move, which reserved the
Council’s August decision to sponsor
the legislation, doesn’t necessarily

put an end to the proposal. A group of
six member institutions can bring the
legislation before the convention.

Washington and Lee, which cur-
rently participates in Division I in
lacrosse while the rest of its teams
competes in Division III, would be
forced to commit to one division
— most likely Division III — if the
legislation comes before the full con-
vention and passes in January.

The vote came after the three divi-
sion steering committees made re-
commendations to the Council yes-
terday morning.

Valley True Value Hardware

HARD

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

E. Nelson St.
463-2186

Mon, - Sat. 8:30-6:00
Sun. 1-5

 

115 S. Main Street

 

VARNER & POLE

Furniture Dealers

‘‘For your extra pieces of furniture’’

463-2742

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

Frank’s Pizza

‘Best Pizza in Lexington’”’
Free Delivery for

W&L Students
463-7575 or 463-3133

! $1] OFF Large Pizza or
1
! 50° OF F Medium or Small

 

GRADUATE
SCHOOL OF
4- BUSINESS

William J. Heffernan, Associate Dean, will be on your
campus Monday, Oct. 21, 1985 to speak with students
from all disciplines who are interested in th M.B.A. and
Ph. D. degree programs. Twelve concentrations are of-
fered in the Business School plus joint degree programs
with the Schools of Architecture, Engineering, Interna-
tional Affairs, Journalism, Law, Public Health, Social
Work and Teacher’s College. For further details please
contact Career Development and Placement.

COLUMBIA
UNIVERSITY

 

 

 

    
  
  
  

SAVE MONEY!

 

21 W. Washington St.

TRAVEL UNLIMITED

Going home for Thanksgiving or
Christmas? Plan ahead,

“System One Computers”
“Boarding Pass Printers’
— 3certified travel consultants —

463-7174

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

games since returning to the lineup.
In those three games, W&L has
scored 11 touchdowns, all but four in
the air. When asked if having Weaver
in the lineup increases the efficiency
of the passing game, Fallon had this
to say:

“Yes, very much so. Most of our
scores were play-action passes off of
Kevin.”

Fallon continued, “They [the
Maryville defense] would bring two
linebackers inside in order to choke
off the inside run; this allowed us to
complete some long passes to Hugh
[Finkelstein] out along the
sidelines.”

“T like to have a balance between
the run and the pass,”’ said Fallon.
“Tf you live by one or the other, even-
tually you’re going to die by it. And
that, I think is what happened to

Our
‘6 ‘Typing’ 9
Is

WordPerfect»

DATA SERVICES

203 N. Main Street

 

fein
ld eee |

» *

4 7 y

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Maryville in the second half.”’

SIDELINES....the Generals are now
3-1, 2-1 in the ODAC ...Next week’s
opponents are the traditional arch-
rival Tigers of Hampden-Sydney and
the W&L defehse will have a different
challenge before them. Maryville
came into last week’s game with the
best passing offense in the league;
Hampden-Sydney is known for their
effective running game...H-S has a
3-2 record; they are 1-1 in the
ODAC...The Tigers were stifled by
ODAC leader Emory & Henry last
week, 31-10....W&L has not defeated
H-S in their last three meet-
ings...Last year the Tigers beat the
Generals by a score of 41-21 as H-S
running back David Kelly ran for 213
yards on 20 carries...Game will be
broadcast live on WLUR-FM (91.5),
beginning at 1:20 p.m...... ¢

 

Lexington, Virginia 24450

2077 Magnolia Ave.

(703) 261-6933

The New

Entertainment Center

Is Now Introducing It’s
New Line Of Albums
and Tapes
At $7.69 ea.

VCR Rentals
Movies

$2.00 a night
$2.00 ea./night

 

Lifetime Membership

$9.95 includes
12 Free Movie Rentals

 

 

i.
> Ts. SF"

 
—S

ne

> + * & >

>»

The Ring-tum Phi, October 17, 1985, Page ?

 

Wa&L kickers win two on the road

 

By ROB MacPHERSON
Staff Reporter

 

While most of the W&L community
was busy with Homecoming celebra-
tions this past weekend, the soccer
team was out on the road doing some
celebrating of its own by recording
wins over Sewanee and Maryville
and then returning to Lexington for a
win over VMI yesterday.

Things were not all fun and games
on the road. A flat tire delayed the
Generals’ arrival to Sewanee, Tenn.
and the University of the South. Their

play, however, was nothing short of
inflated Thay nraved that thev eanld

 

By LEIF UELAND

Staff Reporter

 

Though the Washington and Lee

“water polo team continues to have a

winning record (11-9), the team is by
no means celebrating.
With little exception, the Generals

“have continued to either blow their

opponent out — by as much as 20
points — or be blown out themselves.

As the team’s season heads for the
home stretch, however, head coach
Page Remillard is asking some ques-
tions regarding his team’s attitude.

One possible explanation for the
team’s performance is that they are
simply a good team stuck between a
group of bad teams and a group of
great teams. While this is true to an
extent, Remillard sees more of a pro-

dish it out as well as take it in what
Piranian called a physical contest.

Corky Parkinson, Charles Lyle,
Bill Holmes and Johnny Sarber did
the scoring as Chris Gareis notched
the first of what turned into three
straight shutouts.

Against Old Dominion Athletic
Conference rival Maryville, the of-
fense was not quite as potent, tallying
just one goal. However, it was
enough as the defense and Gareis
were able to keep the Fighting Scots
off the scoreboard. Mike Veliuna
scored the winning goal for the
Generals.

On Tuesday, the Generals played

blem on paper, with a team that ap-
pears so superior to last year’s team,
yet has failed to outshine last year’s
efforts.

This quandary was brought to light
by last weekend's performance in the
Southeast Varsity Invitational. While
the Generals played well in their
losses to Navy, 14-4, and Brown, 16-4,
and their 14-12 victory over MIT,
their 11-7 loss to Harvard was un-
mistakably an unpleasant sign, ac-
cording to Remillard.

The team fought to a 6-5 lead in the
first half of the match. As the team’s
starters began showing signs of fa-
tigue in the second half, Remillard
looked to the bench, whose depth
W&L has considered one of its advan-
tages. The face of the game changed
dramatically in the second half when
the Generals were out scored 6-1.

“‘When the bench got the call, they

host to the Keydets of VMI, gaining
their third consecutive win and
Gareis’ fifth shutout.

Freshman Sarber scored his sixth
goal of the season just three minutes
into the game off of an assist from
senior John Templeton, and W&L
quickly found itself up, 1-0.

Not content with only one goal, the
Generals pounded away until 16:32
when Veliuna connected for his sec-
ond goal of 1985. The Generals then
assumed control of the game, and
with some fine goaltending again
from Gareis, W&L kept VMI from
scoring for the remainder of the first
half.

Polo team looks good on paper only

didn’t answer it. That’s the players’
fault, [and] that’s the coach’s fault.
It comes from having a lackadaisical
attitude,’ commented Remillard.

For the Generals, that ‘‘attitude”’
is key.

“It’s Tuesday and I don’t feel any
better. I don’t see the agony of defeat
affecting the players. If the agony of
the loss isn’t there, then the win at
the end of the year won't be excit-
ing,” Remillard stated. ‘‘The season
hasn’t panned out for them the way
they thought it would, and they’ve
gone into remission.”

At Tuesday’s practice Remillard
worked at bringing the team out of
“remission.”’

Remillard had his charges set up a
scrimmage but without the participa-
tion of co-captains Tim Stanford and
David Lewis. It was an effort, he said
“to show them the seedy side of life:

Harriers are back on track

 

By REED HOWLETT
Staff Reporter

 

The cross country Generals got
back on the winning track with a
.defeat of visiting Catholic University
23 to 38 Saturday morning.

With the Homecoming alumni look-
ing on, the harriers won easily,
despite not nailing down the top spot
in the race. They did, however, gain
five of the top seven spots, which ac-
‘counted for the victory.

* Once again Eddie Goundry per-
formed well by placing second with a
time of 27:54, followed closely behind
py Scott Rippeon who finished third
in 28:18. Ted Myers, Michael Watson,
and Michael Friedman added all the
weeded support by finishing in the
fifth through seventh positions re-
spectively.
4

“Coach Dick Miller commented,
**We ran well and were finally able to
get everyone back together.’’ The
Generals, however, are still not com-
pletely healthy. Richard Moore re-
mains out with a torn achilles tendon,

and Billy Clark continues to be ailed
by shin splints.

W&L will run against Division I op-
ponent Virginia Commonwealth Uni-

Ce ee ee eg eee

Mains Mes te

Core

By Appointment 463-9588
Robin« Peggy * Marie

versity this Saturday at home at
11:30. VCU is the only Division I team
that W&L will run against this year.
The W&L women harriers will run
against VCU also on Saturday.

p> <a

Old Main St. Mall
Lexington, VA asa

ee

THE NEW OPTICIANS

Contacts—Glasses—Repairs

Raybans - Vuarnets
10% OFF

(703) 463-7440

Next to Stop-in

 

 

 

é
—_

|| Southern
- [nn

Welcome

Students
‘Serving breakfast, lunch

50 years
Main Street, Lexington

THURSDAY,

 

 

113
13
J
| and dinner for over
|
L

463-3612

THE FUTURE IS IN
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS

A representative will be on campus
OCTOBER 24,
to discuss

GRADUATE STUDY

THUNDERBIRD

AMERICAN GRADUATE SCHOOL
OF INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT
GLENDALE, ARIZONA 85306
Interviews may be scheduled at

CAREER DEVELOPMENT & PLACEMENT

1985

 

 

 

 

LEXINGTON PRESCRIPTION CENTER

Phone 463-9166

LEXINGTON

Emergency Phone 463-2671

11 WEST WASHINGTON STREET

VIRGINIA

 

 

 

 

 

:

i 110 S. Jefferson St.
Lexington

' 463-3338

'
Hours:

‘

‘

Mon.-Sat. 9am to lam
Sunday 10am to lam

lt

TELL US HOW YOU LIKE IT

George’s

HAIRSTYLISTS

Located at 136 Varner Lane
Directly behind Leggett
with plenty of parking

Phone: 463-3975 or walk in

Sandwiches (Eat In-Take Out)
Gourmet Items of All Nations

Cocktails@ Wine@ Beer

Subs@Imported Cheeses

Catering

 

  
  
     

 

 

In the second half, W&L became
hesitant with the ball and lost the
momentum. VMI quickly exerted
some offensive pressure, only to be
frustrated by the W&L defensive
wall. The fine defensive play from
the Generals led to W&L counterat-
tack opportunities, and with less than
a minute to play, a third freshman,
Mike Drusano scored the game's
final goal.

 

The win was the third straight
W&L victory over VMI in the schools’
annual meeting.

The 5-3 Generals look to keep up
the defensive stinginess as they head

to Gettysburg for a match on Satur-
day.

having a program where no one
cares,”

Remillard said responses to the
test varied. While some players were
visibly frustrated by the lack of
leadership and coaching, he said,
others seemed to come alive in re-
sponse to the ease with which they
could key on the mistakes of the op-
posing team. They did not appear to
realize that the mistakes were those
of their own teammates.

This weekend W&L will travel to
Richmond to play in the second round
of the Southern League tournament.
It will be an opportunity for the team
to get out of its mental slump.

No one is more sure of this than
Remillard. “It certainly isn’t some-
thing that one can’t conquer. I still
need to see principles. The roster is
wide open as to who the real tough
athletes are.”

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

VMI’s Daniel Schnock (23) battles a W&L player for the ball

 

8-10 Mon. - Sat.

10-7 Sun.

463-3146

trot 47

Danish Ham or Butterball Turkey
Buy 1 lb. get 1 lb. Free!

Call Us For
Your Party Needs

 

BORDEN
COMMONS ao

Lexington's First Condominium Community

 

 

At Borden Commons we haven't stopped with our first success!

Phase | of Borden Commons enjoyed a successtul welcome from the community and quickly

out. Now, with some new designs and interior layouts. we are introducing Phase Il ot Borden
Commons.

These new and beautitul condominiums are designed to tultill vour every need. and they re locate

Ftheh

just a short distance from Washington & Lee, V.M.I. and th

IStTOTIC LEXINE TON ¢

Isn't it time you considered the ease and tinancial rewards of condominium living

It you have any questions about Borden Commons, we have a brochure available and repre
sentatives to help you.

Baker Real Estate
Post Ottice Box 723
Lexington, Virginia 2

Ottice (703) 463-73]9
Dick Emrey (703) 4603-4362 (evenings I

R.|
WM DAaKer

 

 

6 pk. 16 0z. non-ret. "Lia? &

 
‘BACK PAGE

The Ring-tum Phi, October 17, 1985

 

‘Works On Paper’ provides |
outlet for contemporary art |

 

By BOB STRICKLAND
Art Critic

 

The latest show at duPont Gallery,
“Works on Paper,’’ is just that. The
four Virginian artists represented
here have chosen paper as the sur-
face upon which to create their par-
ticular images. ‘Works on Paper”’
not only allows four young, contem-
porary artists from the area to show
as a group, but it also provides an
outlet for contemporary art to a con-
servative community that would
otherwise be unaware of the present
trends in art. One does not see in this
exhibition a collection of visual
cliches seen too often in area artists;
rather, some of the works resemble
what one may find in a Soho or East
Village gallery.

The work of Beth Shively, an artist
from Roanoke, is striking in its
simplicity of form and symbol. The
symbolism and imagery, however,
are far from simple: The central im-
age is that of desire, of possession.
The.central image is embodied in the
image of the center of the paper. In
“‘Helen’s Dream of Troy” the horse
becomes a primitive, simplified sym-
bol of material possession. She is not

interested in creating an accurate |

likeness of anything in particular,
whether it be a horse or a cat; in-
stead, she is concerned with

Spain.” Room 203, Reid Hall

Public invited.

ington Presbyterian Church.
lins. Room 6, Robinson Hall.

merce School.

All students invited.

Commerce School.

nedy (USA, Ret.). Lee Chapel.

ONCAMPUS

Thursday, October 17
7 p.m. — JOURNALISM FILMS: “Spanish Earth” and ‘‘Heart of

8 p.m. — CONCERT: Sophie Roper-Curzon, Pianist. Lee Chapel.

Friday, October 18
All Day — Historic Rockbridge County Quilt Show. Murray Hall. Lex-

3:30 p.m. — MATH COLLOQUIUM: “Steiner Points.’’ Michael Col-

7 p.m. — RUSSIAN FILM: “The Cranes Are Flying.’ Room 327, Com-

Saturday, October 19
All Day — SYMPOSIUM: “A Warm Tradition: Collecting and Preser-
ving Quilts” Northen Auditorium, University Librarv.

8:30 p.m.-12 midnight — ‘‘Wildgrass” in GHQ. $2 cover charge.

Monday, October21 oS
7:30 p.m. — SHAKESPEARE FILM: “A Midsummer Night’s
Dream.” BBC Series. Northen Auditorium, University Library.

Tuesday, October 22
1-3:30 p.m. — ROTC M-16 OPEN SHOOT. Military Science Building.

7-9 p.m. — FILM: “The Last Laugh.” Room 203, Reid Hall.

Wednesday, October 23
1-3:30 p.m. — ROTC M-16 OPEN SHOOT. Military Science Building.

7 p.m. — POLITICS FILM FESTIVAL: ‘‘Mickey One.” Room 327
8 p.m. — LECTURE: “‘A Soidier’s Duty to Say No.” Col. Reid W. Ken-

9 p.m. — WEDNESDAY IN GHQ: Featuring A.A.E. Sponsored by the
Student Activities Board. General Headquarters. Admission is $2.50.

iconology. She draws much of her
ideas from Byzantine iconology and
from symbols found in Pompeii.

Although one does not find quick,
gestural brushwork here as found in
other spontaneous artists’ works,
Shively does find a creativity in spon-
taneity. Her ideas are subject to her
mood at the moment. Shively never
makes a sketch before her final ex-
ecution; instead, she takes notes of
her feelings. There is a definite
underlying psychology to her work
that refuses to be connected with the
material world. The symbolic eyes
which stare out at the world, ask the
viewer to question himself, to allow
for a moment of introspection.

The visual subject of Larry Stene’s
“Column II” (1985) is one ap-
propriate for this university. It is also
appropriate for a Lexington artist
who desires to recreate his surround-
ings and experience. The profound
and austere gray column is nicely
offset by a collage background of
what appears to be old encyclopedia
engravings of wildlife. The austere
nature of the column is emphasized
by Stene’s monochromatic palette.

“Summertide”’ is not as represen-
tational as Stene’s ‘“‘Column”’ series.
Here, he seeks to achieve an image of
a place in a nonrepresentational
manner, in this case, the sea. One
finds the romantic qualities of the
ocean in the lyrical, flowing lines.

Compiled by Marie Kothman

 

 

po ee ee

The pastel colors and smoky areas of
the work recall the ocean. In ‘Marsh
Shells,” Stene again recalls place
and time by suggestive colors and
forms; aqua and pink hues recall the
sea and the sand, cut-out semi-
circular forms resemble shells, and
blue slashes of color become the ebb
and flow of the tide.

In the work of Ryan Russell, the
viewer may see images which resem-
ble worn-out landscapes at first im-
pression, but turn into dramatic pro-
jections of inner moods after several
acquaintances. In ‘Landscape in
Turmoil’’ the mood is dramatic, fore-
shadowing quick and violent change.
The clouds are bruised and hang low.
To Russell, art becomes an outlet of
dialogue between himself and the
world; at the same time, his art
allows him to project himself onto his
work. Indeed, his landscapes repre-
sent a state of mind at the time of ex-
ecution.

The dramatic lighting seen in his
landscape series is similar to that
found in the work of Edward Hopper.

Deanna Sirlin considers her works
drawings. She asserts that the same
linear movements found in her draw-
ings are used in these works with Ca-
sein (a type of paint between oil and
acrylic) as the medium. Because
these works are drawings, they are
monochromatic. In her drawings,
she seeks to achieve the same fluid

 

 

  
  

y

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Deanna Sirlin’s ‘‘Stars Out Tonight”’ is on display at the duPont Gallery

movement as in painting, instead of a
graphic movement.

Sirlin makes her place between re-
presentation and abstraction. She
considers herself a_self-figurative
painter. Her landscape series refers
to an area in upstate New York.
These works become vehicles for

nostalgia and memory and relate
how memory distorts the recollection
of place. The characteristically ex-
pressionist loaded palette is necessa-
ry for the Gestural movement
through space. This gestural brush-
work is specially suitable to the emo-
tionally charged nature of her work.

She explores a place between dream- —

ing and consciousness, a place be-
tween dreams. Indeed, her work is an
inner-directed representation of such
external forms as mountains, sky,
and leaves. These images represent

 

x mt
aw

visions from an emotional and visual

standpoint.

‘The Insiders’: good plot, comic relief

 

By BILL HANNA
TV Critic

 

This week, I am going to pay a little
attention to afternoon television. You
don’t see how the shows do in the
ratings and you don’t hear much
about what’s on so I’ll have a few of
my favorite highlights, but first some
reviews of prime time.

I was sitting around Wednesday
night waiting for one of those ‘“‘un-
scheduled, spontaneous” fraternity
parties to begin and decided that
there must be something on the tele-
vision from 8 to 9 to keep me busy.

I wasn’t about to watch ‘‘Highway
to Heaven,”’ and “‘Stir Crazy’’ didn’t
seem to be the best bet, so I switched
to ABC and watched ‘‘The Insiders.”

The show is based upon a report-
er/photographer team always on the
lookout for big stories. Nicholas
Campbell plays plotting reporter
Nick Fox, while Stoney Jackson
plays Mackey, an Eddie Murphy-
type who seems to be able to con his
way out of any tight spot.

Both use their street sense to un-
cover local crime, giving the show an
interesting twist on the average de-
tective show.

The show has an interesting plot
and some good comic relief that is
worth watching before a trip to GHQ
for a band or a party at the fraternity
house,

 

    

Pizza
Hut.

 

 

Pri-az-Z0

(Pre-ott-so) you'll pronounce it delicious.

In Italy, there’s a pie filled with delicious in-
gredients and smothered in rich, zesty sauce and
melted cheeses. You really ought to try it.

Round-trip tickets to Italy are unnecessary
and far too expensive. Just visit your par-
ticipating Pizze Hut® restaurant after 4:00 p.m.
Monday through Friday or anytime Saturday
and Sunday and order our Priazzorm Italian pie
in one of four tempting combinations of fillings.
Milano, Roma, Florentine and Napoli.

Eat In, Carry Out, Or Delivered

463-7000

600 E. Nelson
Lexington

 

$4 OFF

$2. offany large pizza
or $1 off any medium. In-
cludes Pizza Hut® Pan
Pizza! Hurry; offer ex-
pires soon. One coupon
per party per visit at
participating Pizza Hut®
restaurants

Please preser up when
ash redemp 1983 Pizza Hut Inc (

Eat In, Carry Out Or Delivered

on
Pizza

  
 

“Hut.

10-30-85
(OA FS PE FR TS es aN SY PUN A Rem SE DP ABE ER eH

rdering Not validir bi

$ gor

600 E. Nelson St.
Lexington, VA
453-7000

 

| SERVIGTAR.

23 S. Main
Lexington, Va. 24450

Lexington Hardware

463-2242

 

Wendell’s
Barber Shop

i need your head for
my business.

 

 

 

Llewellyn Lodge
at Lexington

A Bed and Breakfast
on Main Street, within
walking distance of
The Historic District

463-3235

On Saturday night, I founa myself
in a similar situation. I had just come
back from dinner and had about an
hour before heading back out again
and decided to watch “Airwolf,”
although not completely by choice.

This show did not have the quality
“The Insiders’ showed on Wednes-
day night. ‘Airwolf’? comes on CBS
every Saturday night at 8 and is a
disappointment.

The show has some potential with
adequate acting from Jan-Michael
Vincent and Ernest Borgnine and a
ridiculously-equipped helicopter,
resembling the KITT car on ‘‘Knight
Rider’, but the plots are poor.

Last Saturday, the show centered
around a child with Down’s Syn-
drome who had the ability to draw
things accurately from memory.
This skill is used to locate his kidnap-
ed father, as he draws a replica of the
house his father is being held in. With
the help of the supercopter, the house
is found among the many others on
the crowded hillside.

This week, the writers have come
up with another extraordinary ability
to save yet another kidnapped vic-
tim. This time a psychic helps to
locate the missing person.

It’s not enough that the show uses
this gadget-filled helicopter, but for
two straight weeks, the writers have
brought in some special out-of-the-
ordinary human. When a show has to
resort to such lengths to entertain the

The Romantics kicked off the ’85 pavilion season last Friday night

4
SAB concert an overall success'

 

By COTTON PURYEAR
Editor

audience, you can’t expect much to
come of a plot. Next time, dinner will
be planned for later.

Moving on to afternoons, there i:
not a lot to offer, but enough for those
tired of classes and not interested in
anything remotely related to study-
ing.

One of the first things that comes to
mind when the words ‘‘afternoon
TV” are mentioned is soaps. The ac-
ting is usually poor, the plots are, for
the most part, ridiculous, but for
some reason they are entertaining.

I have only been watching one late-
ly because that is all I can stand.
ABC broadcasts ‘‘All My Children’
at 1 every weekday afternoon and it
has some good entertainment for
those finishing classes after “E”’
hour.

The acting is not very good and the
lines are stumbled over in most
every scene, but the characters are
interesting. The plots have their
usual share of love affairs and crime
intrigue, which keep faithful viewers
wondering whether Tad and Hillary
will get back together or what will
become of the computer disc.

Later on comes the classics of
decades ago. WTBS has such favo-
rites as ‘The Brady Bunch,” ‘“‘Leave
it to Beaver” and even an ap-
pearance by the Three Stooges dur-
ing the Bugs Bunny show at 3:05.

Another favorite in the past few
years for afternoon entertainment is

the show about couples. These have
included ‘‘The Dating Game,”’ ‘‘Love
Connections” and the only one to sur-
vive today in the area, ‘The New
Newlywed Game.”

“The New Newlywed Game’”’ is of
the same format as the older edition,
still starring Bob Eubanks

Now let’s take a iook at this week’s

‘top highlights.

Saturday night, channel 5 will show
“Halloween II” at 8 and ‘“Rose-

4

mary’s Baby” at 11 with a one-hour |
break for news between the features. |

HBO also offers a fair lineup start-
ing at 10, with the return of ‘‘The Hit-
chhiker” with Margot Kidder star-
ring in this edition. This is followed
by “The Park is Mine” about a Viet-
nam vet who tries to earn respect for
all vets by taking over Central Park.

In the network search for
nostalgia, we have seen the re-
turn of ‘‘The Twilight Zone’ and
“Alfred Hitchcock Presents.’’ Now
NBC will try again with a movie
bringing back another past favorite.
“I Dream of Jeannie; 15 Years
Later” will air at 9 Sunday night.

The show will have three of the old
faces as Barbara Eden, Bill Daily
and Hayden Rorke, as Dr. Bellows
will return. Larry Hagman’s starring
role will be taken over by another
past TV legend, Wayne Rogers. You
just never know where this might
lead, as long as it isn’t another
“Gilligan’s Island’”’ movie.

 

By David Sprunt

our best controlled pavilion concert ever.”

Several new techniques were used to aid in controlling
both crowds and the consumption of beer. Arm bands

 

Anyone who attended last Friday night’s pavilion con-
cert featuring the Romantics surely noticed one thing
—it was loud. But according to Student Activities Board
Executive Director Mike Guerriero, ‘The loudness of
the concert was due to the fact that the knobs were turn

ed too high.”’

Guerriero noted that the loudness will be avoided at
the SAB’s December 6 concert with R.E.M.

Everything else Friday night ran smoothly, and Guer-
riero said the concert was put on for even less than ex
pected. The projected cost of the concert was $20,875,
with projected receipts of $15,100, but the final cost was
only $20,723 and the total receipts were $15,211.

‘From a financial standpoint, the show was a suc-
cess,’ Guerriero said. ‘‘We’re making great attempts

this year to avoid overspending

The evening was also free from problems with crowd
control, and, Guerriero said, ‘‘From the standpoint of
the Alcoholic Beverage Control Board, it was probably

were used to designate those of legal drinking age, a .
Lexington police officer was hired to help the SAB man-
age the crowd, and a higher beer price probably pro-
moted a little more responsibility in the pavilion beer
drinker, Guerriero said.

‘‘We took every step to see that we held up our end of
the ABC laws,” said Guerriero. ‘The ABC told us they
would be there, but they weren’t.”’

Guerriero said the SAB is also looking into ways to get
people through the doors of the pavilion more quickly so
they don’t have to spend so much time waiting outside.

The SAB has decided against putting another show in
the pavilion between now and the R.E.M. concert due to
the hectic weekend schedules in Lexington and at the
local women’s colleges, Guerriero said.

The SAB will be sticking to the same guidelines for the

R.E.M. concert that were successful for the Romantics.

“Everything will be the same,”’ Guerriero said, “except
that the ticket prices will be $10 instead of $8 due to the
increased quality of the entertainment provided.”

~ ~ + ~ ~ ~ ~—_ ~ soe

~

i

4

Somme
 

Running back

Weaver paces win

over Tigers

VOLUME 85, NUMBER7

 

Falling back

Page 7

 

 

Set clocks back
Sunday morning

 

 

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Your weekend weather

Rain ending tomorrow;
fair, cool for weekend

 

Che King-tum hi

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

OCTOBER 24, 1985

 

 

al

| General
Notes

 

Ooh-la-la

“Peppermint Soda,” a
i French film, is the second presen-
| “| tation of the Washington and Lee
Film Society. The film will be
shown Friday and Saturday in
Classroom A of Lewis Hall. The
showings are free and open to the
public. “Peppermint Soda” was
the winner of the Prix Louis
Delluc. The film, in French with
English subtitles, traces the ex-
ploits of French schoolgirls during
the 1963-64 school year.

Worthwhile

The personal counseling service
offered Washington and Lee stu-
dents is again this year provided
by Dr. James W. Worth, Univer-
sity Counseling Psychologist. Dr.
Worth will maintain regular office
hours in the University Center,
Monday through Friday, and ap-
pointments may be made through
the receptionist at the University
~' | Center or by calling 463-8592. He
may also be contacted in an
emergency through his home
telephone number, 463-4000.

Acorns of doom

‘ “Seeds of Destruction’ will be
shown Tuesday at 5 p.m. A 10-
minute discussion, led by Dr. L.
R. Emmons, will follow the film.

1978

 

By JIM STRADER
News Editor

 

On a table just inside the door of Robinson Hall, used math
books sit unminded beside a coffee can, partially filled with
quarters. A sign on the can asks ‘‘25 cents per book.”’

In the University Library, students stay up late, sometimes
all night, studying amid carrels full of other students’ tex-
tbooks, calculators, and other valuables.

In Evans Dining Hall, contract patrons eat three meals a
day without once proving they’ve paid their thousand dollar
tab.

Examples of Washington and Lee’s much-heralded Honor
System are seen every day. But everyone’s heard the stories
of the chemistry notes stolen just before exams, and the
clothes that mystically disappear from the laundry room.

‘“‘We have faith in the system,” Student Body Vice Presi-
dent Andrew Caruthers said. ‘‘We hope the students have
faith in it. We’ll continue to take it seriously until the students
decide differently.’

 

 

Honor: Possible breaches found as system endures

To what degree is that faith justified?

In a survey of several areas where students have been
vested with a great deal of trust, there is evidence that this
trust is in some ways betrayed. The freshman dormitories,
the University Library and the campus radio station are ex-
amples of places where problems are visible.

Disappearances in dorms

Stealing in the dormitories has been a problem for the past
several years, according to assistant head dormitory
counselor Dan Dupre. On his hall this year in Graham-Lees,
which Dupre said is hardest-hit by incidents of stealing, one
student reported about 10 button-down dress shirts stolen.
Dupre said another freshman reported leaving an expensive
sweater on a bench outside his room overnight and finding it
gone the next morning. The most common items reported
stolen, Dupre said, are cassette tapes.

Incidents of stealing are ‘“‘no worse than last year,’’ he
said, although he added that the problem has begun earlier
this year. The most common times for items to disappear are

Wednesday nights and weekends, when parties and other
social events are held, and there are more visitors to the
dorms than at other times.

Student Body President John Lewis put some of the blame
for the stealing on visiting students from nearby schools. “‘A
lot of it is girls,’’ he said. ‘‘Some people test the Honor System
too much. They leave their doors open on Wednesday nights
and a pack of girls from one of the girls’ schools comes into
the dorms.”

He added that as a freshman, he was the victim of dor-
mitory theft. ‘I’ve had boxers stolen and been down at
Hollins and seen them in girls’ drawers.”’

Losses in library

Another place from which items have disappeared is the
University Library. In the 1983-84 annual library report, 1,200
volumes were listed as missing since 1980.

The report goes on to note that in years before the move to

© See Honor, Page 5

 

 

Coed sports
get off toa
running start

By CHRIS APPLEBY
and MIKE STACHURA
Staff Reporters

 

 

FD

seen for '87

EC criticizes
pavilion rules

 

By SEAN BUGG and JASON LISI
Staff Reporters

beer ban

 

Although a University official says
“anyone can use” the Student Ac-

Refreshments will be served at
4:45 p.m. The film is part of the
series sponsored by the Washing-
ton and Lee Biology Forum.

United effort

The second annual United Way
Concert, organized by the Delta
Tau Delta fraternity, will be held
in the General Headquarters
Tavern on Friday, Oct. 25 at &
p.m. The concert, featuring sever-
al Washington and Lee graduates,

Wildgrass, Heinsohn and Day,
Rooster Ruley and the New Grass
Connection, and the Stains. There
is a $3 cover charge. All the musi-
cians are donating their time, so
all proceeds will go to the local
United Way Chapter.
Wild trip
The Outing Club is planning a
two-day, overnight canoe trip this
“: | ‘weekend. The trip is open to the
t / entire W&L community. All those
wanting to go on the trip must at-
tend a mandatory meeting tonight
at 7 in room 109 of the University

will include music by Tim Eddy, -

sun

~

Center.

Hot seat

is $2.
Boos and bobs

The Student Activities Board
presents the outrageous comedy
“Blazing Saddles,” starring Mel
Brooks, Cleavon Little and Gene
+1 Wilder, this Thursday and Sunday
at 8:30 p.m. in General Head-
quarters (free popcorn) and Fri-
day at 7 and 9:30 p.m. in Room 108
of the Student Center. Admission

“The women’s programs are going
great,’’ beamed Washington and Lee
Athletic Director William _ D.
McHenry yesterday, just a few days
after the first official competition of
a female W&L athletic squad in
Saturday’s cross country meet
against Virginia Commonwealth.

The University’s plans to field four
teams this academic year appear
well on their way to fruition,
McHenry indicated. In addition to
cross country, W&L has scheduled
competition in women’s tennis, golf
and swimming and diving.

The establishing of four teams is
not merely a goal, though. Member-
ship in the National Collegiate
Athletic Association means an in-
stitution must sponsor four sports
spread over the three seasons within
an academic year, according to
Shirley Whittaker, a representative
with the NCAA at its headquarters in
Shawnee Mission, Kansas.

“We don’t anticipate any pro-
blems,”’ McHenry said.

In addition to the NCAA require-
ment, W&L’s membership in the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference is
dependent upon a similar four-sport
criterion. The ODAC requires an in-
stitution to field teams in four con-
ference sports. The ODAC sponsors
competition in eight women’s sports:
basketball, field hockey, lacrosse,
soccer, swimming, tennis and
volleyball.

While W&L will field four women’s
teams this year, only two of those —
swimming and tennis Are conference
sports. In May, the conference decid-
ed to provide a two-year waiver for

C) See Coed, Page7

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Buckets o’ duckets

Drama Professor Joseph Martinez plays the part of Shylock the lender in
last night’s rehearsals for the University Theatre’s production of ‘‘The Mer-
chant of Venice.”’ Beginning its 50th season, the Washington and Lee troupe
will perform the Shakespeare play at 8 tomorrow night through Nov. 5 at the
Henry Street University Theatre. See story, Page 8.

Beer likely will be banned from the

tivities Pavilion as long as the

Student Activities Pavilion and most
University functions next. school
year, resulting in a totally dry Fancy
Dress and Superdance, according to
a school offical.

Because most freshmen and sopho-
mores next year will be below the
legal drinking age, the  state’s
Alcohol Beverage Control board pro-
bably will refuse to issue liquor
licenses for University-wide func-
tions, Associate Dean of Students
Michael A. Cappeto said yesterday.

“As soon as the majority of the stu-
dent body is underaged,”’ the ABC’s
so-called banquet licenses will be im-
possible to obtain for such events, he
explained. ‘‘I expect this will be the
last year there will be beer at Fancy
Dress unless we get a special dispen-
sation.”

“T assume this is the last year we
will have any beer”’ at the pavilion,
Cappeto added. ‘‘The ABC has said
this will be the’ last year.... This is
not something that’s within [the
University’s ] control.”’

“T still think people will come to
the REM concert if there’s no beer,”’

building’s rules are followed, several
members of the Executive Commit-
tee charged Monday that school poli-
cies are discouraging fraternities
from renting the year-old, $675,000
building.

Last weekend, for example, a par-
ty sponsored by five fraternities was
held not at Washington and Lee’s
pavilion but at Zollman’s Pavilion,
located five miles west of Lexington.

Associate Dean of Students
Michael A. Cappeto, who as the Uni-
versity’s adviser for student activi-
ties coordinates pavilion rentals, said
students are balking at using the
facility because they are unwilling to
comply with University and state li-
quor rules.

These regulations include require-
ments that parties be kept “‘private’’
by only admitting members of the
fraternity and their dates, that iden-
tification cards be checked rigorous-
ly and that those of drinking age be
marked.

‘Just because the students violate
the law out at Zollman’s or in the
fraternity houses, should they be per-

Cappeto added, noting that before the
pavilion was built, most school con-
certs were dry. ‘‘Did people come?
You bet,”’ he said.

Student Body Vice President An-
drew Caruthers said he was “‘appall-
ed’ by the anticipated ban, noting it
will be particularly harmful to the
Superdance for the Muscular Dystro-
phy Association.

“IT can’t imagine going to Fancy
Dress and actually being able to see
the decorations,”’ he joked.

“Prohibition is around the corner,
it seems.”

mitted to violate them here on cam-
pus?”’ he said. ‘‘The answer is ‘no.’ ”’

“The fraternities are accustomed
to violating the laws or finding loop-
holes in the laws, but we at Washing-
ton and Lee can’t be responsible for
providing these facilities to frater-
nities and know that they’re going to
violate the law,’’ Cappeto continued.
Cappeto said that in addition to state
laws, the University’s policy on stu-
dent drinking dictates that at cam-

C) See Pavilion, Page 6

Lambda Chi’s Haunted House
will be held Thursday night be-
tween 6 and 9 p.m. at 225 E.
Nelson St. The Haunted House will
feature refreshments, bobbing for
apples and ghost stories. Admis-
sion is free and children 12 and
under and their parents are

GHQ dinner menu: the facts and the feedback

Training ends and serving begins

 

, Review mixed —

welcome,

Bouncy, bouncy!

University Center.

M-I-C- K-E-Y

“Mickey One,”’ a 1965 film di-
rected by Arthur Penn and starr-
ing Warren Beatty, will be shown
tonight at 7 in Room 237 of the
Commerce School.

Bench warmers

Auditions for the next Universi-
ty Theatre production, ‘‘Bleacher
Bums,”’ will be held Monday and
Tuesday at 7 p.m, in the Boiler
Room Theatre on Henry Street at
the back of the Old Main Shopping
Mall

 

Freshman interviews for the
two positions on the Cold Check
Committee will be held Tuesday
at 7:30 p.m. in Room 114 of the

 

By CHRISTOPHER DEIGHAN
News Editor

 

The training period for the seven
student waiters and one waitress at
the General Headquarters tavern is
now over, and the chef and manager
says he may need to train others to
meet the demand for a dinner plan
that began this month.

Bill Torrence, who became man-

ager and chef in September, said he*

introduced the dinner menu quietly
to give the new staff a chance to learn
the new system.

Torrence said GHQ last week serv-
ed between 50 and 75 dinners a night.
The tavern served nearly 175 dinners
Monday evening.

“‘We’re out of the bar business,”
Food Services Director Gerald J.
Darrell said, noting the new age stan-
dards for beer

‘The emphasis has to be on food,”’
he said. ‘‘We’ve got to break even.”’
Last year the tavern, then known as

the Cockpit, lost more than $20,000.
Contract specials give students on
Evans Dining Hall’s 20-meal-a-week
plan and those with point cards the
option of eating in the tavern instead
of the dining hall
Hostess Mary K. Martin said the
contract specials offer students a
nice atmosphere, cooked-to-order
food, and service — all at haif a point
cheaper than the dining hall.
Students who want the contract
specials must first pick up a pass in
the dining hall or the food service of
fice. Darrell said the passes help the
managers balance the funds between
the dining hall and the GH
According to Martin, some stu-
dents are taking advantage of the
GHQ dinner plan on a nijghtly basis
“They've told me the food is good,”

she said. And although students can
not eat all they want one advan
tage of the dining hall — Martin said
they have generally found enough to

See GHQ, Page 6

 

84.406 Al
ef
a ob eee

ee el |

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Seniors Bill Rush and Bill Holmes eat in the GHQ last night

like the vegetables

 

By JAIMIE BERGER
and CHRIS KOMOSA
Food Critics

 

The General Headquarters (i.e.,
the Cockpit) with a new menu! Your
humble food critics, upon hearing the
news, grabbed their trusty press
passes and sashayed over to the Stu-
dent Center. For many years now,
the famished Washington and Lee
sophisticate has been looking for
some good food within the Colonnade
vicinity. It would seem that GHQ, in
the campaign to revamp its image,
has thrown its hat in with the Palm's,
Spanky’s and the rest of the gang for
a piece of the action

We seated ourselves for dinner in
preparation for a sumptuous meal
(what other kind is there?) and we
were quickly attended to by our

See Review, Page 6
 

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phi, October 24, 1985

 

Party barn?

Judging from the discontent expressed at Monday night’s
Executive Committee meeting over the Student Activities
Pavilion rental policy, a better name for “The Airplane
Hangar” might be ‘“‘The Golden Temple.’’ It cost a lot to
build; it is seen as a savior to fraternity house wear and tear;
and it is rarely used, thanks to great confusion over the
regulations and costs involved.

Clearly, misconceptions exist on the part of the students
and the administration of the proper uses of the facility.

When the decision was made two years ago to proceed with
the building of the pavilion, advocates of the plan pointed to
the need for a facility on campus for entertaining large
groups of people. The dining hall furniture was getting abus-
ed with all the movement for bands and the Superdance. The
Warner Center floor was not designed for beer or soft drinks,
and the expense involved in placing protective coverings
over the floor there made the cost prohibitive. With the in-
creasing concern over students driving drunk and heightened
tensions over Alcoholic Beverage Control board regulation of
social affairs involving students, Zollman’s became a less at-
tractive facility for parties. Even fraternities could gain
from the larger party facility since it would spare many
houses unneeded traffic.

It wasn’t a surprise then, when the W&L News Office, in its
press release dated June 4, 1984, noted that the pavilion was
being built ‘‘to provide students with an on-campus facility
for social and recreational activities.’ Its primary use would
be for social functions, with the athletic department able to
use the building during the weekdays for specific needs.

But somewhere between the conception and the occupation
of the building, the plan has gone astray. Barriers greater
than the lack of adequate parking facilities or a paved road
leading to the pavilion are inhibiting the use of the building as
it was planned.

The principal barrier remains the confusion over the rental
rule for the pavilion. Associate Dean of Students Michael A.
Cappeto, who handles requests for the pavilion, has tried to
implement a policy that will promote responsible parties.
Somewhere along the way, the policy is failing. Students, es-
pecially fraternity social chairmen, see the policy as expen-
sive and unreasonable. They do not understand where the $75
rental fee and the clean-up charges go. The rule that a
nominal price must be charged for beer is unfair, they claim,
since fraternity members deserve free beer for the social
dues they have paid. Parties at the pavilion, they say, are
private parties and should not fall under the University

alcohol policy mandating that beer be ‘‘sold, and not given
away’”’ at all University functions. Even questions as basic as
which groups can use the pavilion remain unanswered.

Cappeto ought to meet with the social chairmen and
discuss the regulations again. A clear explanation of the
alcohol policies for the pavilion and for the University could
dissolve many of the harsh words being thrown about.

The administration also needs to decide in its own mind
whether the pavilion was built for social functions, athletic
use or as a pretty campus decoration. Students certainly
want to use it for social purposes, but the conception students
have, whether warranted or not, is that the administration
sees other purposes as more important. After all, it is
students who have paid, are paying and will continue to pay
for the pavilion for the next 23 years. It’s a shame for it to go
unused because of muddled communication.

—NRP

A sobering thought

Every party has a pooper, which of course is why we have
the ABC. Thanks to the new drinking age regulations, next
year’s Fancy Dress and Superdance likely will not be
granted licenses to serve beer.

The ‘“‘fifty percent over the drinking age or no beer”’ rule
will especially hit hard on the Superdance. Students will miss
the beer at Fancy Dress, but the lights, bands and at-
mosphere will still hold great appeal.

It is hard to imagine a similar incentive for Superdance.
The vast majority of the students who attend the fundraiser
do so to drink beer and take in the top name bands. As Sandy
Whann, this year’s Superdance co-chairman, noted, ‘‘Next
year’s Superdance will have a hard time breaking any
records. I hope the losses can be made up in other ways.”

While the Alcoholic Beverage Control board rules attempt
to keep drinks out of underage mouths and drunks off the
roads, they also have a remarkable ability to put a damper
on things. Alcohol may not the party make, but it sure helps.

Many events at W&L, however, have prospered without al-
cohol. We’re sure that Superdance and Fancy Dress will be
added to that list. We believe that Washington and Lee
students can do something without an alcohol incentive.

‘‘No beer. No buzz. Big bomb,” may be the refrain for Joe
Piscopo, but this school, in time and grudgingly, can try to
disprove it.

a

Che Ring-tum Phi

MEO G TBO oo oo ccc ccceccccccccstsesccccccceuebecesssstststi2as Mike Allen
ee Paul Foutch
Cotton Puryear

OU Reade Williams
(Serre rere ere ee ere Mike Stachura
tT WP Ne 65. ces ..sesees. Nelson Patterson
OS I Fa isvesiiveieeins a ks ..,.. Christopher Deighan
Jim Strader

CONE gis 6 hk is 600669080 008s 4 haa bee bee Chris Bowring

ee Jeff Kimbeli
isereeeves Hank Greenberg

Business Manager ........-.
Advertising Manager ... .

Abvertlntas GAAIR 6i a  ecceie Keri Hinrichs

Matt Coudert

John Feyrer

Jay Reville

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 200 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run. This newspaper

 

observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

 

 

   

\ 0 3
AG ATT
" rm va N

ed
f

EE
Future campus tours?

     

 

 

‘Call the doctor. The patient is dying.’

By NELSON PATTERSON
Editorial Page Editor

 

When Washington and Lee was
_ debating the merits and flaws of
coeducation, many people pointed to
the unrealistic nature of an all-male
institution in a society possessed of
sexual equality. It is a dream world,
a myth, a delusion,they said, to main-
tain an all-male bastion. So when the
school went coed, that illusorial
nature many expected would depart.

It did not. It exists today as strong-
ly as it existed a year ago, but not
because of women. Rather, we are
deluding ourselves into believing that
this school can and does live under an
ideal system called honor.

Does the Honor System need an
overhaul? Or should we just begin to
play taps and hope that it rests for-
ever in peace? These are more than
passing concerns, for they encom-
pass the entire campus and challenge
the very philosophy upon which this
institution is founded and operates.

When Robert E. Lee came to this
University in 1865, he took the thick
handbook of regulations guarding

student conduct and ripped it in two,
stating that the only rule he required
is that students “behave as a
gentlemen.” Over the years, Lee’s
intent has undergone challenge and
subtle reform, but student and facul-
ty generations have always ended up
— the powerful statement stan-
ing.

Today, his words face as great a
challenge as has been mounted in re-
cent years. The radical changes in
the rules governing conduct offenses
were implemented earlier this year,
and now, the need appears to change
— or at least substantially alter —
the Honor System.

Why the need for change?

In recent years, student opinions
about honor have changed greatly.
What society at large considers to be
criminal —stealing a road sign or us-
ing a fake identification — we find to
be youthful playfulness. Boys will be
boys. Damn if they’re also felons.

The Honor System appears not to
be working. Notebooks, texts, jackets
and money disappear nightly.
Students, once able to leave their
possessions freely laying about, now
guard their goods with great care.

Dorm doors must be kept locked.
Carrels must be patrolled regularly.
But these are only the physical symp-
toms of an ailing system.

There is also a philosophical side to
the Honor System that demands at-
tention. Some say this desperation is
due to an amoral student generation.
Students can no longer appreciate
fine behavior because they fail to see
it in a society as a whole. Honor is
more than fine behavior. It is not that
we are immoral perverts who suffer
from sticky fingers. Nor do we
necessarily take any pleasure in ben-
ding the truth to fit our purposes. We
don’t try to deceive every person we
meet nor do we try to outsmart the
professors. But we still fall victim to
temptation on great occasion.

Part of the perception problem
stems from the very concept of
honor. The White Book purposely
does not define it, since to do so would
necessarily declare something dis-
honorable which many find upright.
This open-ended definition allows
every case to be tried on an individu-
al basis. But students also lack
rudimentary knowledge of tradi-
tional concepts of honor. Attempting

‘King Tom’ decrees campus

 

MY VIEW
By Tom Maguire

There are some aspects of Wash-
ington and Lee life that I really love
— the atmosphere of the campus
most of all. Alas, there are some
facets of that atmosphere that
detract from its appeal. Thus, under
the heading ‘‘Things I Would Change
If I Were King,”’ I present a few of the
more irritating (some more trivial
than others, I confess) realities of ex-
istence here.

First on my list is a condition, a
state of mind, that even royal decree
might not be able to alter. I speak, of
course, of apathy. I am sometimes
quite positive that apathy is the only
belief held with conviction by many
W&L students.

This apathy takes many forms.
One such form is the poor attendance
at many school events, such as con-
certs. The Glee Club (and, I suppose,
the new University Chorus as well)
and the brass ensemble can count on
only one good crowd a year
—Parents’ Weekend. On another mu-
sical front, concerts of the Rock-
bridge Concert Theater Series, which
are underwritten in large part by the
University on our behalf, present
entertainment of a uniformly high
quality, and are attended by prac-
tically no W&L students, who would
get in free if only they would bother
to show up at the door.

Another manifestation of apathy is
low attendance at school sporting
events. The football crowds have not
been too bad so far this year, but the
philosophy of many spectators seems
to be “arrive late, and leave at the
half.’ Almost nobody goes to other
types of games. Basketball is a good
example. In the past, basketball
games have been so sparsely attend-
ed that by the third game one can
look around the Warner Center and
know that these same 30 or 40 people
are going to be at every game, and
that’s all.

Obviously, no one can go to every
concert or game. However, if every
one of us chose one or two groups that

needed a little support and went to
most of their performances or
games, everyone could take a little
more pride in their own activities and
in the school.

On a lighter note (but not much
lighter, as what I am about to speak
of is serious business), another com-
plaint of mine is directed at ROTC
and more specifically at the ROTC
officers, who presumably are older
and wiser than their college-age
charges. On many weekday morn-
ings, ROTC students are subjected to
what is called “PT” — short for
physical training. An unofficial sur-
vey of ROTC participants would indi-
cate that PT is universally despised
amongst its practitioners. Surpris-
ingly, it is also despised by many
residents of the Woods Creek Apart-
ments, your humble scribe included.
Why is that? Because it takes place
outside our bloody windows at

       

THEY HATE ME.

 

 

THEY HATED JESuS.

obscene hours of the early morning,
that’s why!!! If I am awakened by
chants of “SOUND OFF...SOUND
OFF,” sung (poorly) in many dif-
ferent keys (all at once) one more
time, I don’t know what I am gong to
do. If one has been up late studying,
and one does not have a class until D
hour, those few extra hours of sleep
can be quite important.

I might add that ROTC is not the
only culprit in this regard. The Build-
ings and Grounds department has a
penchant for employing its noisiest
machinery (i.e. leaf blowers) at ear-
ly hours as well.

As a solution, might not the cadets
do their PT elsewhere, say on Smith
Field, far from the dorms? Also,
might not B&G use its louder equip-
ment after the hour of, say 9 a.m.?
Many grateful (and tired) residents
of Woods Creek, and especially those
on the Lewis Hall side of the build-

to form any concept today is difficult,
if not impossible.

For students, as for faculty, honor
conjures many different and
mystical notions. Many students see
honor as a chivalric ideal that disap-
peared with Camelot. Other students
consider it to be an ideal approached“
and yearned for but rarely achieved, ,
by mortals. Any approach to revision
of the Honor System must necessari-
ly begin with campus discussion of
the current understanding of honor.

I hope the Honor System has not®
died. I hope it is not even stricken
with a terminal disease. I say this not”
because I want to guard a silly tradi-
tion, though some might accuse me
of that. Rather, I think highly enough *
of the students and faculty here to,
believe that we can exist in a system ©
where honor encompasses more than ,
honesty and the quixotic approach to
the southern gentleman. The system °
must do more than test character; it
must refine and shape it. It should try
desperately to disprove that garbage
in means garbage out. And finally, it
should be willing to admit when it no
longer serves a useful purpose. I
pray that latter test may never come.

changes

ings, would salute you.

My last complaint is, to me, a’
mournful one. Alas, even if I were,
able, I probably would do nothing to
change it. I refer to the plethora of
newly installed lights that now adorn
the campus. The editor of this page,
Nelson Patterson, expressed his opi-
nion on this matter in an earlier issue,
of The Phi, and I agree with him
wholeheartedly. One of the simple
pleasures at W&L was walking on the
front campus late at night. At one or
two in the morning, when all was
silent, one could revel in the awe
some magnificence of our colonnade.
Now, with more lights on the front
campus than in the average operat-
ing room, the wonderful, mysterious,
shadowy beauty of the colonnade at
night is gone. The 20th century has
hit W&L with great force this year.
and no loss is as painful for me as this
one.

 

 

 

 

JESUS RESURRECTED PEOPLE.
T RESURRECT PLOPLE.

 

THEY SCOURGED JESUS.
THEY SCOURGE ME.

 

       

 

BUT I'M NOT GOING TO COME RIGHT OVT
AND SAN WHAT 1 AM... YoU DRAW YouR
OWN CONCLUSION,

 
      
 

The Ring-tum Phi, October 24, 1985, Page 3

 

Student expresses need for increased community service

MY VIEW

By Steven Pockrass

 

“Service, we need more service
here,’’ I said while perched atop the
barstool in Ye Olde Lexington Water
ing Hole.

“Hey, I’m moving as fast as I
can,” said the bartender as he
poured me the usual cold skim
milk in a dirty glass.

“Sorry, I didn’t mean that kind of
service,’’ I replied and then took a
big swig of the foamy draught and
wiped my grizzly face with the back
of my hand.

“Ahhh, tastes great,”’ I said.

“And it’s less filling,’ the
bartender replied. ‘‘So what kind of
service are ya talkin’ about?”’

“Community service. W&L needs
more community service,”’ I said.

“Are you out of your mind?” he
asked. ‘‘Maybe you oughta stop
poundin’ those milks like that. Don’t
you know about the MDA Super-
dance, the University Federation,
fraternity service projects and Law

School service activities?

Of course I knew about these. The
Superdance is W&L’s longest party,
and it’s a great time for a great
cause. I’d encourage everybody to
dance or at least attend and pledge
money for one of the dancers. (Not to
mention that my job as co-chairman
for public relations means I’m sup-
posed to get plenty of propaganda on
the airwaves and in print. )

The University Federation runs the
Big Brother/Big Sister program, and
some fraternities do service projects
such as the Bloodmobile and fund-
raising to fight multiple sclerosis. An
inside source whom I greatly trust
and admire (note how this builds
his/her credibility) has told me that
the Law School aids area residents
and institutionalized people.

“But I bet many people at this
school did more community service
work when they were in high school
than they do here,’ I said. ‘‘And not
just by giving money, but on a more
personal level by actually seeing peo-
ple, helping them.”

“It'll never work,’’ the bartender
said. ‘‘For one thing, remember that

 

THS DEFICIT

SOE ATTN

 

Reagan got re-elected because
everyone was better off than they
were four years ago.”

“Now, hang on-a second. Do you
realize W&L is encircled by one of the
poorest counties in the state of Vir-
ginia? Just because most people
didn’t vote for ‘Where’s the Beef?’
Mondale (he found out where at elec-
tion time), that doesn’t mean every-
body’s so well off. In fact, the reason
capitalism works is because it
depends on the rich to help out the
poor voluntarily. Otherwise, Marx-
ists would be having a field day.”

‘‘Maybe,”’ said the bartender. ‘‘But
people here don’t have enough time
to do all this service work, what with
classes and homework and fraternity
parties and going down the road and
all.”

“Yeah, life’s rough,” I said. ‘‘Hav-
ing to wait for parts for your BMW,
praying before the porcelain alter,
asking girls what their names are the
morning after. How do people do it
all?

“Have you ever gone down the
road, stopped and looked at the
houses some of these people live in?

Have you ever visited them? Honest-
ly, I have, and the people don’t live
like royalty; that’s for sure

“Besides, not everybody is in a
fraternity. And the women don’t go
down the road unless they're in
search of Squids, which I find highly
unlikely considering how we crushed
Hampden-Sydney in football.”

“OK, you got me there,”’ said the
bartender. ‘‘So where’d you come up
with all this stuff — the Boy Scouts?”’
he joked.

“As a matter of fact I did,’’ I said.

“But the Boy Scouts are a bunch of
faggots!’’ he retorted.

Not wanting to pound this guy into
the woodwork (I was thrown out of a
bar in Roanoke this summer — they
said it was because I wasn’t old
enough to be there, but I think they
were afraid of the damage I might
cause), I said, ‘And how do you
figure that?”’

“Well, there’s just guys there, and
they sleep together in tents.’’

Yeah, and for 200-plus years, there
were just guys at W&L and they lived
together in dorms.

“There is a national service frater-

 

WE KEEP

 

nity called Alpha Phi Omega,” I con-
tinued. ‘It was started by some
former Scouts who wanted to con-
tinue their service work while at col
lege, and it’s now coed.”’

“Yeah, that’s just what we need
here is another fraternity,’ the
bartender said :

“Oh no, you've got it all wrong,
APO doesn’t have a frat house. And
lots of APO members also belong to
social fraternities. Members aren’t
required to participate in every ser-
vice project but must complete a
brief pledge period that we could hold
in January and February. There’s no
hazing. Pledges learn about the
organization and do some service
work. The group’s goals are to per-
form service to the school.”

“Like getting a water fountain in
the weightroom,”’ he cut in.

“And service to the community.”

“Like getting the shake machine at
Arby’s fixed.”

‘And service to the nation.”’

‘Like getting the World Series out
of Missouri.”’

‘Well, that’s not exactly what I had
in mind, but I’ll see what we can do.
Now all we need is a core group of
interested students. I’m hoping peo
ple will get in touch with me over at
the journalism school (That’s where
I seem to live these days) or give me
a call if they’d like to join.”’

“Well, you really oughta start
talkin’ it up on campus,” he said.

“Iam,” I replied. ‘‘But I’m trying
to think of some way to get it in print,
too.

“Pour me another milk.” I sat
there, thinking. ‘‘And just for kicks,
puta little chocolate in it.”’

Tradition no excuse
for halftime exodus

 

MY VIEW

ed It struck me at that time that not
only was the ‘‘Great Halftime Depar-
ture’’ rude to those on the W&L team,

it must appear very strange to visit-

STAGGERS

 

 
 
  

 

  

7, coe

a

 

 

 

 

S
SSS
SS
SSS:

SN

RN
SS

TRH
SS

SS

S

S
cS

~~

    

 

  
  

 

\
iS

YL

 

 

 

 

 

HAROWARE STORES

   

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

 
 

E. Nelson St.

Mon. - Sat. 8:30-6:
463-2186 :

Sun.1-5

  
    
 

 

BORDEN

COMMONS

Lexington's First Condominium Co

 

 

At Borden Commons we haven't stopped with

Phase | of Borden Commons enjoyed a successtul welcome trom the «
out. Now, with some new designs and interior layouts. we are intr
Commons

These new and beautitul condominiums are designed to fulfill your

eve

 

just a short distance trom Washington & Lee, V.M.L. and the histo
Isn't it time you considered the ease and tinancial rewards of condominium living?
It you have any questions about Borden Commons, we have a bri
sentatives to help you
Baker Keal Estate
Post Ottice Box ae
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Ottice (703) 463-7319

Dick Emrey

» A ) .
St (

  
  

enings | NY Dake!

BUILDING MISSILES

ALL ACROSS AMERICA

PEOPLE ARE TALKING
TAX REFORM.

ake

 

 

a

    
 
  

<<

ABOUT

(eZ

v

 

 

 

 

 

 

W&L Students

Present Student I.D. at the
Buena Vista Pizza Hut

20% discount
on regular menu items

23rd & Beech St., Buena Vista

 

 

<=

mmunity-
ry

   

 

 

our first success!

ommunity and quickly sold
oducing Phase II of Borden

ry need, and they re located
ric Lexington Community

chure available and repre

3) 403-2510 (evenings)

 

He S. Jefferson St.
%

463-3338

Hours:

Sunday 10am to lam

 

 

 

 

The Shop for
PAPPAGALLO

Shoes, Clothing
& Accessories

23 NORTH MAIN STREET
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

463-5988

 

 

Blah. Blah. Blah.

I’m just as sick of hearing about
tradition as the next guy, but during
a year when so many traditions are
being changed, I'd like one be done
away with entirely. That is the tradi-
tion of the entire crowd leaving foot-
ball games directly after half-time.
This isn’t tradition, it’s poor man-
ners.

The W&L student athletes do not
get athletic scholarships. They are
not forced to participate; they do so
of their own free will. They devote an
enormous amount of their own time
in order to represent W&L. Fame? It
is elusive. Fortune? An iota of recog-
nition?

A hometown friend who saw last
week’s issue of The Ring-tum Phi
commented on the sparsely occupied
bleachers in the background of the
pictures of the Maryville game.
“‘Was there a Republican convention
during the game or what?” she ask-

PRR HRA

The Ring-tum Phi
“urges every student to
vote in the upcoming

elections
REKKKKKKKKKKKKKKkkhhhhee

whaKeKn
tkkkkwkik

tk

 

Jensen Others

LOW PRICES
Eastern Distributing

463-9703

after 6p.m.

Pioneer

 

. By Marie Kothman ors as well. Judging from such a dis-
| | AND ONE DAY play, it is not unmerited to say the
THE MINDI * at Tradition. Tradition. ‘Tradition, Vast majority of the W&L student

body lacks school loyalty, unity and
spirit.

Now I know the reason for the ex-
odus is to get a head start on drinking
for the Saturday night blowout. Hea-
ven knows if you haven’t caught a
buzz by 4:30, you are about as un-
American as Polish sausage. I do
think, however, that because the
games start at 1:30 and are over by 4,
it’s not such a sacrifice to postpone
the afternoon happy hour for another
45 minutes.

The Generals have had a remark-
able season so far, and the homecom-
ing game was one of their best. The
crowd’s lack of interest in the
game itself is appalling. Everyone
hung around until Ms. Satterwhite
received the crowning kiss, but didn’t
bother to see the General’s vanquish
the Scots. Yes, the W&L student
body’s priorities come through loud
and clear. Where would we be if the
football team had similar priorities?

   
 

Stockbroker
Trainee:
Opportunity in Virginia
Beach, Richmond or Wash-
ington D.C. area [please
specify] for hardworking,
enthusiastic individual.
Send resume to:
P.O. Box 8814

  
   
  
      
  

 

 

 

 

  
    
    
  
 

Mon.-Sat. 9am to lam

 

Beeesmsereann cements eam SS eta

Catering

 
 

By Appointment 463-9588
Robin« Peggy Marie

RGR. AGREES

/VUARNET,.

 

All styles and accessories available
Discount Prices! — Quick Service
Call Brandt Wood - 463-9800

Sandwiches (Eat In-Take Out)
Gourmet Items of All Nations
Cocktails@® Wine®@ Beer

Subs@Imported Cheeses

ee ee

Marie's Kain Stylers

Virginia Beach, VA 23450

  
 

 

 

    
    

  

    
   
     
   

22: <a

Old Main St. Mall
Lexington, VA 24450 e

a

 

 

Frank’s Pizza

‘Best Pizza in Lexington”’
Free Delivery for

W&L Students
463-7575 or 463-3133

 

Se ee ee ES ee a ee ce ee ee ee
 

EWS

The Ring-tum Phi, October 24, 1985

 

Program of cognitive studies may be ready by 1986-87

 

 

EE EME
By BERT PARKS
Staff Reporter
4 program of cognitive studies, the analysis of the
nature of knowledge and learning, is being planned by a

mittee of psychology, philosophy and computer
science professors

Dean of the College John W. Elrod said this week that
committee’s work should result in a cognitive studies
ogram in the 1986-87 or '87-88 University Catalogue.
early stages of the program would include existing
courses and one or two seminars, in the same mold as
the East Asian Studies Program.

A major would be a ‘‘second-stage development in the
evolution of the program” far down the road, Elrod said.

Elrod called cognitive studies ‘‘one of the most ex-
citing areas of human learning.’’ Man now knows more

 

th

  
 

 

about outer space than about the inner workings of the
mind, Elrod pointed out

Cognitive studies is a relatively new field, and there
are few colleges that offer majors in it., among them
Brown University, Dartmouth College and Vassar Col-
lege.

The cognitive studies steering committee’s co-chair-
men are David Elmes of the psychology department and
Ramsey Martin of the philosophy department. Other
members are computer science Professor Ken Lambert,
psychology professors Leonard E. Jarrard, Nancy A.
Margand and Joseph B. Thompson, and philosophy Pro-
fessor Harrison J. Pemberton.

The committee's goals, according to Elrod, are to ar-
ticulate the five-year goals of the program, to identify
the themes that the psychology, philosophy and compu-
ter science departments can contribute to the program,
and the existing courses available to the program.

The committee hopes to propose a course of study for
the program, which must be approved by the faculty, in
time for inclusion in the 1986-87 Catalogue,

“There are courses that will be incorporated into the
cognitive studies program at a future date,” Elrod said.

“In addition to that, some strictly cognitive studies
courses will be created.”’

Before the committee was formed, Elmes and Martin
attended a June conference at Vassar for undergraduate
cognitive studies programs.

One of the conference's purposes was to see if a speci-
fic definition of cognitive studies could be developed. It
couldn’t, but Elmes and Martin brought back ideas from
other schools.

The two then spent the summer writing a report,
which was submitted to Elrod, after which the commit-
tee was formed.

Elrod said he hopes the cognitive studies program can

strengthen its related majors, encourage professors to
study the field, give students an understanding of the in-
terdisciplinary nature of their majors, draw speakers to
campus, and attract professors interested in cognitive
studies.

An example is Lambert, who came to W&L this year
with a Ph.D. in philosophy and a master’s in computer
science.

Cognitive studies examines the mind-body problem An
old philosophical question that asks whether the mind
and body are separate or the same — and artificial intel-
ligence, which is thegray area between human thinking
and computerized ‘‘thinking.’’

Thompson, a member of the steering committee, is on
leave at Carnegie-Mellon University in Pittsburgh, Pa..,
studying artificial intelligence.

The program will also focus on memory, perception,
language and free will.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

EC looks at
selection of
class VPs

By JASON LISI
Staff Reporter

 

 

The Executive Committee Monday
night reconsidered the policy of elec-

ting three vice presidents from the
senior class to serve on the Student
Control Committee.

Senior EC representative Pat Hay-
den brought up the issue last week,
saying the process of electing three
vice presidents for the senior class —
one from the Commerce School and
one from each of the divisions in the
School of Arts and Sciences to serve
on a disciplinary committee was
somewhat meaningless.

“What does it matter whether a
student is a history major or a
science major when he’s talking
about a fight?’’ Hayden asked.

SCC Chairman Townes Pressler
agreed, saying, ‘“‘You don’t really
need representatives from the three
departments on the SCC.”’

‘t don’t understand why each of
the schools should be so separated,”
EC Vice President Andrew Caru-
thers said.

Noting that upperclass elections
don’t occur until the spring,
Caruthers said, ‘This is something
we don’t have to rush into,’’ and the
was deferred until a later

issue

   

meeting.
Pressler is the chairman of a 14-
member student committee that

ceais with non-honor related disci-
pline. It is composed of class officer
— law class presidents, underclass
presidents and vice presidents, and
senior class president and the three
vice presidents, giving the senior
class greater representation.

“T think that seniors are a little
more experienced,” Pressler said.

However, some EC members
pointed out that there are so few
science majors that electing a repre-
sentative from among them might
not be fair. :

The idea was suggested of reducing
the number of vice presidents to two
and having them chosen from the en-
tire senior class.

‘Hopefully the two best people
would be elected,’’ Caruthers said.

In other action, the EC welcomed
Matt Bryant as the recently elected
freshman representative. The other
winners of the freshman elections
were: president, Mike Forrester;
vice president, Tom West; and Uni-
versity Council representative,
Frank Sands

 

By JOHN PIPKIN
Staff Reporter

 

Journalism Professor Ronald :H.
MacDonald has been the host of a
series of local television vignettes
commemorating the 50th anniver-
sary of the Blue Ridge Parkway.

The series, which consisted of 25
one and a half minute episodes, aired
on WDBJ, Channel 7 in Roanoke,
from July through last week.

One final episode, concerning the
autumn colors on the parkway was
filmed last Thursday and has yet to
be shown.

The idea for the series came from
Jim Shaver, news director at WDBJ.

Shaver, whose grandfather owned
part of the land the Parkway was
built on, said he had been ‘“‘toying
with the idea’’ of doing a feature
series on the parkway for a long time
and decided that its 50th anniversary
was an appropriate event for such a
series.

The series was researched and
written by MacDonald, who said he
received the idea enthusiastically.

When first asked to do the series,
MacDonald said he was a “‘little sur-
prised, having not done anything in
real television for 16 years,”’

He found working in television
again to be a ‘‘thrill’’ and remarked,
“T’ve always enjoyed doing that sort
of thing.’’

 

He added that “equipment and
techniques have changed immense-
ly” since he worked in television.

“J miss working with the highly
creative people, but I can’t keep pace
with them anymore,’’ MacDonald
said.

“I don’t miss the day-to-day
routine of the newsroom,” he added,
however.

He appears in and narrates each of
the episodes, which range from his-
torical and natural points of interest
along the parkway to the presence of
motorcycle convoys.

MacDonald, a W&L professor since
1969, went to work for WDBJ after
graduating from Boston University,
where he studied journalism.

He said he had always been inter-
ested in broadcasting and that ‘‘back
then’’ the only way to fulfill that in-
terest was to study journalism.

MacDonald came to WDBJ a few
months after the station began
operating and spent 13 years as news
director, where he met Shaver.

It was this acquaintance with Mac-
Donald that prompted Shaver to ap-
proach him for the job lat last spring.

Filming began in the summer and
the film crew made five different
trips to locations along the Parkway
from Virginia into North Carolina.

After doing the series, MacDonald
said he gained a new respect for the
people who built the parkway....it
took a great deal of imagination for
the people in the thirties to attempt

 

By Hank Mayer/The Ring-tum Phi
Journalism Professor Ronald MacDonald appears on TV in his Blue Ridge Parkway series

King of the road

Professor gives TV-tour of Blue Ridge Parkway

such a project.

The Parkway should be completed
in two years. A seven mile stretch is
all that remains to be finished. Con-
struction has been slowed by archi-
tectural complexities and problems
acquiring the land.

“T would like to be around for its
completion in two years, now that I
feel I have a stake in it,” MacDonald
said. He added that he would like to
do another series upon the Park-
way’s completion, but joked that
“they probably will send reporters
who are paid to do that sort of thing.”

Shaver said the Parkway is the
largest tourist attraction in WDBJ’s
broadcast area and so it deserves
special attention.

The series appears on Channel 7 in
the regular commercial rotation. A
computer inserts the 90-second seg-.
ment into available air time at a rate’
of two episodes, five times a week.

The final segment on fall foliage
was filmed just to complete the pack-
age in the hopes that it can be syndi-
cated.

It was not intended to be televised,
but the finished product was so good
that it will be aired as soon as the pro-
gramming computer finds a slot,
Shaver said.

On the lighter side, the series was
co-sponsored by McDonald’s restau-
rants, a fact that Professor Ronald
MacDonald said drew sly comments
irom his Channel 7 colleagues.

 

NEWS BRIEFS

Trustees to study

financial proposal |
for new dormitory |

 

By CHRISTOPHER DEIGHAN
News Editor

 

The Board of Trustees will con-
sider a $7.8 million financing plan for
additional student housing this week-
end as part of the board’s fall meet-
ing, and contruction may begin on
the dormitory as early as spring, ac-
cording to University President John
D. Wilson.

If the trustees accept the plan, the
University will obtain a site clear-
ance permit from the city of Lexing-
ton and tear down the house at 223 W.
Nelson St. and the adjacent Coca-
Cola bottling plant, which together
cost Washington and Lee $240,000 last
spring.

“Certainly, we will want to begin
tearing down those buildings as soon
as possible,,’’ Wilson said.

University officials hope the 250-
bed residence hall will be available
for occupation by September 1987.

The project will be funded in part
by industrial revenue bonds issued
by the Industrial Development Au-
thority of Rockbridge County. Simi-
lar bonds financed construction of
the Woods Creek Apartments in 1975.

In other action, a temporary apar-
theid committee, which was formed
last spring, interviewed three stu-
dents and three professors this after-
noon to solicit a general opinion from
the W&L community on the Univer-
sity’s investments in South Africa.

Wilson said the committee will pre-
sent an interim report to the board
Saturday before working on a com-

plete report that he said would pro-
bably be submitted to the trustees at
the February meeting.

The trustees will discuss other
money regarding the renovation of 32
University Place, the future site of
the Admissions Office.

Wilson said he expects renovation
work to begin in the summer.

The Class of 1961 is raising money
for the project and will present it to
the University as a 25th anniversary’
gift, according to Wilson. Officials
are also seeking funds from Virginia
corporations to defray the school’s
cost.

Also, Academic Affairs Committee
members will study the curriculum
of the East Asian Studies program
while they are in town and will report
their findings to the board.

Athletic Director William D. Mc-
Henry and Assistant Athletic Direc-
tor Cinda Rankin will report to the
Campus Life Committee on the sta-
tus of athletics, and Associate Dean
of Students Dan Murphy will report
on Rush.

In celebration of the 35th anniver-
sary of the publication of Shenan-
doah, the University literary maga-
zine, English professor and poet Dab-
ney Stuart will read two of his works
at the trustees’ dinner Friday.

Tom Wolfe, a trustee and author
who had some of his works published
in the first issue of Shenandoah, will
also speak at the dinner. Wolfe, who
is considered a pioneer journalist,
wrote ‘The New Journalism”’ in 1973
and ‘‘The Right Stuff” in 1979, among
other works.

Absentee ballots available

 

By DANATHA HOFFMAN
Staff Reporter

 

Any registered Virginia voter may
participate in the upcoming general
election by absentee ballot.

To get one, a person who will not be
in his home city or county on Election.
Day — such as a college student
—may request an absentee ballot
from the city registrar in the Lex-
ington City Hall on Washington
Street, or the Rockbridge County
Registrar in the basement of the

Rockbridge Courthouse on the corner
of Main and Washington streets. The
offices are open five days a week and
this Saturday.

These applications must be filled
out, witnessed and mailed to the re-
gistrar of the city or county in which
the student is registered five days
before the Nov. 5 election.

A student can get his local regis-
trar’s address by calling the Lexing-
ton Registrar at 463-7203 to obtain it.
The registrar from the student’s
home will send the student a ballot.

Lexington man charged with assault on lacrosse player

 

 

 

stall reports

 

Two Lexington men were charged Monday with as-
saulting senior Caulley Deringer, police said.

Deringer, a lacrosse player from Chestertown, Md.,
received six stitches in the face from the alleged
assault

Lexingtonian Anthony Clark was charged with misde-
meanor assault and battery, possession of marijuana
and contributing to the delinquency of a minor. A 17-
year-old juvenile was charged with malicious wound-
ing

Officer J.P. Joines received a call at 10:36 p.m. Mon-
day from senior Bill Holmes, who told Joines about an
assault on Deringer at Jefferson and McDowell streets.

A description of the suspects’ car provided by Der-
inger led to their arrests, police said.

In other police matters:

« Junior Joseph Donovan reported $2,630 worth of pro-
perty stolen from his apartment at 16 1/2 W. Washing-
ton St. over the summer. The theft included a $2,000
Phillipe Chariolle wristwatch, the police report said.

Ruth Herring, Donovan's landlady, said in a police
report that she had no idea how the property disappear-
ed

Donovan said he returned to the apartment in the fall
to find the property gone. He said he wanted to report it

then, but that Herring insisted he wait until she could
accompany him to the police station.

el.aw School Professor J. William Stewart reported
that someone set fire to a pile of leaves on his lawn,

 

causing damage estimated at $60.

eFreshman Scott Gorry reported a $200 bike stvien
from Graham-Lees dormitory last weekend.

He told police that he left town for the weekend and
told friends they could borrow the bike, but when he
returned the bike was missing and none of his friends
knew where it had gone.

—Marshall Boswell

Legislator to speak on apartheid

The Minority Student
Association and the Black
Law Student Association
are sponsoring a campus
appearance next month by
Willie Brown Jr., speaker
of the California Assembly.

Brown will speak on
“Apartheid and Its Rela-
tionship to Black America”’
on Nov. 7 at 8 p.m. in the
Moot Courtroom of Lewis
Hall, the law school build-
ing.

Brown, the first black
speaker of the California
legislature, was first elected to the assembly in 1964. He
became speaker in 1980 and was reelected in 1982 and
1984.

During his time in the legislature Brown has served

 

WILLIE BROWN JR.

as majority floor leader and chair of the California
Legislative Black Caucus. He also served as chair of the
Ways and Means Committee, the Revenue and Taxa-
tion Committee and the Governmental Efficiency and
Economy Committee.

Brown is the author of several landmark bills, includ-
ing legislation prohibiting discrimination in govern-
ment programs, law establishing the Child Health Disa-
bilities Program, and legislation creating the first
state-funded urban park.

Brown received his bachelor’s degree from San F'ran-
cisco State College and his law degree from the
Hastings College of Law.

GMU, JMU share debate honors

George Mason University of Fairfax won the varsity
category of the Washington and Lee Debate Tourna-
ment this weekend.

The tournament consisted of six preliminary rounds
divided into varsity, novice and junior varsity divisions.

George Mason defeated James Madison University in
the varsity division, James Madison beat George
Mason in the junior varsity division, and the University
of Virginia beat Fairmont State College from Fairmont,
W.Va., in the novice division.

Other colleges participating were W&L, the Universi-
ty of Pennsylvania, the Naval Academy, Wake Forest
University, Alderson-Broaddus College of Philippi,
W.Va., Liberty University and Randolph-Macon Col-
lege. In addition, Howard University from Washington,
D.C., observed the tournament.

Professor Halford Ryan, the debate team coach, said

W&L’s team of junior Rick Graves and freshman Bill
Webb finished 5-1 in the preliminary rounds, but the
team split its matches between the varsity and junior
varsity divisions.

Ryan explained that schools that put on tournaments
make sure that their teams don’t make it to the finals as
a courtesy to the visiting teams.

“It’s just not done,” Ryan said.

W&L’s novice team of sophomore Robert Owen and
freshman John Lawfon finished 1-5 in the preliminary
rounds.

Ryan called the tournament, which was held Friday
and Saturday in Payne, Robinson and Newcombe halls
and the Commerce School, a success.

“It’s the biggest tournament we’ve had,”’ he said.

Photo collection to be shown

A collection of photographs by the renowned Ameri-
can photographer Mathew Brady will be featured in du-
Pont Gallery Oct. 26 through Nov. 17.

The exhibit was organized by the National Portrait
Gallery and developed by the Smithsonian Institution
Traveling Exhibition Service and the Mid-America Arts
Alliance.

The photos in the exhibit come from the collection of
Frederick Hill Meserve, who gathered one of the most
extensive collections of historical American photo-
graphs ever created. Among the photos in the Meserve
collection was a sizable group of glass-plate negatives,
eacha life portrait, made in the world-famous studios of
Mathew B. Brady.

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi, October 24, 1985, Pac

 

 

  

By W. Patrick Hinely /W&L

English Professor Sidney Coulling addresses freshmen

Honor gets an ‘A’
after 45,000 papers

 

By JIM STRADER
News Editor

 

Sidney M.B. Coulling, professor of
English, customarily addresses the
freshman class on the Honor System
during orientation week. He calls
himself a ‘firm believer” in the
Honor System and said that his
understanding of it was shaped by
members of the faculty when he was
a student here in the 1940s.

He listed as one of the more in-
fluential professors Frank J.
Gilliam, who stressed certain basic
principles of the Honor System that
remain valid at W&L today.

Among those principles Coulling
listed is the idea that the Honor
System was never intended to teach
integrity. The system assumes that
people are honest when they come to
W&L.

Another strength Coulling sees in
the Honor System is that it does not
pretend to be applicable to
everything in life.

“It can’t do that,”’ he said. “‘There
are areas where it’s a mistake, pro-
bably, to try to apply it.” He used as
an example the case where a student
“borrows” a fraternity brother’s bot-
tle of bourbon. In this situation,
although strictly a case of stealing,
the Honor System should not be used,
Coulling said.

A third element of the Honor
System that Coulling stressed was
that it allows the accused student the
benefit of the doubt.

“The fact that. things are missing
or ‘taken’ doesn’t to me necessarily
imply theft,’ he said. In past years,
he said, the library staff had a
regular practice of going to fraterni-
ty houses after graduation and col-
lecting books that had been left
behind.

Coulling used an instance from his
own experience to illustrate his point.
“T have inadvertently left the co-op
without paying for my lunch,”’ he ad-
mitted. ‘‘We do things, sometimes,
that we don’t intend.”’

On the subject of cheating, Coulling
said he places great faith in students
to abide by the Honor System. “I

have no evidence whatsoever of any
cheating,’’ he said.

“I don’t suspect my students,” he
continued. ‘‘As a matter of fact, I
have a fundamental assumption that
they are honest,”

To illustrate his statement, he
outlined his years at W&L.

“This is my 30th year on the facul-
ty,” be said. ‘‘And let’s just say, ar-
bitrarily, I’ve averaged 150 students
a year.” Coulling figured he has
taught 4,500 students, assigning 10
graded papers to each, for a total of
45,000 assignments.

“In those 30 years,”’ he continued,
“T think I’ve had five cases of honor
violations. Now what would that be in
terms of percentages? Infinitesi-
mal!”

The five cases were all instances of
plagiarism, he said, and each was
turned over to the EC. ‘‘Without ex-
ception,” he said, ‘‘the students were
found guilty.”

While Coulling said that he does not
mean to imply that lying, cheating
and stealing do not go on, he says he
has “‘evidence of extraordinary cons-
cientiousness in adhering to the
Honor System.”

One example he said that he cites
in his speech to freshmen is his policy
of allowing students to turn papers in
to his office until midnight without
penalty. He said some might be sur-
prised to see how many papers come
in with’ time ‘notations of several
miniites past midnight.

“Now that is evidence on the other
side,” he said. ‘“‘There is nobody,
literally nobody, who can prove that
that paper was not turned in before
midnight. That is the sort of thing to
which I am referring.”

While he admits there is at times
suspicion of students among the
faculty, Coulling, who graduated
from W&L in 1946, said he sees noth-
ing to suggest that the Honor System
is not as strong as it was when he was
a student here.

“The most important aspect of the
Honor System to my point of view is
that I can assign work to my students
and I’m all but 100 percent certain
that the work will be their own.”

Dee Dee’s Hairstylists

Hairstyling for men and women

261-6317 © 2157 Magnolia Ave., Buena Vista

9-5 Tues. - Fri.

Marlene’s Hairstylist & Tannery

2131 Magnolia Avenue
Buena Vista
261-2420

Hairstyling for Men & Women

Tanning Special *39?°
for 10 visits.

Ask about Spectrum Seven Acrylic Nails

 

 

LJ

 

 

 

 

|

 

 

Admission $2.00

Thursday, Oct. 24, 8:30 p.m.

Friday, Oct. 25, 7:00 & 9:30 p.m.

Sunday, Oct. 27, 8:30 F.m.

      

The Student Activities Board
presents

Mel Brooks’

‘Blazing Saddles”

starring
Mel Brooks, Cleavon Little,
Gene Wilder

GHQ — Free Popcorn!
Student Center Room 108
GHQ — Free Popcorn!

   

 

HONOR BREACHED?

Honor

O Continued from Page 1

the present building, the library lost
an average of 1,000 books annually.

Barbara Brown, University libra-
rian, said the 24-hour schedule the
library maintains is possible because
of faith in the Honor System. She said
that the number of books missing is
less than one-half of one percent of
the library’s total collection. To look
at it another way, losing 1,200 books
over four years is a rate of about two
books lost per school day.

She added that of the 1,200 volumes
reported lost over the past four
years, about 200 of them have resur-
faced. It is difficult to detect missing
books, she said, because of the vast
number of volumes in the stacks. The
biggest problem in the library now,
she continued, is one that is not nec-
essarily honor-related.

“We are aware of an increasing
number of articles being ripped out
of periodicals,” she said, This pro-
blem is being reported to professors
who have requested that some of
these magazines be put on reserve.

 

Record rip-offs

Faith in the honor system has been
a long-running problem at WLUR,
the campus radio station. It has erod-
ed to the point that stiffer regulations
have been imposed on the student-
run station.

Things are not as bad as they once
were, according to Robert J.
deMaria, journalism professor and
faculty adviser of WLUR, but things
could definitely get better.

‘‘When I got here,” deMaria said,
“I went through [the record collec-
tion] and I took my time checking out
the card catalog that we had versus
what we had in the library, and it was
real weird because of the fact that a
good percentage was missing.”’

DeMaria placed the number of
missing records at about 15-20 per-
cent of the records on file.

A major part of the problem at
WLUR was the tendency of records,
especially the new ones, to disap-
pear. “For an example,” deMaria
said, “Al Stewart’s ‘The Year of the
Cat’ came in, and 20 minutes later it
was stolen. And this is the way it was.
I mean, records would just vanish.”

The fact that students who came
from a “‘little different economic
echelon from most’’ would steal
records upset deMaria. So did an ar-
ticle about the radio station and its
problems that appeared in The Ring-
tum Phi about five years ago. ‘‘I was
really steaming,’ deMaria said.

“After the article came out,”
deMaria said, “I came up to my of-
fice one morning, and there were
about 75 records in front of my office.
Unsigned — nothing — there they
were, which was real strange.”

(703) 261-2373 NIGHT
(703) 463-2826 DAY

Although he was impressed by the
honesty of the student who returned
the missing records, deMaria said
the problem of losing records per-
sisted.

DeMaria, who has been at W&L
since 1977, took several steps to
reduce the “shrinkage” of the sta-
tion’s record collection. The Ex-
ecutive Committee posted signs that
prohibited the removal of records
from the station, but, deMaria said,
people keep taking them. His prede-
cessor had instituted a policy of cut-
ting the centers out of albums, re-
quiring a disc jockey to use a special
adapter to play the record. DeMaria
stopped this practice because he
found that, along with the records,
students would steal the adapters.

The stealing problem got so bad, he
continued, that it was necessary to
spend WLUR funds to replace
records.

“And it’s not just rock,” he said,
scratching the idea that only popular
rock records disappear.

‘All of our Luciano Pavarotti were
stolen — and I’m going to say ‘stolen’
— what else do you call it? Is it just
coincidence?”’

The resurgence of the disappear-
ance of records led deMaria to take
the step that resulted in the current
station policy. Records not owned by
WLUR are not allowed in the station,
to keep station records from slipping
out in a pile of student records.

In addition, Journalism 140, the
radio broadcasting course, is being
eliminated. The dropping of that
class from the curriculum is not
meant to imply that those students
are responsible for stealing records,
deMaria said. It is a step toward
establishing a “‘nucleus” of radio sta-
tion employees.

“We're trying to get people up here
that realize that if they take a record,
they’re depriving the people that
work up here and the people out in
the audience of listening to it,’’ he
said.

Radio stations at colleges across
the country are being pinched by the
loss of records, deMaria said. He said
the radio station at James Madison
University has taken drastic steps to
combat record loss. JMU has a pro-
fessional radio staff that must check
records out from a record library,
store them in individual lockers
before using them, and sign them
back in to the library afterward.

DeMaria said this type of set-up is
detrimental to the operation of a
radio station. ‘‘It’s not fun if it’s real-
ly awkward to work at a place where
you’re not trusted. It’s really difficult
to work at a place where you’re total-
ly suspect.”

The seeming disregard for the
honor system by some on the third
floor of Reid Hall is distressing to
deMaria. The honor system was
praised “up and down” by those at
the University who interviewed him
for his job and to seé it failing at
WLUR is disappointing.

“It just kills me,” he said.

a

POPLAR HILL EXXON

24 HR. WRECKER SERVICE

Foreign & Domestic
Car Repair

EXIT 51 ROUTE 60 ri
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

 

 

. .. something in chiffon? or

thing that might be worn off the
shoulder?

just downtown. Gowns by
designers like Ursula, Nadine,
Gunne Sax, Bernelle, Miss
Elliette, and others.

 

perhaps a delicious crepe? some-

We have it at The Bridal Suite,

THE BRIDAL SUITE

26 S. New St., Staunton

 

 

More than a Bridal Shop

 

 

 

By JIM STRADER
News Editor

 

Admitting that although the Ex-
ecutive Committee is the most visible
part of the Washington and Lee
Honor System, two EC members
point out that the efficient execution
of their job is dependent upon student
involvement in the process.

EC President John Lewis express-
ed concern about the student body’s
participation in the administration of
the Honor System. “The Honor Sys-
tem will not work if people don’t turn
cases into us,’’ he said. ‘“‘That’s how
it functions. We don’t turn things in
ourselves — things are turned in to us
and we investigate everything which
is turned in.”

Lewis said he is tired of hearing
that the Honor System doesn’t work,
and then receiving little, if any,
assistance from students. ‘‘The peo-
ple who complain about how the
Honor System is working or not
working are probably the ones who
wouldn’t have the guts to turn some-
thing in,” he said.

Andrew Caruthers, EC vice presi-
dent, said there appears to be confu-
sion on the part of some students. ‘‘I
think a lot of people think that it’s the
EC’s Honor System, and it’s not,”
Caruthers said. ‘‘It’s everyone’s
Honor System and we're just the ones
they’ve picked to administer it. If
they don’t view it as their Honor
System and want to take the respon-
sibility to turn things in, and having
to testify against a person, which
isn’t an easy thing to do, then the

   

Apt FALL-WINTER 1965

~_ Tired of Ho-Hum
Hairdos? —

~ Students, look good for your parents on Parent's
—Weekend. Come by or call for an appointment.

 

By W. Patrick Hinely Wi

EC officers John Lewis (left) and Andrew Caruthers

EC says it guards
‘everyone’s system ’

Honor System won't work.’

Problems go beyond simply getting
involved and reporting honor viola
tions, Caruthers said. The broad
issue is the responsibility of the st
dent body as a whole.

“Tf the student generation wants '
tolerate lying, cheating and steali:
then it’s time to have the ‘Trans;
ent Book,’ ’’ Caruthers continued
referring to the White Book. ‘'
publication outlining the ..
System. ‘“‘We only call it like
students want us to.”’

“That’s our job,” Lewis ad
“That’s the clause in the White Bx
‘as the student generation sees it

Caruthers made a suggestion
determining the scope of the EU’
work. “It might not be a bad idea to
poll the students as to what is hono
able and dishonorable — we don't
know,” he said. “Is drug-dealin:
honorable? Is being an accessor
murder?’’

In addition to the problems s
dents face in reporting honor vic
tions to the EC and beginning inves
gations, Caruthers said there are ¢.
ficulties experienced by the comn)ii
tee in taking a student to trial.

“There is frustration in ever
honor hearing,”’ he said ‘‘There mu
be moral certitude. Everyone mu
leave that room feeling that the tru
was found. If it’s guilty, then th«
painful verdict must be handed
down. We cannot ignore the reason
able doubt even if we think the stu
dent is guilty. We never convict, eve:
if the gut feeling is guilt. We !et oi
more students than we convict.”

 

Check out our ‘’Caper Cuts” ‘Uptown Look’ for men and women
—— We'll razor cut it, blunt cut it, taper it, shape it, layer it, undercut it
bob it, bi-level it and style it just for you.

 

~ Have it your way at Caper’s

——-———-Shampoo & Cut......... $goe —

 

 

 

A luxury salon without
the luxury price tag

 

 

25 N. Main St., Lexington

463-2566

 

 

 

 

 
Page 6, The Ring-tum Phi, October 24, 1985

 

Pavilion

 

Continued from Page 1

pus functions, beer may only be sold
— not given away

Senior Sam Svalina, who made the
arrangements for last weekend’s
five-fraternity party, said the pavi-
lion is too big for such a function and
that University alcohol rules have
the effect of making a fraternity par-
ty into a Student Activities Board-
type party. ‘‘The fraternities aren’t
going to go for that,” he said.

Svalina said that “‘it’s like you’re
forcing people not to have fun at their
own party,” and added that comply-
ing with University regulation is ‘“‘a
pain” and “a hassle.”

GHQ

() Continued from Page 1

eat.

She said some students even tell
her they like the food in the GHQ bet-
ter than the food in the dining hall.

“1 think if students come in and
give us a try, they’d be back,” she
said.

Dinners — which include a salad,
rolls and butter, dessert and a bever-
age — are served between 5 and 7:30
p.m. Monday through Thursday and
Saturday. On Friday, happy hour
pushes dinnertime to 6 p.m. Sunday
dinner is served between 2 and 7:30.

After 7:30, diners can choose from
the snack menu, which includes ham-
burgers.

Darrell said the extra hour for din-
ner at GHQ compared with the dining
hall is useful for athletes and
students with late afternoon labora-
tory classes.

Tonight’s contract special features
chopped steak with mushroom gra-
vy, mashed potatoes and vegetables

 

 

“People like to be kind of laid-
back’’ Svalina said, which he con-
tended is an atmosphere impossible
to achieve in the University pavilion,
which he compared to an airplane
hangar.

“It’s too big for a fraternity par
ty,”’ added Svalina, the secretary of
Chi Psi, which sponsored the Zoll-
man’s party along with Beta Theta
Pi, Kappa Alpha, Phi Kappa Psi and
Pi Kappa Alpha. “You're not going to
party under...University rules in a
place that’s not that enjoyable.”’

Cappeto said he ‘‘would have loved
to have seen them in the [ University ]
pavilion, but the pavilion is not built
for traditional fraternity parties.”’

“If they want a frat party, stay in
the fraternity house,”’ he said. “‘As
soon as we started hitting the liquor
laws and the Washington and Lee

du jour. Friday’s special is veal
cutlet Milanese with mashed pota-
toes and vegetable du jour.

Besides the contract specials, the
tavern also has a permanent menu
with prices that ‘‘you can’t beat,”’
Martin said. Prime rib, for example,
is $7.95 at GHQ. Anywhere else in
Lexington, the meal costs $11.95 or
$12.95, she said.

Torrence said some of the more
popular dinners are the roast beef,
turkey, and spaghetti and meatballs
— each at $3.95. The ‘‘curious’’ stu-
dents try the shrimp scampi at $6.95,
he added.

A poorly equipped kitchen has been
a problem for the five cooks, who pre-
pare all the food on the premises,
Torrence said. Since the tavern sold
primarily beer and hamburgers until
a few weeks ago, the facility lacks an
oven and a broiler. Most entrees are
prepared on the grill.

A two-burner hot plate is used to
cook all soups and sauces, Torrence
explained. ‘‘We really have to time it
just right,” he sa

Vegetables are warmed in a newly
installed steamer and meats are

alcohol policy...they said ‘no’ that
they would not make a reasonable ef-
fort.”

“They said, ‘If a fraternity brother
shows up and he’s drunk, we have to
let him in,’ ’’ he said. ‘‘Wrong. Not if
you’re going to have a_ liquor
license,’’ which forbids serving an in-
toxicated individual

The dean said fraternity parties
were ‘“‘one of the perceived uses’’
planners intended for the pavilion,
but that in the year the building has
been open, there have been no parties
by individual ‘‘fraternities per se.’’

He said though, that the ‘‘most im-
portant’’ function for the facility is
“large, University-wide events,’’ of
which there have been approximate-
ly 12 to 15 in the new building.

Vice President Andrew Caruthers
said at the EC meeting Monday that

thawed in a microwave. Torrence
said the microwave is not used to
cook food.

Darrell said another problem is the
lack of a dishwasher or even an ade-
quate sink that can be used to clean
dishes. For now, waiters carry dirty
dishes to the dishwashing machine in
a side room of the dining hall.

“We're making every effort we
can” to make the place a*success,
Darrell said.

The new dinner plan has to prove
itself before the University spends
more money to ensure its survival,
Torrence said.

“If students respond and support
the place, then the University will be
willing to renovate,’’ he said.

Managers of the University’s
tavern are trying to fill a mid-after-
noon void by purchasing three new
televisions that they hope will attract
students to watch afternoon soar
operas.

Darrell said ‘‘mocktails” and hors
d’oeuvres will be available at GHQ
within the next few weeks for stu-
dents who want to relax in the after-
noon in front of the television.

he thinks ‘‘the administration is not
pleased that so few fraternities are
using”’ the pavilion.

Sophomore Jon Missert, Chi Psi’s
social chairman, told the committee
Monday that the five fraternities last
weekend ‘‘wanted to get [the Univer-
sity] pavilion because of its proximi-
ty to campus”’ but that school rules
forced the event out to Zollman’s.

“] don’t think the fraternities
would use [the school] pavilion if
they had to sacrifice,” said junior

.representative Shayam Menon.

“There’s no way they would,”
agreed sophomore representative
Pat Schaeffer.

“There’s too much red tape,”’ ad-
ded Caruthers.

President John Lewis vowed to
confer with Cappeto to “see if the
tape really needs to be this red.”’

Cappeto said the University pavi-
lion may come back into favor if au-
thorities begin tougher enforcement
of the law at other party locations

“Technically what [the fraterni-
ties] are doing at Zollman’s is illegal,
and it’s just a matter of time before
they get crushed on it,”’ he said.

“T think we're going to see a mas-
sive crackdown by the ABC on frater-
nities and at Zollman’s so that what’s
happening...will be more reflective
of the law.”’

One consideration in pavilion po-
licy, Cappeto said, is that the ABC
has promised that if it catches one
major violation at the pavilion, no
more liquor licenses will be issued to
W&L for the rest of the year.

“‘T really believe they mean it,”’ he
said. “‘If we have Zeta Beta Alpha out
there and they violate the law, we

Fs
.

st
a

PT a
eM, ms ee
- x : YS — jt» i

" Y $a Kay aN 7

won't have a liquor license for Fancy
Dress or Superdance. It’s gone.”’

“I think those are worth having
and we're going to lose it if we don’t
have our ducks in a row,”’ he added.

Cappeto said the school actively is
encouraging more fraternities to use
the pavilion, and that one way it is do-
ing that is by making it ‘‘significant-
ly”’ less expensive to rent the build-
ing than it was last year.

He added, though, that the Univer-
sity has no plans to change any of its
alcohol policies.

‘‘We take the Code of Virginia very
seriously and we don’t want to violate
it and we don’t intend to violate it,”’ ¢

“The student body thinks the laws «
are unfair and doesn’t want to abide
by them,” he added. “Washington
and Lee...and the administration are
stuck in the middle.”’

é

al ee |

a

s
ts

 

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

Car owners practice creative parking in the University ‘‘corral”’

 

are eset ete

aaa be ae em

2s veters eh

Review

 

© Continued from Page 1

waiter, Anton. We were handed our menus and given a
few minutes to ponder our choices. I looked up from my
menu and saw tears welling up in Chris’ eyes. He dan-
gled the menu from one hand. ‘‘What’s this?’’ Chris ask-
ed. ‘‘And this!” he cried out while gesturing to the
placemat in front of him. I could tell that Chris was emo-
tionally distressed by the cheesy quality of the filmsy,
handwritten menus and the equally cheesy paper place-
mats complete with a third-grade description of the
Commonwealth of Virginia (The Southern Inn is world-
famous for these placemats.)

Surely there was some mistake? Could this be some
kind of trendy, tacky-chic restaurant ploy, a la Madon-
na? Alas, no,.it was simply tacky. I thought Chris was
just beginning to recover from the shock when our
waiter returned with our two Cokes — in styrofoam
cups.

While the paramedics revived Chris, it was explained
to me that there were still some kinks to be worked out,
such as good quality menus, but that the management
was working on it. Although it is a relatively small mat-
ter, such niceties as real glasses and cloth napkins would
do more to improve the GHQ’s image than a million
name changes.

Mollified, we ordered and only needed to wait a short
while before our appetizers arrived. Chris had the clam
chowder, which he proclaimed “‘better than Mom’s.”
(So what if he lives in Iowa?) Best of all, it came in a

’ large soup bowl, so there was lots to enjoy. My fresh

citrus fruit cup was also quite good, with a mixture of
orange and pineapple slices.

When you order any of the dinner entrees, you also are
supplied with a house salad with a choice of several
dressings. The salads looked quite good and we picked
up our forks, ready to dig in, with baited breath when
suddenly our dinners arrived ten seconds after the salad

 

had been put down. This was quite a dilemma. Most
every restaurant gives the patrons a chance to finish
some of their salad before hitting them with the entree,
but no such luck at the GHQ.

The salads were quite good and bucked the trend of
house salads at other establishments by providing more
than the USDA allowance of lettuce and dressing. But it
was our entrees that really caught our attention. Chris
and I had decided to call the GHQ’s bluff and order the
shrimp scampi ($6.95) and the roast prime rib of beef au
jus ($7.95).

Chris found the shrimp scampi to be good — that’s it;
just good. There were quite a few large shrimp, sauteed
in a lemon garlic butter sauce. Although Chris liked the
shrimp, we were not too sure if it was worth the seven
bucks. I could tell that Chris was really hankering for a
good ol’ cheeseburger. Alas, the sophisticated food critic
finds himself deprived of these simple epicurean
pleasures so he can perform his journalistic duty.

On the other hand, my roast prime rib was excellent.
It was big, tender and exceptionally good tasting. I
would even go so far as to say that this was one of the
best pieces of meat I’ve had in any restaurant in Big
Lex. Highly recommended.

Wouldn’t it be nice to end our review on such a happy
note? We thought so, but unfortunately GHQ continued
to hurt itself by not paying attention to the details. The
rolls that came with dinner were cold. Cold rolls are
good, but hot ones are even better. The mashed potatoes
were OK, but they did not even provide any butter or
gravy for them. Believe me, potatoes sans accoutre-
ments are not a taste treat. The real kiss of death were
the so-called vegetables that came with the meal. There
are a lot of words we could use to describe them. How
about starting with “bad.” Of course, if you wanted to
use two words you could say ‘‘really bad.’”’ Get the point?

Overall, we think the GHQ is off to a good start, but
there certainly are some lessons that must be learned
quickly if they plan to compete with the established Lex-
ington restaurants. The food is good, though, and the
prices very reasonable, so we advise that you at least
give it a try for lunch or dinner.

Parking panel to meet next year

 

By CHARLES T. GAY
Staff Reporter

 

The Parking Lot Committee, to
which the Executive Committee has
appointed two students, won’t begin
to look at ways to create more park-
ing until next year, according to
Dean of Students Lewis G. John.

“It’s a longer range situation,”
John said. ‘‘Not this year.”’

The difficulty most often expressed

by students and faculty concerns the

scarcity of spaces near the campus,

which forces some to park quite far
from the school.

As John Ryle Lawson, a freshman
from Tampa, Fla., said, ‘‘I have to
walk so far to get to my car that I
might as well walk to wherever I’m
going rather than drive.”

John said the new dormitory plan-
ned near the Coca-Cola plant across
from Warner Center may eliminate
some parking spaces.

“The parking is adequate now,
though it’s not as convenient as
always,” he said.

The EC appointed senior Paul

Davey and junior Phil Hodges to the
committee, and when it is complete it
will include faculty and administra-
tive members.

The concern of the City of Lexing-
ton as well as complaints from W&L
drivers helped galvanize interest in

the establishment of such a commit- ’

tee.
While the committee will presum-

ably attempt to find more convenient '

places for parking, John said, it will
also deal with the enforcement of
parking regulations when establish-
ed.

Alcohol rules create problems, study finds

By DANA BOLDEN
Staff Reporter

 

Arecent poll of deans of students at
32 colleges across the country shows
that schools permitting underage
drinking have fewer alcohol-related
disciplinary problems that schools
strictly enforcing state drinking
laws.

The study, conducted by the Amer-
ican Association of University Stu-
dents, a Philadelphia-based group,
was released by its president, Brown
University senior Mark Koide.

Koide said the study found that
“severe or prohibitive policies do not
produce a lower incidence of alcohol-

related problems on campuses. The
approach of a student as a responsi-
ble citizen appears to have a better
impact on alcohol abuse.”’

Washington and Lee Dean of Stu-
dents Lewis G. John said it is too ear-
ly to tell how Virginia’s new drinking
age of 21 and the University’s en-
forcement of it will affect the school.

“Things have gone well so far,”
John said. ‘‘Since our drinking age
has recently increased, it really is
hard to say how this study affects
us.”

Koide said, ‘“‘Last August we sent
out a 13-page questionnaire with
questions concerning parties, univer-
sity pubs and universities’ polices on

drinking.”

The University of Virginia was the
only school in Virginia that was
surveyed, Koide said. Some of the
other universities on the list were
Brigham Young, Duke, Stanford,
Cornell and Miami of Florida.

The poll found fewer cases of driv-
ing under the influence of alcohol,
damage to dormitories, vandalism,
assault, harassment and disorderly
conduct of schools that do not enforce
state drinking-age laws.

“One recurrent theme from the
deans surveyed was that they noticed
an increase in beer drinking,’’ Koide
said, “but a decrease in the drinking,
of hard liquor.”

 

 

 

 

 

 

TELL US HOW YOU LIKE IT Southern
eorge’s Inn
Welcome
Students
HAIRSTYLISTS Serving breakfast, lunch
Located at 136 Varner Lane and dinner for over
Directly behind Leggett . 30 years :
with plenty of parking Main Street, Lexington
Phone: 463-3975 or walk in. 463-3612

 

 

 

 

DATA SERVICES

203 N. Main Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
463-9455

 
    
     
 

 

 

—_
\ tid

— yy

Christmas? Plan ahead,
SAVE MONEY!

 

21 W. Washington St.

Dee ee ee
TRAVEL UNLIMITED

Going home for Thanksgiving or

Bill home or to parent's credit card!

“System One Computers”
“Boarding Pass Printers”’
— 3certified travel consultants —
463-7174

 

 

 

gett

DOWNTOWN LEXINGTON

 

Leggett Days Sale

Fashion Merchandise

With Savings In Every Department
9 Days Only

Come Shop With Us

To Get A Jump On Your Christmas Shopping

 

 

 

Op

 

 

 

 

Use your Leggett Charge, MasterCard, Visa or American Express
ev: Mon.-Thurs. 9:30-5:30 — Fri. 9:30-8:30 — Sat. 9:30-5:30 — Phone: 463-

 
 

 

we

a

 

Kevin Weaver slashes his way through Tiger defenders on his way to first-half gain

Gridders declaw Tigers

 

By DAVID EMRICH
Staff Reporter

 

What’s going on here? Just a short
time ago there was some question as
to whether the Generals would ever
score any points, much less win a
game. Now, in their last four outings,
they are averaging just under 30
points, and have won all four con-
tests. They also are in contention for
the conference title and have an out-
side shot of gaining a bid to the NCAA
Division II] championship playoffs.

Last week the team traveled to ar-
chrival Hampden-Sydney College. As
has been its pattern in the past three
weeks, W&L trailed early, falling
behind 6-0 before scoring 25 unan-
swered points on the way to spoiling
the Tigers’ homecoming by a score of
32-20.

Tailback Kevin Weaver again gain-
ed over 100 yards and scored five
times (four on the ground, once in the
air), accounting for all the Generals’
touchdowns. That gives Weaver four
consecutive 100-yard days since re-
turning from the injury that kept him
out of the season opener, and makes

him the team’s leading scorer with
nine touchdowns.

Until the Hampden-Sydney vic-
tory, most of the scoring for the
Generals had come off the pass. In-
terestingly, Coach Gary Fallon had
said that Weaver was at least partly
responsible for that as teams would
be concerned with stopping his run-
ning, thereby opening the passing
lanes for quarterback Jon Thornton
and his corps of receivers. However,
the passing game just wasn’t there
last Saturday as Thornton completed
but two passes the entire afternoon.

This meant that W&L had to go to
the running game to move the ball,
and Weaver responded with 173
yards on 28 carries and an unofficial
school record for scoring. ‘‘He did not
do it alone,’’ stated Fallon. ‘‘The of-
fensive line and fullback Frank Sur-
face had a lot to do with his perfor-
mance.”’

“The performance hasn’t fazed
him,” said Fallon. ‘‘The five touch-
downs may be a school record, but
people will still say the W&L football
team wins, not that any one player
had ar outstanding day.”

The defense, as it has all year,
played a good game. Although allow-
ing 439 yards to the Tiger’s offensive
unit, they surrendered only 20 points.
This was due partly to the four times
they forced H-S turnovers.

Fallon said about the defense, ‘I
like the way they’re playing. We
knew in the beginning that we
wouldn't be a totally dominating
team. We're a good team — not a
great one, but a good one.”’

He continued, ‘‘But we’re aggres-
sive, and | like that. That’s the name
of defense. We might give up 15 yards
and then 20 more, but our aggressive-
ness will force them into a turnover
and we'll get out of it.”’

Looking ahead to next week’s
game against the University of the
South, Fallon said, ‘‘We’re going to
be in a dogfight. We’re playing a
team that scored 46 points last week
{against the Maryville Scots] so
they’re capable of being explosive.”
Fallon continued, ‘‘They have a quar-
terback who is very dangerous, and
who can score from anywhere on the
field. He’s also an excellent scram-
bler and might even be a better

The Ring-tum Phi, October 24, 1985

 

W&L Sports Information

passer when he’s under pressure.”’

“We beat them in a tough game
last year by 17-14,”’ Fallon said of
next week’s opponent, ‘‘so they have
a score to settle. Plus, we’re playing
in front of another Homecoming
crowd on their home turf. It’s going
to be a tough game and we can’t af-
ford to look past them [at the con-
ference championship. ]”’

Sidelines:...The Generals are now
4-1 overall and 3-1 in the ODAC...H-S
drops to 3-3 overall and 1-2 in con-
ference play... Next week’s oppo-
nent, the University of the South, is
3-3 overall and 1-1 in the College Ath-
letic Conference...W&L leads the ser-
ies 18-15, including last year’s vic-
tory...The last eight games between
the two have all been decided by a
margin of less than seven
points...The Generals enter the con-
test ranked 11th in the NCAA Divi-
sion III South region (the top four
teams receive bids to the national
playoffs)...Weaver is averaging 123.8
yards a game...A win over Sewanee
would cinch W&L’s sixth straight
winning season, tying a record set in
the 1920s.

Attitude ‘great’ despite Richmond loss

 

By LEIF UELAND
Staff Reporter

 

An improved Washington and Lee
water polo team fought with that
renewed life that head coach Page
Remillard had been looking for this
past weekend to finish second in sec-
ond round competition of the South-
ern League tournament in Rich-
mond.

The Generals (15-10) beat Lynch-
burg, 17-3; Virginia Commonwealth,
17-2; George Washington, 7-2; and
the University of North Carolina at

Coed

O Continued from Page 1

 

 

institutions not in compliance with
the four-sport rule. Eastern Men-
nonite and Emory and Henry, both
charter members of the ODAC, field
only three teams in conference
sports.

“We'll have no trouble with that at
all,’ McHenry said.

McHenry’s enthusiasm is shared
by Assistant Athletic. Director Cinda
Rankin. Rankin said 26 percent of
W&L’s first coed class are participat-
ing in the athletic program. That per
centage is greater than the usual
amount of participation in a compar
atively larger university, Rankin in-
dicated.

Although this year’s teams are
young and inexperienced, she sees
them as ‘making good progress,”
which is very encouraging to her

Without the benefit of upperclass ex-
perience and leadership, this year’s
teams may struggle against the es-

tablished teams of opponents. How-
ever, Rankin views this possible
situation positively, seeing only im-

Wilmington, 5-0, before losing to
Richmond 13-6 in their third and
closest meeting of the season.

With three minutes left in the Rich-
mond game, the Generals had the op-
portunity to pull within three goals of
the Spiders with a penalty shot that
was blocked by Richmond’s goalie.
The Spiders followed the block with a
goal ona man-up situation.

An enthuiastic Remillard spoke of
the team’s performance, ‘‘We played
great. Richmond had to play our
game. We kept the pressure on and
we hada great attitude.”

Senior co-captain David Lewis ex-

provement in the quality of W&L’s
program over the years.

She said the department is ‘‘pleas-
ed with the cooperation and contribu-
tion of women” not only as partici-
pants, but also as team managers,
statisticians and supporters.

One immediate aim is establishing
women’s team sports, in addition to
the present individual-type sports.
Receiving an equally positive re-
sponse to field hockey and soccer as
possibilities on a survey of the

. freshmen women, Rankin said the

department has decided to establish
a club soccer team this spring. The
group will be voluntarily coached by

the men’s team coach, Rolf Piranian. ~

The choice of soccer is due to the in-
creasing nationwide apeal of the
sport coupled with the apparent
decline of popularity in field hockey
inthe ODAC.

The survey showed interest also in
lacrosse, but Rankin cited the large
number of participants necessary to
begin a team that ‘‘could comple-
ment the men’s programeasea pro-
gram"’ as a reason for for putting the
development of that team on hold.

Currently,. eight women compete
on the cross country team. Of-

panded onW&L’s improved attitude:
“The biggest difference between this
weekend and past weekend was that
everybody’s attitude was great. No-
body gave up. We kept giving 110 per-
cent even though we were losing.”’

Lewis added that the intensified at-
titude made the loss more deeply felt
and not one the team could just shake
off.

‘That was one we had to get over,”
Lewis said.

Remillard also cited W&L’s perfor-
mance on man-up and man-down sit-
uations as a current weakness that

ficially, W&L has competed in only
one meet, and, although the women
did not win, Rankin was encouraged
by the improved times over their
previous unofficial meets.

The swimming team began prac-
ticing October 15. They will face
Mary Baldwin November 13 in their
first meet. Although the team has
begun practicing, they would wel-
come more swimmers to join now,
Rankin said.

The 13-member tennis team, which
includes two transfer students,
defeated Southern Seminary, 9-0, in
their only scrimmage of the fall.
They will begin practicing in Febru-
ary for their first conference match-
es

Men’s golf head coach, Buck Les-
lie, has offered to work with the four-
member women’s team that begins
competition this spring. The spring
sport schedules will be made in a
meeting of the athletic department
next month

Rankin said both teams are hoping
to pick up more women before prac-
tice begins, encouraging athletes to
contact the athletic department
about joining the spring teams.

the team will be working on in the
next two weeks.

The Generals get a rest from com-
petition this weekend as they gear up
for the Southern League Champion-
ships, which W&L will be hosting on
parents’ weekend.

While the George Washington team
and club teams from the University
of Virginia and James Madison look
to provide strong competition, the
finals could very well see the fourth
meeting of W&L and Richmond,
which Remillard promises to be ‘‘a
great hour and ten minutes of very
physical water polo.”’

o Jackson
will not win

he Rhodes

... AS you grow up in this cold, cruel
world of ours, campers, every so
often one of those beliefs you hold
dear falls by the wayside. For in
stance, eventually you find out that
Santa Claus isn’t for real, that your
father really can’t fix everything in
the world, and that the Rhodes
Scholarship is hardly what you
thought it was.

I grew up reading the biographies of Byron ‘“Whizzer”’ White and
Bill Bradley, two exceptional individuals and standout athletes who
earned Rhodes distinctions, and thus I was left with the impression
that the Rhodes was some sort of Academic All-World award. I guess
it really isn’t.

The Rhodes Scholarship actually is a reward for the supremely ex-
ceptional individual. Its requirements involve those traditional
qualities of scholastic ability and strength of character, along with a
tangential consideration that the application phrases as ‘‘physical
vigor, as shown by fondness for and success in sports.”’ The form em-
phasizes that ‘continuing physical vigor is more important than
athletic prowess.”’

Do I hear a bubble bursting?

I grant that the Rhodes does not mandate athletic brillance. I sub-
mit, as well, that the John D. Wilsons, Whizzer Whites and Bill
Bradleys have vanished from the world as we know it. Indeed, one is
certainly entitled to worry that Cecil Rhodes, the scholarship’s
namesake and benefactor, is rolling over in his grave with the realiza-
tion that his original intentions can be met no more.

Isn’t there something sad in the realization that Bradley in 1967 may
have been the last top-flight collegiate basketball player to earn the
prestigious award? Is there something amiss if a Rhodes goes to a
part-time club fencer over a full-time varsity wrestler?

Perhaps not. Perhaps wrestling and fencing are sufficiently equa!
examples of physical vigor. Perhaps what the scholarship is about is
that fairly well-rounded, ‘‘sound mind, sound body”’ type of individual.
Yes, that is true. I may just be quibbling over a distinguished award
that has been awarded to some of the most influential people in the
20th century. Its requirements have been set. They are valid and
respectable.

But when you notice that the Bo Jacksons, the Patrick Ewings and
the Doug Fluties are not lining up for two-year trips to Oxford, you
begin to realize that intercollegiate athletics — at least on the level of
what once were John Wilsons and Bill Bradleys and now are Patrick
Ewings and Doug Fluties — is not the game it once was, and that it
may never be again. :

Am I saying that in big-time college athletics the Rhodes being
awarded to one of its athletes is more or less a joke? Yes, and that is
sad...

  

TIME

By Mike
Stachura

 

 

....Back to life cruising the Colonnade, we find the General gridders
easily the most dominant squad in the conference. In Sewanee, the
Generals face another Homecoming opponent and a long trip. A big
win this weekend means a big move in the rankings in the South. And
as far as Kevin Weaver is concerned, can you say “‘franchise’’?...
Quick note re polo: What goes around, comes around (i.e., Rich-
mond)....

.... Those boxing, er, uh, basketball bouts of late are out of line. I
keep getting visions of Kermit Washington and Rudy Tomjanovich.
And Mr. Ewing is due a rude awakening after he is bounced between
Moses and Barkley...Can’t tell you how sickening it is to read about the
guarantees and prize money in Sunday’s America’s Marathon in
Chicago. Does anybody remember what ‘‘amateur’’ meant?....

....Finally, have you seen that latest soap opera, ‘‘As The Old Sports-
caster Turns’’? Seems ol’ Howard let his mouth run away with itself,
and everybody withing mike distance is saying how glad they are that
the mouth that roared isn’t around anymore. Sounds like a bunch of
cheap shots to me. What’s that they say, consistency and profes-
sionalism? Seems to have gone by the wayside, that....

'
i

 

 

     
 

 

3 \\

TIGERS a
TAMED! , =

by John V. Lowe

 

 

 

 

Men, women outsped by VCU

 

By REED HOWLETT
Staff Reporter

 

Running against the Division I
Virginia Commonwealth cross coun-
try team last weekend, the Generals
suffered their second loss of the
season, 23-42, dropping their record
to 4-2.

The harriers were unable to place
in the top three, and, as Coach Dick
Miller put it, ‘It is mathematically
impossible to give them the top three
spots and still have a chance to win.”’

W&L did nail down the fourth
through seventh spots. Senior Eddie
Goundry led the way with an effort of
28:22 followed by sophomore Scott
Rippeon with a 28:42.

The W&L women’s cross country
team, also under Miller’s direction
with the aid of Jim Phemister, a
W&L law professor, also competed
Saturday against VCU. Virginia
Commonwealth was just too tough
for the lady Generals, though, down-
ing W&L 41-15. Freshman Carolyn
Arbogast completed the course in

26:27 for a sixth place finish for the
Generals. She was followed by class-
mates Stephanie Smith and Susan
Crouse, who recorded times of 30:04
and 30:09, respectively, finishing
seventh and eighth.

Next weekend, both men and
women will run against West Virgin-
ia Institute of Technology and Old
Dominion Athletic Conference oppo-
nent Bridgewater College at W.Va.
Tech. With the W&L men back run-
ning against Division III teams, the
harriers expect to bounce back from
last weekend's loss.

Soccer bounced by Gettysburg in OT, 2-1

By ROB MacPHERSON
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee soccer
team traveled to Gettysburg and was
defeated 2-1 in double overtime last
Saturday.

Freshman Johnny Sarber scored
the lone General goal on a penalty
kick. It was his seventh score of the
season.

Gettysburg got on the board in the
same fashion in the first half, and
neither team was able to add to its
total before the end of regulation
play.

After a single 10-minute overtime
period and a portion of another, the
Bullets capitalized on a W&L mistake
and handed the Generals the loss.
The defeat dropped the W&L season
record to 5-4.

Head coach Rolf Piranian noted
that a lack of team speed was evident
in the loss. He also said that a tie
would have been a fair indication of
the way the game was played

Yesterday's contest with undefeat:-
ed Liberty University in Lynchburg
was cancelled due to the inclement

weather. The game was rescheduled
for Nov. 7.
 

<BACK PAGE

The Ring-tum Phi, October 24, 1985

 

‘Merchant of Venice’
marks 50th season

 

By MARIE KOTHMAN
Staff Reporter

 

The 50th season of the University
Theatre will be celebrated with the
production of ‘‘The Merchant of
Venice,’’ which opens Friday at 8
p.m

It was the first production present-
ed at the Henry Street Playhouse
when the University Theatre moved
here in 1935 from the Lyric Theatre.

“The Merchant of Venice”’ is, as
lirector Al Gordon put it, ‘‘a story of
conflicts.’ A merchant and a money-
lender make an agreement that if the

merchant cannot repay the money he
has borrowed, the moneylender may
collect ‘‘a pound of flesh.”” When the

merchant defaults on the loan, it
must be decided if Shylock, the
moneylender, may cut a pound of
flesh from the merchant’s body. Thus

lhe Merchant of Venice” addresses
the question of whether to follow the
letter of the law or to take the con-
native meaning expressed by the
law.

Besides the basic dispute over the
loan agreement, there are conflicts
of Jews vs. Gentiles, material values
vs. gentility, and young vs. old, as
well as love stories that pit suitor
against suitor

School.

and Fog.”’ Room 203, Reid Hall.

8 p.m.— PLAY: ‘
8 p.m. — FILM SOCIETY FILM:

Lewis Hall.

3 p.m.—PLAY: *

then Auditorium.

8 p.m.— PLAY:

$2.50

 

7 p.m. — JOURNALISM FILMS:

Gordon stated, ‘‘I think in order to
get a concept of the play, the symbol
or image that best describes the
theme of the play is that of the scales
— there has to be balance in all situa-
tions: power, money, love, mar-
riage.”

Although ‘‘The Merchant of
Venice” is listed as one of Shake-
speare’s comedies, it was, at one
point during the 19th century,
fashionable to present the play as a
tragedy, and to center on Shylock as
a tragic character. But Gordon dis-
agrees with this approach, saying
“other characters get buried, lost
beneath Shylock’s character...We
talk of the play having a tragic
figure, or tragic overtones, but it is a
comedy, basically and finally, a com-
edy.”’

Joseph Martinez plays the part of
Shylok, the moneylender, Bill Kinson
will take on the part of the Count of
Morocco, Mark McDonough will play
the role of Prince of Aragon and Ver-
non Eagle will be Antonio. Dave
Marsh will take the stage as Bassa-
nio, Greg Stites as Gratiano and
Susan Still will play Portia. Playing
the part of Salerio is Skip Sandler,
Ned Richardson plays Salanio and
Frank King has the role of Lorenzo.

Other cast members are Chris Gor-

 

ONCAMPUS

Thursday, October 24
7 p.m. — POLITICS FILM: ‘‘Mickey One.”

Room 327, Commerce

“Triumph of the Will” and ‘“‘Night

Friday, October 25
‘The Merchant of Venice.’’ University Theatre.
‘Peppermint Soda.” In French with
English subtitles. Classroom A, Lewis Hall.
8 p.m. — CONCERT: United Way Benefit Concert. Sponsored by Delta
Tau Delta, Public invited. General Headquarters.

Saturday, October 26
8 p.m. — PLAY: ‘‘The Merchant of Venice.’’ University Theatre.
8 p.m. — FILM SOCIETY FILM: ‘“‘Peppermint Soda.” Classroom A,

Sunday,October 27
The Merchant of Venice.’’ University Theatre.

Monday, October 28
7:30 p.m, — FILM: “‘The Merchant of Venice.’’ BBC film series. Nor-

Wednesday, October 30
‘The Merchant of Venice.” University Theatre.
9 p.m. — WEDNESDAY IN GHQ: Featuring Picture This. Sponsored
by the Student Activities Board. General Headquarters. Admission is

Compiled by Marie Kothman

 

 

man as Tubal and Stephano; Craig
Smith as Lancelot; John Boller as
Old Gobbo and the Duke; Sandra
Boozer as Balthazar; Monica Burke
as Jessica; Deli Ford as Nerissa and
Ron Wilhelmson as Leonardo.

Stage manager for the production
is Tom Brickel. Skip Epperson
serves as the technical director and
Thomas Ziegler is the designer.

The 1935 production of ‘‘The Mer-
chant of Venice’ was set during the
Renaissance period, but Gordon's
production is set in the 1800s with cos-
tumes reflecting the “Jane Austen
Era.’’ The move to a modern set-
ting has caused a problem with
the music that will accompany the
play. As Gordon put it, ‘‘The 1790s
was not a big period in Italian
music.”

Because ‘“‘The Merchant of
Venice’ requires an elaborate set,
detailed costumes, and employment
of ‘‘the Shakespearean poetic style,”
Gordon rates it as one of the more dif-
ficult plays to produce. But a dyna-
mic set coupled with an excellent
cast that Gordon says, ‘works
together well,’, “The Merchant of
Venice” promises to be a superb pro-
duction. The play is set to run
through Nov. 2.

 

By BILL HANNA
Television Critic

 

Usually, I use this space to write
about stuff going on in commercial
television and to put down any high-
lights of the week. This week, I’ll pay
a little attention to Home Box Office.

HBO may have a few faults such as
showing movies like ‘‘The Karate
Kid’’ so often that they seem to be on
every time you tune in to the channel.

HBO may also be a little too con-
servative when deciding which time
slot to put certain movies. Movies
like ‘‘Monty Python’s The Meaning of
Life’ is being shown this month, but
the earliest time it airs is tonight at
12:35.

But HBO does have its good points.
It shows a lot of good movies and also
shows movies that may not have
been good enough to pay to see in the
theaters, but are worth watching if
you have nothing to do.

“C.H.U.D.,” for instance, a movie
about people who live underground
and eat the people who live above
their sewer system home, would not

 

LEXINGTON PRESCRIPTION CENTER

Phone 463-9166

LEXINGTON

Emergency Phone 463-2671

11 WEST WASHINGTON STREET

VIRGINIA

ceed

 

 

 

 

 

(Pre-ott-so

 

 

Pri-aZ-Z0

 

you'll pronounce it delicious.

In Italy, there’s a pie filled with delicious in-
gredients and smothered in rich, zesty sauce and
melted cheeses. You really ought to try it.

Round-trip tickets to Italy are unnecessary
and far too expensive. Just visit your par-
ticipating Pizze Hut® restaurant after 4:00 p.m.
Monday through Friday or anytime Saturday
and Sunday and order our Priazzo 1m Italian pie
in one of four tempting combinations of fillings.
Milano, Roma, Florentine and Napoli.

Eat In, Carry Out, Or Delivered

600 E.. Nelson
Lexington

 

 

Kat In, Carry Out Or Delivered

an
Pizza

$9 OFF

$2. off any large pizza
or $1 offany medium, In-
cludes Pizza Hut® Pan
Pizza! Hurry; offer ex-
pires soon. One coupon
per party per visit at
participating Pizza Hut*
restaurants

ef pon whe ering
sh redemy ‘ Yea Pieza H

  

Hut.

$a orF

600 E. Nelson St.
Lexington, Va.
463-7000

a

11-7-85

SERVIOTAR.

23 S. Main
Lexington, Va. 24450

Lexington Hardware
463-2242

 

 

 

Wendell’s

Barber
Shop

| need your head for
my business.

Llewellyn Lodge
at Lexington

A Bed and Breakfast
on Main Street, within
walking distance of
The Historic District

463-3235

 

J
3
a

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

 

Joseph Martinez as Shylock, Dave Marsh as Bassanio, and Vernon Eagle as Antonio

HBO standing up to commercial TV

be something I would pay $4 to see at
a movie theater, but isn’t bad when
you get home from a party and aren’t
ready to sleep.

Another movie of this type is “‘Nin-
ja III: The Domination”’ which is also
showing this month. The, movie is
about some evil Ninja spirit who
enters a telephone worker’s body.
She is then taken over by this spirit
every once in a while and begins to
avenge the Ninja’s death by killing
the policemen that killed him.

In the end, love conquers all as the
women falls in love with one of the
policemen she is supposed to kill. His
love and the help of a good Ninja help
to destroy the spirit once and for all
because, as everyone knows, only a
Ninja can kill a Ninja.

The movie isn’t that bad if you
don’t take it too seriously. Some of
the super-Ninja tricks and acrobatics
are worth laughing at.

Another plus about HBO is it is on
all the time. If you like to watch a lit-
tle TV late Sunday night, most of
what you will find is religious pro-
gramming, professional wrestling or
stations signing off early. Although

not always the best movies are on
HBO at this time, it sure beats doing
that last bit of studying you have
been putting off all day.

Now back to commercial televi-
sion. ABC has moved one of its new
action thrillers to a new night. Start-
ing this Tuesday, ‘Spenser: For
Hire,”’ starring Robert Urich, will try
to take advantage of the success of
“Moonlighting” and follow it at 10.
This seems like a wise move as the
show will now compete against
“Remington Steele’ and a CBS
movie instead of ‘‘Falcon Crest” and
“Miami Vice.”’

Now for some of the highlights of
the week.

Saturday: Nothing special, aside
from the Monty Python movie on
HBO tonight, until late in the even-
ing. Then you have a choice between
two shows at 11:30. Robert Redford
stars in “The Great Gatsby’’ on
Channel 5 while NBC pulls out anoth-
er 90-minute David Letterman spec-
ial,

Sunday: At noon, the Alfred Hitch-
cock thriller, ‘‘To Catch a Thief”
comes on Channel 5. On the same sta-

tion is a movie about a chase through
time with Jack the Ripper in ‘“‘Time
After Time.” Channel 5 also will have
the sequel to ‘‘The Exorcist” on at 6
p.m. as “The Exorcist II: The
Heretic.”

Wednesday: For those nostalgic
about shows you watched when you
were young, CBS will air ‘‘It’s the
Great Pumpkin, Charlie Brown’’
Wednesday at 8 p.m. Horror film
fans will enjoy watching ‘The
Omen”’ at 8 onchannel 12. WTBS also
has a good lineup for John Wayne
fans as ‘‘Big Jake’’ comes on at 8:05
and ‘‘Donovan’s Reef’’ follows at
10:10.

A final thought concerns ABC’s
football coverage on Monday night.
They usually get some good games,
but how long will they force us to put
up with Joe Namath? When 0O.J.
Simpson started in the booth with
Frank Gifford, I thought he was irri-
tating, but Namath is a nightmare.
I’m not sure how long even ABC can
put up with his comparing every
other play to a similar play he ex-
ecuted with amazing success when
he still played the game.

Taking a look at life after
college in ‘St. Elmo’s Fire’

 

By TIM McMAHON
Movie Critic

 

The ensemble movie could be the
genre of the ’80s. With such hits as
“‘The Big Chill’ and ‘‘The Breakfast
Club,’’ ensemble movies serve as
popular showcases for several actors
to exhibit their varied talents. The
latest ensemble, ‘‘St. Elmo’s Fire,”
in its effort to show off its immensely
talented cast, deteriorates from a
great movie to a good movie. Its set-
ting is Georgetown, and its players
are seven friends, all recent grad-
uates of Georgetown University,
clinging to each other for comfort,
strength and security as they try to
adjust to the increased responsibili-
ties and complexities of life after col-
lege.

One could easily go on for hours
about the potential of this cast, all
members of Hollywood’s famed
“brat pack’’ crop of young talent.
The seven are Andrew McCarthy, Al-
ly Sheedy, Judd Nelson, Demi Moore,

Rob Lowe, Mare Winningham and
Emilio Estevez. A director could get
quite carried away at the possibility
of working with a collection of talent
this good.

In fact, director Joel Schumacher
(who co-wrote the script with Carl
Kurlander) seems to have done just
that. Watching the many quick cuts
from scene to scene and even shot to
shot gets, at times, distracting.
There just seems to be too much hap-
pening as we try to keep up with each
of the seven beginning life on his/her
own.

As former ties stretch, bend, and
are ultimately brought to the break-
ing point, the plot seems contrived to
pair each character with the others
one-on-one at some point in the film,
with the possible exception of Este-
vez, whose character seems more an
addendum lapped on for a touch of
comic relief.

Still, with these drawbacks in
mind, one has to appreciate the
humor and sincerity in this septet of
friends. Perhaps because it hits pret-

ty close to home, the image of life
outside academia was hardly rosy.
Insecurity, inability to cope with ser-
ious responsibility, and changing
convictions are all real to young
adults starting life on their own. It
would be “‘nice”’ to be able to hang on
to one’s past for strength at a time
like this, but as ‘St. Elmo’s Fire”
shows vividly, it is the people in your
life you must hang onto and grow
with.

Of the seven, Sheedy and McCar-
thy stand out from the crowd. As the
cynical, lovesick writer Kevin, Mc-
Carthy shows a good sense of comic
timing and dramatic depth. Sheedy is
enchanting, developing from the
“other half” of the perfect couple in-
to a young woman hoping to stand on
her own.

I liked ‘St. Elmo’s Fire” despite
its faults. It is far from a perfect
movie, but it is an entertaining movie
with several memorable scenes and
a look at life after college that is both °
frightening and hopeful at the same
time.

‘Invasion U.S.A.’: Norris at his best
in a simple-minded action movie

“Invasion U.S.A.”’ could be Chuck
Norris’ finest movie — which may
not say much to an Ingmar Bergman
fan, but to someone who enjoys a
simplistic, action, man-against-the-
odds movie, this says a lot.

Norris has been in more films over
the last few years than any other
leading man working today. None of
his roles have taken great acting
ability, but in this picture — perhaps
more than in any of his previous at-
tempts — Norris exhibits the kind of
screen presence it takes to be a lead-
ing action man. His terse, whispered
lines show he has learned quite a bit
from other movie tough guys, not-
ably Clint Eastwood and Charles
Bronson.

It’s interesting to note that Norris’
last few movies have been basically
retreads of other movie ideas ‘‘Miss-
ing in Action’’ and its sequel coming
from ‘Uncommon Valor’ and ‘‘Inva-
sion U.S.A.” from ‘‘Red Dawn.”
What is perhaps more interesting,
though, is that Norris’ movies are
generally made at a much lower cost
and turn much greater profits than
these others.

The story, though based on an in-
teresting premise — a terrorist inva-
sion of the United States — is hardly
difficult to follow. The terrorists’
plan is to invade major population
centers and start chaos, turning the
population against authorities.

Norris is, of course, the one man

 

who could hope to stop this seemingly
unstoppable plan. He also has a score
to settle with the leader of the ter-
rorists, played by perennial bad guy

Richard Lynch.
Questions are left unanswered
throughout — like how did Lynch get

away after the last time he and Nor-
ris met? And technical inaccuracies
crop up — like single-shell grenade
launchers that fire six shots like a
semi-automatic rifle. But who really
cares about these trivialities, right?
“Invasion U.S.A.” is a simple
minded action movie, and as such it
works well. Beyond this point, how
ever, it is little more than used cellu-
loid
By Tim McMahon
 

 

 

~

~

-——*

~*~

“. VOLUME 85, NUMBER 8

Drafted

ROTC cadets
face new rules

 
   
   
 

Page 5

  

 

Drafting

 

Girard works on

ACCESS program
Page 4

 

 

 

Your Parents’ Weekend weather

Rainy all weekend;
highs 50s to low 60s

 

he Ring-tiumn Phi

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

 

| General
‘| Notes

¢..

\ Mandatory MD

‘ A mandatory meeting for every-
one working on the Muscular
Dystrophy Association Super-
dance will be held Tuesday at 7
p.m. in Conference Room B of the
Student Center.

"| Stick to it

The deadline for seniors to sub-
mit their resumes for publication
by the Placement Office has been
extended to Tuesday. Resumes
can be left with Carole Chappell or
Stephen Bredin.

‘| Speaker speaker

$ Willie Brown Jr., speaker of the
»| California Assembly, will speak
| on “Apartheid and Its Relation-
“ ship to Black America” next
«| Thursday at 8 p.m. in Lewis Hall.

What’s a ducket?

The University of Virginia
Graduate School of Business will
be on campus Tuesday to conduct
interviews. Please sign up for an
appointment with Carole Chap-
pell.

| Submit

Ariel, the literary magazine of
“( Washington and Lee, is now ac-
cepting art and literature for the
fall issue. Work may be submitted
‘, toCarol Calkins in Room 104 of the
; .° University Center. For more in-
formation, please contact Bob
4, Strickland at 463-9815.

4 Donate

Delta Tau Delta fraternity will
“Take Offense Against Multiple
y Sclerosis” by taking pledges on

the performance of the Washing-

‘| ton and Lee offense in Saturday’s
| football game against Bridge-
| water College. Delt members will

+ bein front of the Co-op from 9 a.m.
I to 2 p.m. Saturday taking pledges

, for total yards, rushing yards,
+, passing yards and points scored

| by W&L. Proceeds will go to the
*\ nationwide “Athletes vs. MS”
| drive. Delts will also collect dona-
tions from the crowd at halftime.

| Get your program

Brochures and information on
the Virginia Program at Oxford

are available in Associate Dean of
“ Students Pamela Simpson’s office
in Washington Hall. The program
involves a six-week summer
school course at Oxford studying
4 history and literature in Tudor-
Stuart England.

Plenty of time

A biology film titled ‘Muscle: A
Study of Integration’ will be
shown next Thursday at 5 p.m.
The film presentation will be
| followed by a short discussion led
. by Dr. Cleveland P. Hickman. The
film, sponsored by the Washing-
ton and Lee Biology Forum, will
be preceded by refreshments at

4:45.

| Spoofnik

“The Twelve Chairs,” a 1971
Russian film directed by Leonid
| Gaidai, will be shown at 7 p.m.

Wednesday and Friday and at 2

p.m. Sunday in Room 327 of the

Commerce School. This highly
s,, unusual spoof of the Soviet system
|
|
}

~ ~

~

 

a

~

>

«

 

 

— made by the Soviets themselves
— offers surprisingly more biting
satire than earlier versions by
America’s Fred Allen (1945) and
Mel Brooks (1970). One of the very
few Soviet comedies released to
the foreign market, this should be
| a welcome delight for Parents’
| Weekend. Bring Mom and Dad, or
| your favorite CIA agent.

Pancake hoedown

The Washington and Lee
lacrosse team will host a Parents’
, Weekend pancake breakfast Sat-
urday from 8:30 to 11:30 a.m. in
the activity room of St. Patrick’s
| Catholic Church. Tickets are $3.50
1 per person, or $3 per person for
,, two or more tickets, and are avail-
| able from any lacrosse player or
if in the lacrosse office in Warner
4 Center.

Lo

?
Qy

inl.

Halloween spirits

These students showed their Halloween spirit last night at
the Pi Kappa Phi fraternity house while other fraternity
houses on campus maintained a more traditional attitude.
Lambda Chi Alpha will be showing its Halloween spirit
tonight with a haunted house between 6 and 9 p.m. (Photos by
Cotton Puryear.)

 

 

 

 

 

 

By MIKE ALLEN
Executive Editor

 

National attention will be focus-
ed on Virginia Tuesday as the
elextorate devides a gubernatorial
race with implications for the
country’s political parties and as
voters determine the fate of the
first biack and woman nominated

for statewide office.
Despite the potential impact of
the races’ outcomes, Larry

Sabato of the University of Vir-
ginia, widely viewed as the state’s
leading political analyst, said last
week in Staunton that the guber-
natorial clash is ‘the dullest cam-

 

paign I can really remember.”

Indeed, it may be hard to im-
press a state in which the gover-
nor’s wife is the daughter of
former president Lyndon B. John-
son and in which actress
Elizabeth Taylor campaigned for
and is the former wife of one of the
senators. (‘‘Liz-less,” The Wash-
ington Post dubbed the current
campaign in September. )

The race for governor is a
rematch of the 1981 contest for at-
torney general, in which Demo-
crat Gerald L. Baliles edged Re-
publican Wyatt B. Durrette by 51
percent to 49 percent. Baliles, 45,
this summer resigned to cam-
paign; Durrette, 47, is a Rich-

mond lawyer.

The differences between the
candidates’ positions on issues
are, in Durrette’s words, ‘“‘more
like a river” than the ‘“‘gulf”’ that
usually separates the two parties
in statewide races.

Even the British weekly The
Economist picked up on the same-
ness theme, headlining a report
this month on the Baliles-Durrette
faceoff, ‘‘T'weedledum and
(yawn) Tweedledee.”’

A Baliles victory would be a
boost for outgoing Governor Char-
les S. Robb, who was featured by
The New York Times in an April
article as one of ‘‘the rising stars
of Democratic politics.’’

OCTOBER 31, 1985

Trustees take
no action on

SCC’s

By CHRISTOPHER DEIGHAN
Mews Editor

 

 

The Campus Life Committee of the
Board of Trustees last weekend dis-
cussed the new disciplinary policy
but took no action on it, according to
an administrator.

The policy, passed by the faculty
last spring, came under fire this fall
from the Student Body Executive
Committee, with President John B.
Lewis saying at the year’s first
meeting that ‘‘the whole system is
very un-W&L.”’

Among its provisions is a clause.
classifying certain racial, ethnic,
religious and sexual slurs as major
disciplinary offenses. Certain mari-
juana sales are minor offenses.

“There may have been some indi-
vidual trustees who had opinions, but
the committee took no action,” said
Dean of Students Lewis G. John, who
attended the Campus Life meeting.
“Tf anybody were to take action, it
would be the faculty.’

Lewis, who also attended the meet-
ing, said ‘there was concern that
racial and ethnic slurs could be con-

’ sidered a major offense while drug

trafficking could not.”

J. Thomas Touchton of Tampa,
Fla., the committee’s chairman, de-
clined comment on the meeting.

Barometer: Country will watch Virginia on Election Day

Robb, who by state law cannot
run for re-election, is a possible
opponent for Republican Senator
Paul S. Trible in 1988. Robb has
begun playing an increasingly vis-
ible role in the national Democra-
tic Party, including the chairman-
ship of the Democratic Gover-
nors’ Conference.

On the other hand, such a
Baliles win inevitably would be
viewed as a setback for President
Reagan. White House Chief of
Staff Donald T. Regan has said
the Virginia race is a ‘‘test of the
ongoing realignment” in Ameri-
can politics and that a Durrette
loss could ‘slow down or brake’’
that shift.

 

rules

University President John D.
Wilson said there is some ‘‘distorted
thinking” about the policy among
students.

“T think we live with some hypocri-
sy around here,”’ he said. ‘‘ ‘I am a
gentleman except on Friday night
and Wednesday night.’ ”

In other trustee action, the sub-
committee on apartheid formed at
the board’s May meeting met with a
group of students opposing Universi-
ty business interests in South Africa,
Wilson said.

The committee gave an interim re-
port this weekend and plans a full
report in February.

On Friday afternoon, the director
of the University’s East Asian Stu-
dies program, associate history pro-
fessor Roger B. Jeans, reviewed the
program for the Academic Affairs
Committee, which conducts a study
of one area of academic life at most
meetings of the board.

In the last four years, it has studied
romance languages, the English de-
partment and the history depart-
ment.

Jeans said the committee did not
realize the scope of the East Asian
Studies program before hearing the
report. ‘‘It’s like taking one slice of
the tissue and putting it under the

) See Trustees, Page 7

On page 6...

~ Durrette in Lexington

» Terry travels I-81
~CR, YD involvement
v Locals pitch in
Cable, radio coverage

 

A recent statewide poll by The
Washington Post showed Robb to
be more popular than Reagan.

The Democrats made two
historic candidate choices — L
Douglas Wilder for lieutenant
governor and Mary Sue Terry for
attorney general.

C) See Politics, Page7

 

 

 

Students

Planning a date
with your parents

 

By PAUL DAVEY
Social Critic

 

This weekend marks the continua-
tion of a long-standing college tradi-
tion — Parents’ Weekend. After
showing your parents that you have,
indeed, managed to transform your
room into one suitable to be in ‘‘Ar-
chitectural Digest,” taking them to
your fraternity to down a few with
the brothers, and watching the
Generals’ football game, you will no
doubt be asked, ‘‘Well, son (or
daughter), what else is there to do
around here?’’ In order that you do
not appear to have failed in absorb-
ing your environment, it is wise to
know of a few ‘‘different’’ things to
do.

If you want to stay close to school,
you might wish to visit the Robert E.
Lee Chapel and Museum. The muse-
um is very interesting even if you
are from the North and don’t recog-
nize all of the Confederate Generals
in the prints. The Lee family crypt,
Lee’s office as he left it, and
Traveller's grave are also special
points of interest. The Chapel and
Museum are open from 9 a.m. to 4
p.m. Monday through Saturday and 2

See Diversions, Page 11

owe ee te ae

a re ee

ty Center.

sity in Doremus Gymnasium.

ministrators

plan, free.

Field.

 

  

This sign appeared in the W&L Bookstore this week

Keeping mom and dad on time

TOMORROW

Open Houses: University Library (8 to 11 a.m.), Reeves Center (10
a.m. to noon and 1 to 4 p.m.), journalism facilities (10 a.m. to 4 p.m.)
and Observatory (8 p.m. to 10 p.m.)

10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Registration in the Fairfax Lounge of the Universi-

7 p.m. Water polo tournament game against James Madison Univer-

SATURDAY
Open Houses: Military Science Building (8 a.m. to noon), Language
Laboratory (9 a.m. to 5 p.m.), Reeves Center (10 a.m. to noon and 1
p.m. to3 p.m.) and Observatory (8 p.m. to 10 p.m.)
9 a.m. to noon. Appointments with faculty members and ad-

12:15 p.m. to 1:15 p.m. Pre-game Oktoberfest luncheon on upper
athletic field. Adults, $6.50; children under 10 and students on meal

1:30 p.m. Football game against Bridgewater College on Wilson

1:30 p.m. Water polo tournament game against George Washington
University in Doremus Gymnasium

 

 

 

school, city get ready for parents

Busy schedule planned for 1,100

 

By DANA BOLDEN
Staff Reporter

 

This weekend will be the chance for
parents to experience what ‘their
children experience all year long, as
Washington and Lee holds its 31st an-
nual Parents’ Weekend

The weekend includes several open
houses by various departments on
campus and is highlighted by Satur-
day’s football game against Bridge-
water College and the University
Theatre’s rendition of William
Shakespeare’s ‘‘Merchant of Ve-
nice.’’ The activities start at 10 a.m.
tomorrow and continue through Sun-
day afternoon.

The weekend was organized by
W&L’s Development Office, but the
ideas for activities came from the
different departments on campus

“We are expecting about 1,100
parents this weekend.”’ say Carter
McNeese, associate director of devel-
opment.

Activities include open houses
sponsored by the journalism depart-
ment, the language laboratory, and
the campus observatory of the roof of
Howe Hall. The music department
will offer a concert in Lee Chapel
featuring the W&L Brass and Percus-
sion Ensemble, Glee Club, Chorus,
and Southern Comfort at 8 p.m. Fri-
day evening.

At 9 p.m. President and Mrs. John

D. Wilson will host a Parents’ Recep
tion in Evans Dining Hall.

In addition to more open houses
Saturday morning, parents are in-
vited to participate in seminars with
members of the University’s faculty,
administration, and student leaders.
Following the seminars, President
Wilson will deliver his annual report
to parents in Lee Chapel at 11:30 a.m

A pre-game Octoberfest luncheon
will be served from 12:15 to 1:15
Saturday on the new alumni field
before the football game against
Bridgewater at 1:30. The cost for
lunch will be $6.50 for adults and free
for children under 10. Students on the
meal plan eat free

‘The Merchant of Venice” curtain
times are Friday at 3 p.m. and Satur
day at 8 p.m. Reservations are re
quired for these performances.

On Sunday the Reeves Center will
host an open house from 10 a.m. until
noon,

There seems to be only one ap
parent problem with the crowd of in
coming parents, and that is parking

‘Parking is always a major pro-
blem, not only with parents, but
students as well,’’ McNeese said
‘There is only one thing we can do to
prevent this — ask students to leave
their cars elsewhere.”

McNeese said the University
schedules Parents’ Weekend late in

See Parents, Page 11

 
 

 

 

 

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phi, October 31, 1985

 

Hi, Mom!

It is Parents’ Weekend.

The leaves are raked for the first time all fall. The ivy has
been trimmed from the window sills and paint patch-ups
have long since dried. Those cute little signs welcoming
parents to campus seem to sprout from the lawn.

Friday night, the coed University Chorus for the first time
will share the billing with the all-male Glee Club and the
Brass and Percussion Ensemble in the traditional concert
that will command standing room only.

The best part — and the part that many parents and stu-
dents will look forward to the most — is President Wilson’s
address to any and all souls who congregate in Lee Chapel
around 10 or 11 a.m. He, like past presidents of the Universi-
ty, will try to issue pleasant platitudes, playing the best
public relations professional he can.

There are a few things I hope he tells parents: that ‘‘the
women’’ are now ‘‘fellow students’; that the tuition next
year will probably increase; that the Honor System, on the
whole, is working, though it needs serious repairs here and
there; that the biggest hassle during the coeducational tran-
sition has been keeping visiting women out of the coeds’ (and
not the men’s) showers; and that he, alas, has purchased a

weekend retreat in the county.

But those thoughts will probably go unspoken, and not nec-
essarily out of any deliberate attempt by President Wilson to
mislead parents. Parents’ Weekend hardly seems the time to
discuss substantial issues. Parents are here to see the child
who is growing up, and though they have to face the bills and
the midterm report cards, the concern they hold this week-
end is not for the health of a University or the well-being of
coeducation. There has been plenty of time for that.

 

MY VIEW

By Nelson
Patterson

 

Nearly one year ago, Scott
Tilley wrote a column wondering
what each student would take
away from college. He used as his
focus a surprising response a
faculty member gave him when
Scott asked if it would hurt his
grade in the course if he missed
the week prior to Thanksgiving to
go with friends to Bermuda.

‘‘Will missing a week of school
affect where you are 10 years
from now?” the psychology pro-
fessor asked Tilley.

His response was ‘‘no” and the
professor urged him to ‘‘go for it,”’
since that is what ‘‘college is for.”

That week in Bermuda was one
of the best weeks in his life, Scott
told me later. He was glad he had
taken the risk, and not because
the weather was great (though it
was) or that the mopeds exper-
ienced new speeds under his con-
trol. Scott enjoyed the week in
Bermuda because he was with
friends, developing relationships
that would last long past the end of
the term.

This past Saturday, one of the
friends with whom Scott spent his
week in Bermuda died of cancer.
His death was not unexpected,
though many hoped that it would
not come so soon or that God, in a
true test of His powers, would
spare John for some greater
work. But that was not to be the
case, for reasons I cannot well
understand at this time.

I remembered Scott's column
this past weekend as I sat at
home, wondering what had hap-
pened to my friend. Scott has
warned against developing tunnel
vision, “‘seeing what is going on
here and only here,’’ worrying
about me and only me. Scott over-
came the “should I take the A-
minus or B-plus” dilemma by
deciding that developing a close
relationship with a few friends
mattered more in the long run

—NRP

——EE——————

Taking more than a
diploma from college

than the pretty grades on his
report card.

“Take time to develop friend-
ships. Guard those friendships
well. Let them be nurtured,”’ Scott
inferred. In taking the time to en-
joy John Coe last November, Scott
reaped a harvest of memories.
John knew that God’s way of
developing men strong in the faith
and close to the Spirit meant
developing a dependent relation-
ship with a younger fellow, en-
couraging him in his search for a
God and a godly life that all too
often seem elusive, or simply not
present. In this case, Scott and
others who met John benefited. It
is a process known as
“discipleship,” and it began long
before John Coe or Scott Tilley
began to suscribe to it.

For that reason, John Coe’s
death does not seem half as tragic
as it appears. It is always griev-
vous when a young life is extin-
guished, but in John’s case, a
legacy of concern for others and a
cadre of ‘‘disciples and disci-
plers” stands ready in his wake.
His hard work at building lasting
friendships that reproduce them-
selves paid off, just as it always
does and will. John Coe knew that
what we take away from college is
far more than a diploma or book
knowledge; it encompasses more
than nice memories of fraternity
brothers or parties or memorable
encounters down the road; and it
certainly includes more than we
can sum up in trite expressions.

Developing a growing relation-
ship is an education in itself, a
sharing and a teaching that only
matures when the two partners
extend the friendship ring by in-
cluding two more people. Like Joe
Namath and his Faberge sham-
poo commercial, then two friends
tell two friends...and the process
continues. Lenin once claimed
that with a few dedicated men he .
could turn the world upside down.

- John Coe proved Lenin right, in a

perverted sort of way.

After thinking about Scott’s col-
umn and trying to remember the
lunches I had with John Coe, I
guess I knew what I wanted to
take away from Washington and
Lee. I only hope as a senior I
haven't lost too much time.

 

Managing Editor

News Editor

Business Manager
Advertising Manager

is otherwise independent.

 

 

ee

rrr
Editorial Page Editor ...........60ssseeses

Cartoonist. ..... 0.0.6. 0ce eee eee r eee eeeenes

Advertising Salesmen ...........-.6..00055

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

oueeeeaeebabeceseuerercesrss Mike Allen
Pie ee Paul Foutch

Cotton Puryear

W VeONIVAN OIRO Reade Williams
beteee Gea Mike Stachura
SiOSPORDEV ONCE ILE Nelson Patterson
ava ae Christopher Deighan

Jim Strader

eee Chris Bowring

oe eseeeesseeees Jeff Kimbelt
pooner Hank Greenberg

bevineee CON Uew en eed awa Keri Hinrichs

Matt Coudert
John Feyrer
Jay Reville

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia, Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 200 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

 

 

 

Ones TWE BuFFALO NELX
URIUERIAL PRES S4NP.

 

 

eee
a.

 

IT'S THE LITTLE GORBACHEV
BOY WITH THAT PRECIOUS SMILE,
THE SHINY HALO, THE BRIGHT WINGS,

THE ENORMOUS BAG...

TRICK ANDO

 

Did ‘coolness’ kill the Honor System?

 

By MIKE ALLEN
Executive Editor

 

The student recruitment guide
squiring a high schooler and his
mother, around the Colonnade five
summers ago proudly noted that dur-
ing the school year, calculators,
jackets and wallets routinely are left
unattended in the library.

That sounded impressive if a bit
suspicious to the boy from California,
where when you go to the library you
take one of your bike tires inside with
you.

Twelve months later as an incom-
ing freshman, he received in the mail
several pamphlets with a ‘‘Do not do
this” theme: Lying, cheating, steal-
ing and plagiarizing, it seems, were
big, big no-nos.

The whole deal sounded more like
simple good manners than anything
as lofty as “honor,” but the
guidelines certainly seemed ad-
mirable and straightforward.

Shortly after arriving in Lexington,
the freshman had an experience that
played a key part in how he viewed
his upcoming quadrennium on the

Colonnade.

After an Honor System orientation
in Lee Chapel, the freshmen were
divided into small discussion groups.
The student and perhaps a dozen of
his classmates went over to a class-
room for their close encounter with
an Executive Committee member.

This stud was Mr. Honor: H@was
articulate, forceful, convincing
—don’t mess with me, I won’t mess
with you, thank you for listening. He
asked for questions and no one said a
word, Impressed? You'd think they’d
just seen Robert E. Lee himself.

All that, though, was a long time
ago. It was before the student
became vaguely aware that someone
in his fraternity absconded with
some house alcohol left out after a
party. It was before he realized there
are pockets of open discussion about
“hot’’ tests. And it was before he was

- ripped off in an untraceable way by

someone close to him.

Such disillusionment inevitably
follows the honor ecstasy endemic to
those new at Washington and Lee.

An Executive Committee member
recalls that at his first meeting after
he was elected several years ago, he

Ex-EC rep sees honor
ideas mixed, muddled

To the Editors:

I submit for general consideration
the following thoughts:

¢ The authority newly given to the
Student Control Committee to deter-
mine whether behavioral aberrations
warrant dismissal from the Universi-
ty provides a long-needed means for
distinguishing and reviewing conduct
that does not fall within the scope of
Executive Committee review. Past
ECs have agonized over how to treat
intolerable behavior presetting no
clear question of trustworthiness.
The options have been to shoehorn
the issue into one of trustworthiness,
frequently through extremely atten-
uated reasoning, or to allow the issue
to fade away unaddressed.

e The idea that the new system infr-
inges on EC/Honor turf is grounded
in a misconception. The Honor Sys-
tem applies only to matters of trust.
More specifically, the system must
only be invoked on cases whose cen-
tral issue is an alleged lack of trust-
worthiness on the part of the accus-
ed. For a student to be expelled from
the University under the Honor
System, the EC must find it appropri-
ate to say to the accused: ‘‘You have
violated the trust your fellow stu-
dents had in you such that the integri-
ty and good faith of all your future
acts within the University communi-
ty would be suspect.’’

e¢ A number of students seem to

‘believe that the concepts of honor
and of acceptable behavior merge
under standards manifested in the
behavior and thoughts of General
Lee. They should read an account of
Lee’s unconscionable actions regard-
ing the treatment of wounded troops
during the battle of Cold Harbor,
June 1864, and then reconsider

whether that near canonization is ac-
tually warranted. With all due defer-
ence to General Lee's extraordi-
narily fine character, he was human
and therefore subject to human frail-
ties. He was particularly subject, as
is every human, to the frailties com-
mon to his times. The Executive and
Student Control committees should
work in tune with their own times and
borrow from the past only where
there is genuine merit in doing so.
Nineteenth century values have
substantial relevance to matters of
trust, the concept of trust having a
relatively unmalleable nature, but
are relevant on only an elementary
level to issies of socially acceptable
behavior.

e That the non-honor disciplinary
procedures at Washington and Lee,
including the sanction of dismissal,
are student-administered adds tre-
mendous weight to the impression of
respect given the student body by the
trustees and faculty. This new devel-
opment (ignoring the unfounded
codification scheme) can be held out
to prospective students along with
the student-run honor system as one
of the major strengths of the Univer-
Sity.

* Class officers now play a mater-
ial role in imposing serious sanc-
tions. Their elections must now en-
compass considerations other than
the ability to put on great parties.
And perhaps the chair of the Student
Control Committee should be an
elected position, not an appointed
one.

Sincerely,

Jim Vines

W&L '81, Law '88

EC representative, ’80-81

wondered aloud why they needed
people to man the polling places for
an election. He now says somewhat
sheepishly that it wasn’t long before
nd found out what the “‘real world”’ is
ike.

One of the most conscientious EC
members confesses to the same
private uncertainities that haunt all
students who realize the system may
not work perfectly. ‘‘I feel like the
priest who doubts there’s a God,” he
says.

Despite such inevitable misgiv-
ings, most of Washington and Lee’s
best and brightest remain zealous
devotees of the Honor System.

Those same hard-core, Mr. Wash-
ington and Lee types, though, were
almost universally opposed to coedu-
cation. The Board of Trustees said
they were wrong — that their vision
of Washington and Lee was flawed
and outdated.

And many of those guys now con-
cede privately that the trustees were
right.

The troubling question: What,
then, does that say about our Honor
System? Is it, too, a vestige of a
Washington and Lee gone by?

More questions, equally disoncer-
ting: Is the Honor System a charade
we preserve for ourselves? Do we
deceive ourselves about the system’s

To the Editors:

While Ms. Kothman might have a
point in her article about the ‘Great
Halftime Departure” [Oct. 24], I’m
not ‘‘as sick as the next guy’’ when it
comes to hearing about W&L tradi-
tion.

Tradition has nothing to do with
students leaving the game at half-
time; that’s a matter of choice. I’m
sorry, Ms. Kothman, but maybe you
haven’t been here to experience the
real traditions at W&L: the legacy of
Robert E. Lee, the student-run honor
system and the fine rapport between
students and professors. That’s what
W&L tradition is all about.

I'm proud of the fact that I can

 

 

vitality? Is it merely another delight-
fully elitist, anachronistic aspect of
the Washington and Lee Country
Club?

A friend observed the other day
that at Washington and Lee, we no
longer have honor — we have ‘‘cool-

ness.’’ It isn’t ‘‘cool’’ to steal or cheat —

here, so we don’t. But it’s not ‘‘cool”’
to turn in a buddy or fraternity
brother, so we don’t do that, either.

Attributing students’ by-and-large ©
honorable conduct entirely to peer ©
pressure may seem overly harsh, but |
as one of the Honor System’s trustees ~

pointed out when asked his view of |)
the ‘‘coolness’’ thesis: ‘‘I don’t care |

why they doit, as long as they doit.”

Another strength of the hypothesis —

is that it is the most convincing ex- +
planation yet for why this student *
generation refuses to view the lar- =

cény of a roadsign as dishonorable.

That freshman of four years ago =

>

™,

has grown up a lot: His wide-eyed ~
idealism has been tempered signifi- % ‘

cantly as he witnessed the Honor
System’s weak spots.

The student, though, still retains a
dream: that 20 years or so from now,
when his son visits Washington and
Lee, his tour guide will point out that
students frequently leave their ultra-
microcomputers lying around in the
24-hour library.

And nobody messes with them.

leave My vDuvks aruuud campus and

still pick them up a week later. I en- -/
joy the fact that I am not just a ©
number to each professor whose ©

Sets

a

%

wy

‘*
ty

ay

*

#

bid
*

*
.

wo Pay

AAO

Ds

g& &@Q ee @i

»

i;

t

{

ra V

Traditions exceed exodus

By

classes I attend, but rather a person ~~
with whom they can converse both —

academically and casually.

Ms. Kothman, if every student
were as sick as you about hearing
about W&L tradition (incidentally, I

believe they are not), then I believe —

it’s time for the admissions office in
Washington Hall to close its doors.
I’m not sick and tired of hearing
about tradition; I’m sick of people
like you who take it for granted.

John Feyrer
Class of 1987

 

 

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi, October 31, 1985, Page 3

 

Orient fascinates, bewilders student

Forrest Cannon, a sophomore
economics/East Asian Studies major,
t attended Fu Ren University in Taiwan
, #8 part of the W&L/Taiwan summer
firogram.
c¢€ **

x One of the most. striking

, characteristics of Taiwan, the Re-
pablic of China, is the intensity at

«which traffic speeds by, often stirr-

;ing up clouds of dust and exhaust

, fumes. Among inner city commuters,
the smart money is spent on face

* masks.

x ‘Motorcycles, which fill the side-
walks during working hours, are the
most accepted mode of transporta-

‘tion. Accepted, yes, but not the

~; Safest: I witnessed two equally unset-
thing accidents on Jeng Da La, the

‘main highway stretching from Fu

' Ren University to the Taipei business
district. In fact, I'll never forget the

"Presidential Palace, because there

ranother motorcycle was crushed

, under the wheels of a Korean Dae-
woo; luckily the driver was un-

< scathed, although I think the girl

, hanging onto his back will take the
bus in the future.

* What is it that keeps the gears of

, population and industry running
under full power? How can an island

‘

a

BAG
Y/,

“ps

ES
R

RII
MMs

| PARENTS WEEKEND
SPECIAL
20%

ee

GREAT TAX REFORM

of 19 million people hope to survive
with the Great Panda breathing hos-
tility right down its neck? It’s all in
attitude — as Julius Rosenwald once
said — ‘turning lemons into
lemonade.” Through an insatiable
appetite for learning, production and
advaneement, the Chinese people
have turned what was once a back-
ward territory of the Japanese em-
pire into a powerful economic force.

But we've heard that before; the
entire Asian seaboard is bustling
with freighters carrying products to
trade in Western markets. What
makes Taiwan different and worth
reading about?

It’s really a combination of two
things: one, the unique heritage and
customs of the Chinese, and two,
their eagerness to adapt and emulate
Western advancements. Since these
are essentially two topics, I will only
focus on the former.

I can never forget the question a
man posed to me in Mandarin one
evening: ‘“‘“Excuse me. How much did
the hair cost?’’ Apparently he’d
never had the opportunity to tell a
foreigner how strange he looked.
There is a certain arrogance about
from claims to cultural superiority.
Once asked what he thought of

Uf Sg
ysitttte

f YZ

wee
the
eT

44 Zp Zi

SURE,

Western culture, a Confucian scholar
said, “I think it would be a good
idea.”’

This incident with the rude man
took place in the Leng Shan district,
in “Snake Alley.’’ It's a rather seedy
place — not the place to take Biff and
Cindy when it isn’t a school night.

Right away the flashing colors and
din of intoxicated people suggest this
is something only worth visiting.
Long rows of suspended balloons
span the night sky, and underneath
one can witness the slaughter of a
live cobra or watch a VHS movie of
pit bull terrier fights.

After the snakes are forced to draw
venom for aphrodisiacs, which by the
way I never saw anyone consume,
the skins are collected and attrac-
tively hung on metal hooks. In addi-
tion to the snake meat available
everywhere, freshly caught oyster,
squid and shrimp are steaming in
open air cafes. It’s a sharp contrast
to an otherwise conservative and
upstanding country, but I thought I
would start you there.

The cuisine of the island reflects
the variations in the Chinese them-
selves. My favorite style is Szech-
wan, which is always spicy and us-
ually mixed with the staple diet, rice.

hes

Z
Y

 

 

One particularly good place served
“tanstsu paigu,’’ or sweet and sour
pork. Baked fresh flounder stuffed
with hot peppers was even more tan-
talizing.

Another part of the Chinese diet is
Cantonese food, whicl: features such
dishes as stewed beancurd, pigs tripe
with salt vegetable soup and roast
duck rice.

And finally, there is the good time
of a Mongolian barbecque. Each cus-
tomer selects the combination of
meats, vegetables and sauces he
desires and hands it to a chef, who
fires it on giant griddles with a pair of
chopsticks.

Of course, ‘‘Taiwan Beer”’ is avail-
able everywhere due to the lack of a
drinking age, and we put down
enough to compare it to Busch: about
the same.

Most of the food is produced do-
mestically; a belt of rice fields, re-
flecting the Asian sun with knee-deep
water, loops down the western side of
the island.

True to the stereotype, Chinese
peasants spend hundreds of hours
barefoot planting rice by hand, their
only protection from the sun being
the traditional ‘‘douli” hat.

From the rooftop of the Fu Ren
Language Center, I could see a
modern cement factory belch smoke
into the atmosphere, and at the same
time see peasants bent low over their
work in a rice paddy. It was a little
thought-provoking.

At summer’s end, my two Ameri-
can friends and I had the opportunity
to travel by bus to Kenting at the
southern tip of Taiwan. From start to
finish, we had to use spoken Man-
darin to order food, find lodgings,
buy return tickets and even to rent
bicycles.

The beaches were often made of
lava rock, especially around the
lighthouse on the southern tip. In this
spot, I stood on a wooden veranda
and looked over the vast Pacific
Ocean, the only person visible being
asentry at his post 300 feet below.

The sand beaches were not too
crowded — in fact, I’d say deserted,
which made us wonder what the
Chinese do for fun. On another beach
trip, most of them sat fully clothed
under umbrellas.

Formosa has transformed itself in-
to a place of radical diversity. In the
industrial cities, among the most
populated in the world, the accom-
plishments are tremendous; in the
mountains and surrounding regions,
the Chinese lead more peaceful and
secure lives.

 

¢ Ladies Fall Skirts
e Sport Coats For Men
e Winter Suits For Men

: We have enjoyed serving

: and knowing your sons and
( daughters — and we look for-

“~

ae

: ward to meeting all of you —
we have been serving the
Students of Washington and
) Lee for over 50 years.

Our fall and winter selection

Toles

GREAT MINDS THRU THE AGES
WAVE STRUGGLED WiTH THE QUESTION

 

    
    

 

 
 
 

 

MORALITY 9

  

 

 

 

      

IT WILL PROTECT ALL
OUR CITIES FROM ATTACK.

  
   

 

 

AND WE ALL LIVE HAPPILY
EVER AFTER, THE END, ROLL
THE CREDITS,

   
  

 
  

OR AT LEAST SOME OF OUR
A MISSILES, EXCEPT IT'S ONLY A
RESEARCH PROGRAM. AND TESTING.
UNLESS WE BARGAIN IT AWAY.
WHICH WE WON'T. BECAUSE WE
THOUGHT IT UP, ALTHOUGH SOMEHOW
THE RUSSIANS ARE ALREADY AHEAD
OF US IN IT, AND WE
NEED TO GET AHEAD
OF THEM SO We CAN
HARE IT WITH THEM.

 
    
 

   
   
     
     
     
   

 

      

THAT'S MORALITY. So NOW
YOULL JUST HAVE To WONDER
ABOUT SOMETHING ELSE.

     

 

of men’s clothing, furnishings,
shoes and sportswear and our
women’s sportswear reflect
the tradition in styling and
quality that makes reasonably
priced fine clothing both
lasting and versatile, season
after season, year after year.

College Town Shop

111 W. Nelson St.

ee
NEWS

 

Access

Girard assists with
handicap project

By JIM STRADER
News Editor

 

“IT made a mistake .... It’s had its
negative effects already, and I’ve
turned it into something positive and
learned from it.”

With those words, Washington and
Lee senior Gene Girard summarized
his conviction on a cocaine charge
and his current involvement with a
community service project now un-
derway in Lexington.

For the past two weeks, Girard has
been working with architect Lee
Merrill of Commonwealth Design on
the ACCESS project, an effort to
evaluate downtown Lexington’s ac-
cessibility to handicapped people.
Girard, currently serving six months
of a five-year jail sentence for co-
caine possession, is participating in
the project as part of a work-release
program of the Rockbridge County
Jail.

A partially completed, pencil-
drawn map of Lexington is taped to
an inclined desk in the office where
Girard works. Each building is
drawn to meticulous scale, as are
items such as sign and light poles,
curbs and sidewalks. Girard’s AC-
CESS responsibilities include taking
actual measurements around Lex-
ington and charting the location of
certain potential obstacles.

“TI basically go out and do all the
fieldwork and do what I’ve done,”’ he
explained, pointing to the map. “‘Lex-
ington doesn’t have a map like this

—it has never been done before. In
the future, they can look at a map
like this and find out what problems
they can solve and what they can’t
solve.”’

While his work is basically inde-
pendent, Girard said Merrill is
helpful in directing the project. Mer-
rill’s office is only part of the entire
endeavor, though. Other people in
town are involved in different
aspects of ACCESS.

The ACCESS group meets about
every two weeks to chart progress
and discuss what needs to be done
next. It is a slow-moving procedure
because of the low funding the pro-
ject has received, Girard said.

Working in Merrill’s office and
with ACCESS is giving Girard ex-
perience in a field he hopes to pursue
as a career. He said he wants to get
into architecture and sees his current
project as a ‘‘good correlation.”’

Girard, of Coral Gables, Fla., got
his background in architecture from
engineering, drafting and surveying
courses he has taken at W&L. He also
has worked summers for architects
in Miami.

‘What I want to do when I get out
of here is probably go somewhere
and be a draftsman for a while and
then go back to school and get my
master’s,’’ he said.

Girard said he plans to take classes
at W&L next term after his jail sen-
tence expires in January. He has one
term to complete to satisfy grad-
uation requirements.

 

yma mgemmwama asent  NAIREO

The Ring-tum Phi, October 31, 1985

 

 

Senior Gene Girard works at his drafting table as part of his work-release program from the Rockbridge County Jail

He spent the winter term of his jun-
ior year working in Vail, Colo., as a
bartender and has planned to grad-
uate in December, but complications
in arranging his work-release pre-
vented him from taking classes.

“T had assumed that I would be al-
lowed on the work-release because
the jailer and the sheriff had told me
that it was no problem with them,”
Girard said. “From what they had
done before, it had never been a pro-
blem with the judge. But that had
been in cases where plea-bargaining
arrangements had been made. [Com-
monwealth’s Attorney] John Read ...
wanted to say ‘No, I don’t want him
in school,’ which is what he did.”

Girard, who matriculated and then

 

attended classes for several days
before his September sentencing,
said court dates had been arranged
for him to ask for a work-release, but
Read postponed them until it was too
late for Girard to “get back into
school.’

Although he is unable to attend
classes, Girard is continuing his
academic work. An architectural
history major, Girard is working ona
thesis that involves work with a
Miami architectural firm called Ar-
quitectonica. Girard described the
company’s work as ‘‘a new style of
architecture’’ that has been featured
on the NBC series ‘‘Miami Vice.”

Girard said he is waiting for
library books and material from Ar-

quitectonica to continue his research.
“What I want to do is figure out what
the social continuity is between that

architecture and the society that it’s -

in, and also if it’s functional,’’ he
said. ‘“‘Do these buildings do what
they’re supposed to do? Do they func-
tion as art or as some neat, new type
of building?”

Girard’s work with ACCESS and
his research on his thesis are strictly
separate, he said, explaining that the
ACCESS work has no connection with
W&L but is a community service pro-
ject.

The two projects are not the only
ways he occupies his time. He said he
has been speaking to various groups,
along with another prisoner, about

 

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi
t

the pair’s involvement with drugs.
Girard said he had spoken to church *
and youth groups, as well as the ,
freshman class and football team at .
W&L. “I just try to relate my ex- :
perience and maybe try tohelp some- *
one not make that kind of a mistake,”’ ,
he said.

Girard said he is somewhat dis- *
tressed by “ridiculous” rumors he ,
said he has heard, including that he
still is doing drugs and that he is do- *
ing them in jail. «

“That makes me laugh,’’ he said,
and then changed his mind. “It
doesn’t make me laugh, it makes me *
sad and laugh at the same time. The >4
fact that someone can think that I’m’
doing drugs ... to think that I wouldn’t
have learned my lesson by now.”’

¥

-

Freshman class officers setting their political agendas:

Frosh president
is a veteran

By EILEEN SHEEHAN
Staff Reporter

 

 

Michael A. Forrester, the newly
elected freshman class president, is
hardly a stranger to the job — he was
president of both his junior and
senior classes in high school.

Forrester, who believes a class
party may be the way to increase uni-
ty among the already cohesive first-
year students, is a native of Baton
Rouge, La., where he attended
Belaire High School.

Forrester said he decided to run for
class office because he felt that he
had the leadership ability needed to
unify the class. Forrester said that as
class president, he wants to create a
more supportive atmosphere for the
first coeducational class by bringing
the entire freshman class together at
a freshman party so the students can
get to know each other.

When asked about Washington and
Lee’s first year of coeducation, For-
rester said he feels everything is run-
ning smoothly and the adjustments
are being made quite well. He said he
feels W&L’s situation is much like
that of Belaire High School a few
years ago, when the school was un-
dergoing desegregation. The idea

was difficult for some people to ac-
cept at first, and adjustments had to
be made but he felt the change was
beneficial.

Forrester said he feels coeducation
is advantageous to Washington and
Lee both socially and academically

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Matt Bryant (left) and Mike Forrester in front of Phi Psi

— the freshman class is more well-
rounded, and the University now will
aluract a aulferent range of students
and the admissions selection process
will be much more competitive.

Forrester is a Phi Kappa Psi
pledge and a pre-med.

Biography of Lee prepared EC representative for W&L
3 Pal

By JASON LISI
Staff Reporter

 

A freshman football player from
Texas who prepared for Washington
and Lee by reading a book on Robert
E. Lee has taken his place at the Ex-
ecutive Committee horseshoe desk as
the new freshman EC representa-
tive.

Matt Bryant of Houston won the
election for EC two weeks ago and
has been attending the regular Mon-
day night meetings since then. His
views on campus issues include the
belief that drinking alcohol is ‘‘an in-
alienable right.”

Bryant said he is interested in stu-
dying business and accounting and is
looking ahead to law school. But, as
Bryant said of his academic plans,
“‘Who really knows?”’

While saying he is still unsure of
some of his views in his new position
on the EC, the Phi Kappa Psi pledge
was forthright about his opinions on
several issues that have recently
been hot topics for campus debate.

eThe 18-year-old Bryant called the
newly enacted 21-year-old drinking
age ‘‘stupid”’ and ‘‘ignorant.”’

“It’s like Prohibition in the ’20s,”’
he added.

 

NEWS BRIEFS

Calling drinking ‘‘a tradition at
W&L,”’ Bryant said many of the
freshmen, most of whom are under
the legal drinking age in Virginia,
drink regardless of the legal age.

“T can understand Mothers Against
Drunk Driving,’’ Bryant said, but “‘if
they want to stop drunk driving, they
have to stop drunk driving’’ instead
of stopping drinking.

On the rule on the Student Control
\Committee’s guidelines that makes
“racial, ethnic, religious or sexual
slurs’ an offense punishable by ex-
pulsion, Bryant said he feels that
although there should be a certain
amount of decorum among students,
the rule has some problems.

“We all have to behave like gentle-
people,” Bryant said. ‘‘If we cheat or
steal we’re not acting in an accep-
table way. But that’s a real fine line,
areal gray area.”’

Noting that the rule has a strict
wording, Bryant said, ‘‘There has to
be a give and take; every case is go-
ing to be different.”’

On the issue of the disputed rules
concerning the use of the Student Ac-
tivities Pavilion for fraternity par-
ties, Bryant said there is ‘‘a lot of red
tape invovled’’ and that there is a
good chance of a change in those

Fraternity visitor reports jewelry stolen over weekend

+

rules in the future.

*On coeducation, Bryant said he 4

feels it will benefit the class of ’86 as —
well as the class of 89. He said that ;
during the two years he was looking
at W&L — both before and after the *
coeducation decision — his feeling .
for the school went through a change.

“When it was all-male, it really in- .
terested me,” he said, but added that -»
he thought that after coeducation, ‘‘it _
would be just a typical school.” He *
said he realized once he arrived here »
that would not happen.

Bryant feels that the Honor Sys--
tem, which is one of the EC’s main®
responsibilities, ‘‘still works.’’ He
recalled reading books on Lee’s life”
and pondering the system that Lee»
enacted at W&L. ‘

“T like to think about the Honor

System having worked for over a’

hundred years.”’

“That’s what I was elected for —to *
see that that system works,” he ad- ,
ded.

He said his future plans at W&L in-
clude continuing playing for the foot-
ball team and serving on the Execu- ‘
tive Committee. ‘‘I definitely want to .
be on the EC — it’s quite an honor.
You really have a voice in the «
school.”’ ‘

«

 

stall reports

 

A student from Louisiana State University who was
staying at the Phi Delta Theta fraternity house this
weekend reported to police that $1,350 worth of jewelry
and cash was missing from the pocketbook she had left
in one of the rooms.

Elizabeth C. Jones of Bogalusa, La., told police that
sometime between 11 p.m. Friday and 2 p.m. Saturday
a 20-inch gold chain worth $800, a 50th anniversary gold
chain worth $500, and $50 in cash were taken from her
pocketbook, which was under a bed.

Financing techniques discussed

A seminar on contemporary financing techniques for
small businesses in Virginia will be held in the Moot
Courtroom of Lewis Hall from 7-10 p.m. Nov. 11.

The seminar is for individuals who have an interest in
going into business for themselves or for those who are
already in business and are looking for financing to ex-
pand their operations. Speakers will discuss financing
techniques available in Virginia, alternative forms of
debt financing, how to obtain venture capital, how to ac-
complish equity financing for small business under cur-
rent Virginia laws, and the role of the attorney in ob-
tainingsmall business financing.

Scheduled to speak at the seminar are Daniel M.
Siegel, a Richmond attorney who does extensive work
in bond financing and is counsel for the Virginia Small

Business Financing Authority; William P. Carter, an
investment banker and executive vice president of the
Financial Corporation of Virginia; W. Wayne Heslep, a
Lexington attorney who has done extensive work in thc
area of industrial revenue bonds; and Steven H. Hobbs,
a member of the Wasnington and Lee law facully who
teaches a seminar in small business.

The seminar is sponsored by W&L, the Region 11
Small Business Committee of the Virginia State Cham-
ber of Commerce, Dabney S. Lancaster Community
College, the Lexington-Rockbridge Chamber of Com-
merce, United Virginia Bank, and the W&L chapter of
the Association of Collegiate Entrepreneurs.

Registration for the seminar is $5. The deadline for
registration is Nov. 4, but late registration will be ac-
cepted the night of the seminar. For more information,
contact Steve Hobbs at 463-8524.

Scholar speaks on peace

An authority on political and economic affairs in
Latin America will come to Washington and Lee next
week as a Woodrow Wilson Foundation Visiting Fellow.

Peter D. Bell, senior associate of the Carnegie En-
dowment for International Peace and a former official
at the Ford Foundation and Inter-American Founda-
tion, will be on campus Nov. 3-8 to hold informal meet-
ings with students and to speak with various classes.

He also will deliver a lecture titled ‘‘The Search for
Peace in Central America’ on Monday at 7:30 p.m. in
the Northen Auditorium in the University Library. The

lecture is open to the public.

Bell received his bachelor of arts degree from Yale
University and his master of business administration
degree from the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and
International Affairs at Princeton University. For more
than a decade he was a Ford Foundation resident offi-
cer in Chile. He also formerly served as deputy under
secretary of the department of Health, Education and
Welfare

Wa&L still a ‘Men’s Club’?

Journalists from Japan's Men’s Club magazine were
on campus this week to do an article about Washington
and Lee.

Men’s Club has been described by a Japanese student
at W&L as being ‘“Japan’s GQ.”’ The magazine also
features monthly stories about American colleges.

The W&L story is scheduled to appear in the March
1986 issue of the magazine, according to News Office
director Brian D, Shaw.

—Tim McMahon

Geology careers outlined

Elizabeth G. Newton, senior policy adviser for fluid
mineral leasing in the Bureau of Land Management,
will speak to students Nov. 6.

At 4:30 p.m. Newton will speak on ‘‘Careers for Geo-

logists in the Federal Government.” At 8 p.m. she will
speak on ‘‘Managing the Industrial Mineral Estate.”
Both lectures, in Room 206 of Howe Hall, are free and
open to the public.

A graduate of the University of South Carolina,
Newton has done work for the U.S. Geological Survey,
the Minerals Management Service and the Bureau of
Land Management. She is involved with all aspects of
managing the federal mineral estate. Newton has been
associated with numerous applied geology programs,
including intelligence studies, geohazard analysis and
environmental assessment of mineral development
proposals.

Judge reviews Calley trial

Col. Reid W. Kennedy, judge at the trial of Lt. Wil-
liam Calley Jr., reviewed the trial in the context of his
'ecture, ‘A Soldier's Duty to Say No,”’ in Lee Chapel
last week.

Kennedy, who served in Korea and Vietnam, noted
that the proceedings against Calley had precedent in
the Nuremberg Trials of Nazi war criminals following
World War II. He pointed out, however, that the Calley
trial represented one of the few incidents of a nation
prosecuting its own war criminals.

While acknowledging that Calley was not solely re-
sponsible for the massacre, Kennedy cited testimony
that the lieutenant personally executed several villag-
ers to demonstrate that ‘Calley was guilty beyond
question.”

 

 

 
“a

SN

Re NT INR RT

Pe,

The Ring-tum Phi, October 31, 1985, Page 5

 

CCR

By JOHN KALITKA
Staff Reporter

 

New requirements designed to im-
prove the physical condition and
technique of ROTC cadets and to in-
crease their exposure and identity to
the Washington and Lee community,
have been implemented by the
Military Science Department.

Starting this year, some of the
W&L cadets, who number just under
200, can be seen gathering on early
Monday, Wednesday and Friday
mornings in the ROTC parking lot
and then embarking on training exer-
cises around the W&L campus, bel-
lowing their ‘‘jodies,’’ or exercise
chants. Additionally, the cadets now
are easily identified on any Tuesday
as they decorate the Colonnade in the
camouflage ROTC fatigues.

Lt. Colonel Luke B. Ferguson, head
of the Military Science department,
says the new physical training (PT)
measures were implemented when
the traditional ‘‘laid-back”’ attitude
toward military training began to
cause problems for the W&L ROTC
program at ROTC Summer Advance
Camp in Fort Bragg, N.C.

‘The main reason we started a PT
program is because in the past two
years we've not done very well at
Summer Camp,” Ferguson said.

ROTC cadets, who are required to
attend the six-week camp after their
junior year, are evaluated on a

Registration

changes for
winter term

By CHARLES T. GAY
Staff Reporter

 

 

One of the busiest places on cam-
pus during the past week has been
the Registrar’s office, largely as a
result of registration for winter term.

“It seemed to go smoothly,” said
Washington and Lee Registrar D.
Scott Dittman.

Dittman recently compiled figures
on declared majors for 1985.
“They've basically stayed pretty
stable,’ when compared with those
of 1984.

Specitically, he said the French,
German, philosophy and chemistry
departments had gained the most
students, with philosophy leading the
pack with a 91 percent increase.

Biology was the ‘‘big loser’ with a
33 percent decline, with mathematics

and journalism absorbing fairly neg-

ligible losses.
Dittman could see no real trend in

’ his figures, but offered a prediction:

“In two or three years we'll wit-

- ness a great increase in computers. I
. feel that’s a safe assumption.”

For winter term registration, Ditt-
man introduced several new policies
designed to simplify the process as
much as possible.

This past week, all students were

_ allowed to pick up registration cards

at any time before this afternoon. In
past years each class was restricted
toa certain day.

Advisers, though they may, are not
required to submit the registration
cards. Instead, the students are.

‘We're putting the information and
the responsibility in the student’s
hands,”’ Dittman said.

       
         

NEXUS

122 So. Main

 

Welcome W&L
Parents

University
Florist

15 W. Washington
Street
463-6080

Give us a call or stop by
We are here from 9-5

The Style House

WELCOMES W&L PARENTS!
Visit Lexington’s finest hairstylists where we use

and other fine products.
Call or walk-in.

 

 

number ot criteria; 22 percent of
their final evaluation is based on
their physical condition and their
ability to perform certain physical
activities. This year, Washington and
Lee’s ROTC unit fell about six points
below the camp average.

‘Some of this was attributable to
our poor physical condition and tech-
nique,’ Ferguson explained. "'l
decided this year as professor of
military science to start PT early —
in October.”

Under the new program, cadets
meet Monday, Wednesday and Fri-
day mornings at 6:50 a.m. for PT ses-
sions. Following 30 minutes of warm-
up and technique drills, the cadets
embark on a short two-to three--mile
run in formation. Those with A or B
period classes are dismissed early,
at 7:30 a.m., to ensure sufficient time
to prepare for classes.

‘Academics come first,”’
said.

While all cadets are encouraged to
participate, only those under ROTC
scholarships or contracts are re-
quired to follow the new regulations,
which began Oct. 7.

The military science department is
hoping to use the new PT program to
accomplish a number of goals, in-
cluding the encouragement of self-
motivated physical conditioning and
the development of proper condition-
ing techniques.

Individual cadets may free them-
selves of the weekly PT require-
ments by demonstrating a_profic-

Ferguson

Wolfe speaks

iency in leading the cadet batallion
and scoring 100 percent or better on
the monthly Army Physical Readi-
ness Test. To do so, a cadet must per-
form 68 pushups in under two min-
utes and 69 sit-ups in under two
minutes, and run two miles in under
13 minutes, five seconds.

Junior cadet Tom Boyd of Winches-
ter calls the PT sessions “‘reason-
able.”

‘I don’t like it,’’ Boyd said, ‘‘but I
understand why they're doing it. We
knew before we contracted that we'd
have to do something like this.

“I’m just afraid this might scare
off some of those interested in con-
tracting next year. I don’t think it’s a
good idea now — maybe in the
spring, before camp.’’

“It’s tough to get up on Monday,
Wednesday, and Friday but I like the
new PT program because it forces
me to do the exercises,’ said Michael
Bowen, a junior from Lexington. ‘‘In
the past two years it’s been very
slack around here, you didn’t have to
do [PT].”

Senior John Meloy thinks the PT
program is a good idea, but added,
“Afternoon PTs might draw a more
favorable response and people might
put a little more work into it.”’

Ferguson explained that the new
requirement that cadets wear fa-
tigues on Tuesdays stems from a lack
of community identity that has
plagued the W&L ROTC program
since its inception in 1951.

“There are people on campus who

a et
"he aN

By W. Patrick Hinely/W&L

 

Trustee Tom Wolfe of the Class of 1951 makes a point during a speech last
weekend as part of the Board of Trustees annual fall meeting. Wolfe, who is
famous for his books ‘‘The Right Stuff” and ‘‘The Kandy-Kolored Tangerine-
Flake Streamline Baby,’’ was the keynote speaker for the celebration of the
35th anniversary of ‘Shenandoah,’ the Washington and Lee literary

magazine.

Ads in The Phi
pay off
463-8581

Nucleic A

463-5954

 

 

The Shop for
PAPPAGALLO

Shoes, Clothing
& Accessories

23 NORTH MAIN STREET
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

463-5988

 

 

 

116 N. Main St.
Across From Stop-In

Hi
10% off on

every purchase
over $5.00 through
D Nov. 22nd

Bring a friend and
student |.D.

 

RT STATIONERY

 

 

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Washington and Lee ROTC Rangers go through early-morning physical training exercises

don’t know where we are or who we
are because...we’ve trained primari-
ly in an area that’s not obvious to
anyone on campus,” Ferguson said.
“People who've been in Lexington
for a lifetime are not aware that we
have an ROTC program at W&L.”’

The practice is not unique to W&L
— some 400-plus ROTC programs at
colleges and universities across the
country require the display of uni-
forms at least one full day on cam-
pus, added Ferguson.

Jurior George Boras, a cadet from
McLean, echoed Ferguson’s re-
marks. “‘It lets people know that
we're around — I think it’s a good
idea,” he said

‘No one knew who we were before
the uniforms,’’ added Bowen.

 

By JASON LISI
Staff Reporter

 

 

 

Senior David Sprunt, the 1984-85
Calyx editor, told the Executive
Committee Monday night that the
yearbook, which is already six weeks
overdue, may not even be complete
by Christmas.

‘We're still not done,’’ Sprunt said
after being asked to report to the EC
on the progress of last year’s book.

Sprunt was asked to report two
weeks ago to answer questions and

give an indication as to the progress
of the Calyx, which was to be dis-
tributed at matriculation this year.

He gave no date at which he
thought the Calyx would be com-
pleted.

“I’m working as fast as I can,”
Sprunt said. He went on to say that he
is currently working alone ‘six to
eight hours a day”’ on the estimated
35 pages still to be finished.

“A majority of the pages are most-
ly done,”’ Sprunt said.

EC Vice President Andrew Caru-

Hollins student injured

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Staff Reporter

 

Ellen M. Cleaver, a 17-year-old
Hollins freshman, was hit by a car
last Friday when she walked into the
path of the slow-moving vehicle.

The driver, sophomore Bill M.
Gossman, had borrowed the vehicle
from sophomore Drew W. Platt and
was driving down South Main Street
when Cleaver stepped in front of him.

‘There is no indication of reckless-
ness on the part of the driver,”’ said
Lexington Police Chief L.0. Sutton.
“It’s a shame it had to happen.

 

 

Now Featuring
Homemade Ice Cream
Cones

106 West Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia
703-463-6055

 

 

 

GIFTS

Come by for all your office supplies, and

also all your art

supplies. We have

everything you'll need for your artistic
talents including paint, brushes and even

stretch canvass.

 

23 West Washington St.

463-3432

 

Cleaver said that she and a friend
were out shopping and decided to
cross the street.

“After that, it’s kind of a blur,”
Cleaver said.

“It was my fault. I did carelessly
walk into the street,’’ she added.

She suffered two broken bones in
her lower left leg and cuts on her
cheek and head. Her two front teeth
were loosened also, but were braced
together.

She is currently in Stonewall Jack-
son Hospital, where she has been
since last Friday. The stitches in her
face were removed today.

Our
‘ ‘Typing’ 9
Is

WordPerfect -

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Cadet Bill Hutchinson performs push-ups at inspection

°84-85 Calyx still not done;
completion date unknown

thers advised Sprunt: ‘‘I would treat

it as a final exam.”

Caruthers went on to ask Sprunt,
“Is it going to be out at the end of
January?”

‘Not necessarily,’’ Sprunt said.

The Calyx editor said that after the
pages are completed and sent to the
publishing company, it would take
four or five weeks for the students to
get yearbooks.

Sprunt was asked to return and
give an additional progress report
next week.

in accident

Complications set in when the ef-
fects of a local anasthesia remained
longer than expected. As a result,
Cleaver suffered repeated migraine
headaches and problems in her
spine, where the anesthesia was ad-
ministered.

The impact of Ellen’s chin cracked
the windshield of the automobile. No
other damage to the car was report-
ed.

According to the police report, no
charges have been made.

“She’s really doing well,” said
Caroline Moore, a friend of Clea-
ver’s. ‘‘She has the best attitude.”’

 

DATA SERVICES

203 N. Main Street

Lexington, Virginia 24450

463-9455

 

 

—

 

 

Palms Halloween
Party |

9 - closing

$50 first prize for
best costume
(Judging at 11:30)

Live Music by Kenny & Sandy

 

 

 

 
Page 6, The Ring-tum Phi, October 31, 1985

 

THE POLITICAL SCENE

 

 

 

 

Election broadcasts

Cable Nine and WLUR Election Night producers Brian
Oliger (pointing) and Ken Jacoby make some technical
preparations for Tuesday night’s election coverage.
Coverage begins Tuesday night at 7, and will feature
comprehensive local returns as well state-wide updates.

 

 

 

 

 

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Reporters will be filing stories from local vote tabulation
centers and from the Republican and Democratic
Headquarters in both Lexington and Richmond. Co-
anchors for the evening will be seniors Jim Strader and
Mike Stachura.

 

Terry gains support
in Il-81 campaign tour

 

By CHRISTOPHER DEIGHAN
News Editor

 

Congressman Jim Olin told Lex-
ington Democrats that they ‘‘put
other cities in the valley to shame”
Monday when they gathered at the ci-
ty’s Democratic headquarters on
West Washington Street to show their
support for Mary Sue Terry, candi-
date for Virginia Attorney General.

A press aide who was accompany-
ing Terry and Olin on a Roanoke-Lex-
ington-Staunton-Harrisonburg cam-
paign trail said this was Terry’s third
appearance in Lexington since enter-
ing the race. The aide said Terry
wanted to “highlight one of the cor-
nerstones of her campaign’’ —drunk

Nov. 5 election.

Terry said she is amazed that the
Vietnam conflict claimed 50,000
American lives during the '60s and
’70s while drunk driving claims 25,000
each year.

Terry said she would like to see
mandatory convictions for drivers
with a .10 percent blood alcohol level.
She said she favors wider use of so-
briety testing and the institution of a
vehicular homicide statue.

Olin praised Terry’s ingenuity and
perserverance in her fight against
drunk driving and drug abuse during
her eight years in the General As-
sembly.

“She has been a great legislator,
and she will be an even greater attor-
ney general,’’ Olin told a group of

 

 

MARY SUE TERRY

Dennis Brown, the Democratic
candidate who is challenging Repub-
lican Vance Wilkins for his seat in the
Virginia House of Delegates, accom-
panied Terry and Olin on their tour of

 

 

 

 

driving — one last time before the

Activism

Local political leaders cite W&L students’ interest

 

By SEAN BUGG
Staff Reporter

 

Leaders of both of Lexington’s political committees
have been holding fund-raisers and garnering support
for their candidates in next week’s elections, and they
expressed appreciation for the help given them by Wash-
ington and Lee students.

W. Arthur Beeton, chairman of the Rockbridge Repub-
lican Combined Committee, said, ‘‘We have had excel-
lent help from W&L Republicans, and especially the
Law School Republicans.”’

Law Professor William S. Geimer serves as chairman
of the Lexington Democratic Committee, and he also
praised the political interest of law students and
undergraduate students.

The Republicans have had several special events
leading up to the Nov. 5 elections, including a special
breakfast for the three candidates, and a special dinner
for gubernatorial candidate Wyatt B. Durrette.

Another event Beeton mentioned was a luncheon held

about 25 supporters and reporters.

the four cities.

at noon on Monday for the wives of the three candidates.
Mrs. John Chichester, wife of the lieutenant governor
candidate, and Mrs. Buster O’Brien, wife of the attorney
general candidate, both attended, while Miss Virginia of
1984 satin for Mrs. Durrette.

Geimer said the Democrats have been busy running
phone banks, sending out mailings, and operating the
local headquarters.

“The local party itself doesn’t conduct fund-raisers,”’
Geimer said. He added that they were ‘“‘very pleased
with local donations,”’ which enabled them to get mail-
ings to every registered voter in Rockbridge County.

Geimer also expressed satisfaction with the job being
done by W&L undergraduate and Law School Demo-
crats, saying that they have helped in hanging posters,
distributing literature, and other jobs ‘‘at one time or
another.”

Geimer added that his political interest stems from ‘‘a
general belief ... in delivering the services government
ought to deliver to people that Democrats generally do
better than Republicans.”’

CRs’ and YDs’ satisfaction

comes from party’s success

 

By DANATHA HOFFMAN
Staff Reporter

 

As November 5 swiftly approaches,
and the gubernatorial election be-
tween Wyatt Durrette (R) and
Gerald Baliles (D) heats up, the
Republicans and Democrats around
the state are gearing up for last
minute battles.

Washington and Lee’s Young De-
mocrats and College Republicans
have jumped into the Virginia guber-
natorial battle and are assisting their
favorite campaigns as Tuesday —
Election Day — draws near.

Young Democrats Chairman
Everett Hamilton said his group has
been working in shifts at the Lex-
ington Democratic headquarters.

Hamilton, as a member of the Lex-
ington Democratic Committee, at-
tended initial planning meetings con-

cerning strategies and fundraisers.

Similarly, the College Repub-
licans, led by John Pensec, have
manned the Republican headquar-
ters above the Herring Travel agen-
cy, answering any questions that in-
dividuals might have. They have
done numerous literature drops. Dur-
ing the election itself, they will man
the two area polls at city hall and the
Lexington Firehouse.

On election night, Hamilton and
one other Democrat along with two
Republicans will report via telephone
from Richmond for W&L’s Cable
Channel 9 and WLUR-FM on the
mood and atmosphere at their re-
spective headquarters.

Both Hamilton and Pensec said the
main reason they are involved so
heavily in the election was not an in-
terest in Virginia politics but rather a
partisan interest. Pensec remarked
that he had been heavily involved in

Republican politics in his home state
of New Jersey and had carried that
interest over to W&L.

“T honestly believe that [Wyatt B.]
Durrette is the superior candidate,”
he said. ‘‘It is not so much whether it
is New Jersey or Virginia, but rather
it’s the Republican party. Durrette
has a solid Republican platform with
the same beliefs that I possess.’’

Hamilton called himself a ‘‘true-
blue Democrat.”

“I strongly believe that the Demo-
cratic party is the better one and as
long as I am working for the
Democrats — wherever — I am
working for the right party,”’
Hamilton said.

Both said they expect to attend a
victory celebration.

“We have worked hard and are ex-
cited about attending the victory par-
ty at the Marriott in Richmond on the
fifth,’ Pensec enthused.

Durrette charges opponent with
switch on issue of teacher pay

 

By TIMOTHY McMAHON
Staff Reporter

 

Democratic gubernatorial can-
didate Gerald L. Baliles has reversed
himself on the issue of merit pay for
teachers, his Republican opponent,
Wyatt B. Durrette, charged in a
speech Saturday at the Keydet
General hotel just outside Lexington.

Speaking to approximately 75 Re-
publicans at a fund-raising dinner in
the hotel’s restaurant, Durrette call-
ed that reversal ‘‘the most astonish-
ing change of view...in the recent an-
nals of Virginia politics.”

Baliles’ proposal, which was
released Thursday, would provide
“up to 500 ‘outstanding teacher
awards’ of $1,000 each to teachers
across the state each year’’ and
“supplement the awards with $4,000
stipends for special study and
research by outstanding teachers.”’
The plan would only be implemented
after Baliles’ goal of raising teacher
salaries to the national average was
reached.

Baliles says his new plan is dif-
ferent from the merit pay scheme
that he believes Durrette has in mind
because it would not disturb teacher
pay scales.

Durrette released a statement on
Baliles Friday morning that said:
“This spring, he agreed with the
teachers’ union opposition to merit
pay, in order to win the Democratic
nomination....Now, a few days before
election, when he’s trying to reach
Virginia voters in general, he says he
favors some form of merit pay.”’

After his speech to the Lexington
group, Durrette said he believed this
change of opinion would hurt Baliles’
credibility with voters. Durrette also
said his staff might prepare some
new advertising based on the merit

pay issue.
Durrette centered much of his dis-

Che KRing-tum Phi

An independent newspaper
offers a late-comer’s special:

A SUBSCRIPTION
FOR THE REMAINDER

OF THE YEAR
FOR JUST $12

Box 899

Send check to:

The Ring-tum Phi

Lexington VA
24450

 

cussion on strategy for the last 10
days of the campaign, asking the au-
dience to mention his name at any
given opportunity. He recognized
that he was behind Baliles in most
every poll, but said that recently he
had been gaining between one and
four points in the polls while Baliles’
standing had remained constant.

He also said that in several recent
elections, including those of US.
Senators John Warner and Paul S.
Trible Jr. and Governor Mills E.
Godwin Jr. — all Republicans — the
Republican candidate had trailed in
the polls until very close to Election
Day. As in those elections, there has
been a significant number of ‘“‘unde-
cided’’ voters in the polls this year,
Durrette said and as before, those
“undecideds” are in traditionally
Republican-voting areas.

Lexington’s Republican Party
Chairman W. Arthur Beeton express-
ed similar feelings before the speech,
saying, ‘I don’t care what the polls
say. It’s the fourth quarter, brother,
and we are going to win.”’

After the speech, however, Dur-
rette said he would have to run a
“near perfect last 10 days” to win the
election.

Nonetheless, Durrette cited the
presence of several nationally known
political figures who have recently
taken a strong interest in his cam-
paign, most notably President Ron-
ald Reagan and Vice President
George Bush, as evidence that “‘this
election matters’ not only to Virginia
but also to the rest of the country.

“There are some major changes
going on in this nation in terms of
political party realignment, and it’s
happening more in the South than
anywhere else,”’ Durrette said.

“Our election now is the election
that America is looking at to see if
this momentum will continue in the
South. They are also looking at it to

| Manie's Kain Fryers

<a> ©.

By Appointment 463-9588
( Robins Peggy * Marie

 

WYATT B. DURRETTE

see if Governor Robb, with his na-
tional ambitions, is going to be suc-
cessful in transferring his mantle.
Make no mistake that our election is
viewed in that context.”’

Noting that some voters perceive
little difference between himself and
Baliles politically, Durrette stated
that the one main difference was his
commitment to ‘‘fiscal responsibili-
ty,” which he claimed to mean a
commitment to a state government
whose expenses would not require a
“general fund tax increase.’’ He then
stated that Baliles is proposing new
government programs with a total
expenditure of more than $2 billion,
which he claimed could only be paid
for by increasing general fund taxes.

With regard to other specific
issues, Durrette came out strongly in
favor of education reforms, including
the attainment of new textbooks for
Virginia public schools and the for-
mation of a tax-exempt savings plan
to allow parents to set aside money
for their children’s higher education
plans without paying taxes on the
principal or the interest.

RRR aR

Old Main St. Mall
Lexington, VA 210 f

5 SE) EA SIU ERE: ENR = RB | NR RES RS INNIS

Your message
here

$6
Call 463-8581

 

 

Southern
Inn

Welcome
Students
Serving breakfast, lunch
and dinner for over

_ _ 90 years
Main Street, Lexington

 

 

463-3612

Llewellyn Lodge
at Lexington

603 S. Main

A Bed and Breakfast
on Main Street, within
walking distance of
The Historic District

463-3235

THE NEW OPTICIANS

Contacts—Glasses—Repairs

ALL PRESCRIPTIONS

20%

(703) 463-7440

OFF

Next to Stop-in

 

 

(Dien, sda ai cl cl | al

ml 1 oP er St rt In ee

Ota See ee — -_ mA mn — A nf
 

Trustees

 

+ Continued from Page 1

niicroscope,”’ he said of the review
procedure.

Five students were scheduled to
discuss their interest in the program,
but time allowed only for D. Forrest
Cannon, a sophomore, to tell of his
trip to Taiwan last summer and for
George Chan, a sophomore from
Hong Kong, to talk about his change
of cultures.

‘The board elected W. Buckner
Ogilvie Jr. of Houston, a 1964 W&L
graduate, to serve a six-year term.
Ogilvie, nominated by the alumni, is
executive vice president of Excalibur
Computer Systems Inc. of Houston.

yWhile a student, he was a member
of the Executive Committee, co-
cAptain of the football team, a
lecrosse player, a dormitory
counselor and was named to Phi Beta
Kappa and Omicron Delta Kappa.

Roe

Politics

@
() Continued from Page 1

 

the two are, respectively, the first
black and woman selected by a ma-
jor party. for its statewide ticket.

‘ilder is opposed by John H.
Chichester; Mary Sue Terry by W.R.
“Buster” O’Brien.

‘A particularly egregious example
of the variations that can occur in
political polls came earlier this mon-
th, when a story on the front page of
the Richmond Times-Dispatch was
headlined: ‘All candidates are in
déad heats.” Three days later, The
Washington Post followed with its
front-pager: “Democrats Take Big
Leads In Virginia Statewide Races.”

“1 pol released yesterday by
Mason-Dixon Opinion Research Inc.
showed Baliles with a 9 percentage
pint lead over Durrette in a survey
with a margin of error of 3.5 percen-
tage points. The poll, conducted for
the Norfolk Virginian-Pilot
newspaper, showed statistically in-
significant leads for Wilder and
Terry.

e,

 

 

 

Fruits of labor

Economics professor Bruce H. Herrick displays the salary he received
from one of his beginning economics classes recently. In a lecture a few
weeks ago, Herrick told the class that in a barter system, he would have to
find a farmer who wanted to hear an economics lecture in exchange for food.
Two class meetings later, as students filed out of the classroom, each one
laid a produce item on the professor’s table. “This has never happened to me

before,’’ Herrick said.

Don’t ask

4

‘

 

By MIKE ALLEN
Executive Editor

 

Asking for a job may be one of the
worst ways to get it.

That’s why University placement
consultant Stephen P. Bredin advises
seniors to eschew the traditional job-
hunting routine and instead go on a
spree of “informational interview-
ing.”

He told a workshop Tuesday that a
stydent using the technique learns
about firms that interest him by ar-
religing conferences with an employ-
ee,of the company — preferably a
recruiter.

“You don’t [need to] ask for a job
beeause they can tell from the way
you’re phrasing the questions that
you’re in the market,” Bredin ex-
nlained. “You don’t threaten any-
body, and believe me, anybody is
thi‘eatened when they’re asked for a

r

    
  
    
     

|
}
’
|
i
| r

q

SPC 0 SP 0S 0 0D 0D 0 ED 0 ED 0-1-0

ee
t

~

*

«

)
)
) 1
)
)

+

% featuring

' ‘The Stains ° Halloween, 9-?

Costume Special - Draught Busch - 50°

Mon.-Sat. 11 a.m.-12a.m.
Sun. 1-8 p.m,

a:

}

7

}a

, ¥

>

+1014 Lee Ave,

Parents!

-. Keep track of your
"Children’s exploits

} See Page 6

- Subway

, Welcomes W&L Parents
; New York Style Subs

job.”

Bredin, now in his third year at
Washington and Lee, has worked as
an overseas employment manager
for an affiliate of the Exxon Corp.,
has served as M.B.A. recruting man-
ager for that firm and worked for
nine years as the placement director
at the University of Virginia’s Col-
gate Darden School of Business Ad-
ministration.

The job-search schedule Bredin re-
commends is researching firms in
November, doing some initial inter-
views in December and meeting with
recruiters in January through
March.

In April, firms begin extending of-
fers, many of which are turned down,
giving a student a chance to be pick-
ed up on a second round of hiring in
May and June, which Bredin said is a
critical period in which final plans
should be made.

     

463-5752

‘July is dead, August even deader
and before you know it, you’ve gotten
to September and you don’t have a
job and people begin to wonder why
you don’t,”’ he said.

Bredin said his goal is to have 60
firms interview on campus this
winter. He said 42 are committed to
coming but that it is uncertain
whether 18 more can be lined up.

He said many firms this year are
sharply reducing their number of
campus visits, which he cost about
$6,000 per recruiter for each campus
at which the company interviews.

United Virginia Bank, for example,
has traveled to W&L for the last 10 to
15 years but this winter will not inter-
view in Lexington.

Bredin said that each recruiting
season, the bank receives 1,000
resumes, culls those to about 600, in-
terviews about 200 candidates and
then makes approximately 29 offers.

BEAUTY
BOUTIQUE

By W. Patrick Hinely /W&L

By SYDNEY MARTHINSON
Staff Reporter

Carole Chappell, the former
secretary of the University Center,
has been promoted to recruitment co-
ordinator.

Under the new title, she is present-
ly working on a career placement
project, Challenge ’86, a liberal arts
career fair.

As a member of the Recruitment
Office, Chappell is responsible for
helping seniors find jobs in the career
area of their choice. This is done
through “one on one interaction”
with students and organized pro-
grams like workshops, which deal
with such areas as interviews, resu-
mes and even LSATs.

With her new promotion, Chappel
has moved from the glassed-in office
in the front hall of the University
Center to a new office further down
the hall.

She laments that she has less con-
tact with students in her new posi-
tion. “Before, if you had a problem, it
was, ‘see Carole Chappell,’ I liked
that.”

Senior Townes Pressler, who as
senior class president spends a lot of
time in the University Center, echoed
Chappell’s sentiments, saying he
missed seeing her in the front office.

“She was always so friendly, and
it’s great being able to call her by her
first name. That always impressed
the kids on tours.”

Challenge ’86 is a career fair that
takes place at the Radisson Hotel in
Lynchburg in November.

Chappell serves as the coordinator
between the program and W&L. At
the fair, 54 companies will have infor-
mation tables, and some will be offer-
ing individual interviews.

Seniors from nine of the nearby

“The companies are saying, ‘Hey,

why should we go anywhere if the
resumes are coming in to us?’ ”
Bredin said, noting that the effect is
for the firms to “save money but
sacrifice quality.”

Bredin said that although the IBM
Corp. sales training program is tops
in the nation, W&L has “‘no relation-
ship with IBM.”

“Any relationship we had,”’ Bredin
explained, ‘‘we managed to destroy”’
by purchasing a Prime computer
system this summer after IBM had
bid on the installation.

“They go where they’re most
welcome,” he said. ““You scratch my
back and I'll scratch yours.”

“IBM is tough,” he added, shaking
his head. ‘“‘I’d love to have IBM
here.”

Another type of firm W&L has a
“lousy” record of attracting, Bredin
said, are food companies and brand

es,

ca

We would like to invite new students to come in for complete
hair care, hair cuts, color, or permanents.
We also specialize in sculptured nails and manicures.

HOURS:
Mon. through Fri.
Evenings by appointment

OPERATORS:
Mary, Ella Mae, Lynn
and Phyllis

BEAUTY BOUTIQUE

107 W. Nelson St., Lexington

463-2422

te Front Ma,

qe

<7

167 S. Main St., 463-3106

Parents, we offer student charge
accounts which may be sent home

to you for all
grocery needs.

your student’s

 

Serving the W&L community
over 30 years.

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, October 31, 1985, Page 7

Popular secretary’s promotion
makes her miss the front office

 

 

 

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

Carole Chappell helps senior Bill Nichols in her new office

liberal arts colleges have been in-

vited to register for the program.
Chappell is a graduate of Southern

Seminary Junior College and has

management companies, although
“that’s where there’s a lot of
growth.”

He explained that one reason such
firms are difficult to snag is that they
hire primarily graduates of M.B.A.
programs and few people with bache-
lor’s degrees.

One exception is that Procter and
Gamble Inc., which Bredin said has
“the premier marketing training
program in the United States,” will
be interviewing at W&L for the first
time this year.

Another first this winter will be a
policy allowing companies to pre-
screen half of their interviewees by
selecting them in advance from the
Resume Book published by the
Placement Office.

Bredin said companies have been
pressuring the school for several
years to allow such pre-selection, but
that W&L held off for several years

worked at W&L for seven years. She
is presently taking psychology class-
es at Mary Baldwin College during
her spare time.

: Intricacies of job-hunting include ‘informational interviewing’

because it believed the policy unfair
to interested students.

He added that if a student isn’t able
to obtain a spot on a recruiter’s
average slate of 14 interviews, he
usually can find a chance to make
some contact with the representative
anyway.

The consultant said that in dealing
with interviewers, though, there’s a
fine line between being persistent
and overly aggressive.

“If you know he’s staying at the
McCampbell Inn, I don’t see any-
thing wrong with calling up the room
and saying: ‘I know it’s late, but I
didn’t get a chance to see you and I
want to see you while you’re here,’ ”
he said.

“He can either take that as being
embarrassingly assertive or can say,
‘That’s certainly an aggressive
young man. By God, I better talk to
him.’ ”’

 

 

 

 

bastttved Florist

Ss

 

the Homestead
103 N. Jefferson
Lexington, Va. 24450
(708) 463-9841

| VISA’ |

 

@

 

 

 

 
SPORTS

The Ring-tum Phi, October 31, 1985

 

ridders do it again,

 

By DAVID EMRICH
Staff Reporter

 

This is beginning to get repetitious:

You know the story, the General
gridders fall behind early, usually by
at least 10 points, and then proceed to
outplay their opponent the rest of the
way to come away with a seemingly
easy victory. This time they travel-
led to Sewanee, Tenn., and played out
their little drama against the Univer-
sity of the South, clinching, in the
process, a school record-tying sixth
straight winning season.

Trailing 14-0 after the Tigers
scored on their first two possessions,
the Generals tallied 10 unanswered
points, including the first of Kevin
Weaver's four touchdowns, a 43-yard
scamper, to cut the half-time deficit
to four points. In the third quarter,
Weaver scored again to put the
Generals up 17-14.

The lead, however, vanished when
the Tigers scored on a 17-yard pass to
make it 21-17 heading into the fourth
quarter. Then the Generals took con-
trol. They scored three touchdowns,
two by Weaver and one on a reverse

 

 

Place your trust
in pro wrestling

....1 have some confessions to
make. I am worried that Hulk Hogan
is going bald.

TIME I am worried that the Fabulous
OUT. ees Moolah and Rowdy Roddy Piper are
~~~ going to band together and challenge
By Mike __ the world ina mixed tag team event.

Stachura _ It gives me the willies.
I am worried that Uncle Elmer

 

 

= will go the way of Haystack
Calhoun. It is a fate I wish on no man who makes his living by his
largeness.

I am also worried that there are people in the world whose every
breath contains one of these worries. They undoubtedly are those
same people who read The National Enquirer for its investigative
journalism and are concerned that Santa Claus really knows whether
they’ve been bad or good.

Okay, I admit it. Professional wrestling does appeal to me. Does
that make me a bad person? I also like to eat Gummi Bears by the
pound. I know it’s not the best thing for me, but the darned things taste
so good.

That’s kind of the way it is with professional wrestling (or ‘‘rasslin”
— let’s be informal) and me. It’s a pleasant diversion to get caught up
in things that don’t matter all that much anyway, like video games.
(Problems start cropping up, though, when you believe the little
umpire-character in ‘‘Vs. Tennis’’ is a sentient being. )

In a way, this nation’s attraction to professional wrestling is good.
When you look at the things that have happened at European and
South American soccer games, you can breathe a sigh of relief that
wrestling sort of handles most of the bottle-throwing types by keeping
them inside, where the 6-4, 250-pound objects of their aggression are a
bit closer and hence a bit more intimidating than they are on the foot-
ball field. Would you threaten a very large thing that chews the stuff-
ing out of a turnbuckle, has a green tongue and goes by the nickname
of ‘The Animal,” if he were standing less than an arm’s length away?
NOT.

In professional wrestling, as opposed to almost every other profes-
sional sport, with the possible exception of chess, you know who the
good guys are and you know who the bad guys are. Kind of like that old
action cartoon “Johnny Quest.”’ It just wasn’t possible that Haji would
turn out to be a closet dope fiend. The same goes with the World
Wrestling Federation (and any of those other subsidiary wrestling
leagues). Some former bad guy might be reformed, some good guy
might sour with time, but it is always clear cut.

What’s more, these good duys are reputable role models. Mr. T. is
loved by kids, as are Hulk Hogan and many other wrestlers. (Witness
the new Saturday morning wrestling cartoon show.) There’s no threat
here that the sports heroes are suddenly going to be testifying in front
of a grand jury investigating drug trafficking in professional wrest-
ling. Never. The Hulkster wouldn't allow it. He’d break you in half,
while whistling ‘‘The Eye of the Tiger’’ (of course).

But wait a sec, pal. This “rasslin’’ thing isn’t real. It’s a fake, a
sham, a show. No argument from this corner. (If you believe it is real,
you are, as mentioned above, a member of the editorial board at the
Enquirer). What it is, is a good time, certainly a better show than
those never-ending soap operas we call real sports...

....Back home on the Parents’ Weekendified Colonnade, a major
league tip of the cap to the fledgling women’s program at W&L on at-
taining its first victory. Many more will follow in the near future...If
you're looking for a good deal breakfast on parents’ weekend, pick up
a couple of tickets for the lacrosse team’s pancake hoe-down Saturday
morning...Speaking of Saturday, MS should make some money with
their donations-by-W&L-offensive-output charity event during the
gridders’ dismantling of Bridgewater, who gave Emory and Henry all
it could handle back in early September. A point to consider, but one
not to be fretted over...

....Quick thoughts while vacuuming: Did the Cards lose the Series or
did the Royals win it? After Sunday, you can feel safe in calling the
Cardinals “‘losers,’’ in the worst sense of the word, and the Royals
‘‘winners,”’ in the best sense of the word....Bears’ unbeaten season will
end this week or next...George Gervin will not last with the Bulls
unless he agrees that Michael Jordan gets top billing... Do we need peo-
ple like George Steinbrenner in baseball? Does he serve any purpose
other than making us sick? I thought not...

...Finally, Amherst College football coach said ‘‘No!’’ to ESPN
covering the Amherst-Williams game on Nov. 9. Says coach, ‘‘We're in
education, we aren’t in the entertainment business.’’ True, but it sure
would be nice to let the country know that there are some good things
happening in college football...

 

 

to Chris Bleggi, while holding the
Tigers scoreless, to seal the 36-21 vic-
tory.

““We dodged a bullet, and we con-
sider ourselves lucky,” said Coach
Gary Fallon. ‘‘We were down 14 and
weren't playing well. But our kids
didn’t panic, and we only allowed one
more score. I am very proud of our
kids, that they were able to come out
of there witha victory.”

Tailback Weaver had another out-
standing game, scoring four times
(giving him nine touchdowns in the
last two games) and rushing for 225

 

By ROB MacPHERSON
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee soccer
team split two home contests this
past week, winning on Saturday
against Hampden-Sydney and losing
on Wednesday to Roanoke in a game
that gave the Maroons the Old Domi-
nion Athletic Conference soccer
crown.

Yesterday’s loss saw the Generals
fall victim to an inspired Roanoke
squad in hot pursuit of the conference
title. From the initial whistle to the
last tick of the clock, the Maroons
controlled play, shutting out the
Generals, 2-0.

The ODAC champs immediately
took control of the middle third of the
field, an area considered sacred by
soccer strategists, and from there,
they directed the tempo of the game.

Offensively, Roanoke penetrated

yards on 33 carries. In all five games
since returning to the lineup after an
injury that kept him out of the season
opener, he has run for at least 100
yards. He currently leads the ODAC
with an average of 144 yards per
game.

ine defense again played well, giv-
ing up some yards, but getting the
turnover when it was needed. They
gave the offense good field position,
and the offense was able to take ad-
vantage of it.

C) See Football, Page 9

the’ W&L defense with a razor-sharp
passing attack. In their own end, the
Maroons rarely neglected their de-
fensive assignments, limiting the
Generals to a kick-and-run offense
for the majority of the first half.

When W&L installed its long-ball
attack,the Roanoke defense matched
up with the Generals stride for stride.

The Maroons scored their first goal
at 16:10 of the first half. Senior for-
ward Ted Delledera, a 1984 All-ODAC
selection and shoo-in for more honors
this season, beat W&L netminder
Chris Gareis to a loose ball and got
enough of it to push it across the goal
line.

Hoping to limit that goal difference
to one for the rest of the half, the
Generals tightened up their defense.
The Maroons were able to break
through, however, and at 2:32 sopho-
more forward Dave Denbow tallied
the game’s final goal with a neatly
placed head ball off of a corner kick.

Women get first win;

 

By REED HOWLETT
Staff Reporter

 

Running against perhaps their
weakest competition of the year, the
Washington and Lee men’s cross
country team got back on the winning
track with three victories, while the
women earned their first victory of
the season, the first official win by a
W&L women’s team.

 

LEXINGTON PRESCRIPTION CENTER

Phone 463-9166

Emergency Phone 463-2671

11 WEST WASHINGTON STREET

LEXINGTON

 

Hed S. Jefferson St.
eee

463-3338

Hours:

Mon.-Sat. 9am to lam

Sunday 10am to lam Catering

   
  

VIRGINIA

Sandwiches (Eat In-Take Out)
Gourmet Items of All Nations
Cocktails® Wine@ Beer
Subs@Imported Cheeses

The men’s team scored a 16, to
West Virginia State’s 62, Bridge-
water’s 76, and host West Virginia
Technical’s 82. The men nailed down
the top four spots in the race as they
improved their record to 7-2. Once
again, Eddie Goundry led the
Generals, finishing first with a time
of 28:33. Scott Rippeon, Ted Myers,
and Ron Moody added all the needed
support, finishing in the second
through fourth places in 28:57. 29:46,

  
   

Ken Randby celebrates his game-winning goal with teammate Mike Veliuona (10) in the defeat of Hampden-

Soccer splits two ODAC contests

For the most part, the second half
was an instant replay of the first half,
minus the scoring plays. The Roa-
noke defense continued to frustrate
the W&L offense and kept the Gen-
erals off the scoreboard. Excellent
goaltending by Gareis and later
freshman Sheldon Clark prevented
the Maroons from adding to the 2-0
final score.

Saturday, the Generals fared much
better in earning their sixth shutout
and sixth win of the season, a 1-0 vic-
tory over the Tigers of Hampden-
Sydney.

W&L came out strong and scored
before 10 minutes had _ elapsed.
Senior Jimmy Tucker moved from
his accustomed sweeper position to
center-midfield and fed junior Ken
Randby who beat the sprawling
Tiger goalie to the ball and knocked it
home.

The Generals weren't satisfied

 

WA&L Sports Information »

KEVIN WEAVER ... 398 yards, nine touchdowns, two games

al
By Cotton  oding? Ring-tum Phi
yaney

  
 

~

“th

4
with only one tally. ‘l'ney created ex-
cellent goal-scoring opportunities +
throughout the half. Quantity doesn’t
always mean quality, however, and
W&L was unable to add to its total. »
The 1-0 halftime lead did not fully
reflect the Generals’ control of play.

In the second half, the Generals ,
once again claimed possession of the
ball and refused to give it up. Randby *
had a goal called back on an offside _
penalty. The Generals came up short
on a couple of other scoring oppor- *
tunities, as well. :

The W&L defense kept the Tigers —
at bay, allowing them few oppor- >
tunities to score. This defensive ef- .
fort along with another fine perfor- —
mance by Gareis in goal enabled
W&L to earn the win.

Tuesday, the 6-5 Generals take to ©
the road to play Averett. They round
out the 1985 season with a makeup |
contest in Lynchburg against Liberty
on Friday. i

.

men get back on track

and 29:58 respectively.

The women Generals placed sec-
ond in the three-team field of West
Virginia Tech, West Virginia State
and W&L, to raise their record to
1-3-0 and post their first victory.
Coach Dick Miller noted that ‘‘all the
girls improved their times and did
much better.”’

Carolyn Arbogast led the way for
the Generals, finishing third in 25:38

on the 3.2-mile course. Stephanie
Smith and Kim Eadie followed up Ar-
bogast’s effort by finishing seventh
and eighth in 30: 18 and 32:30. :
This weekend the men’s team will —
take on Lynchburg College, Eastern
Mennonite College, and Hampden- .
Sydney in Farmville in an attempt to
take the upper hand on all three
ODAC opponents W&L will run
against later in November for the
league championship. :

 

 

 

 

 
     
 
    
  
    

Did You Know That....
it’s almost too late

Don’t get stranded for

Thanksgiving or Christmas

Call Today

Herring Travel Services, Inc.

Lexington’s ‘‘Main Street”’ Agency

41 South Main Street
463-2197

A fully computerized agency.

ang

 

 

 
‘Good crowd’ #

‘

_may be key

>

 

By LEIF UELAND
Staff REporter

 

*.9.4.2°9'¢.7 0% 8 Os
ese ee8O2 52%%

As the Washington and Lee water
polo team has known would be the
case from Day One, the entire season
culminates this weekend in the
Southern League Championships, at
W&L’s Cy Twombly Pool.

Although no one is ruling out an
upset, the championship match looks
to be the fourth and final meeting for
W&L and archrival Richmond.

The Generals have taken the title
three of the last four years. It was
Richmond, though, which last year
put a halt to W&L’s dominance. The
Spiders have continued to plague
W&L, winning all three of this year’s
confrontations.

Through the losses the Generals
have remained objective, they have
been guided all season by the know-
ledge of this final confrontation.

A win over the Spiders in Sunday’s
final has been the goal from Day One.
Coach Page Remillard has been

‘to polo’s goal

pleased with the team’s improved
performance and he knows it all
comes down to Sunday at one o'clock.

“We need something radical, and
at the same time it will be well-
thought-out and well-executed,”’
Remillard commented.

In addition to going all-out in the
water, the team will be looking to ex-
ternal factors for support, namely a
large, partisan crowd at Twombly
Pool, Remillard said.

“We want to have what Richmond
has had all along. They pack. their
pool,” Remillard said.

The team believes that the com-
bination of the championship and
Parents’ Weekend will provide for a
good crowd. In addition, though, they
will open the deck around the pool for
additional seating and at the half
there will be a relay race of fraterni-
ty pledge teams.

The combination of the Richmond-
W&L rivalry will pack stands and set
the stage for a great match, a stage
that has been set for the Generals
since water polo practice began.

Rah-rah?

Cheerleaders at W&L
a possibility for 1986

 

By BILL BLOOM
Staff Reporter

 

Washington and Lee has
cheerleaders?

Maybe as soon as next year, ac-
cording to Assistant Athletic Direc-
tor Cinda Rankin. Numerous stu-
dents, mostly women from the fresh-
man class, have formally and infor-
mally expressed an interest in form-
ing a cheerleading squad.

The idea of cheerleading may be
new to W&L students, but it is not
new to the school. According to As-
sociate Athletic Director Dick Miller,
“We used to have an all-male cheer-
leading squad back in the ’50s, and
then about 10 years or so ago we had
Sweet Briar girls and Southern Semi-
nary girls help us out.”’

But with a decline in interest came
the fall of cheerleading at W&L.

Since this summer, though, Rankin
has received letters and informal
questions regarding the existence of
cheerleading at W&L. The Athletic
Department is first encouraging the
development of cheerleading as a
club activity, in order to “establish
consistency,’’ according to Miller.

As a club, tomorrow’s cheerlead-
ers would have to establish them-
selves as an organization for the
benefit of the student body, with a
faculty adviser and possible funding
from the Executive Committee.

According to freshman Danatha
Hoffman from Raleigh, N.C., ‘‘A lot
of people are interested.”’ That in-
terest comes from cheering in high
school, she added.

Lucy Anderson of Houston, Texas,
said, ‘‘There are some guys who are
interested, too.’’ Anderson and Hoff-
man agreed that it would be ‘“‘more
fun” as a coeducational program.

The Ring-tum Phi, October 31, 1985, Page 9

 

 

 

 

 

By Steve Sadier/The Ring-tum Phi

Polo Generals look for a new attack against Richmond in Tuesday’s practice session

 

Football

C) Continued from Page 8

 

‘That’ s one thing we've been able
to do well up to this point, capitalize
on our opponents’ mistakes,” said
Fallon, ‘‘and I hope we can continue
to do that type of thing.”’

Saturday, the Cenerals face’ the
Eagles of Bridgewater College. The
Eagles have a 1-5 record, but Fallon
is not t.aking them lightly. ‘“We’re
going to have to be up for them,”’ said
Fallon. ‘‘They’re a very dangerous
team and we can’t keep going to the
well like we have been.”’

“Bridgewater will be one of the
most dangerous teams we play,
because they have nothing to lose,’
said Fallon. “‘They have five losses to
fi¥e very tough teams. They scored
22 points against Emory and Henry;
we didn’t score any.”’

“Looking at the two records, peo-

ple are thinking W&L should beat
Bridgewater,” said Fallon, “but you
can be sure that Bridgewater isn’t
thinking that.”

“They have played some great
teams and you can be sure that they
won’t be in awe of us. We’re going to
caution the players that this is our
last ODAC game and we have to win
it if we are going to have a shot at the
conference title.”

SIDELINES...The last time the
Generals had six consecutive win-
ning seasons was between 1919 and
1924.... W&L is now 5-1 (3-1) ....
Bridgewater is 1-5 (1-2) The
Generals lead the series 12-3...Last
year the Generals beat the Eagles
31-0 at Bridgewater as Frank Surface
carried 16 times for 107 yards... Last
week Bridgewater lost 33-0 to St.
Pauls, and their starting halfback,
Billy Mays, dislocated his shoulder...
This weekend will be Parent's
Weekend at W&L ... The game will be

carried live on WLUR (91.5) begin-
ning at 1:20 p.m.

CRAFTS PLUS, INC.

GAMES, HOBBIES & CRAFT SUPPLIES
Open Mon.-Sat., 10-5

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TELL US HOW YOU LIKE IT

George’s

HAIRSTYLISTS

Located at 136 Varner Lane
Directly behind Leggett
with plenty of parking
Phone : 463-3975 or walk in.

 

 

 

     

1 Block Off Campus

Lexington Lighting

Welcome W&L Parents

   

  

5 West Washington St.

 

 
 

ALOHA WOK

409 South Main St., Lexington. Virginia 24450
703-463-9342

   

 

Chinese and
American Cuisine

Exotic Cocktails
Carry-out Service
Available
Open Tuesdaythrough Sunday

Luncheon 11:30 - 2:30
Dinner 5 - 10

Saturday Open 4 - 10
Sunday Lunch Buffet 12 - 2:30

 

 

 

Visit us at our

 

Serving W&L Students
For 50 Years

  
 
 

STUDIO, Inc.

LEXINGTON. VA.

Phone: 463-2139

221 South Main Street

aA

24450

New Location

 

 

 

 

31S. Main St., Lexington 463-3355

Lexington
Shoe Hospital

| need your shoe repairs in my
business.

3 West Nelson St.

 

 

  

WLUR-FM_ 91.5

Sat. 1:20 p.m. W&L vs. Bridgewater
Plus — Water polo updates
Your station for Generals’ sports

 

   

   

 

 

 

   
       
   

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

11 W. Nelson St.
463-2022

     

4 SHERIDAN
R SHERIDAN

 

Watches and Jewelry Repairs
Gifts for All Occasions
We have class rings as well as watch and jeweiry repair.

Welcome Parents and Friends

GENERAL

 

 

 

Parents Weekend!

Monday - Saturday: 9:00-5:00
Sunday: 1:00-5:00

Last tour begins at 4:30.

$4.00 Family.

Tours begin on the hour and half hour.

Admission: $1.50 Adults, $.75 Children,

What are you going to do with them?

Make the Stonewall Jackson House Museum a part of

8 East Washington Street
HISTORIC HOUSE, GARDEN
AND MUSEUM SHOP

   

matt 2
Al i:
a> Weld
ees

~ ene

FRIDAY EVENING NOV. Isi
Bluegrass at its best
Wildgrass
8:30 P.M. - 12:30 A.M.

Live - on our stage

Nacho Chips
& Cheese Dip
95°

SAT. LUNCH SPECIAL
Chef’s Homemade

 

 

 

Kassel s

presents

 

22 W. Nelson St.,
Lexington, Va,

 

ter,

Oe J ear

  

M.C.-Visa
/\/ American Express

Vegetable Soup
Famous G.H.Q.
Cheeseburger
Steak Fries
$2.50 (11 a.m. -2:30p.m.)

 

SAT. DINNER SPECIAL
5 P.M. -7:30P.M.
Open Face Hot Roast Beef
Sandwich
Whipped potatoes and gravy
Mixed vegetables
Salad - Dessert - Beverage
Rolls and Butter
3.99

 

 

 
Page 10, The Ring-tum Phi, October 31, 1985

 

SRI PRS PE PEPE Pease pe pepesepepepepesesepel wes

pe pe)

Fae (ae (a (Da ip |

|

CF a Fe (Fa (Ta |)

Tame fe fae i am fe le ee) ee

ae fe ae Pasa fesagejajgejejgejge)yejee) ape) ey eye)

lTepefefesafselvefefepepes

For the benefit of United Way
Kappa Sigma
proudly sponsors

 

Men’s and women’s pants, suits, coats,
rugby shirts, sweaters, oxfords and knits

November 6

9:30 a.m. to 4 p.m. at the Kappa Sigma House

All fraternity profits will be contributed to the United Way

fafedaveder PRRRRKAALANMAAAAARARARAAAARAALIPA

fae Pm Fe Pe Fe Pe Fe Fe Ie Fe Ie PeHeIePe Ie Pee Pee PePesesesegasejapejapejasefeseuuHwuuvuuue

fae (fe (f me fp fh LR) DD RL

 

  
      
        
  
        

  

OUT OF THIS WORLD
SCIENCE FICTION SALE bh

All sci-fi titles 20% (or more) off original prices
__Oneweekonly = Oct. 31- Nov. 8

: W&L BOOKSTORE

==.

ors:

| CLASS RINGS NOV. 1-2
Art carved rep. here 10-3

 

Ss
ees en
ose @~ 2 + * oe .
~ &£>°-—> sn o's =
oS
_ — =~ Tot 5s ot

SEE Eco pase pea
ete 5,0 Moet abs) of
= ae

=

 

 

 

Open House Saturday, Nov. 2—4-6 p.m.

N2

BORDEN
COMMONS _.

Lexington's First Condominium Community-—~

 

=

  

 

mo

Ca

At Borden Commons we haven't stopped with our first success!

Phase | of Borden Commons enjoyed a successtul welcome trom the community and quickly sold
out. Now, with some new designs and interior layouts, we are introducing Phase II of Borden
Commons.

These new and beautiful condominiums are designed to fulfill your every need, and they're located
just a short distance from Washington & Lee, V.M.L. and the historic Lexington community.
Isn't it time you considered the ease and financial rewards of condominium living?

If you have any questions about Borden Commons, we have a brochure available and repre-

sentatives to help you.

Baker Real Estate
Post Office Box 723
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Office (703) 463-7319
Tom Baker (703) 463-2510 (evenings)

 

Dick Emrey (703) 463-4362 (evenings)

Welcome Parents
Come See The NEW Expanded Aluin-®ennis Still The Leading

   

Aisin, nz
eed Lae
aan eD jf

 
  

;
}

—

Lexington

ZT

2 .

 

 

All Suits

SERO - Cotton Dress Shirts

IZOD WOOLRICH, DEANS -Sweaters
Chamois Shirts

Long Sleeve Sport Shirts

IZOD & Topsider Raincoats

W&L Ties

Shoes by Bass, Topsider, Clark's
Herman Survivors

Corduroy Pants

Free Gift

oa Sport Pants 20% Off

Cashmere Topcoats
Alligator Belts
Wool Slacks
Duckhead Khaki’s
W&L Belts

After Six Tuxedos
Formal Shirts

Fancy Cummerbund and Tie Sets
Handmade Ceramic & Other Gifts

Wrapping

Alvin-Bennis

CHARGE
ACCOUNTS

 
  

 

 

 
-BACK PAGES

The Ring-tum Phi, October 31, 1985

11

 

 

' é

 

By Cotton P
' Bassanio (Navid Marsh) expresses his devotion to Portia (Susan Still)

“The Merchant of Venice’

‘proves ‘shining’ production

 

’ By NELSON PATTERSON
' Theater Critic

 

The University Theatre’s produc-
* tion of ‘The Merchant of Venice”
» marks a significant accomplishment
of fine Shakespearean drama at
“ Washington and Lee. The comedy
» accomplishes everything that it
undertakes with few exceptions, and
* in those few areas where the play
« fails, only the professional could take
, great offense.
Perhaps the strongest criticism
‘ that can be leveled against the pro-
+ duction is not a criticism of the play
itself but the facility in which it is
' produced. The Troubadour Theatre
, has the ventilation of a wind tunnel in
the first three rows, and on a cool
‘ mid-autumn’s night, that does not
, make for happy patrons. Heat was
and is nonexistent in the theater.
‘ Similarly, the stage seems especially
small for this play. The set, though
‘ elaborate in its mechanical wonders,
, seems to crowd the stage and leaves
little room for actors to enter and exit
‘with any semblance of ease. What-
_ ever happened to the empty Shake-
spearean stage?
+ The clever plot is carefully con-
structed in the first half of the play
* with the aid of fine performances by
, the major characters. Vernon Eagle
plays the devilish and vengeful An-
« tonio with great ease and a sly, ever-
, present sneer of mischief and cunn-
ing. His erstwhile friend and Portia’s

courtier David Marsh (Bassanio)
turns in a consistent performance
with a strong voice and the expected
theatrical flair.

But the play really begins to roll
when Susan Still (Portia) appears on
the set (‘‘rolled” onto the set with the
aid of the revolving scenery) looking
like Linda Rondstadt posing for her
latest Nelson Riddle album cover.
Still’s near-flawless performance as
the Belmontian heiress in search of a
good husband enlivens the second
scene and keeps the audience hoping
that every suitor will fail in his at-
tempt to secure the sweet Portia so
that we can see Still and Delia Ford
(Nerissa) make faces on the set in
anxious anticipation of marriage.
Still’s and Ford’s comical ways are
worthy of special note. With the bois-
terous (at times, one wishes he would
use his scimitar on his vocal cords)
and bawdy William R. Kinson (The
Prince of Morocco) and the demure,
pompous Mark McDonough (The
Prince of Aragon).

But all is well that ends well, and
end well this show does. Joseph Mar-
tinez’s Shylock is spellbinding, at
once making the audience hate the
Jewish money-lender while sympath-
izing with him for the social ostraciz-
ation he has undergone for his relig-
ious beliefs. Though he walks with a
cane in portraying the character,
Martinez’s stunning portrayal needs
no assistance, and the show estab-
lishes itself in great part because of

his commendable rendering. In the
words of the Bard himself, one
almost wishes Martinez “‘all the joy
that you can wish’’ for his perfor-
mance.

The comedy in the play gains
greatly from the humorous role of
Bassanio’s roving trumpet/Shylock’s
former servant, Craig Smith
(Launcelot Gobbo). His handling of
his blind father, John Boller (Old
Gobbo), has the audience hoping that
the edge of the stage is sturdy and
that Smith’s grip is firm as Boller
teeters perilously, his arms groping
for any familiar face or limb to grap-
ple with or identify. There ought to be
more roles for Smith in future pro-
ductions.

Al Gordon’s direction is also to be
praised, for he works with raw talent
and a small stage and delivers a shin-
ing product. Few members of the au-
dience can feel wronged by his inter-
pretation of Shakespeare, and fewer
still will leave the Troubadour hoping
that future shows will improve. The
peril of starting off the dramatical
year-with ‘‘The Merchant of Venice”
is that it leaves little room for im-
provement and establishes a critical
audience that expects quality perfor-
mances. In its 50th year, that might
not be too much to expect of the
Troubadour and the drama faculty.

The play runs through Nov. 2. W&L
students and faculty are admitted
free of charge. Reservations can be
made through the University
Theatre, 463-8637.

 

Diversions

 

CO Continued from Page 1

p.m. to5 p.m. Sunday.

Also on campus is the duPont Art
Gallery. On display are photographs
by Mathew Brady, the Civil War pho-

‘tographer. The exhibit is on loan
_ from the National Portrait Gallery’s
Meserve Collection and contains a
rnumber of photographs of 19th-
,century presidents. Photographs
taken of Abraham Lincoln a short
‘time before his death are particular-
_ly interesting. The gallery is open
from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday
‘through Friday, 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. on
Saturday, and 2 to 4 p.m. on Sundays.
Moving a few miles away from
“campus, a most interestng and uni-
que place to visit is the Art Farm.
The Art Farm is a gallery operated
“by Professor I-Hsiung Ju, and is
‘located on Route 39 on the way to
,Goshen. The present exhibit shows
works by Ju and his family, some of
which are Oriental in nature. It is a
diverse array of very interesting art-
work. The Art Farm is almost always
‘open, and Ju will be there Saturday
fo greet visitors.

A little further from campus, you
might wish to take a drive on the Blue
Ridge . Parkway. If your mother
wants to ‘‘see the leaves’’ as mothers
often do, this drive could be crucial to
keeping her happy.

If you want to really make your
parents think you know what’s going
on around the Lexington area, sug-
gest a trip to Monticello, home of
Thomas Jefferson. If the only time
that you have seen Monticello is on
the back of a nickel, you will be in for
an education in the life of Jefferson.
The outbuildings and inventions of
Jefferson are particularly interest-
ing. If you go to Charlottesville on a
nice day, you can expect to wait an
hour or so to get inside the main
house. The wait is not so bad, as the
people in the line get to take advan-
tage of a panoramic vista and read
brochures passed out as you wait.
Moreover, the conversation of the
other waiting patrons is in itself
entertainment. During my recent
wait, I heard people compare Win-
nebago stories, the joys of pulling a
31-foot trailer around Virginia, and
the sad life stories of two guys who
went to the University of California
at Berkley. Monticello is a few miles
past Charlottesville off of Interstate

64. And a bonus is the proximity of
Ash Lawn, home of President James
Monroe. The drive is about 65 miles,
and the entrance fee is $4 per person.

When you and your parents finish
all of these activities, there is no
doubt you will be hungry. Since you
are no doubt tired of Spanky’s and
The Palms, why not have them take
you to The Homestead or The Green-
brier for dinner? Both are something
to see, especially if you get there
before dark. Personally, I suggest
the Homestead. The employees at the

-Greenbrier have somewhat of a

haughty attitude — upon my recent
arrival, 15 minutes late for my reser-
vation, the maitre d’ griped about
seating me in his 90 percent empty
dining room. Regardless, both places
suggest reservations and run about
$30 per person.

So do something with your parents
when you are finished with the usual
fare of fraternities, football and
feasting. You’ll be glad you did. Be-
ing so knowledgeable about these
other local attractions, your parents
might forgive less than stellar mid-
term grades because they will realize
that you are learning about those
“outside the classroom”’ things that
are “‘such an important part of the
college experience.” Bon voyage.

Dos, don’ts for TV
with Mom and Dad

 

By BILL HANNA
Television Critic

 

Once again, parents will make
their way into Lexington to visit their
children and make sure the tuition
money is going to good use. The
weekend will be filled with functions
of one kind or another and is usually
a lot of fun.

There is one problem, though.
Despite how well a person may get
along with the folks, the pattern of
behavior for the weekend will almost
always have to be changed from the
pattern that took so much effort to
develop over the year.

This may have to do with putting a
girlfriend/boyfriend into boarding
house for the weekend, cleaning up
things normally not thought of such
as a refrigerator or even resorting to
changing television habits.

Unfortunately, there are few shows
on this weekend that will amuse the
average parent. You could always sit
them in front of ‘‘Miami Vice’’ on
Friday and they may like it or just be
too tired from the trip in to do any-
thing but sleep.

Another option for Saturday would
be the Iowa-Ohio State football game
at 2:30 on CBS.

There is one wholesome family-
type movie on Sunday at noon on
channel 12. Sidney Poitier will give
an Oscar-winning performance in
“The Lilies of the Field.”

There are a few things regarding
television that may even make you
look good, well maybe only two I can
think of.

If your parents ask if they could
switch on the TV to see what’s on,
just say, ‘“You could try it, but I don’t
even know if it still works.”’

Another line that may convince
them that television is in no way af-
fecting your school work could be us-
ed halfway through whatever you
may be watching at the time. Just get
up and say, “‘TV really tires me out if
I watch it much more than an hour. I
think I may catch up on a little study-
ing while you watch the rest of the
show.”

The things not to do about televi-
sion are many and obvious so I will
only list a few:

eDon’t suggest that a meal should
either be hurried or delayed so you
can be home by the time wrestling
starts.

eDon’t suggest watching the open-
ing tournament of the bowling season
on NBC.

*Finally, don’t be seen watching
“The Harlem Globetrotters on Gilli-
gan’s Island’’ Sunday at noon.

Now for a little of what’s going on
in television.

Once again, ‘Hill Street Blues”
has made it to this space. Despite the
firing of Stephen Bochco, the show
can not take advantage of the in-
credible ratings of the shows before
it.

Since the start of the season, the
average Nielsen ratings have put
“The Cosby Show’’ at number one,
followed by ‘Family Ties,” and
“‘Cheers,”’ while “Night Court”’ is in
a tie for the number 10 spot. NBC is
continuing to try to figure out why
people get up and change the channel
to either “‘Knots Landing”’ or ‘‘20/20"’
after watching the first four shows.

An attempt is being made now to
introduce new characters into the
show to try to give it more punch.

-:This makes one wonder what will

happen to the old characters as the
new ones move in.

Charles Haid, who plays Renko on
the show, said the cast is signed to a
seven-year contract which will end at
the end of next season, and he thinks
none of the original members of the
show will return. An easy solution to
the problem.

NBC, despite its successes this
year, has other problems as well.
‘Amazing Stories,’’ which NBC has
contracted for 44 episodes, is slump-
ing toward the rank of 40 while
another show the network had high
hopes for, ‘Alfred Hitchcock
Presents” has made it into the lower
40s.

NBC shouldn’t feel completely
alone in regard to shows they thought
would do well, but didn’t. CBS is get-
ting a poor showing from ‘The
Twilight Zone,’’ and ABC has been
disappointed by Robert Urich’s
return in ‘‘Spenser: For Hire.”’

The World Series helped to bring
ABC some respectable ratings as
most of the games finished in the top
20. The series going seven games also

got ABC some added advertising re-
venues, but not at the rate of $130,000
for 30 seconds as in the first games of
the series.

Since there was no way of telling
how many games the series would
go, advertising space was sold ds the
‘if necessary’’ games were needed.
This meant the advertising time went
at reducedrates to assure enough ads
to cover the cost of showing the
game.

Now into the highlights of the
week:

Thursday: ABC puts Sean Connery
back into action as James Bond in
“Goldfinger’’ at 8 tonight. This is one
of the better Bond films as 007 match-
es wits with Auric Goldfinger and his
accomplice, Pussy Galore.

This being Halloween, there is the
usual line-up of horror movies. At 8,
channel 12 will show ‘‘Damien-Omen
Il” while HBO starts at the same
time with ‘‘Halloween”’ followed by
“C.H.U.D.” and ‘‘Night of the Living
Dead.”

“The Tonight Show Starring John-
ny Carson’ (this week Joan Rivers)
has Pee Wee Herman and Elvira as
guests while David Letterman
follows with Howard Cosell.

Saturday: Channel 5 will show a
classic Jack Nicholson film tonight at
11 as ‘‘Chinatown”’ is aired.

Someone may also want to watch
yet another NBC wrestling card
tonight at 11:30 as we will even see
scenes from a wrestler’s Halloween
party.

Sunday: Today looks good after
“Lillies of the Field” at noon on chan-
nel 12. Bronson has a double-feature
on channel 5 starting at 4 with
‘Death Wish’’ followed by ‘‘Border-
line.’’ At 8 p.m., HBO will show “‘The
Little Drummer Girl” while ABC
begins the “North and South’’ mini
series at 9 and NBC shows ‘48
Hours’’ at the same time.

Monday: Channel 12 will have a
classic Hitchcock film, ‘‘The Birds’’
on at 8 p.m. A movie worth watching,
especially when Namath and O.J. are
announcing the Cardinals-Cowboys
game.

Wednesday: Peanuts fans will be
treated to a new Charlie Brown
special as ‘“‘You’re a Good Man,
Charlie Brown’’ is shown on channel
7 at 8 tonight.

 

Parents

 

0 Continued from Page 1

the term so midterm grades will be
out for freshmen, and to give time for
the Glee Club and the drama depart-
ment. The weekend also must be
scheduled on a weekend with a W&L
home football game but not a Vir-
ginia Military Institute home game,
in order to avoid traffic problems.
While the weekend does create
traffic problems for Lexington, it

Welcome W&L Parents

Wendell’s
Barber

Shop

I need your head for
my business.

 

 

 

Welcome Parents

And Alumni!

Flowers for all special
occasions

165 South Main Street

  
   
    
    

Florist

 

463-9152

 

 

 

 

— ys

21 W. Washington St.

 

TRAVEL UNLIMITED

Going home for Thanksgiving or
Christmas? Plan ahead,
SAVE MONEY!

Bill home or to parent's credit card!

“System One Computers”
“Boarding Pass Printers”’
— 3certified travel consultants —

463-7174

 

 

 

 

 

also provides a substantial amount of
revenue.

Pat Delaney, Lexington City
Treasurer, said, ‘I would assume
parents contribute more money to
lodging during this weekend than
anything else.”

Don Fredenburgh, innkeeper of the
Alexander-Withrow House, said,
“We've been booked up since last
year this time, and we probably will
be booked for next year by the end of
this weekend.”

Fredenburgh added, ‘“‘W&L is re-
sponsible for about 25 percent of our

business. We are filled up for every
weekend whether it be for football
games, lecture, trustee meetings or
law seminars.”’

Local restaurants also reap the
benefits of the influx of parents. Con-
nie Hostetter, manager of The
Palms said, ‘‘Normally we are pretty
well filled, but as of right now we
still have a few reservations open.”’

Desiree Sensabaugh, of Spanky’s »
said, ‘This is my first year working
here, but I do know that since we |:
don’t take reservations we are an-
ticipating a huge crowd!”

Valley True Value Hardware

HARDW.

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

E. Nelson St.
463-2186

Mon, - Sat. 8:30 - 6:00
Sun.1-5

DOMINO'S PIZZA
463-7375

We have
Classic Coke

Sun. - Thurs. |
Fri. - Sat.

 
 

 

 

 

Page 12, The Ring-tum Phi, October 31, 1985

 

 

 

a

  

 

 

 

=—

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

Freshman David Bloodsworth studies late-night at Lloyd’s

Off to Georgetown to find ‘the best time’

 

By PAUL DAVEY
Social Critic

 

Although it lies some 180 miles out-
side of the Lexington city limits,
Washington, D.C. may easily be con-
sidered part of the Washington and
Lee social scene.

On any weekend evening between
September and May, one is sure to
encounter W&L students and alumni
and acquaintances from the local
girls’ schools in Georgetown. Why,
one might ask, would people who no

- doubt have papers and tests to worry
- about travel six hours to go to a cou-
ple of bars? The answer from many

What then constitutes ‘the best
time?’’ Is it because many of the
pedestrians on M street are no doubt
KGB spies or Arab American-
haters? Or is it because the D.C.
crime rate must exceed that of Lex-
ington many times over? Or is it
because upon getting close to D.C.
one can no longer see the stars in the
sky that were shining so brightly in
Rockbridge County? I must say that I
do not think these things constitute
“the best time.”

What makes Washington, D.C.
(and Georgetown in particular) such
a lure for W&L people is that it is a
total escape. It is a totally different

 

 

who visit is simply that, ‘We had the experience from life in Lexington.
best time.”’ Granted life in Lexington — and the
17 S. Main St. (703) 463-2323

 

Welcome Parents

Come By And Get All
Your Weekend Needs

Fragrances'Russell Stover Candy ‘Film

 

 

Rambling Rose Weaving Studio
Nessa Scannell Degen

Wel Handwoven
oe Originals
Parents! a
y
Nessa

 

 

16 W Washington St

Pri-az-Z0

(Pre-ott-so

In Italy, there’s a pie filled with delicious in-
gredients and smothered in rich, zesty sauce and
melted cheeses. You really ought to try it.

Round-trip tickets to Italy are unnecessary
and far too expensive. Just visit your par-
ticipating Pizze Hut® restaurant after 4:00 p.m.
Monday through Friday or anytime Saturday
and Sunday and order our Priazzo1m Italian pie
in one of four tempting combinations of fillings.
Milano, Roma, Florentine and Napoli.

Eat In, Carry Out, Or Delivered

Lexingion Va 24450 703-463-4427

 

 

you ll pronounce it delicious.

 

600 E. Nelson
Lexington

 

 

 

Pe ee ee

Eat In, Carry Out Or Delivered

en
Pizza

"a
Pod
5

$2. offany large pizza

or $1 off any medium. In-
cludes Pizza Hut® Pan
Pizza! Hurry; offer ex
pires soon. One coupon
per party per visit at
participating Pizza Hut*
restaurants

Please present coupon whenordering Not valid bination
ash redemption value

  
 

600 E. Nelson St.
Lexington, Va.
463-7000

11-15-85

Hut.

Open all night

Lloyd is lone late-night survivor as
Hojo’s and Hardee’s close every night

 

By HOLLY WILLIAMS
Staff Reporter

 

Lloyd’s of Lexington may soon be
the only restaurant in this area to of-
fer 24-hour service to Washington
and Lee students.

Although Howard Johnson's is now
open around the clock, the hours will
be cut within the next month, and
Hardee’s in Buena Vista ended 24-
hour service about four months ago.

Economics is responsible for the
cut in Howard Johnson’s serving
hours. A manager who refused to
give his name said this week that re-
maining open was just not feasible
with the level of business.

‘‘We are paying workers more than
we are taking in,”’ he said.

The manager added that the motel-
restaurant’s location, (‘‘a little bit

social life in particular — is great.
However, after a while one needs to
“get out of town.’’ To go to a place
where there is no fear of ABC agents,
a place where one does not have to
deal with school work, a place where
the girls don’t snarl at others from
competing institutions.

But escapism is not the only reason
to visit D.C. It really is a good time.
New people abound — people who
won’t be by next Wednesday to put
their claws into you. The camara-
derie one finds with people you have
met, but don’t really know, is incredi-
ble. It is key to meet acquaintances
— they may get a lot friendlier than
in the confines of Lexington. And the
Mayflower may make for a better

out of town’) and too much competi-
tion from restaurants such as
Spanky’s and Lloyd’s are responsible
for the cut in hours.

A reduction of hours has become
more or less standard for Howard
Johnson’s Restaurants across the
country since the company was
bought out by Marriott Corp.

Hardee's cut its hours at the begin-
ning of the summer. Assistant man-
ager Sylvester Alexander said, ‘‘All I
can tell you is that service was slow
during the week, and during week-
ends there were too many kids on the
parking lot.”

He added that Hardee’s is planning
to resume 24-hour service on the
weekends, beginning this weekend,
but “I don’t want to say for sure.”’

Consequently Lloyd’s, on Washing-
ton Street — within walking distance
of campus, is the only remaining

time than Mr. Wayland’s on a cold
January evening.

Thus, it is easy to understand why
the streets of Georgetown are often
specked with W&L people. It is a
chance to get away from the monoto-
nous while having a good, exciting
time. D.C. is somewhat like a good
dream: you can go to a fun, great
new place while taking with you the
things that make you have fun and
leaving the ‘‘un-fun’’ behind. So if
school gets you down and you need a
change, head up to D.C. But don’t be
surprised to see some people that you
know. If If all goes well and the past
repeats, you will return to Lexington
and tell your friends, ‘‘I had the best
time.’’ And you will have.

Superdance committee
lists prizes, sells tickets

Tickets will go on sale this weekend
for the drawing for a 1986 Honda
hatchback that will be given away at
January’s Muscular Dystrophy As-
sociation Superdance.

Chances for the Jan. 25 raffle will
be available for $5 each at the en-
trance to Saturday’s football game.

Superdance co-chairman Sandy
Whann said the ticket price was quin-
tupled from the previously announc-
ed price because the committee “‘de-
cided that for a car, $1 was just too
small and there was no way we could
ever raise what we’d hoped for.”

Whann said the steering committee
hopes to raise close to $8,000 by sell-
ing more than 1,500 tickets. He said a
price of $10 was decided against be-
cause that would ‘‘miss the student
audience.”’

  

Wp FALL WINTER 1985

Tired of Ho-Hum
Hairdos?

~ §tudents, look good for your parents on Parent’s
—Weekend. Come by or call for an appointment.

   
   

The two grand prizes for dancers
will be four days in St. Thomas in the
Virgin Islands and a weekend in
Washington, D.C. Both trips were do-
nated by hotels and resorts.

Whann said that last year, about
half of the 250 dancers were Washing-
ton and Lee students, consisting
mostly of fraternity pledge classes.
“That’s why it’s so important that we
be an integral part of the pledge pro-
grams,” he said.

A letter has been sent to fraternity
presidents urging Superdance partic-
ipation by actives as well as by

pledges.

“It’s been a losing battle in the past
and one that I hope to overcome,”
Whann said.

ppc. WINTER 1985

 

 

Check out our “Caper Cuts” ‘Uptown Look’’ for men and women.
— We'll razor cut it, blunt cut it, taper it, shape it, layer it, undercutit, _
bob it, bi-level it and style it just for you.

  
  
 

 

~ Have it your way at Caper’s
———Shampoo & Cut......... < aieeanaer

 

 

 

 

 

  

—_—____——____ A luxury salon without -—
the luxury price tag

25 N. ‘Main St., Lexington

 
   

463- 2566

alternative for students searching for
late-night coffee and study breaks.

A fact-finding expedition to Lloyd’s
at 2:30 a.m. Tuesday morning found
an empty restaurant.

Employees Robert Jones and Ro-
bert Rorrer, who usually work the 9
p.m. to5a.m. shift, were the only oc-
cupants of the restaurant. Jones, who
has only worked at Lloyd’s for two
months, says that the late shift
“messes up your social life.”’

Wednesday, Friday and Saturday
nights are the busiest, and on the
slower nights the employees search
for things to do.

Rorrer recalled two former co-
workers who used to play ‘“‘baseball”’
with a foil ball and a spatula for a
bat.

Sax, but no violins

Their most interesting pastime,
however, is watching customers.
sorts of things to the student.

Rorrer told about a W&L freshman
who passed out there Friday night.
He said that people were doing all
sorts of things to the pvor student.

Rorrer finally called a policeman
to take the student home, but not be-
fore the student had left a ‘‘rather
unpleasant mess”’ on the floor beside
him.

Rorrer said he has not noticed in-
creased business this fall.

‘“‘When Hardee’s closed, we did a
little bit more business at the begin-
ning of the summer,” said Rorrer,
who has worked at Lloyd’s for over a
year.

With the reduced hours at Howard
Johnson’s he said he expects éven
more business.

 

By W. Patrick Hinely/W&L

Tim Eddy, a Washington and Lee alumnus, plays the saxophone Friday
night in a benefit concert for the United Way. Eddy was one of several area
musicians who donated their time. The concert, sponsored by the Delta Tau
Delta fraternity, raised over $900.

ee ee ee
ONCAMPUS

Thursday, October 31
7 p.m. — JOURNALISM FILMS: ‘‘Harvest of Shame” and ‘‘The
Twisted Cross.’’ Room 203, Reid Hall.
8 p.m. — PLAY: “The Merchant of Venice.”’
Reservations required.

University Theatre.

Friday, November |
Parents’ weekend,
3 p.m. — PLAY: ‘“‘The Merchant of Venice.”’
Reservations required.
5 p.m, — CHEMISTRY SEMINAR: John R. Carder '87 and Jeffery S.
Mandak ’87. Room 311, Howe Hall. Tea at 4:30 in Room 402.
7 p.m. — RUSSIAN FILM: “The Twelve Chairs.”” Room 327, Com-
merce School.
8 p.m. — CONCERT: W&L Brass and Percussion Ensemble, Glee
Club, Chorus, and Southern Comfort. Lee Chapel.

University Theatre.

Saturday, November 2
12:15 p.m. — PRE-GAME OKTOBERFEST LUNCHEON. New Alum-
ni Field. Sponsored by the Alumni Association.
1:30 p.m. — FOOTBALL: Generals vs. Bridgewater. Wilson Field.
8 p.m. — PLAY: ‘“‘The Merchant of Venice.’ University Theatre.
Reservations required.

Monday, November 4
7:30 p.m. — LECTURE: Peter Bell, Carnegie Foundation for Interna-
tional Peace.
9 p.m. — FOOTBALL: Dallas Cowboys vs. St. Louis Cardinals, Free
popcorn. GHQ.

Tuesday, November 5
5 p.m. — BIOLOGY FORUM: Film: “Muscle: A Study of Integra-
tion.’’ Discussion led by Dr. Cleveland P. Hickman. Room 305, Parmly
Hall. Refreshments at 4: 45.
7&9p.m.— FILM: “All Quiet on the Western Front.’
Hall.

’ Room 203, Reid

Wednesday, Nov — 6
4:30 p.m. — GEOL OGY LECTURE: ‘Careers for Geologists in the
Federal Government.’’ Elizabeth Newton, Bureau of Land Manage-
ment. Room 206, Howe Hall.
7 p.m. — POLITICS FILM FESTIVAL:
Room 327, Commerce School.
8 p.m. — GEOLOGY LECTURE: ‘‘Managing the Federal Minerals
Estate.”’ Elizabeth Newton. Room 206 Howe Hall.
9 p.m. — WEDNESDAY IN GHQ. Featuring Johnny Sportcoat and the
Casuals. Sponsored by SAB. Admission is $2.50

“The Missiles of October.’

Compiled by Marie Kothman

 

 

 
 

 

Polo profit

 

VOLUME 85, NUMBER 9

Clothing sale is
part of frat charity

 
    

 

Polo loss
Crowd can’t buoy
water polo team

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 

General
Notes

 

Speech canceled

The speech on apartheid by
Willie Brown Jr., speaker of the
California Assembly, scheduled
for tonight in Lewis Hall, has been
canceled because of a scheduling
conflict. :

Philly tailgate

The Philadelphia chapter of the
Washington and Lee Alumni As-
sociation will host a tailgate party
at Saturday’s away football game
at Ursinus College. For more in-
formation, contact Marty Bowers
at (215) 564-5300 during the day.

Mad Max Il

The Student Activities Board
presents Mel Gibson as Mad Max
in “The Road Warrior,” this
Thursday and Friday at 8:30 p.m.
in the GHQ (free popcorn!) and
Sunday at 7 and 9:30 p.m. in Room
108 of the Student Center. Admis-
sion to each show is $2.
Missile crisis

“Missiles of October,” a 1974
ABC-TV production, will be shown
tonight at 7 in Room 327 of the
Commerce School. This ‘‘docu-
drama” of the October 1962 Cuban
missile crisis carefully recon-
structs the onset and eventual
resolution of our closest
showdown yet with Moscow. (This
was not timed to coincide with this

ially recommended for students in
American politics, diplomatic
historv, strategic studies and
ethics. It is a frighteningly
realistic portrayal of brinkman-
ship in the nuclear age.

Calyx pictures

Senior pictures have been
rescheduled to Nov. 11-15 and
Nov. 18-22. All seniors who have
not had their picture taken must
sign up for an appointment in the
Co-op.

Date change

Elisabeth G. Newton, senior
policy adviser for fluid mineral
leasing in the Bureau of Land
Management, was scheduled to
give two lectures at Washington
and Lee on Nov. 6. Due to a leg in-
jury, Newton’s visit has been
postponed and rescheduled for
Dec. 4.

Tomorrow is it

Have you written your Political
Review article yet? Articles for
the fall issue will be accepted until

Patterson (463-4563) or Chris Lion
(463-3678), or bring the article to
Carol Calkins’ office next to the
GHQ before 5 p.m.

Tapestry workshop

Virginia Museum §artist-in-
residence Turid Teague will con-
duct a one-day workshop explor-
ing the creative possibilities of
tapestry weaving on Saturday in
the Community Room of Stone-
wall Jackson Hospital. The work-
shop is sponsored by the Museum
and its Rockbridge chapter.

Biology film

A biology film titled ‘The
Miracle of Life’ will be shown
Tuesday at 5 p.m. The film will be
followed by a short discussion led
by Dr. Jack Wielgus. Refresh-
ments will be served at 4:45 p.m.,
as part of the film series spon-
sored by the Washington and Lee
Biology Forum.

Get your program

Brochures and information on
the Virginia Program at Oxford
are available in Associate Dean of
Students Pamela Simpson’s office
in Washington Hall. The program
involves a_ six-week summer
school course at Oxford studying
history and literature in Tudor-
Stuart England.

Submit

Ariel, the literary magazine of
Washington and Lee, is now ac-
cepting art and literature for the
fall issue. Work may be submitted
to Carol Calkins in Room 104 of the
University Center.

 

month’s Geneva summit.) ESpec-

tomorrow, Nov. 8. Call Nelson -

Some students
left homeless
by downpour

 

By SEAN BUGG
Staff Reporter

 

A rainy Parents’ Weekend turned
into a week of devastation as the
worst flooding in recent state history
roared through the Lexington area,
damaging some student homes and
destroying others.

A number of students living near
the Maury River were left with soak-
ed but salvageable dwellings, while
some student houses in the Bean’s
Bottom area were swept away per-
manently.

Because not all have contacted the
University, there is no official count
of the number of students who are
temporarily homeless.

A steady rain began here Friday,
reached a crescendo Monday, and
then moved east on Tuesday. Rich-
mond today was bracing for major
flooding as the James River contin-
ued its climb above flood stage.

Gov. Charles S. Robb on Monday
declared a statewide emergency and
yesterday asked that western Virgin-
ia, including Rockbridge County, be
declared a federal disaster area.
Robb yesterday toured the Roanoke
Valley and said damage there totals
at least $243 million.

Early this morning the storm’s
death toll stood at 19, with four others
missing and presumed dead in three
western counties.

Among the hardest-hit areas in the
state were Buena Vista and outlying
regions of Rockbridge County, in-

UiSee Flood, Page 6

 

By JOHN PIPKIN
Staff Reporter

 

The historic sweep of statewide of-
fices by Democrats on Tuesday left a
student of that party in “sheer
ecstasy”’ while one local Republican
was “shattered.”

With more than 99 percent of the
state’s precincts reporting, Gerald L.
Baliles downed Wyatt B. Durrette for
governor, 55.3 percent to 44.7 per-

 

 
 
   

 

Shy he sages a

 

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

By Don Thayer/Specia! to the Phi

Surging flood waters smash through a footbridge across the Maury River

Floods at Hollins cancel classes, Weekend

 

By SEAN BUGG
Staff Reporter

 

he = - = si
Hollins College near Roanoke was paralyzed by this
week’s storms, with one student saying the ‘‘campus
was wiped out by water.”’

Bauman said yesterday that the flooding ‘happened
so fast you would not believe it.’ She said that on Mon-
day she watched from her dormitory window as the

~ water level rose about three to-fouttearin four hours.

Food for students was rationed and Monday night they
began storing water in bottles, Bauman recalled. As the

Your weekend weather

Cloudy on Saturday;
chance of rain Sunday |

Dhe KRing-tum Phi

    

Extreme flooding caused the school to cancel classes
until at least Monday. Another casualty of the deluge
was Fall Weekend, which was to begin tomorrow night.

A Hollins secretary said yesterday
had left campus until classes resume.

One of those refugees was Leslie Bauman, a Hollins
sophomore who is staying with a friend in Lexington un-

til her campus dries out a bit.

cent; L. Douglas Wilder topped John
H. Chichester in the lieutenant gover-
nor’s race, 51.9 percent to 48.1 per-
cent; and Mary Sue Terry defeated
William R. ‘‘Buster’’ O’Brien for at-
torney general, 61.4 percent to 38.6
percent.

Wilder was the first black and
Terry the first woman to be elected to
statewide office in Virginia.

Politics Professor Milton Colvin
said that ‘the Democrats’ victory
proved that they can win elections if

that most students

ing.

they go with moderate candidates.”’

“Voters are willing to vote for a
black if they feel he is a worthy can-
didate,”’ he added.

Colvin called the victorious slate a
‘Robb ticket,” crediting much of the
Democratic victory to the popularity
of Gov. Charles S. Robb, who gave
his full support to the trio.

Colvin worked on the committee of
Lt. Gov. Richard J. Davis, who lost
the party nomination to Baliles. After
Davis’ defeat, Colvin’s involvement

torrents mounted, no electric lights could be turned on
and the women were kept inside the dormitories because
of the possibility of electric currents in the water.

Bauman added that smoking was forbidden because of
a possible gas leak. The library basement had water up
to the ceiling, and a large collection of books was ruined,
she said. The bookstore also was flooded up to the ceil-

Sweep washes away Democrats’ election blues

in the campaign was minimized, but
he said he continued to follow the
election closely.

“The Republicans never got their
act together,’’ Colvin said, adding
that the ticket ‘“‘was pulled down by
second-rate candidates for lieutenant
governor and attorney general.”’

By contrast, the professor describ-
ed both gubernatorial candidates as
‘first class.”

W. Arthur Beeton, the Lexington
Republican committee chairman,

  
    
  

NOVEMBER 7, 1985

First the flood, now the shortage

City urges
water-saving
measures

By SEAN BUGG
and MIKE ALLEN
Staff Reporters

 

“Do Not Use: Water Shortage,”’
read the hastily stenciled sign tacked
to the door of the locked, darkened
laundry room in Graham-Lees dor-
mitory.

A flood-level Maury River this
week knocked out Lexington’s water
treatment plant, causing the city to
enact emergency water-conservation
measures.

Mayor Charles F. Phillips Jr., a
Washington and Lee economics pro-
fessor, Tuesday asked city residents
to use water for drinking, cooking
and emergency purposes only — no
showers, laundry or car washing.

“I’m filthy. My head itches. I want
to take a shower,” said freshman
David Symonds.

“Dirty people cannot study proper-
ly,”’ added his hallmate Charles Gay.

Frank A. Parsons, assistant to the
University president, said the school
immediately notified dormitory co-
unselors and the athletic department
about the emergency measures.

Freshman Craig Love said it was
difficult to refrain from showers
when other people were not.

One dormitory counselor added
that many students were violating
the guidelines.

“We don’t have people running
around with guns,” Parsons said.
“The hope is that the students will
comply, but if they don’t, we’ll have

(See Water, Page 6

 

said the party is “shattered as far as
the statewide race is concerned.”’

“The differences were not that
great, especially between Baliles and
Durrette,” he added, blaming the
GOP trouncing on poor media repre-
sentation and the influence of Gov.
Robb.

Junior Everett Hamilton, presi-
dent of the Washington and Lee chap-
ter of the Young Democrats, attend-

(See Politics, Page 5

 

 

By JASON LISI
Staff Reporter

 

University Treasurer E. Stewart
Epley, who Friday announced his in-
tention to retire at the end of the
school year, said this week he has en-
joyed his years at Washington and
Lee.

“It’s going to be a wrench to
leave,” he said.

University President John D.
Wilson announced Epley’s retire-
ment plans Thursday in a memoran-
dum to the faculty and staff.

“‘When he leaves us next year he
will leave a strong financial founda-
tion, with sensitive management in
place and an able and loyal staff,”’
the memo said.

According to the memo, Wilson will
do two things to find a successor to
Epley. He will invite an outside con-
sultant to help review the responsibil-
ities now entrusted to Epley and will
actively involve trustees in the
search for the new treasurer.

Although Epley said he does not
know who will replace him, he said
he felt that it would be ‘“‘inap-
propriate’ for him to have a say in
the person who succeeds him as
treasurer.

Epley has been treasurer since
1980 and said he is proud of his term
in office. He noted that some of his
biggest achievements included the

 

 

design and development of a compu-

University treasurer
announces retirement

ter-based management information
system and an improvement in short-
term cash management.

He also mentioned that in the past
five years he has implemented
“more prudent”’ spending measures
for the school’s endowments. Al-
though he said the endowment funds
were not being used carelessly before
he took uffice, he said the policies for
using the funds ‘‘changed frequent-
I

Many of his actions wouldn't have
been possible if he hadn’t received
the full support of University Presi-
dent John D. Wilson and the Board of
Trustees, he added.

Epley noted that one of his most
pleasurable experiences of being
treasurer was working with Wilson.
“T think he is absolutely first class,”
he said.

He said he felt that he hadn’t made
many mistakes during his time as
treasurer. ‘‘I don’t think I’ve blotted
my copybook,”’ he chuckled.

Epley joined the Washington and
Lee staff in 1977 as a development
staff associate, working full-time on
fundraising and alumni relations

Since that time, he said, he has
noticed a number of changes in the
community of W&L students

“IT have noticed a marked change
in the appearance of the W&L
students,”’ he said. ‘‘They dress more
neatly .”’

He also mentioned that he thought
the fraternity system had improved,

 

 

E. STEWART EPLEY

noting that they seem to be taking
better care of their houses and are
beginning to become involved in
community charity projects.

“T think that they recognize that
they are citizens of the community,”’
he said.

He noted that by 1986 he will have
been working ‘‘steadily’’ for 37 years
and wants to do other things. ‘‘Mrs.
Epley and I want to cut loose and pur-
sue our own interests on our own
schedule,”’ he said.

After his retirement, Epley plans
to live in Lexington. ‘It’s a very
friendly and physically attractive
community,” he said, noting the var-
ious cultural and sporting events

Noting that he is under the normal
retirement ages of 65 or 70, he joked:
“Yeah — I’m checking out early.”’

 

 

Apparent heart attack
kills athletics Supervisor

 

By CHRISTOPHER DEIGHAN
Staff Reporter

 

Richard E. ‘‘Chub” Yeakel, the
supervisor of the University’s non-
professional athletic staff, died of an
apparent heart attack Monday at
Stonewall Jackson Hospital.

Yeakel came to Washington and
Lee in 1971, following Athletic Direc-
tor William D. McHenry from
Lebanon Valley College.

“T knew he was a good man. He had
done a great job for me at Lebanon,”
McHenry said, explaining why he
asked Yeakel, 59, to join him on the
W&L staff.

Lexington Police Officer Harold B.
Nedrow found Yeakel Monday even-
ing trying to park his car on a city
sidewalk.

Nedrow radioed to his dispatcher
at 6:20 p.m. that someone was trying
to park a 1969 Plymouth on the side-
walk in front of the State Theater on
Nelson Street. When he approached
the car, Nedrow found Yeakel ‘‘un
der the driver's wheel,”’ according to
police reports

Nedrow asked Yeakel if he was
OK, and Yeakel said he was having
trouble seeing.

The officer then asked Yeakel if he
was taking any medication, and
Yeakel said he was... Yeakel’s 20-

~ Appreciation, Page 2

 

 

year-old daughter, Jodie, later said
the medication was for high blood
pressure.

Nedrow requested a rescue squad
for Yeakel, who was taken to the

hospital and pronounced dead at 6:48
p.m.

McHenry said Yeakel was a police
officer in Annville, Pa., when he
hired him at Lebanon Valley College.
They worked together there for 10
years before McHenry became
W&L’s athletic director.

Yeakel’s son, Steve, graduated
from W&L in 1979. He is now the ex-
ecutive director of the Republican
party in Montana. Yeakel’s daughter
currently works for Institutional
Foods in Rockbridge County. Yeakel
is also survived by his wife, Irma.

A memorial service was held this
morning in Lee Chapel.

McHenry called Yeakel ‘‘extreme-
ly loyal” and a ‘‘positive influence’
on all his coworkers. ‘‘He will be
sorely missed by his colleagues and
by most of the students who are in-
volved with athletics,’ McHenry
said. ‘‘He was behind the scenes in all
phases of the athletic program
here.”’

 

 
 

 

OPINION
Sometime...

The scene was the same as last week. 1984-85 Calyx editor
David Sprunt was trying to answer questions posed to him by
members of the Executive Committee.

‘“‘Can you have the yearbook done by Monday?”’ asked Vice
President Andrew Caruthers.

‘‘T would say, ‘ probably so,’ ’’ responded Sprunt.

“Not ‘probably,’ ’’ stated Caruthers. ‘Can it be done by
Monday?”

“I will probably have five pages left by then, if it is not
finished,”’ Sprunt replied.

The 1985 Calyx has yet to be completed for shipment to the
printer. Of the nearly 352 pages to appear in this year’s (last
year’s) publication, 27 pages are yet to be completed, in-
cluding 15 pages that still must be designed, or “‘laid out.’’ At
a minimum of two hours per layout, that means at least 30
hours more are needed for completion of the yearbook. That
should not be pleasing to anyone.

While Sprunt’s efforts at creating and designing an aesthe-
tically pleasing publication are to be highly commended, his
discipline at finishing the book leaves much to be desired. His
admission earlier this year that it is ‘“‘all my fault”’ that the
book had not been finished over the summer was gentleman-
ly, but nearly two months have passed since that time with-
out completion of the annual. Something is awry in the state
of Calyx.

The lesson for next year’s editors is clear: A better delega-
tion of responsibility, greater attention to completion of
layouts (especially seasonal sections of the yearbook like
sports teams) and a closer watch on the calendar can avoid
this hassle next year. Although this year’s book promises to
be the best ever (as is expected of every yearbook), that
seems of little consolation to graduated seniors and under-
classmen who eagerly await the memories of the past year.

‘Cheap’ showers

Do you ever feel cheap?

On Wednesday morning, a certain Phi editor thought to
himself, ‘‘I’ll be darned if I’m going up to the Hill looking like
I just got hit by a Mack truck.”’

So, in direct violation of the city’s request, he jumped in the
shower, slathered down...

And felt like a sleaze.

With all the derelict doings a W&L student is used to ration-
alizing, convincing himself that it’s OK to take a shower is, in
the Federal Express commercial’s words, “noooooo pro-
blem.”’

It doesn’t seem fair that the scofflaws among us looked
pressed and perky, while the law-abiding, community-mind-
ed types look like the wrath of God.

Vanity, thy name is Mink.

It’s a time like this that we find out what our values really
are. Are we willing to make a sacrifice for a community
where we’re a guest — where we should be even more willing
to shoulder the burden in a crisis than are the local citizens?
Or are we going to cheat, like the students who wing erasers
when the teacher’s not looking?

 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 7, 1985

 

7
oi OD

 

  

NN QS
Pra A

oe TT

Ti De

\

Haar EN

SLT SR

     

a Wi

4 il
.

LW
nN

 

 

 

Is the single sanction system passé?

 

By NELSON PATTERSON
Editorial Page Editor

 

 

 

Remembering ‘Chub’

 

By NELSON PATTERSON
and MIKE STACHURA
Phi Editors

Everyone on campus knew him as
the salt-and-pepper bearded man in
the equipment room. You could us-
ually find him sitting behind the
counter when you needed the squash
racquet or the key to the auxiliary
pool. He could find anything in that
room, and always with a smile or en-
couragement to do well in the class or
activity.

On Monday, that man — Chub
Yeakel — died of a heart attack. He
was the sort of guy who if you were
not paying attention would blend into
the woodwork. But if you ever needed
anything or if you asked anyone who
worked in the building, it was obvious
that Chub literally kept the Doremus
gym and Warner Center from falling
apart.

There are all kinds of stories about
Chub and his contributions to this
campus. You could usually spot him
in the back row of Lee Chapel during
any Glee Club concert, sitting with
his wife or some friends. And if he
didn’t like the concert or thought that
some piece should have sounded a bit
different, you would always hear
about it the following Monday when
you needed to get a fresh towel. He
didn’t complain about the concerts;
he just would thank you for doing a
good job.

Another time he searched the
equipment room’s abundant supply

Managing Editor
Sports Editor..... :

Business Manager

is otherwise independent.

 

avis saad ds tpt ddes ta0esds nee
bisitsai teste ss i ee
ewer ire oer ree Jim Strader
ib as idea vevcesequsseecais Chris Bowring

eerie Pes BOP 5 ik cates
eee eee
CA a i A er LS

Advertising Manager ................... :
Advertising Salesmen ...............000008

of old uniforms for some shorts that
did not have ‘‘XL”’ marked on the left
leg for a modest secretary who want-
ed to take a gym class but didn’t have
an outfit that day.

Chub was like that grandfather
who would always tell you to be
careful with that ball or not to run
through the house. You said, ‘‘Yes,
sir,” and grumbled away, but you
also knew that come Christmas day,
that same old grouch would be there
with the biggest present for you.

Most of what Chub did went unno-
ticed, and it would be a fair guess
that the man wanted it that way. The
squeaky door that needed just the
right touch, the burnt out light on the
scoreboard, the skid mark on the
just-shined gym floor, and the rush
order of laundry that the tennis team
needed for its fourth match that week
— it all got done. And if you forgot to
turn in that tennis racquet or kept a
towel by mistake, Chub would be one
of the first faces you would see in
matriculation line, accepting depo-
sits for lockers or collecting fines for
lost or damaged equipment. His
records were picture-perfect and an
accountant’s dream — he could tell
you the lost racquetball would cost
you $3 dollars unless you replaced it.

Chub was a man with a big heart
and a kind manner. John Milton, the
famed English poet, knew Chub’s
type well when he wrote, “They also
serve who only stand and wait.”
Chub did more than stand and wait,
and we will be poorer for his passing.

Che Ring-tun Phi

Ramee gts a acs
MN Ba et ica is

encenndescvesepes se ecateveres Mike Allen
jectsiivcinnssanwunires Paul Foutch

Cotton Puryear
Reade Williams

ote beeteeneseeeeet casi veexe Jeff Kimbett
Nahis eas ee aaa cee Hank Greenberg

UE PES ge at aE Keri Hinrichs

Matt Coudert
John Feyrer
Jay Reville

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 200 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

 

There is a provocative discussion
going on at Davidson College these
days that could have ramifications
on the way church-related higher
education institutions all over this
country view their purpose. I hope it
also sparks a discussion on this cam-
pus as to whether the current state-
ment of Washington and Lee’s pur-
pose and the principles of the Honor
System are what we desire of them.

The Davidson discussion stems
from a recent visit by a Presbyterian
church official to the Davidson cam-
pus. During his stay, he noted that
the College’s statement of purpose
seemed to be misleading and, at best,
a noble challenge that the school was
ignoring.

The statement of purpose at David-
son urges all trustees, faculty, ad-
ministration, friends and students to
“recognize God as the source of all
truth. As a college committed to the

‘Ex-EC Rep’ questions

To the editors:

Allow me, as another “Ex-E.C.
Rep,” to offer, in response to Mr. Jim
Vines’ letter of last week, the follow-
ing counter-propositions :

eThat the authority newly given to
the Student Control Committee, to
expel students for gross misbehav-
ior, provides a long-sought justifica-
tion for the Executive Committee’s
abdication of its duty to review and
remedy behavior presenting ques-
tions, not merely of trustworthiness,
but of honor. This abdication is, of
course, but a symptom of the general
abdication by us students — or by a
significant number of us — of our
own duty to govern ourselves by the
unwritten code of honor, and to re-
quire the same of our fellows. Our
professors, tacitly acknowledging
this abdication, have responded by
taking back the liberties granted us
in 1865, when General Lee abolished
the old system of rules and punish-
ments.

That the idea, that the new system
of rules and punishments and the for-
mer Honor System do not overlap or
conflict is founded upon a void con-
ception of ‘‘honor.’’ Mr. Vines’ asser-
tion, that honor is strictly 2 question
of trustworthiness, reduces the term
“thonor”’ to superfluity. Trustworthi-
ness, to be sure, has always been a
vital part of honor: one who is un-
trustworthy can in no way be called
honorable. Yet surely one who exhib-
ited great cruelty, or base and harm-
ful cowardice, or wanton disregard
for the life, health, or property of
another — surely he could not be call-
ed honorable, though he never lied,
cheated or stole in his life. I submit
that trustworthiness is but one out-
ward expression of an inner, and
greater, thing, which is honor. If all
we require of ourselves and our fel-
lows is that we not lie, cheat, or steal,
we should add three more rules to the
list, providing that these activities
are to be punished by expulsion (or
by membership in a fraternity); then
we should make the Executive Com-

historic Christian faith, [Davidson]
sees Jesus Christ as the central fact
of history, giving purpose, order, and
value to the whole life.’’ More than 20
years ago, Davidson’s trustees back-
ed down from a requirement that all
faculty members sign a statement of
faith attesting to their agreement
with the purpose. jhe

The discussion there now centers
around the need for updating the
statement and bringing it in line with
its church affiliation and the faculty
who continue to teach there. A dis-
cussion of a similar nature ought to
begin at Washington and Lee.

Our statement does not have the
same problem as Davidson’s. Since
we were founded independent of any
church affiliation, Washington and
Lee and its statement of purpose
avoids the church-institution dichoto-
my. However, our statement does
seem equally noble in its intent. We
dedicate ‘‘all our resources to the
development of one’s capacity and
desire to learn” and to experience

mittee only a budget committee, and
quit pretending that we have an
honor system.

¢That a system of rules and punish-
ments is, from first principles, in-
compatible with an honor system.
The basic assumption underlying an
honor system is that those within its
scope are honorable and, given a
choice, will behave honorably. The
underlying assumption of a system of
rules and punishments is that those
subject to its control are dishonor-
able or indifferent to honor (which
strikes me as the same thing), and
will, unless restrained by rules and
threats of punishment, behave unac-
ceptably. Our former system provid-
ed for punishment for minor misbe-
havior, to be sure, but its assumption
was that such misbehavior was ex-
ceptional and needed not be forestall-
ed by rules and threats. For serious
offenses to the peace and integrity of
the community, that system offered
no punishment at all, but simply af-
forded the community a remedy.
Punishment implies an intent to
teach a lesson, and a lesson requires
the opportunity for its application.
The single sanction allowed the dis-
honorable student no chance to mend
his ways. It was a statement that
Washington and Lee was no place for
those who needed such lessons; it
was a rejection, not only of the bad
act, but of the dishonorable
character that produced the act. Ex-
pulsion for behavior that does not im-
pugn the actor’s honor is extreme
and unconscionable. If the new rules
do not involve matters of honor, then
the Student Control Committee
should have no power to expel.

eThat men and women of any time
can have no better guide and ex-
emplar than Robert E. Lee. General
Lee practically embodied, as few
men since Christ have done, the
timeless vitures comprised by the
term “honor.” If love, courage, duty,
truth, pity, pride, compassion,
sacrifice are 19th-century nostrums
which the present day has outgrown,
if these virtues have not survived the

the ‘‘varied benefits of intellectual
growth” in a climate that ‘‘stresses
the importance of the individual”
and ‘‘personal honor and integrity.”’

While I do not doubt that we con-
tinue dedicated to these principles, I
wonder whether all people in this
community Students, faculty, admin-

’ istration and staff — realize the im-

plications that statement brings.

For me, as for many others, any
doubt that exists about the Universi-
ty purpose certainly deals with the
Honor System. While we pride our-
selves on the student-run system and
often cite Lee’s genderless command
for students ‘‘to behave as gentle-
men’”’ as reason for its existence and
sustenance, we do not always realize
what such a profession entails. Per
the current challenge facing the
Honor System at neighboring Virgin-
ia Military Institute in a suit filed in
Federal District Court, one facet of a
profession of faith in this University,
and thus the Honor System, includes
a belief in the single-sanction system

we now employ.
Schools employing the single-sanc-

tion principle in their honor systems *

are few and far between. Colleges
cite the need for ‘“‘leniency”’ in deal-
ing with individual cases. No two
cases are the same after all, they

say. And besides, many students are |

afraid to turn in their peers knowing

-

that if that peer is found guilty of an

honor offense, there is only one pen-
alty. It hurts to get expelled, they
note.

In the face of seeming student re-
luctance to turn in peers, a question
arises: Is the System outdated, or is
the single sanction rule the real pro-
blem here?

It seems to me the single sanction
system ought to be re-examined.
While it emphasizes the need for a
uniform understanding of all infrac-

tions, the single sanction rule also —

creates an undue hindrance for stu-
dents trying to comply with a system
they respect but within which they
cannot live.

the definition of honor

““Me”’ generation, give me the 19th
century with all its flaws. But we all
know that those virtues hav e surviv-
ed: they are eternal. We know them
when we see them, and we approve of
them. Our problem today is that we
lack the strength of character to live
by them. We might find that strength
in the example of General Lee, and in
our resolution to guide our lives by
his. If this generation is corrupt, why
should we not look to the best of a
former one as a guide for remaking
our own?

I am forced to express, before I
close, my shock that Mr. Vines, a son
of this institution, would adopt a
vicious falsehood in criticism of our
gallant founder. Having read several
accounts of General Lee’s activities
at the second battle of Cold Harbor, I
am unable to connect the alleged
“unconscionable actions’, to which
Mr. Vines refers with any historical
fact. For some reason not clear to
me, Mr. Vines has chosen to adopt
the particsan accusations of some
persons who were unwilling to ac-
knowledge the true cause of the suf-
fering of the wounded at Cold Har-
bor; that is, the pride of General U.S.
Grant. For two days or more after
the battle, Grant refused to pray for a
truce so that the wounded — almost
all his own men — could be attended
to. Lee urged him to do so, but for
Grant to make such a request would
have been to admit defeat. Never
mind that Cold Harbor was one of the
most costly fiascoes Grant’s army
suffered in the whole course of the
war. If Mr. Vines seeks unconscion-
able actions at Cold Harbor, let him
look to the Union commander, who,
having sent some 40,000 men to their
deaths in the previous month alone,
through his murderous policy of war
“by attrition” (Grant’s words), per-
sisted in ordering his men to charge
on foot across open country against
strong entrenchments, until finally,
ordered once again to commit suicide
against the Confederate wall of fire,
with more than 7,000 of their com-
rades lying dead before them on the

field (Lee lost about 1,200), his men
simply refused to obey, and stood in
silent condemnation of his inhuman
tactics.

Lee needs no advocate, for his life
honors him more eloquently than
words ever can. But no patriot can
keep silent when one who should
know better not only perpetuates a
lying accusation of cruelty against
this great hero, but actually holds it

up as typical of Lee’s character, and ™:

therefore condescendingly chides us
for revering him. Certainly Lee was
human Virtue would be empty in one
not tempted by vice — but of all
humanity, Lee shines with few others
in history as the flower of our race. I
do not comment upon the few valid
points of Mr. Vines’ letter, for this
disloyal and falacious attack over-
bears any geod his argument might
contain.
James D. Crutchfield
Law Class of 1987

Water polo
spectators

appreciated

To the editors:

This past weekend, the Washington
and Lee water polo team played
before a large, supportive crowd at
each of its five matches. On behalf of
the team, we would like to extend a
very deserving show of appreciation
to everyone who came out to watch
us play. We wish to especially thank
those who attended the championship

game between W&L and the Univer- *

sity of Richmond. While we are sorry
that we could not bring a victory in
this final game, we gave it our all,

}

and we are grateful to all of you who,

Supported us. Hope to see you in
swim season!

David Lewis ’86

Tim Stanford ’86

Co-captains, 1985 Water Polo Team

1
NEWS

East Asian major may
get link with business

2

 

 

By HOLLY WILLIAMS
Staff Reporter

 

Washington and Lee students may be able to combine
courses in business with East Asian studies in an in-
tegrated program next school year.

According to Dean of the College John Elrod, the pro-
gram is still “under the most preliminary considera-
tion,”’ but the hope is to allow East Asian studies majors
to take a core of courses in the business administration

. department.

+

Roger Jeans, director of the East Asian Studies Pro-
gram, explained, ‘‘The idea we started with was that it
might benefit the East Asian studies students to enhance
their marketability to international corporations if we

" could give them some economics, business and account-

é

r

ing.”’

The anticipated program would not require a new ma-
jor. As the idea stands now, a degree in East Asian
studies could be granted with a certificate recognizing

. concentrated work in the business administration de-

4

partment.
Elrod stressed that the program is in its initial stages

, and may never even become a reality. He said an

2

‘

'

’

é

’

+

.

'
?
t

’
’

>
’
,

, tional

Associated Press article that appeared in The
Washington Post’s Virginia section in April drew calls of
congratulations from other schools, even though the
plan was still in its infant stages.

Several administrative problems have to be worked
out before the program can begin.

For example, unless prerequisite requirements are
relaxed, East Asian majors might not have the time to
complete the requirements for two majors and the
General Education Requirements.

In addition, the program may create too many stu-
dents far the business denartment.

Business Professor John DeVogt explained, ‘We are a
very small department and business-commerce is the
biggest major on campus.”

He said that because of the staffing problem, his
department cannot handle any more students in its in-
troductory classes.

The concept of some type of “international business”
major is the brainchild of several department chairman.
The East Asian major with a certificate could be the
beginning of future application of business courses to
other international courses of study.

“On the other end,” Jeans said, ‘the business people
were talking about further international training. The
thinking was broader than East Asian studies, but East
Asian was the starting point.”’

Jeans sees many opportunities in the East Asian
Studies Program for business majors to gain an impor-
tant understanding of a foreign culture in which they
might work someday.

DeVogt said there is no problem encouraging students
to take electives in East Asian studies through the
General Education Requirements. Students may also
take advantage of study in Asian country through the ex-
change program.

“No problem,’’ DeVogt said. ‘‘We can do that. We can
encourage students to do that.”’

According to DeVogt, money has been made available
to hire an economist specializing in Asian economics.

“The position is funded. The search is on,” he said.

With this addition to the business faculty, ‘we will
have the resources but it will take an awful lot of coor-
dination”’ to inaugurate the program.

“There is no reason to believe that we can’t work out a
program,” he continued. ‘There is every reason to
believe that the Pacific rim basin will become as impor-
tant as the European’’ in relation to international
economics.

 

Speaker

calls for
review

By DANIEL BUNCH
Staff Reporter

 

 

Peter Bell, a senior associate of the
Carnegie Endowment for Interna-
Peace, told a Commerce
School audience last night that the

* search for peace in Central America
_ must begin with a better understand-

ing of the historical roots of the cur-
+ rent crisis.

That, in turn, should result in a
“much different American policy
, toward Nicaragua and E] Salvador,

said Bell, a former deputy assistant
‘ secretary of Health, Education and
, Welfare who has spent a great deal of

time in Central America studying the
: situation there.

Bell said the United States has
"been oblivious to change in Central
, America.

“The most important change has
* undoubtedly been the change ... that
, has occured in the Catholic Church,”

Bell said. The Church has moved
‘from siding with the government to
, Siding with the poor, Bell said.

The area also has experienced eco-

nomic growth and the development

, of a reform-conscious middle class,

he said. Ignoring these changes leads
‘to a misunderstanding of the people
, of Central America, Bell said.

For example, Americans assume
‘that Central Americans see the con-
-flict just as we do — as one between

the United States and the Soviet

"Union. Americans also tend to be-
ilieve that Central Americans want
, the U.S. concept of democracy.

 

 

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

Peter Bell speaks in the Commerce School last night

“In Central America there are no
Jeffersons,”’ Bell explained. ‘‘How-
ever, there are Bolivars who will de-
fend their countries against foreign
invaders.”

“Our government has two major
objectives in Central America: to
overthrow the Sandinista govern-
ment in Nicaragua, and to defeat the
rebel forces in El Salvador,” he said.

Bell said negotiations with the
guerillas are the best bet for the
United States because a military vic-
tory would be elusive.

“The guerillas retain a veto power
against peace, through sabotage.
They can cancel out much of the ef-
fect of U.S. economic aid.”’

On Nicaragua, Bell said, “I am

deeply skeptical about the adminis-
tration’s policy. First, I believe that
our objective of overthrowing the
Sandinistas is misguided .... And sec-
ond ... I do not believe the Contras
are a reliable instrument toward
achieving that policy.”

Continuing our current course may
make the Sandinistas more oppres-
Sive, he said

Bell said that the United States
must work within established diplo-
matic means, such as the Contadora
group, in order to achieve success in
Central America and to keep U.S. re-
spect in the world community.

“We cannot be a bully and a police-
man at the same time,” he said.

The Ring-tum Phi, November 7, 1985

 

 
  

a py
a ‘

\ su "
he alae elle aa 9 ert a wt8

  
  

 

 

 

 

By JIM STRADER
News Editor

 

Although the adage says “charity begins at home,”’ at
Washington and Lee this year that could be changed to
“charity begins at the house.”’

In separate as well as joint efforts, fraternities on
campus are undertaking a variety of projects to benefit
charities and provide community service, ranging from
blood drives to haunted houses for local children.

Mike Marshall, president of Delta Tau Delta, which
has organized several events this fall and recently added
a charity spokesman as a regular house office, summed
up his house’s feelings about charity projects, feelings
that many other fraternity members shared.

“We are more than happy to do them,”’ Marshall said.
“It takes a lot of time to get things organized. We do
what we can.”’

The Delts have organized two events this fall, both of
which Marshall called successful. The first was a con-
cert held in the General Headquarters tavern Oct. 25
that benefitted the United Way. The concert featured
several local bands, all of which donated their time, as
did members of Delt, who collected money at the door.
The concert raised $900.

The other event Delt sponsored, organized by their
pledges, was a fundraiser to combat multiple sclerosis
in conjunction with the W&L-Bridgewater football game
last Saturday, which Marshall described as ‘kind of like
a Walk-a-thon.”’

Instead of people pledging a certain amount of money
per mile walked, Marshall said, the Delts took pledges
for statistics such as “the number of yards Kevin
Weaver gained”’ in the game. In addition, Marshall said,
Delt pledges canvassed the stands during the game,
Seeking donations.

Marshall said no total has been calculated yet for the
amount of money raised through pledges, but about $70
was collected from the fans at Wilson Field.

A clothing sale was held at the Kappa Sigma house this
week, from which a portion of the proceeds will go to the
United Way. Bill Hemphill, president of the house, said
an arrangement was made with a clothing representa-
tive to sell clothing at Kappa Sig in exchange for a 10
percent cut of the proceeds. He said the money will be
donated to the United Way.

The idea for the sale came from a Hollins College stu-
dent group that had run a similar sale. Hemphill said
that group had used the sale as a fundraiser for its own
activities rather than for charity.

Kappa Sig also makes a monthly donation to the Yel-
low Brick Road day care center, Hemphill said.

Chi Psi sponsors a blood donation drive each year in
conjunction with the American Red Cross. In addition to
that project, house president Joe Whelan, said he and
pledge educator Chris Beckert are looking for a com-
munity service project for the Chi Psi pledges.

“We want to get together with the city board to see if
there is anything that can be done in a day by a group of
about 20 guys.”’

The Halloween season gave several fraternities the
opportunity to hold haunted houses for children in the
community.

Cnarles Nusbaum of Lambda Chi Alpha called his

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

Shoppers check out the sales at Kappa Sigma’s Polo sale for ‘United Way

Frat charity

Greeks lend a helping hand

 

fraternity’s effort ‘‘a big success.” He said that about
150 children showed up.

Bourke Harvey, Phi Delta Theta’s president, said a
member of the Buena Vista Jaycees asked if Harvey
could help organize a haunted house for children in
Buena Vista. Harvey agreed and volunteered the assis-
tance of his house.

“We had six or seven guys go to Buena Vista each
night of Halloween week and help run the haunted
house,”’ Harvey said.

The Phi Delts, as well as some other fraternities on
campus, have plans for more charity work later on in the
year.

Harvey said his fraternity regularly holds a Christmas
party for children in Lexington, for which the house is
decorated and one of the members dress up as Santa
Claus.

The children who attend usually are between the ages
of two and 14, Harvey said. Each child who comes to the
party is set up with a “big brother’’ at the house, who
buys the child a gift and shows him or her around the
party.

The Muscular Dystrophy Association Superdance is
an event that usually draws a good deal of fraternity
support. Jim Barker, a Superdance committee member,
said his house, Kappa Alpha, has traditionally supported
the event.

“The Muscular Dystrophy Association is our national
philanthropy at Kappa Alpha and we try to encourage as
much house involvement as possible,” Barker said.

KA has given MDA a lot of support, he continued, not-
ing that two of the Superdance committee chairmen in
the past several years, Townsend Oast and Rick
D’Alessandrini, have been KAs, and that house mem-
bers have helped in various committee positions and
have made a strong showing on the dance floor.

‘It’s a blast, and we try to encourage as many of the
guys to participate,” Barker said.

Phi Kappa Sigma is another house involved with the
Superdance. Sandy Whann, a Phi Kap and Superdance
co-chairman this year, said the house is ‘“‘always a big
supporter’’ of the dance and has included dance par-
ticipation in its pledge eudcation program.

“As a fraternity, we gave the largest amount of money
in pledges last year,’’ Whann said.

Fraternities also band together in charity work
through the Interfraternity Council. Hugh Black, the
IFC member in charge of one of this year’s projects,
said the IFC is asking each fraternity to donate two to
three cans of food for each of its members to a food bank
for the needy in the area for distribution around Christ-
mas time.

“We hope that it will turn out to be a pretty effective
project,” Black said. “It’s an official statement to the
community that the fraternities are helping, and it’s
good PR between the houses and town.”

In addition to the benefits that these projects bring to
the various charitable organizations, ‘good p.r.”’ seems
to be a motive for some of the projects.

‘‘We wanted to get our name looking good on cam-
pus,’’ Marshall said about Delt’s recent surge of involve-
ment. “The thing is it no only looks good on Delta Tau
Delta fraternity, it looks good on the whole fraternity
system.”

 

 

* Staff Reports

 

A masked man carrying a small handgun threatened
' the owner of Woods Creek Grocery last Thursday and
, demanded cash from the store’s register before running
out of the store with $95, according to police.

Gail Nuckols was alone in the store on Lime Kiln
Road about 9 p.m. when a man she described as being 5-
, foot-nine, 180 pounds, wearing a green army coat and
gray mask, and brandishing a small handgun entered
the store.

, _ The man took the money and fled east on Lime Kiln

Road.

Lexington police officers Harold B. Nedrow and Sgt.
S.E. Crowder immediately secured the area around the
store but could find no suspect.

Rockbridge County’s tracking dog trailed the subject
down McLaughlin, White and Jefferson streets but lost
the trail on Washington Street because of crowded side-
walks.

+ Nuckols, who owns the store with her husband was
the only witness to the crime, the police report said.
Police Chief L.O. Sutton said identifying the robber
+ would be very difficult since he was wearing the mask
_ and the heavy coat.

a

»

-

*

+

‘

—Chris Deighan

‘Watt named department head

Chemistry Professor William J. Watt has been named
"to a five-year term as head of the chemistry depart-

 

 

ment beginning July 1.

A member of the Washington and Lee faculty since
1955, Watt served as assistant and associate dean of the
College of Arts and Sciences from 1966 to 1971, when he
was named dean of the College. He stepped down in 1984
to return to fulltime teaching.

Watt is a native of Carbondale, Ill. He received his
bachelor’s degree in chemistry from the University of
Illinois and his master’s and Ph.D. from Cornell Watt
taught at Davidson College and Cornell University
before joining the W&L faculty.

While at W&L, Watt has been a participant in the
Robert E. Lee Research Program and has sponsored
the National Science Foundation research grants for
W&L undergraduates. He has been a research partici-
pant at the Oak Ridge Nation] Laboratory. a visiting
professor for an NSF Institute for High School Teachers
at Alabama College and an NSF research participant

Head gets emeritus status

Lt. Col. Harold S. Head, registrar at Washington and
Lee from 1966 to 1984, has been named University
Registrar Emeritus. The appointment was made by the
Board of Trustees at its meeting last month.

Head began his military career in 1943 after
graduating from the United States Military Academy at
West Point, and saw duty in World War II and the
Korean War. He is a graduate of the Infantry School at
Ft. Benning. Ga., where he also served as instructor
and assistant director of instruction. He is a graduate of
the Command and General Staff College at Ft. Leaven-

worth, Kan., and served as an instructor in social
sciences at West Point from 1947-49,

Head holds a master’s degree in history from Har-
vard University. He is a graduate of the U.S. Army Lan-
guage School, where he studied Japanese in prepara-
tion for duty as staff officer to the Military Assistance
Advisory Group in Japan from 1959 to 1962.

Head, who retired as W&L registrar in September, is
past president of the Virginia Association of Collegiate
Registrars and Admissions Officers

Dunbar to. present lecture

Assistant English Professor Jean C. Dunbar will deli
ver the fourth in a series of lectures sponsored by the
English department next week

The lecture is scheduled for Tuesday at 4 p.m. in
Room 21 of Payne Hall.

Titled ‘The Meaning of Ornament: American Fiction
and Victorian Design,” the lecture is concerned with
notions of meaning in American literature of the 1850s.
Dunbar will examine the subject in the larger context of
Victorian art, architecture, and even furniture to sug-
gest that some modern views about the 19th century are
incorrect.

The purpose of the lecture series is to provide an op
portunity to learn about research being done within the
English department at W&L. Dunbar’s paper repre
sents several years of study on meaning in art

Dunbar received her bachelor’s degree from Kenyon
College and both her master’s and Ph.D. from the Uni
versity of Virginia. She joined the W&L faculty in 1983

 

 

Masked gunman flees after robbing Woods Creek Grocery

Professor, student write article

Law Professor Roger Groot and Tom Thagard, a jun-
ior European history major from Montgomery, Ala.,
have teamed up to write an article to be published in the
Jan. 1986 issue of the Virginia Bar Association Journal.

The article, entitled “‘Immunized Witnesses in Virgin-
ia,” deals with an obscure Virginia statute first written
in 1793. Groot and Thagard argue that the archaic
terms of the statute — once understood — do not allow
immunity to be granted in exchange for testimony that
could convict others. The authors say the statute for-
bids the admission of witnesses who have been granted
such ‘‘pocket immunity.”

Groot said it is unusual for an undergraduate to work
with a law professor on a project. He credited History
Professor Taylor Sanders with contacting him about
Thagard’s interest ina related field.

“This never would have happened on a larger cam-
pus,’’ Groot said.

Archaeologist presents paper

Kurt C. Russ, research archaeologist at Washington
and Lee, recently presented a paper at the annual
meeting of the Archaeological Society of Virginia in
Blacksburg.

The paper, titled ‘‘Archaeological Excavations at the
Rockbridge Pottery,” described the archaeological re
search conducted at the 19th century potter, focusing on
its spatial organization and the technological level at
which it operated.

 
 

 

 

 

Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, November 7, 1985

 

W&L photo book

to be put together

by Pulitzer winner

 

By DANIEL BUNCH
Staff Reporter

 

A two-time Pulitzer Prize-winning
photographer has been taking pic-
tures of Washington and Lee for a
photo book that is expected to be
ready by the 1986 Christmas season.

The book will consist mostly of
photographs of the University, along
with a few articles, according to
Assistant to the President Frank A.
Parsons Jr.

W&L’s book will be similar to a
book about the University of the
South in Sewanee, Tenn. The photo-
grapher — Pulitzer winner Bill
Strode — the publisher — Harmony
House — and the format — mostly
photographs — will be the same.

The Sewanee book emphasizes the
timeless qualities of the campus,
Parsons said. Few shots of recogniz-
able people or modern settings are

shown.

Harmony House approached the
school about publishing the book,
Parsons said, and is planning a simi-
lar one about Virginia Military Insti-
tute.

Strode, the principal photographer,
said he will make W&L’s book simi-
lar to Sewanee’s. He plans to return
to Lexington throughout the year to
include all four seasons in the book.
He said he plans to concentrate on
the front campus and Lee Chapel.

Although some problems with the
publisher still need to be worked out,
Parsons is confident that the book
will be a success.

He expects the book to be popular
with alumni and students. He feels
that the campus and the surrounding
areas are photogenic enough to make
an excellent book.

The book should be ready for sale
next winter at a price of $25, Parsons
said.

 

Presidential address

University President John D. Wilson addresses a Lee
Chapel crowd of parents Saturday morning as part of
Washington and Lee’s Parents’ Weekend. About 1,260

events.

Macintosh Dynasty?

Students use computer to catalog Reeve’s collection

 

By CLARE KAYE
Staff Reporter

 

What do an 18th century vase and
an Apple Macintosh computer have
in common?

They’re both in the Reeves Center,
Washington and Lee’s collection of
18th, 19th and 20th century ceramics
donated to the school in 1967 by Mr.
and Mrs. Euchlin D. Reeves.

The center, located just off the Col-
onnade near Tucker Hall, houses the
Reeves collection and some other
University art work. With an expan-
sion of the collection came a need for
better cataloguing of the collection,
so the center has turned to storing in-
formation about its art collection on
computer chips.

 

Ads in The Phi
pay off
463-8581

 

 

Typists—$500 weekly
at home. Write: P.O.
Box 975, Elizabeth,
NJ 07207

 

 

Southern
Inn

Welcome
Students
Serving breakfast, lunch
and dinner for over

50 years
Main Street, Lexington

 

 

 

463-3612

Junior Mike Weisbrock, a work-
study student in the Reeves Center,
developed a way to transfer informa-
tion on the index cards to the center’s
Apple Macintosh. The information is
stored on the computer disks to make
inquiry about a specific item more
accessible.

“People wanting to see the items
will have easier access to them
through the use of the computer,”’
Weisbrock said.

The idea is to make a print-out of
information that is detailed enough to
make recognition of the item possible
even for the common observer.

This information is useful because, *

rather than being considered a» mu-
seum, the Reeves Center, which
opened in 1982, is more of a research
and learning center, said its direc-

tor, James Whitehead.

The collection includes the Reeves’
ceramic collection, paintings and wa-
tercolors by Mrs. Reeves, and art
items from other areas of the world
that Whitehead has added.

Weisbrock and his partner in the
project, senior Bob Strickland, are
also exploring the possibility of using
a computer camera to take pictures
of the art work in the center.

The pictures would be printed out
on the computer, allowing the new
catalog system to contain not only
factual information but visual infor-
mation on a work of art.

Weisbrock and Strickland are hop-
ing to be able to include this visual

aspect in the filing system in the near
future.

 

 

Get More Involved
With W&1

Be an Advertising Representative for
The Ring-tum Phi

Fringe Benefits include:
Health Plan
Insurance Policy
AT&T Calling Card
Company Car
Generous Expense Account

Now Interviewing — Contact Jeff Kimbell
(463-9410)
Hank Greenberg (463-6685)

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

CHILDREN’S BOOK WEEK

Nov. 11-17

All children’s books 20% (or more) off

W&L Bookstore

 
 
 
  
 

 

 

 

 

Frank’s Pizza

“Best Pizza in Lexington”’
Free Delivery for

W&L Students
463-7575 or 463- 3133

ee ee

 

Wendell’s
Barber

Shop

| need your head for
my business.

 

Tim McCune, a journalism student
who graduated last year, used a
video camera to record an introduc-
tion to the Reeves Center for its
guests.

The camera was also used to make
tapes of the different varieties of
porcelain in the center, which has
been trying to come up with better
and better ways to present the works
it houses.

There are 12 students at the center
working on independent research
projects, some ofthem workstudy
students. The time they spend away
from the work-study job is on a volun-
teer basis.

“Much of the research may be ap-
plied for credit in certain classes,”
Weisbrock said.

110 S. Jefferson St.
Le

463-

Hours:

Sunday 10am to lam

   

 

Commons.

sentatives to help you.

 

Dick Emrey (703) 463-4362 (evenings)

 

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

parents registered for the weekend, which included open
houses in academic departments and home athletic

Senior David Nave said the stu-
dents’ work benefits them and the
center itself.

“It is a thrill doing work that so-
meone has never done before,’’ Nave
said. ‘The center provides a good op-
portunity for students to work with
one of the best Chinese export collec-
tions in the country.”’

As Whitehead said, the center pro-
vides ‘‘an unusual opportunity for the

students to be able to work with these ©

materials on the undergraduate
level.”

The center, though, is not restrict-
ed to students who are doing
research or work there. Tours are
given by appointment and can be
made at 463-8744.

Yearbook
approaches
completion

By JASON LISI
Staff Reporter

 

 

Senior David Sprunt, the 1984-85
Calyx editor, told the Executive
Committee Monday night that the
number of unfinished pages in the
yearbook is down to 27, from the 35
reported last week.

The yearbook, already six weeks
overdue, may not be done by Christ-
mas, Sprunt reported last week.

“It’s very close to completion,’’ he
said.

EC Vice President Andrew Caru-
thers, who led the questioning of
Sprunt, asked if the layout of the
yearbook would be completed by
next Monday.

“‘T would say probably so,”’ Sprunt
said.

Even then, publication of the book
would take about six weeks, although
that time period is uncertain, Sprunt
said.

EC President John Lewis asked
Sprunt to return Monday to give
another report on the Calyx, which
was originally scheduled to be dis-
tributed at matriculation this year.

In other EC action:

eThe EC is planning to detail its
support of the single-sanction honor
system toa U.S. District Court that is
hearing a case involving a Virginia
Military Institute cadet who calls the
system arbitrary and unconstitu-
tional.

“We have a lot at stake here,”
Caruthers said.

Lewis asked the three law repre-
sentatives — Joel Johnston, Bill
Thompson and Bill Senft — to write a
friend-of-the-court brief detailing the
benefits of an honor system whose
only penalty is expulsion.

Representatives of the Indepen-:
dent Union and the Rugby Club failed:
to appear at Monday night’s meeting:
to discuss their respective budgets. -

Caruthers made the motion ta:
freeze the two clubs’ funds until they,
confer with the EC. The vote 7
passed unanimously.

eThe EC reported that the Country: ,

Kitchen restaurant has started ace;

cepting student checks.

eFour student organizations ard}
scheduled to have budget hearings?
during next week’s EC meeting.’

They are Contact, the Film Society; .
the ’86 edition of Calyx, and the cold:

check committee.

Sandwiches (Eat In-Take Out)
Gourmet Items of All Nations
Cocktails® Wine@ Beer
Subs@Imported Cheeses

 

 

BORDEN

~ COMMONS =

~Lexington's First Conontisioen Coraaity

ro) jae)
rt a

At Borden Commons we haven't stopped with our first success!

Phase I of Borden Commons enjoyed a successful welcome from the community and quickly sold
out. Now, with some new designs and interior layouts, we are introducing Phase II of Borden

These new and beautiful condominiums are designed to fulfill your every need, and they're located
just a short distance from Washington & Lee, V.M.I. and the historic Lexington community.

Isn't it time you considered the ease and financial rewards of condominium living?
; &

If you have any questions about Borden Commons, we have a brochure available and repre-

Baker Real Estate
Post Oftice Box 723
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Ottice (703) 463-7319

Tom Baker (703) 463-2510 (evenings)

 

SS SSS

 

*
+
+
*
.

TOTP O DIOR S CORO ROAD I Te

 

 

 
 

Booked

Library orders at request of professors, students

 

By DEBORAH HATTES
Staff Reporter

 

Need a book for your honors thesis
and the library doesn’t have it?

Although Washington and Lee’s
University Library gets most of its
book requests from professors, stu-
dents also can ask the library to buy
certain books.

Each year the library receives ap-
proximately 15,000 requests for books
to be added to the collection. Last
year the library bought about 9,000
volumes.

About 800 books have been pur-
chased since the summer of 1984 to
replace volumes that were missing
during an inventory taken at that
time.

Professors can request books by
means of ‘Choice cards,’’ which
have reviews of books that might be
of interest to colleges. The library
gets the cards from the American
Library Association and distributes
them to professors, and if the pro-
fessor wants to order one, he simply
signs the card and returns it.

Students may request a book
through a professor or directly from
one of the librarians.

“T have nothing but praise for ac-
quisitions,’’ said English Professor
James Warren? ‘‘I request books, the
library orders them, and they tell me
where they are.”’

“If material is needed in a hurry,
we’ll try our best to get it in a hurry,”’
said acquisitions librarian Annette
John.

Associate Dean of the College
Pamela Simpson told of a situation in
which she needed a book ‘‘rushed’’

last year. Simpson telephoned John
to request the book.

 
     
       

  

 

E. Nelson St,
463-2186

 

Valley True Value Hardware

HARROW. Thue Value STORES

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

“She called the company, ordered
it, had them put it on a bus, and we
got it within a week,’’ Simpson ex-
plained

Students often request materials
through a faculty member. History
Professor Lamar Cecil, who is also
chairman of the Library Committee,
said, ‘I’ve had students recommend
books to me and then I have gotten
them to bring the titles to me, and
I’ve ordered them for the library.”

The ‘Choice cards’’ used by the
faculty and library staff are sent
once a month, except in July and
August, when the sets are combined.
The library gets two sets of the cards,
which are printed by the library jour-
nal ‘‘Choice.”’ Both the cards and the
journal are published by the Ameri-
can Library Association.

As soon as the library receives the
Choice cards, one set is divided up
and the appropriate reviews are sent
to the various departments.

Meanwhile, the other set of cards is
circulated among the librarians, who
are responsible for different subject
areas. Then the two sets are merged
and books are ordered just before the
next set of cards arrives.

The library’s goal is to ‘‘try to get
what people want as quickly as possi-
ble without duplication,” John said.

Roger Jeans, director of the East
Asian Studies Program, said that
sometimes the library will return his
request slips with a notation that
says Virginia Military Institute has
the book and asks if he still wants it.

“Generally, I say, ‘no’ but if I want
it for a closed reserve, sometimes I
do order a second copy,”’ Jeans said.

Physics Professor Tom Williams

  
 

     
   

Mon, - Sat. 8:30- 6:00
Stn. 1-5 :

MS Pa as ed

Sea at) eae a Uh

PREPARATION COURSES

For: Lexington

AU
Cee
Rieu

>

x

-

+

SAT

eda

said, ‘Never to my knowledge have
we requested a book and it’s not

come ...I think the library's fairly ef-
ficient once they get the book in
hand.”

Dick Grefe, reference and public
‘ervices librarian, explained his role
in acauisitinns Tt includes respon
sibility for overseeing the politics,
journalism and reference areas of
the collection.

He tries ‘‘to keep up with what’s be-
ing published over and above the
Choice cards.”’

“There are two ways I look at
reviews and references,’’ Grefe said.
If a book is good, he considers
whether it will be used at W&L. Or,
he said, when he knows a professor is
teaching a certain course, ‘‘I try to
find out what we have, and what we
ought to have, but don’t have.”’

Finally, his work at the reference
desk is helpful. He may learn from a
student writing a research paper that
the library has little in its collection
on that topic.

John described herself as ‘‘Queen
of the Junk Mail,,’ since every spring
and fall she receives dozens of cata-
logs from publishers.

“I try to keep on top of what’s com-
ing out, so we’ll have things when the
major reviews appear,”’ she said.

Although the library doesn’t have
departmental allocations,a record of
expenses is kept according to depart-
ments. Books not requested by a fac-
ulty member are put under a general
total for each subject area.

Beginning in July, the total 1985-86
library budget for purchasing mater-
ials is: books, $194,389; serials, (in-
cluding newspaper and magazine
subscriptions) $207,278; audio-visual
materials, $13,500.

“Our funding for acquisitions is

remarkably generous,’’ Cecil said.

Simpson said, ‘“‘There has always
been a perception on the part of the
faculty that the library will order
anything you can make a case for.”’

The library has to pay for books by
the end of the fiscal year in June, so it
usually stops ordering books in mid-
April.

In addition to the budget, the
library does have some gift money
and endowed funds available for pur-
chasing materials. ‘We try to buy
things we would not buy ordinarily
because we feel gift money is for
special things,’’ John explained.

Last year the library received 5,514
volumes directly as gifts. Of those,
2,846 were added to the collection.

Cecil said he hopes the Library
Committee will develop a policy of
accepting as gifts only books that will
be useful.

‘“‘We want to avoid taking material
which faculty and staff would make
no use of,’’ Cecil said.

The library also receives requests
for newspapers and magazines, but
these are handled differently from
book requests.

John explained, ‘‘We ask for a let-
ter of justification from the person
requesting it. We need to make sure
people have considered it thoroughly,
since once we start subscribing, we
usually keep going.”’

Before the library starts a new
subscription, the University _li-
brarian, acquisitions librarian, and
staff member responsible for that
subject area will have a discussion
and look at a sample copy. The Uni-
versity librarian makes the final de-
cision.

The library is currently conducting
a serious review of its monographs
and periodicals.

 

 

 

115 S. Main Street

 

VARNER & POLE

Furniture Dealers

‘For your extra pieces of furniture’

463-2742

 

 

 

463-9588

 
 

Classes now forming

Classes now forming

For a free brochure call Toll Free:

800-222-TEST

The National Center for Educational Testing

or write:

Suite 5B

1200 Bustleton Pike

Feasterville, PA 19047

GUARANTEE: Score in the top 25%
or take the next course FREE.

 

aw ge.
ps (

By Appointmant
Robins Peggy « Marie

ee ae EN ee

Old Main St. Mall
Lexington, VA aso

The Ring-tum Phi, November 7, 1985, Page 5

 

Politics

 

Continued from Page 1

ed his party’s victory celebration at
the Hotel John Marshall in Richmond
as a reporter for WLUR-FM

“After my reporting was over, |
became a Democrat,” he said. ‘‘I had
to wait until I filed my last report.”

“It was the best feeling in the
world,” he said, adding that he had
“been in mourning” since the Repub-
lican presidential victory last year.

He said that as he watched ‘‘young
people and old people, blacks and
whites, men and women,”’ all cele-
brating, he was struck by the fact
that they were a reflection of the vic-
torious ticket.

“The papers have sort of labeled
this as a historic occasion,’’ he said
“You could actually feel it in the

room.... You knew that now all these
people were represented in the poli
cy-making.”’

“This was sheer ecstasy,’’ he con-
cluded.

W&L students had originally plan
ned to broadcast live election cover
age simultaneously on WLUR-FM
and Cable Channel Nine. Because of
a power outage Tuesday afternoon,
the television coverage was cancel
ed, but a team of more than 20
students aired three hours of live
election returns and analysis on
WLUR.

Using its reporters in Richmond,
WLUR carried the news of O'Brien's
concession 10 minutes before it was
reported by the Associated Press

 

 

 

  
 
 

y"

    

TTT T

4

By Matt Horridge/The Ring-tum Phi

Jim Strader (right) and Mike Stachura anchor election night

formerly Eastern Distributing now
located in Old Main Street

Shopping Mall.

 

We carry: Clarion * Jensen * Pioneer * Linear Dynamics

® Maxell and others.

Program
At The

Begins

6 p.m.

To Register
Or For More

Information

Call

 

LSAT Preparation

Student Center

November 12

1-800-222-TEST
 

 

 

 

 

Page 6, The Ring-tum Phi, November 7, 1985

 

THE AFTERMATH

 

 

 

By Matt Horridge/The Ring-tum Phi

A plastic sheet protects books from a leak in the University Library

 

Flood

 

Continued from Page 1

cluding the towns of Glasgow and
Goshen. Lexington escaped with a
few evacuations and comparatively
minor damage

Rockbridge Sheriff $.M. Reynolds,
who has been with the sheriff's
department for 32 years, said the
flooding was ‘‘much worse’”’ than the
devastation inflicted by Hurricane
Camille in 1969. He said many long-
time Goshen residents said the
wreckage there is the worst in more
than 50 years.

A number of W&L students, includ-
ing some affiliated with the Lampost,
traveled to Buena Vista to assist
residents in cleanup efforts, and
Virginia Military Institute cadets
provided aid in Buena Vista and
Glasgow.

Among the affected W&L students
were seniors Mark Fishman and
Lance Yonkos, who temporarily have
moved into their fraternity after
their house on Route 622 northwest of
Lexington was surrounded on three
sides by the river.

“We're not going back there yet
because we have to have the founda-
tion checked,’’ Fishman said.

The flood downed telephone and
electrical lines to the house, which
normally is about 150 feet from the
river.

Fishman said the river covered
some of the houses closer to it,
destroying some. One house was
lifted off its foundation by the torrent
of water, he said.

“You've got to realize the force,”
Fishman said. ‘It wasn’t just float-
ing.”

Water

 

 

) Continued from Page 1

to take measures to encourage them
to comply.”

A widespread rumor on campus
yesterday was that W&L was plan-
ning to cancel classes for the rest of
the week at the request of the city
government.

“There has been no request from
the city of Lexington to close the
school,” Phillips said.

 

The house was carried 300 yards,
“ripping through trees’ and smash-
ing a telephone pole, he said.

W&L offered its homeless students
temporary housing in the dormitor-
ies and the visiting teams’ quarters
in the gymnasium.

University Services Director Wil-
liam N. Mohler said that at least
eight beds were available to students
in need, but that students who show-
ed initial interest later found housing
off campus.

Many W&L offices closed early on
Monday, and Frank A. Parsons, as-
sistant to the University president,
said a number of professors were
unable to make it to campus on Tues-
day.

Law Professor James M. Phemi-
ster was flooded out and his home
won’t be repaired for about a month,
according to Mohler.

Another casualty of the week’s
storms was the small footbridge over
Woods Creek, which was swept from
its place Monday by the flood waters.

‘*When we built it we knew this was
going to happen one day or another,”
said James L. Arthur, director of
Buildings and Grounds. The bridge
was attached to the creek’s bank by a
cable, which kept the bridge from be-
ing carried downstream. Arthur said
putting the bridge back in place
would not be difficult.

Another visible aftermath of the
rain was a tree on the campus walk-
way near R.E. Lee Episcopal Church
that was blown over by the wind dur-
ing the storm.

Arthur said that although most of
the tree has been removed, workers
are waiting for the ground to dry
before moving the larger pieces.
After that, they will repair the young
maple the larger tree fell into.

Phillips said that on Tuesday, the
city had about a day and a half’s sup-
ply of water remaining and that the
conservation measures were design-
ed to extend that to five.

He said yesterday that the city’s
current target for returning normal
service is Saturday afternoon.

Julia Martin, assistant public infor-
mation officer at Virginia Military
Institute, said that ‘“‘basin-washing”’
only was being permitted, and that
cadets were being served on paper
plates, a measure adopted by many
W&L fraternities.

The crisis is the result of damage to

Most of the other damage was in
leaky roofs. Several classrooms and
the Moot Courtroom in Lewis Hail
were hurt by dripping water, and
some of that room’s ceiling tiles will
have to be replaced.

Water began leaking in WLUR-
FM’s Reid Hall control room early
Saturday evening. When the leak was
investigated, water was found ‘“‘just
sitting on top of the tiles’ on the ceil-
ing, according to senior Ken Jacoby,
the station’s news director

One turntable was covered with
protective plastic, and all programs
from Saturday night until Tuesday
morning originated in the station’s
production studio

A tree weakened by the storm fell
on a power line Tuesday, causing a
three-hour, campus-wide power out-
age.

The outage temporarily shut down
the University computer system in
Tucker Hall. Dr. Thomas D. Imesen,
director of the computer center said
no serious harm was done — it ‘‘just
means that there’s less [computer |
time for students and administra-
tion.”

He added that data that had just
been entered by users but had not
been saved was the only information
lost during the shutoff.

Imeson said the solution to lost
computer time due to power outages
“is putting in an uninterrupted power
source.”’ That would cost at least
$100,000, an expenditure Imeson does
not favor because of the rarity of
power failures.

Another storm-related disruption
was damage that knocked out the
University phone system yesterday

‘‘So that’s why it’s been so peace-
ful,’’ said News Office Director Brian
D. Shaw when he learned he couldn't
receive incoming calls.

the water treatment plant in east
Lexington. At midday Tuesday, the
20-foot-tall building still was almost
totally submerged.

Police Chief L.O. Sutton said three
city workers were trapped in the
plant all night on Monday and were
evacuated at 8:30 a.m. Tuesday by a
Marine helicopter from Roanoke.
The trio had been forced onto the
building’s roof at about 2 a.m.

City Utilities Director W.B. Weems
said all power was out at both the
water treatment plant and the near-
by waste water treatment plant.

He said that until Virginia Power

 

 

 

i .
Cee es

 

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

A porch swing reflects in flood waters in East Lexington that had been 10 feet deeper

wall 2 Ad ? Tie ae , ae

By Paul Foutch/The Ring-tum Phi

 

Junior John Lowe tempts fate in trying to cross a 200-foot wide Woods Creek

can restore the current to the pumps,
the water situation will remain the
same.

Among those feeling the crunch of
the water rationing was the Universi-
ty Cleaners, which said it can make
no promises about when laundry will
be ready, because the water could be
cut off at any time. The measures do
not affect dry cleaning, however.

Utilities Director Weems called the
interruption of water service ‘‘a real
nasty aggravation that we will get
over.

“It’s not life-threatening, but it
sure is a lot of trouble,”’ he said.

 

 

Lk

4

en
2S

_

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

 

 

By Hank Mayer/The Ring-tum Phi

Waters lap at a gas station island in Buena Vista, above

The rainstorm knocked over this tree on Monday, left

1PM sm! A AW

AP

”
SPORTS
Gridders No.6 in the South

 

 

,By DAVID EMRICH
_Staff Reporter

 

Coach Gary Fallon said it would be
‘a tough game and that Bridgewater’s
1-5 record was deceptive. Coaches’
, talk, right? Well, Bridgewater gave
W&L everything it could handle
“before succumbing to the Generals
*7-0 on a soggy field. The win moved
_W&L to a ranking of sixth in Division
ITI’s South region.

The only scoring occurred with
’3:56 gone in the first quarter when
“Kevin Weaver, on the fourth play of
the game, took a draw 56 yards for
‘the touchdown, giving the Generals a
‘7-0 lead that they would not lose. On
the very next series, however,
Bridgewater got as far as the W&L
'10-yard-line before Tim Janyska in-
tercepted a pass in the end zone to
thwart the Eagle’s only serious scor-
‘ing threat of the afternoon. Later in
the game, Bridgewater missed field
goal attempts of 34 and 39 yards.

Piranian:

“positive

thoughts’

’ By ROB MacPHERSON
* Staff Reporter

 

 

The Washington and Lee soccer
‘team, presently possessing a 6-5
* record with two games remaining, is
, approaching its most crucial portion

of the season.
.’  Asplit of the two remaining games,
. at Averett and Liberty respectively,
would guarantee the Generals a win-
‘ning season, something which the
team failed to accomplish last
season. ‘‘We desperately want a win-
, ning season,” the head coach Rolf
Piranian said. ‘‘There are lots of
“ positive thoughts and feelings com-
,ing from the team.”
Piranian added that he will do
nothing to jeopardize this_season in
_his efforts to improve the skills of his
returning players. He said, ‘There
- will be no next-year thoughts until
this season is over.”

Liberty, with an 11-1-3 record,

«stands as the Generals’ toughest
competition of the season. Liberty
* has allowed only five goals going into
_its game against W&L.
Commenting on the game, Coach
‘Piranian said, ‘‘We’re not going
down there to try to play a close
" game. If we play well with intensity,
, we can win.’’ He also said that the
reaction of his team will indicate how
‘well the younger players can deal
_ with pressure, many of whom have
been seeing a good deal of playing
‘ time lately.
Several freshman have made an
impression on the coach and have en-
» abled him to make a fairly drastic
_ line up change. Co-captains Billy
Holmes and Jimmy Tucker have
» been moved from their customary
_ positions of forward and sweeper, re-
spectively, in an effort to, as Pira-
‘nian put it, ‘‘get things clicking.”’
. Holmes has been brought back to de-
fense, leaving a spot open on the for-
‘ ward line which gives one of the
, many talented freshmen an oppor-
tunity to play. Tucker has moved to
‘ center midfield where his leadership
» will be more available to the Gen-
erals’ young forward line.
Piranian hopes that this blend of
. fired up freshmen mixed with the
stability of the upperclassmen will
“work on the field against both
, Averett and Liberty. “I’m looking for
, Buys that are hot,”’ the coach said.

‘

“It was a tough game on a tough
field. I’m certainly not making ex-
cuses,”’ said Fallon, ‘because they
had to play on the same field. The
defense played well enough to get a
shutout. We were glad to win it, but it
wasn’t lucky, we earned the win.”

The win gave the Generals sole
possession of the Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference lead with a 4-1 con-
ference record. The win completes
the W&L ODAC season and gives the
Generals a chance to claim the con-
ference title. There are three possi-
ble outcomes in the conference race:

eEmory & Henry, who handed the
Generals their only loss, a 30-0 blow-
out on opening day, has one more
conference game left against Mary-
ville. If they win the game they will
be declared conference champions
by virtue of the head-to-head victory.

Randolph-Macon has two confer-
ence games remaining. If they win
both times and E&H loses its last con-
test, W&L will be ODAC Champions,
as they defeated R-MC 31-19 earlier
this season.

elf both E&H and R-MC win all
their remaining games, there will be
a three-way tie for the conference ti-
tle.

Saturday, the team travels to Col-
legeville, Pa., to play Ursinus. The
Bears have lost three consecutive
close games including last week’s
35-34 loss to Muhlenberg. Ursinus led
but gave up a touchdown and a two-
point conversion with 11 seconds re-
maining in the game. The previous
week they lost to Johns-Hopkins on a
field goal with 24 seconds to go. Prior
to that, they were defeated by an
unbeaten Gettysburg squad on
another late touchdown followed by a
two-point conversion,

“They [Ursinus] have a 2-4 record
with 3 games remaining,” said Fal-
lon. ‘So it is important to them to win
all their remaining games so they
can have a winning season. They lost
three tough games, including a loss
to an undefeated Gettysburg squad,
and could easily be 5-1 right now.”’

“We saw the Gettysburg film and
they [Ursinus] did everything but

 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 7, 1985

beat them on the scoreboard,”’ Fallon
continued. ‘They have good, tough,
aggressive athletes at every position
and they really want a winning sea-
son. We’ve played teams from Pen-
nsylvania before, and they’ve always
been very tough,’ the Generals’
mentor said.

“Each game seems to get tougher
than the last,” Fallon said. ‘‘Ursinus
plays in a very tough league, and I
anticipate a good game.”

SIDELINES: W&L now has a 6-1
record overall and a 4-1 ODAC record
... Ursinus is 2-4 ... This is the first
meeting between the two teams ...
Defensive Back Scott Henderson,
who has missed the last two games
with a badly bruised inner calf, is ex-
pected back for Saturday’s game...
Kevin Weaver entered the Bridge-
water game leading the nation in
scoring with 16.4 points per game, he
was also second in rushing with a
144.0 yards per game average ...
Weaver rushed for 126 yards on 26
carries against Bridgewater ...

 

 

 

 

wf
ye

 

   
   

ELT RST %

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Water polo coach Page Remillard goes over strategy in the Richmond game

Polo just short of Richmond

 

By LEIF UELAND
Staff Reporter

 

Although playing Richmond closer
than it has all season and benefitting
from a highly partisan crowd, the
Washington and Lee water polo team
fell to the 17th-ranked Richmond
Spiders in the championship game of
the Southern League tournament
held at W&L this weekend.

W&L came up against the Spiders,
in their fifth meeting of the season,
after defeating James Madison,
25-21, George Washington, 20-6, and
Virginia Commonwealth 22-1, bring-
ing the team’s season record to 19-11.

Against Richmond, the Generals
came out as a group with a mission.
W&L followed each of Richmond’s

Men, women X-country third

 

By REED HOWLETT
Staff Reporter

 

Running on what Coach Dick
Miller described as ‘probably one of
the worst days I’ve ever encountered
for running,” the W&L men’s cross
country team placed third Saturday
in a four-team meet at Eastern Men-
nonite College.

Lynchburg College finished first
with a 37, followed by Hampden-Syd-

 

+

 

a
an

‘ GENERAL

 

 

 

 

The Stains
of W&L
on stage

. Sat.

Have you tried GHQ

for dinner?
463-8578 Opens at 11 Mon.-Sat.

9-]

Opens at 2 Sun.

 

 

first three goals with goals of its own
— each time bringing the crowd to a
roaring ovation. The first period end-
ed with the Generals down by one
goal, 4-3.

While the Generals continued pres-
sing Richmond in the second period,
the Spiders were able to widen the
margin to three goals with a score of
8-5 by the half.

The intensity continued in the sec-
ond half. Each team played tough
defense, and the teams traded goals
throughout the rest of the game. The
Generals, however, could only get as
close as two goals.

Though the team finished second,
the players expressed no regrets
about their performance.

“T thought it was a great game and
the crowd was super. Richmond did

ney with a 53, W&L with a 54, and
EMC with an 86. Sophomore Scott
Rippeon nailed down the top spot in
pacing all runners with a 27:25. Mil-
ler described Rippeon’s performance
as ‘‘his best individual effort since he
has been at W&L.”’

The W&L women also ran Saturday
against EMC and Lynchburg. The
women’s record dropped to 1-5-0 as
they came in third with a 57 behind
EMC with a 28 and Lynchburg witha
38.

what they had to do. They showed
that they were true champions,”
commented head coach Page Remil-
lard.

Senior co-captain Tim Stanford
had similar sentiments about the
team’s performance and about the
fan turnout. ‘‘We were bummed that
we lost, but we played good polo. We
were psyched with the turnout.”’

Senior Scott Johnstone, who, along
with Stanford and David Lewis,
played his last W&L home game on
Sunday, added, ‘‘It was a good way to
end a career — in front of a crowd.”’

The Generals will compete this
weekend in the Eastern Champion-
ships, which includes the top eight
teams in the East. While the
Generals are ranked eighth, they are
the only Division III team included.

at EMC

Freshman Carolyn Arbogast paced
the Lady Generals with a time of
25:30, good for sixth place.

This weekend the ODAC champion-
ships will be run at Hampden-Sydney
College, as the Generals take their
8-4 mark to Farmville to defend their
1984 ODAC title.

Roanoke is the heavy favorite go-
ing into the meet and as Miller put it,
“everyone else will probably be run-
ning for second place.”’

DOMINO'S PIZZA

463-

1375

~ Wehave
Classic Coke

Sun. - Thurs.
Fri. - Sat.

 

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Saturday’s game wasn’t pretty, but it was a win

 

Root of evil?

....More money may be the solu-

tion and/or further detriment to the

TIME _ ncaa basketball recruiting scan-

OUT dals that of late have become a set-

**** your-watch-by-it type of situation.

Come again? Well, seems ol’ Dale

By Mike Brown, hoops boss at Louisiana

Stachura State, has come up with a plan

designed to get the gunk out of the

recruiting game. Brown's plan, de-

tailed in a letter provided to all NCAA Division I institutions, would,

among other things, enlarge the national tournament to include all 282

D-I schools and would make it mandatory for scholarship athletes to
receive a $100-month ‘essential needs” stipend.

Well, Dale, yes and no.

The idea behind letting everybody into the fun is that coaches and
their programs wouldn’t be faced with the pressure to get a bid to the
national championships. Included in that benefit list of course would
be over-anxious alumni. With their alma mater in the tourney every
year, it’s a good bet fewer cars would be flowing under the table to
student-athletes. Sure, there’s the thought that the regular season
would be rather dismal. Maybe, but teams would still be comneting for
seeds, and there’s the additional excitement of giving, say, a VMI a
chance to win it all every year.

The financial hoopla of a 282-team national cage tourney would be
great indeed. We're talking an additional week-and-a half of TV
revenue (big bucks and no whammies, in essence). Not a bad idea.
Here, we've got a chance to do something exciting and something that
portends no evil. Obviously, you don’t have to cheat to get in the tour-
nament if you're already there. Granted, you’re asking for all sorts of
logistics problems with 282 teams competing, but something tells me
the increase in TV revenue (ESPN is doing a pretty fair Pavlov’s dog
about now) will more than offset any of these numbers and brackets
quandaries.

Not the same case with part two, though. The letter states: ‘An
athletic scholarshp should include $100 a month for essential needs
such as notebooks, pens, pencils, laundry money, snacks, food when
cafeteria is closed, etc.’’ There’s something amiss when we start
treating athletes very differently from our non-celebrity students.
Regluar students don’t get $100 a month to cover essential needs ex-
penses. They cover essential needs by a summer job or a work-study
job. Students that are athletes in their extra-curricular life should not
be any different. That already sketchy line between professional
sports and the glitzy world of big-time college athletics needs to be
strengthened. Allowing $100 donations to scholarship hoopsters (and
that’s what it amounts to, since there’s no way of checking how the stu-
dent spends his stipend) would all but erase that line.

Brown’s plan, then, is good in that it alleviates the outside pressure
to win that often proves quite the detriment to a scandal-free college
game. It fails by making student-athletes professional before their
time. We can take some solace from the Brown plan. It is a step in the
right direction. The game needs as many of those as it can get....

.... Wading on down the Colonnade, a big round of applause for the
water polo Generals in their fine effort against Richmond. Nothing to
be ashamed of. And while we're talking about things to be proud of, it
was good to see such a grand turnout for the championship game. You
see, fan support does make a difference...Grid action was not pretty
but got the job done, and you can take that to the bank anyday. Foot-
ballers should have their hands full Saturday. Will need more offen-
sive production if they are going to get win No. 7....

 

 

 

 

. . something in chiffon? or
perhaps a delicious crepe? some-
thing that might be worn off the
shoulder?

We have it at The Bridal Suite,
just downtown. Gowns by
designers like Ursula, Nadine,

 

Gunne Sax, Bernelle, Miss a re
Elliette, and others 7
THE BRIDAL SUITE
More than a Bridal Shop

 

26 S. New St., Staunton

 

 

 

 
-BACK PAGE

‘Chowhounds’ rate
local frozen treats

 

 

By JAMIE BERGER
and CHRIS KOMOSA
Food Critics

 

Ice cream is truly a divinely in-
spired food. It’s perfect except for
one thing — there are too many
flavors and styles to choose from.

A Washington and Lee sophisticate
could spend hours in Sweet Things
mulling over the bountiful possibili-
ties.

Chris even described one night-
marish evening when he stood in
front of Sweet Things, unable to
decide on the truffles and Brie ice
cream topped with hot papaya, or a
double-dip of Grand Marnier and
Chateau Rothschild '68. Three hours
later, when he finally decided on a
vanilla shake, the proprietors had
closed up and driven home.

We could have none of that. In our
eternal quest for journalistic ex-
cellence we knew that a full-course
ice cream meal was called for in
order to best review Sweet Things.

We arrived for our 7 p.m. reserva-
tions and were immediately seated at
our favorite window table by our
maitre d’, Walter Devine. Unfor-
tunately, Sweet Things does not sup-
ply table cloths, candlelight or ster!-
ing silver, so we brought our own.

Feeling quite ravenous, I ordered a
pistachio cone for an appetizer. On
the recommendation of our maitre
d’, Christopher chose the grape
freeze for a cocktail. It sounded so
good I ordered an orange freeze, just
to back up Chris’ evaluation.

The cocktails quickly arrived, and
they were nothing less than fantastic.
Prolific Sweet Things chowhounds
that we are, we still had never had a
freeze before. It is basically a
sherbet and Sprite blended into the
consistency of a regular shake.

If you're saying to yourself,
“Slurpee,”’ think again, because the
freeze has a lot of taste (the sherbet
here is excellent) but doesn’t overdo
it.

Both of our freezes kept their con-
sistency throughout our tasting. It

seemed that I enjoyed Chris’ a little
more, while Chris thought my choice
was better. You'll simply have to find
out which one is good for you, though
we suspect that any choice is good.

My pistachio cone was also very
good. Since the ice cream at Sweet
Things is all made there, it tasted
very fresh and had a very distinct
flavor. Of course what cone taste test
would be complete without biting off
the bottom of the cone and sucking
the remains of the ice cream out. I
can report that this test was suc-
cessful.

Our taste buds primed for the main
course, Chris and I selected our en-
trees. Chris decided on the large
banana split with cinammon gra-
ham, strawberry and black rasp-
berry ice cream, topped off with an
adventurous strawberry topping on
the black raspberry and strawberry
scoops while opting for hot fudge on
the cinammon graham scoop. Chris
is considered a master ice cream
wright by Sweet Things afficianados.

With some helpful hints from Walt,
I chose the large sundae with pepper-
mint and that old standby, oreo, top-
ped with strawberry and marshmal-
low toppings — all of this with a dash
of jimmies on top, for appearances.
With dinner, I ordered the time-
honored vanilla malted, while Chris
chose the root beer float with vanilla
ice cream.

In almost no time, the chef had
whipped up our orders and they were
set down, frosty cold, before our glut-
tonous eyes. Without further adieu
we dug in. Chris immediately de-
clared his split splendid. The banana
wasn’t too mushy and the combina-
tion of hot fudge and strawberry top-
pings made for excruciatingly good
eating.

Chris’ favorite flavor was the cin-
ammon graham, which is a frequent
visitor to the “flavors of the day”
board. Graham crackers never had it
so good until this ice cream came
along.

Chris also enjoyed the root beer
float, which had a very large portion
of vanilla bobbing around in there.

 

You Are Cordially Invited lo

SEA BONAE

OCEANFRONT INN

 

 

Spend Christmas or
Spring Break in
Ft. Lauderdale

Special Group Rates Available

For immediate toll free reservations call
collect 305/564-8531

 

 

(Pre-ott-so)

A.
P cg

R

 

 

Pri.4z:z0

you'll pronounce it delicious.

In Italy, there’s a pie filled with delicious in-
gredients and smothered in rich, zesty sauce and
melted cheeses. You really ought to try it.

Round-trip tickets to Italy are unnecessary
and far too expensive. Just visit your par-
ticipating Pizze Hut® restaurant after 4:00 p.m.
Monday through Friday or anytime Saturday
and Sunday and order our Priazzo rm Italian pie
in one of four tempting combinations of fillings.
Milano, Roma, Florentine and Napoli.

Eat In, Carry Out, Or Delivered

463-7000

600 E. Nelson
Lexington

Like they say in Chunky soup com-
mercials, you’re not sure whether to
eat the float with a straw or a spoon.
Chris uses a specially designed sys-
tem that combines the best of straw
and spoon, but he won’t divulge it un-
til the copyright is through.

My sundae was also very good.
Oreo, possibly the best flavor since
Baskin-Robbins’ now defunct ‘‘Here
Comes the Fudge,” tasted great with
the marshmallow topping. The pep-
permint made for a good flavor con-
trast with the oreo. The strawberry
topping is very good, but the marsh-
mallow could have been hotter. It
had congealed, forming a protective
barrier over my ice oream that left
me in tears. I called some friends in
the sculpture annex, and with the
skillful use of an acetylene torch, the
marshmallow crisis was over.

One other problem was the unusual

‘lack of taste in my vanilla malted. I

had the feeling that a little too much
malted was applied, but I suppose
that can be attributed to a certain
nervousness on the part of the staff,
due to the presence of such chow-illu-
minaries.

After a cup of water and a cup of
orange sherbet to clear our pallets,
Chris and I began to feel our sweet
tooths kicking in. Commonly known
as “Sweet Things second wind,’’ we
were ready for dessert.

Chris ordered a slice of the home-
made ice cream pie, while I went all-
out with a slice of ice cream pie a la
mode (ironically enough, apple pie
ice cream on top).

The pie was a butter ice cream
with a chocolate cookie crust. The
slices were large and tasted good but
I think that there are much better
flavors than butter pecan. Unfor-
tunately, this is the only flavor
available for the moment.

I’m happy to write that Sweet
Things is a shop that is easily enjoyed
all year long due to its excellent ice
cream, value and service.

Commerce School.

203, Reid Hall.

p.m. in Room 21. Public invited.

Headquarters.

at 4:45.

University Center.

The Ring-tum Phi, November 7, 1985

 

Thursday, November 7
7 p.m. — POLITICS FILM: “The Missiles of October.’’ Room 327,

7 p.m. — JOURNALISM FILM: ‘Harlan County” and ‘‘USA.”’ Room

7 p.m. — ROMANCE LANGUAGE FILM: “El Supra.” Cuban with
English subtitles. duPont Auditorium.

Friday, November 8
3:30 p.m. — MATH COLLOQUIUM: ‘‘Matching in Steinhaus Graphs.”
Prof. Wayne M. Dymacek. Room 6, Robinson Hall. Refreshments at 3

Monday, November 11
9 p.m. — MONDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL: Free popcorn. General

Tuesday, November 12
4 p.m. — ENGLISH COLLOQUIUM: ‘The Mear.ing of Ornament:
American Fiction and Victorian Design.”” Prof. Jean Dunbar. Room
21, Payne Hall. Refreshments to follow.
5 p.m. — BIOLOGY FORUM: FILM: ‘‘The Miracle of Life.”” Room
305, Parmly Hall. Discussion led by Dr. Jack Wielgus. Refreshments

7&9p.m, — FILM: “Grand Illusion.”’ Room 203, Reid Hall.

Wednesday, November 14
4 p.m. — JOB HUNTING TECHNIQUES WORKSHOP. Room 114,

5 p.m. — CHEMISTRY SEMINAR. Howe 401. Tea at 4:30 in Howe 402.

 

 

Glee for Mom

Southern Comfort, Washington and Lee University’s
popular singing group, serenades a parent in the au-

dience during their performance on

Friday. Joining

 

By Scott Ferrell/W&L

Southern Comfort for the annual Parents’ Weekend con-
cert in Lee Chapel were the W&L Brass & Percussion
Ensemble, Glee Club and Chorus.

TV knocked out by flood but

is revived for ‘Brady Bunch’

 

By BILL HANNA
TV Critic

 

I know you have all heard the
stories of the flooding in town and
have been out to East Lexington to
see the power of the Maury River as
itraged through our community.

You have heard about those people
who live out in the country and what
the water did to their homes.

There is also talk around town of
the problem with the lack of water.
The mayor asked townspeople to con-
serve water for a few days and there
was a sudden rush of people trying to
get their laundry done or taking that
last shower before the supply of clean
water was exhausted.

This seemed fairly serious at the

Compiled by Marie Kothman

 

 

 

 

ee ee

  
 

e = ’ a
é Eat In, Carry Out Or Delivered 14
eee £
4 $9 OFF you He $4 oF :
B sz. off any large pizza me z
* or $1 off any medium, In- +
cludes Pizza Hut® Pan
; Pizza! Hurry; offer ex- 600 E. Nelson st.
pires soon. One coupon +H Lexington, Va
per party per tat : :
gp prparyeervetat’ SEMUC, — Acz7000" “*
See, '
4 h redempt j H 4
11-30-85 #
0 et et

Your message here

Call 463-8581

$6

 

 

 

 

We Make

Lexington

Beautiful

165 South Main Street

463-9152

 

 

time, but it was fun with people get-
ting some excitement or having some
great stories to call home about.

Then the serious occurred. Some-
where around noon Tuesday, the
television ceased to function. At first,
it was thought that this was just a
temporary outage that would be fix-
ed in a matter of minutes, and people
continued to stare at the picture
tubes that transmitted nothing but
snow and that irritating sound of
static.

Televisions probably remained on
for at least five minutes as people
began to wonder whether this was to
be more than just a temporary set-
back.

Soon, even loyal watchers began to
reluctantly admit that continued
viewing was fruitless and the sets
slowly were turned off. Sure, some
went back to turn the television on
every ten minutes or so to see if they
could salvage what was left of their
favorite soap opera, but there was no
success.

Some now began to grope for possi-
ble ideas of what could occupy the re-
mainder of the day. Maybe a little
shopping or cleaning up around the
house would pass the time. Others
made plans for a card game or even
brought out that Monopoly board sit-
ting in the closet. Radios were also an
option.

People wondered what their grand-
parents did in their spare time before
that magical day when the television
was invented, and were thankful
about one thing — this had not occur-
red during Monday night’s football
game.

Sometime that afternoon, the fami-
ly friend had returned and every
loyal viewer rejoiced to see that ‘‘The
Brady Bunch’’ was on and it was the
episode where the family takes that
memorable trip to Hawaii. The crisis
had ended.

Now, let’s take a look at what’s go-
ing on in TV.

My folks not being in town last
weekend, I got a chance to watch a
show I had heard some about, but
never had a chance to watch:
“Misfits of Science.”

Although, I only caught the last 20
minutes of the show, I got a good idea
of its quality.

The plot was about a Polynesian
guy who had ventured thousands of
miles across the Pacific in a small
boat to put an idol on the Space Shut-
tle about to be launched. He ends up
meeting the Misfits and they decide
to help him in his quest.

In the end, one of the Misfits ap-
peals to a Space Shuttle official about

the plight of the Polynesian and how
harmless the small idol would be to
the mission. The Misfits had brought
about a happy ending, but not before
they got to use some of their powers.

Even if I watched the first half of
the show, I still think I would dislike
it. The whole show seems just a bit
too silly and would probably do much
better opposite something like ‘The
Scooby-Doo’’ cartoon on Saturday
morning.

Now for the highlights...

Friday- One of Stephen King’s
novels comes to the screen tomorrow
as Channel 12 shows ‘‘Carrie’’ at 8.

Saturday- It is a good day for John
Wayne fans as Duke appears in three
films. Channel 12 will show two in a
row starting at noon with ‘‘The Fight-
ing Seabees’’ followed by ‘‘Cahill,
United States Marshall.”’ A switch to
CBN (Channel 2) that night at 8 will
be rewarded with “The Fighting
Kentukian,” assuming you can put
up with the religious commercials.

Saturday night also will have the
network premiere of ‘‘Risky Busi-
ness” on CBS at 9.

The return of “Saturday Night
Live” is also slated for 11:30 that
night on NBC. It will introduce
another new cast and mark the re-
turn of Lorne Michaels, the show’s
creator. Madonna will be the host.

Sunday- Channel 5 monopolizes the
highlights of the day, starting at
noon. A childhood favorite adapted
from the book by E.B. White returns
with the motion picture, ‘‘Charlotte’s
Web.” As usual, Channel 5 also has a
good movie line-up from 4 until 8.
First, Anthony Hopkins stars in
“Magic,”’ a thriller about a ventrilo-
quist’s dummy. This is followed by
another thriller starring Linda Blair
in ‘Hell Night.”’

Now, a few closing notes. ABC has
gambled that America will like the
mini-series ‘‘North and South’, and
has already begun work on ‘‘North
and South, Book II’, which will be
aired in April.

Also, Mary Lou Retton has turned
her Olympic success into a financial
success as ‘‘that winning smile” we
see so much of on ads will give her an
estimated income of over $1 million
this year.

Finally, my respects to Phil Sil-
vers, who died last week at the age of
73. Silvers brought his comedy to the
character of Master Sgt. Ernie Bilko
for five seasons on CBS in the late fif-
ties.

Silvers helped the show win three
Emmy Awards in its five-year run:
two for best comedy show and one for
himself as best actor in a comedy
series. Sergeant Bilko can still be
seen in some cities, probably at some
obscure hour, but it is worth a look.

presents
Mel Gibson
as Mad Max

THE ROAD WARRIOR

Thursday and Friday - 8:30 p.m.
GHQ - Free Popcorn!
Sunday
7:00 and 9:30 p.m. - Student Center Rm. 108
Admission $2

 

 

ap

 

 

 
‘ownage

 
 

 

 

VOLUME 85, NUMBER 10

Wet-winning

Stanford qualifies
for nationals

 

 

General
Notes

 

:

r

.

y

.

a

ir

 

*

Mandatory MDA

There will be a mandatory
meeting for all MDA Superdance
committee members at 7 p.m.
Tuesday in Conference Room B of
the Student Center. Next to the
dance itself, this is the most im-
portant meeting of the year.

Dutch treat

The Washington and Lee Con-
cert Guild opens its 1985-86 season
tonight at 8 in Lee Chapel with
Quink, a Dutch vocal ensemble.
The Guild’s second concert will
feature the Aspen Wind Quintet on
Tuesday, Dec. 3. All Concert Guild
concerts are open free to the W&L
community.

Popcorn, too!

The Student Activities Board
presents ‘‘Kentucky Fried
Movie,” with cameo appearances
by Donald Sutherland, Henry Gib-
son and Bill Bixby, this Thursday
and Friday at 8:30 p.m. in the
GHQ (free popcorn!) and Sunday
at 7 and 9:30 p.m. in Room 108 of
the Student Center. Admission is
$2.

Almost home

On Monday, Evans Dining Hall
will host a special Family Style
Thanksgiving feast featuring
roast whole tom turkey, baked
buffet ham, chestnut dressing,
giblet gravy, whipped potatoes,
buttered green peas, cranberry
relish, whole kernel corn, hot
rolls, pumpkin and mince meat
pies, milk and apple cider.
Students will be seated from 6 to
6:15 sharp and will be directed to
their seats by the staff of Evans
Dining Hall. When a table of 20 is

completely filled, the waiter will

bring out a whole turkey and all
the fixin’s. Come with you friends
as the larger your group the faster
your table will be filled, allowing
service to begin at that table.
Dorm counselors will be the of-
ficial turkey carvers. Nov. 18 pro-
mises to be a festive, fun-filled
evening for all.

Holiday hours

The University Library hours
during the Thanksgiving break

, will be: Friday, Nov. 22: Close at

5:30 p.m.; Saturday, Nov. 23:
Open 9 a.m. — 4 p.m.; Sunday,
Nov. 24: Closed; Monday, Nov. 25
through Wednesday, Nov. 27:
Open 8:30 a.m to 4:30 p.m.;
Thursday and Friday, Nov. 28 and
29: Closed; Saturday, Nov. 30:
Open 9 a.m. -4p.m.; Sunday, Dec.
1; Open at noon to resume 24-hour
schedule.

Charlie Chan Jr.

The Washington and Lee Film
Society and the East Asian
Studies Program will present the
delightful 1982 film ‘‘Chan is Mis-
sing” Friday and Saturday.

One of the most surprising suc-
cess stories in recent film history,
“Chan is Missing”’ is the tale of a
Chinese-American cab driver and
his nephew, who self-mockingly
imitate Charlie Chan and his No. 1
Son as they seek the thief who
stole $4,000 from them.

The showings will be 8 p.m. in
Classroom ‘‘A”’ of Lewis Hall. Ad-
mission is free and the public is in-
vited.

| Visit Chuck and Di

The Virginia chapter of the
English Speaking Union offers
scholarships to qualified juniors
who are Virginia residents for
study in England this summer.
One student may be nominated by

| W&L. Successful candidates may

study at the universities of Ox-
ford, London, or Birmingham (at
Stratford); the dates are roughly
early July to mid-August. Inter-
ested students should speak to
philosophy Professor Ramsey
Martin by Nov. 22. Interviews are
scheduled for Dec. 4.

It’s not pink?

The 1985-86 University Register
is now available in the Registrar’s
Office.

 
      

Page 7

  

TRS @dMeagr

NUV 15 1995

al PLA rere

WASHENCTON ® LMC AUER

 

 

Award-winning

 

x-secretary
Chappell quits

after meeting

 

By JASON LISI
Staff Reporter

 

Carole Chappell, recruitment coor-
dinator and former University Cen-
ter secretary, resigned Friday
because of what she called ‘‘pro-
blems” with her supervisor, Assoc-
iate Dean of Students Michael A.
Cappeto.

“My relationship with Mike Cap-
peto had deteriorated to the point of
no return,” Chappell said this week.

“T don’t think that it’s appropriate
or legal to comment on personnel
matters,’’ Cappeto said yesterday.
“Carole resigned and I’m really go-
ing to miss her.”’

Chappell said she made the deci-
sion to resign last Wednesday after-
noon, after what she called a “‘stor-
my” staff meeting involving herself,
Cappeto, Placement Consultant Ste-
phen P. Bredin and Associate Dean
of Students Anne C.P. Schroer.

Describing the meeting as ‘‘de-
grading and humiliating,’ Chappell
said that ‘‘after the staff meeting on
Wednesday, I realized that I was not
getting the support in my job that I
needed.”’

Chappell said she was upset be-
cause work that was assigned to her
was not mentioned in her job descrip-
tion when she agreed to take the posi-
tion of recruitment coordinator.

She said her job as recruitment co-
ordinator was to welcome and help
the interviewers from the companies
who come to Washington and Lee to
search for future employees. She ad-
ded that when she took the job, she
agreed upon a minimum of typing
work. The remaindor of the typing
was to be done by Carol B. Calkins,
the new University Center secretary
and receptionist, according to Chap-
pell

These agreed-upon stipulations
were not met this year, Chappell
said, as she was given large amounts
of typing work from her three bosses
— Cappeto, Bredin and Schroer. She
said she was given over 100 letters to
type in one week.

When she asked why she had been
given so much typing work, Chappell

said, her superiors told her she was
the only one who knew how to operate
the memory typewriter used in that
work.

Schroer said that Chappell had
talked to her a couple of days before
her resignation about leaving her
job. “I think she had a hard decision
to make. I respect her decision,”
Schroer added.

“I obviously wish her the best,”

she added.
Chappell said that she will see

University President John D. Wilson
today “to go over my personal
record.” She said she wants W&L to
know that “I didn’t just walk out on
my job.”

Chappell said problems began be-
tween her and Cappeto last fall, when
he started to complain about the
number of students ‘‘hanging
around” her and Cappeto’s office. At
that time, Chappell was the Universi-
ty receptionist and had the office
near the glass front doors of the
University Center.

“Tt was no secret that I was having
problems with Cappeto,’’ Chappell
said.

Thefact that students were visiting
her in her office during working
hours” became a “really big issue’
with Cappeto.

In May of this year, Chappell said,
she was given the option of keeping
her old job or taking a a promotion by
taking the job of recruitment coor-
dinator. She said that she took the
promotion in hopes that the problems
Cappeto had with the students in her
office would be eliminated, and they
were.

Her problems started this year, she
said, when she was asked to do the
tasks that were not in the new job’s
description. Even so, she said, “I
really liked the job I was doing.”

When she complained during last
Wednesday’s staff meeting, Chappell
said, her grievances were not taken
as seriously as she intended. “I got
no support from Mike Cappeto,” she
said.

It was the next day, she said, that
she confronted Cappeto and announc-

(See Chappell, Page 5

‘Macready!’ to be at

University Theatre
Page 8

Che Ring-tumn Phi

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 

LIUPPOe, AmE pode

 

  

Your weekend weather

 

  
 

 

  

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

 

 

 

/ ~~ 4
By W. Patrick Hinely/W&L

Chris Spear (left) and Marty Chapman help flood victims

Waiting for the flood

By SEAN BUGG
Staff Reporter

 

 

Last Tuesday night junior Tom Knight and his five roommates were
throwing a flood party at their house next to the Maury river, while the
flood waters crept quickly toward them.

At midnight that night, a card game was in progress in the house,
and there was little flooding in the area.

At 2 a.m., the water from the river had come within 15 feet of the
house, and the party broke up, while Knight and some others stayed up
to watch the flood’s progress.

By 4a.m., the water had surrounded the building and was seeping
into it, at which time the residents abandoned the house. Knight said
that at the flood’s peak, there was about four feet of water in the first
floor.

Knight and his roommates were lucky in that they were just renting
the house and they lost only two sofas and a dresser.

‘We had enough time to clear out,’’ Knight said.

 

Cloudy and chance of

rain all weekend long

 

NOVEMBER 14, 1985

 

W&L gives
$5,000 for
flood relief

By PAUL FOUTCH
Editor

 

 

Washington and Lee’s help in
flood relief from last week’s
storms has ranged from ROTC
cadets cleaning up and preventing
looting to a $5,000 donation to flood
relief announced today.

Several fraternities, including
Chi Psi, Kappa Sigma, Phi Gam-
ma Delta and Sigma Nu, were out
in force in Buena Vista and other
hard-hit areas, cleaning homes,
businesses and industries.

The W&L News Office esti-
mated that over 1,000 man-hours
were donated by the W&L commu-
nity.

Jeffery Hanna of the Publica-
tions Office also announced today
that W&L will donate $5,000 to
help Southern Seminary Junior
College with its county-wide flood
relief program. Hanna said it was
the largest monetary donation
from W&L.

Other organizations are plan-
ning to donate money .

eThe freshman class is planning
a fast for flood charity Tuesday.
Patrons of Evans Dining Hall will
be asked in advance if they will
give up their dinner Tuesday as a
donation to flood relief.

Each student that agrees to
donate his dinner will be giving
$1.50

eW&L will donate the gate re-
ceipts from Saturday’s home foot-
ball game against Washington
University. “It could be a couple
of hundred dollars to a thousand
dollars,” according to Athletic Di-
rector William D. McHenry.

The Intervarsity Christian Fel-
lowship has placed coffee cans in
the University Library, the Co-op
and General Headquarters for
monetary donations to flood
relief.

Many of the ideas were Han-
na’s, who said there were many
organizations that wanted to help
in some way but didn’t know what
the best way would be.

Inside...

~ Floods hurt business, Page 5
Water service normal, Page 5

 

 

 

Single sanction questioned in wake of verdict

 

 

By JIM STRADER
News Editor

 

The possibility that the single-sanction Honor System is no
longer workable was raised by several members of the
Washington and Lee community after last week’s open honor
trial, in which a student convicted of petty larceny in a city court
was acquitted of an honor violation by a student jury

“Tf the students feel that punishment is too harsh for this kind
of an example,’’ said senior Scott Henderson, maybe there
needs to be a re-working of the Honor System.

Henderson echoed the thoughts of several students interview-
ed this week about Friday’s acquittal of a student on an honor
violation charge. The student was charged with stealing; he was
convicted of larceny Oct. 15 in Lexington General District Court.
Both charges stemmed from the incident last May, when the stu-
dent took a barrel of wine from Spanky’s restaurant.

Lee Hollis, a senior and a member of the student-alumni group
Kathekon, said the severity of the penalty for an honor convic-
tion, expulsion from the University, may have a bearing on the
decision of a student jury.

There are cases, Hollis said, in which students may feel that

Defendant not surprised by acquittal
by student jury in open honor hearing

 

although an act is dishonorable, it does not justify removing a
student from the University.

“The reaction of your average jury member,” Hollis said,
“especially on this one, which had a lot of freshmen, is ‘Who am
I to be kicking this person out of school?’ ”

“In the open trial, students are sometimes more sympathetic
to extenuating ciroumstances,”’ Hollis said. “I think the penalty
ro have something to do with it, the all-or-nothing of it,” he
said.

“The fact that he admitted to stealing was never under ques-
tion,” Hollis said. ‘It was not ‘whether he stole,’ but ‘was it an
honor offense?’ ”

Henderson said the personal identification of a student juror
can make a fellow student who is on trial might complicate the
hearing process.

“We all know what everyone goes through at W&L,”’ he said,
“and sentiments come into play far too much. A juror might
say, ‘Look at what we are taking away from him. Is what he did
sufficient reason to take away what he’s done here?’ It’s not a
question of cut-and-dried honor anymore.”’

Townes Pressler, chairman of the Student Control Committee,
which is responsible for student conduct violations, expressed
concern about the perception the student body has of the Honor
System lately.

 

DHE

“What bothers me about it is what student reaction is,”
Pressler said. ‘‘I think there is a disbelief that there is an Honor
System, and that it works,” he said.

Henderson also said he has concern about student perceptions
of honor offenses. ‘‘If you can get off on a case just because you
have the ‘honor’ to admit to it,”’ he said, ‘‘then what are the
criteria?”

‘Maybe the Honor System is too strict,’’ Henderson said, ad-
ding that if it is perceived that way it would be ‘‘unfortunate.’’

“The Honor System, as I have viewed it, is a very fragile
thing,” said Sidney M.B. Coulling, professor of English and a
W&L alumnus, ‘‘It depends on student support.’’

Henderson said he sees a trend away from this support in not
only honor trials, but in the criminal justice system as well.
‘The mentality of students and the nation as a whole is to look
for loopholes rather than to see justice done,’ Henderson said.

Pressler agreed with Henderson. ‘‘There is a real loophole
here,” he said. He added that respect for the Honor System is
strong within the EC, but not in the student body.

Hollis agreed. ‘It’s the EC’s job to inerpret the honor code ina
fairly strict manner,’ he said. ‘In the appeal to a closed hear-
ing, the student generation’s view comes out more.”

See Reaction, Page 5

EC retains faith in Honor System
despite reversal of closed conviction

By JIM STRADER
News Editor

 

 

 

¥

_

“T don’t see this as a landmark
case,” senior Bill Zola said of his
open honor hearing last Friday. “It’s
not like this is the first time this has
happened. It’s the first time I’ve ever
seen it go this far — to an open hear-
ing.”

Zola was acquitted by a student
jury after being convicted in a closed
hearing by the Executive Committee
on a charge of stealing a barrel of

wine from Spanky's restaurant last
May.

Zola said he has faith in the Honor
System, but has some disagreements
with the EC’s procedures.

“T think the Honor System worked
this time,’’ he said. ‘‘I don’t have any
gripe with the Honor System. The
thing that bugs me is that it took five
months.”

He characterized the time from the
incident in May until his acquittal
Friday as ‘‘five months of hell.”’

See Acquittal, Page 5

 

 

By JIMSTRADER
News Editor

HONOR SYSTEM

 

In the wake of a student jury's re-
jection last week of an Executive
Committee honor conviction, several
EC members reaffirmed their faith
in the University’s Honor System

EC President John Lewis said that
despite the overturning of the verdict
reached in a closed hearing, he feels
no frustration, but added that others
on campus might

 

 

“The response I’ve gotten is that

this verdict wasn’t a true representa-
tion of the student generation,”’ he
said. ‘‘Many people are amazed at
the decision and felt that justice
wasn't done. A lot of people are
amazed.”’

Lewis was quick to note that the
Honor System does not work on the
basis of precedent Past decisions are
not the basis for decisions in future
cases — but second-year law repre-
sentative William Thompson said

See EC, Page 5

 

od
 

 

 

OPINION
| Betrayed

et

4
’

-

———

dled hapa ay yl ghasyarndity

ALMRAL EL OB BECECLEE 6

  

“sh oe ae
‘

“eM hg the tt

a

RR

z x

 

“If you do not believe in honorable conduct or are indifferent
on the point, Washington and Lee is not the proper school for
you.”

—The White Book

The language of the Honor System guidelines is as clear
and unambiguous as was the accused student’s petty larceny
conviction from Lexington General District Court.

“The system is in essence one of mutual trust — trust
among students, faculty, administrators, and townspeople
that persons attending Washington and Lee will not lie, cheat
or steal,” the White Book says.

‘‘No violation of this trust is too small to be ignored, for we
understand that honor is not measured by degree.”’

Either the student body jury Friday did not understand
that, or else it decided it knew better for Washington and Lee
than did Robert E. Lee, the Honor System’s founder.

In refusing to exercise the single sanction against a student
who sat in Lee Chapel and admitted that he stole, the jury did
more than taint the Washington and Lee community by
allowing a dishonorable student to remain within it:

It made it impossible for any student recruitment member
to look a prospective in the eye and in good faith say that we
have an Honor System that works.

It put the faculty and town on notice that Washington and
Lee students cannot be trusted under all circumstances.

And it made a mockery of the aspect of the Washington and
Lee experience that students and alumni point to with the
most pride.

The Honor System has never been codified — the dos and
don’ts are not spelled out, since a hallmark of the system is
the fact that all offenses are considered on a case-by-case
basis. The underlying principle has always been, though, that
lying, cheating and stealing are blatant examples of honor
violations, although the system was presumed to extend well
beyond those. This jury, though, decided that even one of
those most fundamental breaches of the system was insuffi-
cient to warrant removal from the Washington and Lee com-
munity.

The travesty raises a number of questions:

Under the philosophy that there are no degrees of honor,
how could the fact that someone was acting under the in-
fluence of alcohol possibly be a factor for a jury?

How could a jury ignore the fact that by his actions, this
student cast doubt in the minds of the community about the
integrity of all Washington and Lee students?

Why would a jury decide that the American criminal
justice standard is not tough enough — that what was good
enough for civil authorities, who have to operate under all
sorts of rules and procedures not necessary in an honor hear-
ing, was not adequate evidence that the student was guilty of
shoplifting?

On what basis could the jury have believed it appropriate
to consider factors relating to what the student did after the
offense, the reasons he committed the offense or his feelings
about the offense, when the only relevant question was
whether the act was in fact committed? And the student
admitted that.

Lee and the Honor System he left as his legacy had nothing
to say about intention or motivation or mitigating circum-
stances. Students who commit dishonorable actions will be
permanently dismissed from the University. Period. It does.
not matter if the student was intoxicated. It does not matter if
the student was under mental stress, which likely will be the
defense when the next cheating case comes up. It does not
matter if the student returned the purloined liters. And it
does not matter if the student is a nice guy.

If it’s impossible to convict students for even the most
egregious violations of the words and spirit of the system, we
wonder if the only reasons the system is retained are util-
itarian ones — because it’s convenient to be able to leave our
books lying around and because it’s handy to be able to
charge a Coke at the Co-op when we forget our checkbooks.
The Honor System becomes a method of getting out of town
by Tuesday of exam week, not something that guides actions,
builds character or shapes lives.

The decision Friday clearly reduces the aura and power of
the system. Who’s going to think twice about snagging a Bic
pen when someone who admits he stole more than a score of
bottles of wine still walks the Colonnade?

Besides being embarrassed by the decision, we are alarm-
ed — alarmed that that jury was not a fluke, did not make a
mistake and was not simply seduced by the consensus that
the student in question was “‘a great guy.’”’ We are alarmed
that those 12 people may have represented accurately the
views of this student generation.

If that is the case, the Honor System is a charade — a game
we play out of habit and convenience, a game we can stick
back on the shelf when we get bored or drunk.

That possibility leaves us with a host of haunting doubts:

Should we continue to delude ourselves about the system,
telling ourselves and others that it works, when we know in
our hearts that it does not?

Should the Executive Committee try to maintain the skele-
ton of the system in case some future student generation
might, by chance, want to live by it?

Or should we be truthful with ourselves and make the pain-
ful but intellectually honest decision to bury the system along
with its creator?

Realizing that you can’t give CPR to a corpse forever, we
know that eventually the system may have to be put out of its
misery.

For now, though, that extreme path can be rejected. We
believe a system that has survived 120 years and 30 student
generations can endure a body blow such as the one it suffer-
ed on Friday.

So it’s not time to shut off the life-support equipment.

Yet.

The Ring-tum Phi, November 14, 1985

 

 

 

 

 

 

eluswe Traclition Agi

vr er

. peltevability HOU gull

oust em at any price.

Know
ch eo

nq Prodvece,
find mM No other

 

 

* This Gent's for youl"

 

 

Misinterpretation dishonors system

To the editors:

“Persons attending Washington
and Lee University must realize that
our commitment to the principle of
honor is firm. If you think that you
can join us in upholding this princi-
ple, we weloome you to become part
of our community. Membership in
our student body signifies commit-
ment to an honor system under which
ignorance is no excuse. If you do not
believe in honorable conduct, or are
indifferent on the point, Washington
and Lee is not the proper school for
you.” With these words, the White
Book begins.

As a prospective student, I was told
all about the “Honor System” that
“works.’’ The rhetoric was strong
and ‘consistent. The Honor System
was the main reason I chose to come
to Washington and Lee. I optimisti-
cally told my friends that I was going
to a school where the students
mutually pledged to each other that
they would not lie, cheat or steal.

Since I arrived, I have become con-

siderably less enamored, not with the
Honor System, but with the student
enforcement of the Honor System. I
heard Executive Committee mem-
bers who felt it unnecessary for them
to prosecute false identification and
stolen road sign cases. Some of them
recommended that these cases be
relegated to the Student Control
Committee. My friends, these are
serious honor violations.

The dictionary defines a lie as ‘“‘a
false statement or piece of informa-
tion deliberately presented as being
true.” The use of such an item con-
stitutes lying. Lying is an honor
violation. Therefore, the use of false
identification is an honor violation.

To steal is defined in the dictiopary
as “to take without right or permis-
sion.”’ What right does any student
have to take a road sign that is the
property of the Virginia Department
of Transportation? The student has
none. What permission does the stu-
dent have? Again, the student has
none. Therefore, the student has

Details do matter

To the editors:

I feel compelled to write this letter,
after having finished the Octoberfest
meal on Parents’ Weekend. I must
commend the Evans Dining Hall
staff for their efforts to keep eating
interesting. The Octoberfest was a
display of hard work, well performed
for the parents. But one point that
really hurt my national pride (and
my parents’ if they had decided to
come) is that the Dining Hall staff
served Gouda cheese with a little
German flag on top, indicating Ger-
man origins. But as any cheese lover,
and all Dutchmen, would know,
Gouda is a Dutch cheese, not Ger-
man; Octoberfest is a German festi-
val, not Dutch. It might seem like a
trivial point, but I have always felt
that if you do something, do it right
and completely in every aspect, or do
not doit at all.

I bring up this topic not as com-
mentary on the Evans Dining Hall,
but to draw an analogy to the Honor
System. Let the Honor system not be
ruined, as the meal was, by overlook-
ing minor details. Let the Honor
System be rightly and completely ap-
plied, or not at all.

I, like many, came to W&L partly
for its great (?) Honor System. It was
touted before I applied, when I got
accepted, and before I came to W&L,
but even more so during orientation.
Yet each issue of this paper has had
one or more editorials about the
Honor System and its terminal ill-
ness. But let me start by taking a look
at the word “honor.’’ One of the
definitions given by our faithful
friend Webster is ‘‘A code of princi-
pally male dignity, integrity, and
pride ... Personal integrity maintain-
ed without legal or other obligation.”
Obviously, (to me at least), honor is
not something we receive through
osmosis, nor through just attending
W&L. As Mr. Allen tells us, honor is
not just a “‘cool’’ thing to have, just a
fad to follow. It is more, much more.
Honor must be derived from a basic
trust, shown by one, and towards
others, which grows, and must be
nurtured through time. Specifically,
at W&L, this trust means that one

' will not lie, steal, or cheat.

But Dr. Nelson Patterson, in The
Ring-tum Phi of Oct. 24, gives the
prognosis that Lee’s concept of honor
is dying. My initial prognosis agrees
with him. Examine the evidence for

yourself — look at the definition:
“without legal obligation.” Yet we
have the watchful eye of the Student
Control Committee to guide us in our
lives. Examine the disappearances
in the freshman dorms (conveniently
blamed on nearby schools). Examine
library losses. WLUR thefts, and
stolen jewelry (read the Ring-tum
Phi). I still leave my door unlocked,
but I am beginning to wonder. I still
leave the lock off my bicycle, but now
lam tempted to use it.

If the Honor System has worked for
over 100 years, then why is it failing
now? It could be women (God for-
bid), but even I am not naive enough
to think so. Surely it is not student
apathy. Yes, it is student apathy, as
displayed at the honor forum, and a
recent quote I heard: “F**k the
honor code.” But there is more to it
than this.

It partially lies in our society and
our upbringing. Look at Nixon, the
PLO, Khadafy (however one chooses
to spell his name), and the list goes
on. They all set an example of lying,
cheating and stealing, which we see,
hear and read about daily. Yet if past
W&L generations have been able to
deal with this, then why can’t we?

I feel that the difference lies in our
lack of attention to detail. There does
seem to be willingness to revive the
Honor System. Look at the number of
people wanting an Executive Com-
mittee spot in the freshman class,
and look at the editorials in the
newspaper. However, it takes more
than the concerted effort of some to
uphold the Honor System; it takes
all. The Honor System should not be
upheld sometimes, but all the time.
Each offense should be viewed as
equally detrimental to the school,
and the system must be taken seri-
ously all the time or not at all.

Be able to step above “‘coolness,”’
above society’s norms, and above our
current actions. Better not only your-
self, but better the school by learning
honor, living honor and being honor.
Do so now, while you have the chance
and while there is still time. For
perhaps someday, one I will regret,
to maintain enrollment levels, stan-
dards, and the W&L greatness, the
tradition of the honor will have to go
the way of the all-male school.

Dirk van Assendelft
Class of 1989

stolen the road sign. Stealing is an
honor violation. Therefore, that stu-
dent has committed an honor viola-
tion.

As more weeks passed, I read
editorials commenting on the sad
state of student reaction to and en-
forcement of the Honor System. Now,
I have seen too much. I feel like the
proverbial old man who claims to
have lived too long.

I find it difficult to believe that
fellow Washington and Lee students
are willing to excuse blatant honor
violations on the basis of intoxica-
tion. One student claims that intox-
ication is like sleepwalking. The
“victim’’ does not know what he or
she is doing. There is a crucial
dichotomy to be made. While sleep-
walking is virtually uncontrollable,
intoxication is brought upon one’s
self through a deliberate action
— drinking too much alcohol. Intox-
ication is never forced on anyone.
The individual makes a decision to
become intoxicated either through
blatant choice or sheer irresponsibili-
ty. Also, those who have been intox-
icated know what they are likely to
do. Thus, every time one decides (ex-
plicitly or implicitly) to become in-
toxicated, one must accept the conse-
quences of actions done while intox-
icated. Are we to allow honor viola-
tions due to intoxication? I think not.
Why, then it becomes acceptable for
someone to steal your $500 stereo
system because that person is drunk.
I cannot believe that we as Washing-
ton and Lee students truly desire that
course of action, for then mutual
trust is necessarily breached when-
ever anyone becomes intoxicated.
Thus, intoxication becomes the ideal

excuse for any honor violation. That
cannot be if we are to keep the Honor
System alive and working.

I also find it hard to believe that we
as Washington and Lee students are
willing to excuse as “‘honorable”’ that
which all of society condemns as re-
prehensible. How can that which is
enforced as larceny by the police not
be condemned as stealing by the
W&L community? If a student steals
a roadsign, that student is guilty of
two crimes, larceny to the police and
stealing (honor violation) to the W&L
community. That student must be
prosecuted on two fronts, the legal
and the honorable.

As. students at Washington and

~ Lee, we have pledged to be honorable

and trustworthy. The White Book
defines honorable and trustworthy
conduct for Washington and Lee
students. Simply put, it is never
honorable or trustworthy for
Washington and Lee students to lie or
cheat or steal (notice the absence of
“when sober’). We have agreed to
that, so let’s live by it and enforce it.

My friends, the Honor System is
suffering from misinterpretation and
student apathy. All too few students
are deeply concerned about honor. If
things progress at this rate, honor-
able students may have to leave
Washington and Lee in order to find
an honorable atmosphere. Should it
not rather be the case that
dishonorable students and students
who are ‘“‘indifferent’ to honor
should leave Washington and Lee?
The White Book says so, and I believe
it.

James M. Sloat
Class of 1989

Honor by applause?

To the editors:

How should we measure honor at
W&L in the future?

Suggestion No. 1: The Honor
Breathalyzer: Anyone over the legal
limit for intoxication is exempt from
the honor code.

Suggestion No. 2: The Honor Code
Punch-Clock: Every student will be
issued a punch card so they can
punch in and out of the Honor System
any time they feel the need.

Suggestion No. 3: The Applause
Meter: The more popular a person is,
the less chance of an honor convic-
tion.

Suggestion No. 4: It All Depends on
the Situation.

Of course we are being sarcastic.
The University policy on alcohol
states: “‘Washington and Lee Univer-
sity students are responsible for their
actions. Under no circumstances will
a person’s behavior be excused, over-
looked, or minimized because of the
use of alcohol.’’ (Student Handbook,
p. 76) We, the undersigned, will
always believe in the Honor System
and abide by the University policy.
Most of all, we will always believe in
personal accountability.

John T. Wiltse, Class of 1987
Allan R. Dick, Class of 1987
Douglas E. Harvey, Class of 1987
Peter L. Boatner, Class of 1987

Student sickened by verdict

To the editors:

I am absolutely sickened by the
judgment reached at the recent open
“honor’’ trial — not because of its
personal implications (in fact I do not
even know the names of the defen-
dant or any jury members), but
because of its implications as to the
State of the “honor’’ system as a
whole.

On what now do we base this shell
of an “honor” system? This poor
thing has deteriorated beyond recog-
nition as having come from the ideals
of honor of Robert E. Lee. Any in-
sinuation that the “‘honor’’ system
here is based upon Lee’s lofty ,unwrit-
ten code is an insult to him. If any-
thing, today’s system is a gross over-
simplification of his ideals that re-

tains none of the spirit of honor he in-
tended.

Instead, the system has become a
trite set of rules and base ideas
(hardly ideals) designed to afford
daily conveniences. Is that honor?
My God, I hope any man can strive to
be better than a liar, a cheater or a
thief. Yet this “‘honor’’ system calls
us no higher.

Perhaps The Ring-tum Phi should
include an obituary seetion this
week. For while the W&L “tonor”
system lives on, Robert E. Lee’s
ideal of honor is dead, and our last
honor trial decision has nailed its cof-
fin shut.

John Riordan
Class of 1987
The Ring-tum Phi, November 14, 1985, Page 3

 

Changed registration system complicates student’s life

 

MY VIEW

By Tom Maguire

 

Recently we all had to go through
that arcane process known as regis-
tration for classes. First came every
student’s sometimes agonizing strug-
gle over what classes to take. You
know how it goes: “Should I take this
class, which someone once told me
was easy, or that class, which is sup-
posed to be hard. Of course, this one
meets A-hour, and I don’t want that.
But if I take that one intead of this
one, I’ll have Professor X for the
other one, and it’s bye-bye Dean’s
list. On the other hand...” Sound
vaguely familiar to you? Of course,
this internal debate is followed by the
notorious “search for the adviser.”’ I

have never had any trouble in this
regard, but I have heard stories of
students camped for days outside a
professor’s office, sustained only by
the fear of late registration.

This term the registration ritual
was made even more hazardous to
mind and body by a new decree pro-
mulgated by recently arrived Uni-
versity Registrar D. Scott Dittman.
Before examining this new process,
let me quickly review the old method.

Traditionally, the catalog has con-
tained within each course listing a
note of all the prerequisites one must
have for that course, including
whether ‘‘permission of the instruc-
tor’ was required. This permission
was granted orally, and if one signed
up for a course requiring permission,
it was assumed by one’s adviser and
by the Registrar’s Office that it had

Student calls aid in

To the editors:

It is an often forgotten fact that
Robert E. Lee was buried in a coffin
that was too short following another
flood on the Maury. After this week, I
am sure that he turned over in that
coffin as he observed the callous and
uncaring attitude exhibited by the
majority of the W&L community. No-
where did that callousness stand out
more prominently than in The Ring-
tum Phi. Statements such as Bill
Hanna’s “...it [the flood or the water
shortage caused by the flood?] was
fun with people getting some excite-
ment or having some great stories to
call home about,”’ or Charles Gay’s

“Dirty people cannot study proper-
ly,” typify the attitude that I have
observed this week. W&L was fortu-
nate to have been spared the devasta-
tion that reeked havoc in hundreds of
lives in the Lexington-Buena Vista
area. However, with business as
usual for both the Law School and the
undergraduate campus, our fortune
has spawned in many an I-was-not-
affected-why-should-I-care attitude,
which is both contemptible and
pitiable.

When I came to Washington and
Lee, I was led to believe it was uni-
que: that the University was founded
on the noble ideals of George Wash-

been received. This system, I had
always thought, worked pretty well.
Apparently, however, it didn’t work
well enough. As mentioned above, a
new procedure was tried this term.
Each student had to obtain a booklet
that listed all the courses offered in
the winter term. Beside many of
these listings was an asterisk in-
dicating that permission of the in-
structor was required. Furthermore,
this permission was to take the form
of the professor’s initials on the
registration card.

It turned out that many of the
courses marked by the asterisk did
not, in fact, require prior permission.

Reaction from the instructors in-
volved was immediate. The history
department, evidently as much sur-
prised by the new procedure as the
students, posted a memorandum

removing all but one of the 300-level
history courses from the list of
classes requiring permission.

One music professor was amazed
to discover that one of his courses
“required” permission, and that as a
result he was going to have to initial a
bunch of registration cards.

The German department went so
far as to circulate a memo to all ad-
visers informing them that several
German courses were incorrectly
listed as requiring permission.

One professor I know suggested
that, to avoid hassles at the Regi-
strar’s Office, students sign his in-
itials themselves.

Clearly, then, this new registration
system failed. Students disliked it
because it forced them to run around
trying to get permission for courses
that didn’t require it.

emergency lacking

ington and Robert E. Lee. One ideal
Uhey poth shared was humanity to
one’s fellow man — call it the Chris-
tian ideal, if you will — and I was pro-
ud to be part of a university that
struggled valiantly, so.I thought, to
keep that ideal alive. Also I felt that a
liberal arts institution existed in
large part to serve and enrich the
surrounding community, and once
again I was proud to be a part of a
university that I felt embodied such
an ideal. Later, as I became part of
the W&L community, I grew to ap-
preciate and understand those ideals.
Now, however, in the wake of W&L’s
response, or more accurately lack of

Reader laments sports apathy

To the editors:

After reading Mr. Feyrer’s column
Oct. 31, I’m really not sure what
point he was trying to make. Ms.
Kothman did make a good point
about the “Great Halftime Depar-
ture’’ in her letter the week before.
Mr. Feyrer assures Ms. Kothman
that “‘tradition has nothing to do with
students leaving the game at half-
time; that’s a matter of choice.” I
strongly disagree with Mr. Feyrer’s
statement. As soon as the Homecom-
ing festivities with Shillington & Co.
are over, the mass exodus begins. In
fact, I overheard one guy say to a
group, ‘‘Hey, it’s halftime. Time to
start partying again!”

Whether Mr. Feyrer wants to call
this a tradition or not is of little im-
portance. I wonder how many stu-
dents here have ever watched an en-
tire football game. The mass exodus
just becomes that much more appar-
ent because Homecoming is the only
game that most students choose to at-
tend. What does become important is
the overall attitude of the student
body toward athletics. Maybe tradi-

   
   

Lexington Shoe |

  

We have a complete

stock of Vibram Sole Sets— |
for hiking

and foul weather

         
  

   

3 West St.

ecceecereereeseseceoseee

tion is too strong a word for this
phenomenon, but student apathy to-
ward sports at W&L has become
somewhat of a fact of life.

Even though W&L is a small
school, most of us probably came
from schools that were even smaller.
I don’t know about the rest of you, but
at my school, athletes enjoyed decent
crowds and recognition for the most
part. This certainly isn’t the norm at
W&L. As a member of the aquatics
program, I’ve grown accustomed to
polo matches and swimming meets
with about as many spectators as
there are days in the week. Although
this weekend the polo team did enjoy
large crowds, which were greatly ap-
preciated. But again I have to won-
der if this was the result of genuine
water polo interest or the fact that
the students were running out of in-
teresting activities for their parents
in conjunction with the wonderful Ad-
dams Family weather we were then
enjoying.

The more I’ve talked with those
students who aren’t in the library,
watching TV or sleeping between the
hours of 3:30 and 6, the more I’ve

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Safeway

We have all your
party needs

Fresh Made Deli Pizzas

see eeeereeereseeeseees

found their reasons for participating
in a sport go well beyond any mini-
mal amount of recognition they
might receive. The real factor be-
comes a personal satisfaction and
love of the sport itself. Most athletes
have accepted the fact that outside of
their teammates, other athletes, and
a close circle of friends, no one really
cares. If other students were aware
of the sacrifices athletes must make
on a daily, weekend and vacation
basis, I’m certain they’d have a lot
more respect for these students.

The point I’m hoping to make is
that apathy towards athletics has
become somewhat of a tradition that
needs to discontinue. I wonder how

“Smany students know where Smith
‘Field is or what team plays there. Or ~

better yet, how many students have
been back to Cy Twombly since their
freshman swim test? Maybe this will
be another problem that coeducation
will help solve. So come on. Even if
you no longer wear one, at least be
one — an athletic supporter.

Chris Hope
Class of 1986

 

 

 

 

Football Team
Saturday

Support the W&L

    
   

  
    
   
  

response, to the flood I wonder if
perhaps I was wrong about this insti-
tution. Can it be that the professed
“‘reverence”’ forthe high standards
espoused by the University’s name-
sakes is so much talk? In light of the
inaction at W&L, I am forced to con-
cede that it is a likely possibility.

I also find it ironic that the VMI
cadets, the brunt of many W&L
jokes, are the only ones doing some-
thing constructive to clean up after
this disaster. The cadets have pitch-
ed in and gotten muddy to help Buena
Vista. What have we done? NOTH-
ING. VMI is actively conserving
water. What have we done? Moan
and cry about how inconvenienced
we are. The cadets certainly have a
sense of duty to the community; what
is wrong with us? Are we going to
act, in the true spirit of Generals
Washington and Lee, when the com-
munity truly needs us, or are we go-
ing to continue to pay lip service to
their ideals?

Seth B. Whitelaw
Law Class of 1988

~ ay ee

 

22 W. Nelson St.,

Many faculty members didn’t like
the system because it was instituted
without their knowledge. I’m sure
many professors were surprised to
learn (from a student, usually) that
one of their courses suddenly re-
quired permission.

Mr. Dittman will probably turn out
to be a wonderful registrar. By all ac-
counts I have heard, although I have
not met him personally, he is an af-
fable, intelligent man. However, I
can’t imagine why he decided to
change an apparently smooth pro-
cedure during his first term on the
job. Wouldn’t it have made more
sense to observe the system for a
year to see how things worked before
trying something new?

As I see it (and I may be viewing
things somewhat myopically),
several mistakes were made.

is otherwise independent.

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

We ee Mike Allen
MG aon baht acca eieet eset cesses ieasscass Paul Foutch
cE esp edocs ei devocses Reade Williams
pethidescidisesieicstecel Mike Stachura
Beaks Tide veteeeeeeds Nelson Patterson
roo ee Jim Strader

Business Manager ...........--.eseee00 0
Advertising Manager .............6.000055

Advertising Salesmen .............5..0.0005

$i APe tsi ise sivicoic, Jeff Kimbell
0686655 55008000003. 4055 Hank Greenberg

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi

The Registrar’s Office should not
have labeled courses ‘‘Permission
required” without consulting the pro-
fessors in question.

All course information should have
been included in the catalog, where it
could have been seen by all students
while they were planning their
Winter Term schedules. Vital infor-
mation should not have been given to
students within a day or two of the
registration day.

Finally, in those courses where
permission really was required, that
permission should be granted orally.

Until such time as any new regis-
tration system can be clearly ex-
plained to all students and faculty,
the old system of registration should
be maintained.

The system used the other week
should be scrapped.

Cotton Puryear

John Feyrer
Jay Reville

 

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 200 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

  
  
  
  

Clothiers for Men and Ladies
20% off Entire Stock

Friday and Saturday
November 15th and 16th

   

 

463-9340

 

 

 

 

Commons.

sentatives to help you.

 

Dick Emrey (703) 463-4362 (evenings)

 

 

BORDEN

 

At Borden Commons we haven't stopped with our first success!

Phase | of Borden Commons enjoyed a successful welcome from the community and quickly sold
out. Now, with some new designs and interior layouts, we are introducing Phase II of Borden

Baker Real Estate
Post Office Box 723
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Oftice (703) 463-7319

= —

COMMONS BP

-Lexington's First Condominium Ce

  

 

These new and beautiful condominiums are designed to fulfill your every need, and they're located
just a short distance from Washington & Lee, V.M.I. and the historic Lexington community.

Isn't it time you considered the ease and financial rewards of condominium living?

If you have any questions about Borden Commons, we have a brochure available and repre-

Tom Baker (703) 463-2510 (evenings)

| pe aegis eA AR Ses TEE SO aI OR
 

 

 

 

NEWS

The Ring-tum Phi, November 14, 1985

 

Lewis tells faculty of complaints about rules

 

By JASON LISI
Staff Reporter

following topics:

 

Executive Committee President John
Lewis presented a list of complaints about
some of the rules that resulted from last
year’s Drug Policy Review Committee to the
faculty at its monthly meeting Monday after-

noon.

These complaints came from members of
the student body, faculty, the Board of
Trustees, and last year’s and this year’s EC,
Lewis said in Monday evening’s EC meeting.

sophomore
guilty on
gun charge

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Staff Reporter

 

 

Sophomore Drake Fason of Austin,
Texas, was found guilty of reckless
handling of a firearm Tuesday in
Lexington District Court.

The charge stemmed from a shoot-
ing incident at the Kappa Sigma
house in September. Fase vas fined
$200 and was given a five-day sus-
pended sentence.

According to Judge Joseph E.
Hess, Fason endangered himself
when he fired the rifle from the third
floor window of the fraternity house.
The .50-caliber rifle that Fason fired
was loaded only with gun powder.

The incident occurred Sunday,
Sept. 22 at the Kappa Sigma house at
201 E. Washington St.

According to a report from Officer
G.P. Joines, a ‘“‘popping” sound
issued from the house around 12:15
a.m. that evening and Joines went to
investigate. A group of fraternity
members had “raided’’ the house
and were setting off fireworks up-
stairs and in the back yard, accord-
ing to testimony in court Tuesday.
Amidst the confusion, Fason loaded
the musket with gun powder — but no
projectile — and climbed on the roof.

He fired once on the roof, climbed
back in his roomloaded the rifle once
more and fired it again out the win-
dow, according to witnesses.

In other court action, junior
Timothy Walker was found guilty
Tuesday of disturbing the peace in an
incident that occurred outside the Chi
Psi house last March.

He was sentenced to 40 hours of
community service to be completed
within a 90-day period.

grounds for expulsion.

dorms.

The fact that the chairman of the SCC is
not governed by any ‘‘procedural or eviden-

tiary” regulations.
tee itself.

Lewis’ report included statements of the
eThe clause in the Student Control Com-
mittee’s disciplinary policy that makes
racial, sexual and ethnic slurs possible

The rule that dormitory counselors are re-
quired to turn in underage drinkers in the

eThe name of the Student Control Commit-

Lewis G. John.

At the FC meeting two weeks ago, Lewis

Lewis said that some of these points were
better explained by members of the faculty
who framed the original drug policy, which
was formulated by the drug committee last
year and passed by the faculty.

Lewis declined to state his opinion on the
subject of the report, saying he was only re-
lating student opinion in his report.

Lewis also said that he was asked to file the
report to the faculty by University President
John D. Wilson through Dean of Students

 

=

9

> .
as
- .£

Cornered

 

 

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

The street sign at Lee Avenue and Washington Street is damaged after
part of it was removed Saturday night. Sophomore Steven J. Head of Moun-
tain Lakes, N.J., was arrested and charged with petty larceny and destruc-
tion of property with regard to sign. Lexington police received an
anonymous tip on the crime at 1 a.m. Saturday night. They estimate damage

at $50.

Low test scores are not the kiss of death

 

By DANA BOLDEN
Staff Reporter

 

When graduate school aptitude test
results were returned recently, some
students realized that they may have
to make new career plans. But poor
test scores are not the end of the
world, according to Washington and
Lee career counselors.

“Don’t let your Law School Ap-
titude Test scores discourage you,”
said Associate Dean of Students
Michael A. Cappeto, W&L’s main
career counselor. ‘‘There are so
many good law schools in the country

 

that you are bound to find one that
suits you.”

Chemistry Professor William J.
Watt, who advises students who are
trying to get into medical school,
says most pre-med students don’t
major in chemistry and so they have
another subject to fall back on.

“That’s good,”’ Watt said. ‘‘In case
they do poorly on the Medical! College
Aptitude Test they have another
career to pursue.”’

“Some students just don’t do well
on multiple choice tests, but still go
on to graduate school while others try
something else in a science-related
field,”’ Watt said.

Cappeto agreed about the fact that
tests don’t necessarily reflect ability.

“So many factors are involved in
taking the test,’’ Cappeto said. “For
instance, if your scores are not com-
parable with your high school SAT
scores or not comparable to your
grade point average, you probably
have a problem with your test-taking
skills.”

Cappeto said that each year about
six seniors go on to W&L’s Law
School. :

“We neither discourage nor en-
courage this, but we do want students
to go where they can gain the most,”’
he said.

John said

said the Board of Trustees at its fall meeting
asked Wilson to review the SCC disciplinary
policy and the rules for the use of the student
activities pavilion.

would review specific aspects” of the rules.

He added that some people have expressed
concern about the SCC’s policy, and that one
of Wilson’s future actions could be to ask that
the drug committee reconvene.

“There is going to be some review,”’ John
said. ‘‘A lot of it is going to be clarification.”
In other EC action. Vice President Andrew

the trustees ‘hoped faculty

Harried?

Dean gives students tips on how

Caruthers reported that the 1984-85 Caylx has
18 pages still unfinished, down from the 27
reported last week.

Yearbook editor David Sprunt was asked
to appear in front of the committee Monday,
when he expects to have the yearbook com-
pleted, Caruthers said.

“He is under the impression that he’s going
to be coming here next Monday and tell us
it’s complete,” Caruthers added.

Also, the EC froze the Fencing Team’s
operating funds after the team failed for two
weeks to appear for its budget hearing.

to improve time management

 

By BILL BLOOM

| Staff Reporter

 

Time management is probably
familiar to all of us, but accomplish-
ed by few. A familiar situation may
be, “I understand how to do my work,
it’s just that there is so darn much of
it,”

Associate Dean of Students
Michael A. Cappetto says that ‘‘stu-
dents who say they don’t have enough
time to do their work are not manag-
ing their time properly.’’ In an effort
to help student leaders with their
time crunches, Cappetto recently

- distributed some written guidelines

for time management.

Cappeto suggested in an interview
that you “‘schedule your time on a
chart.”” A semester plan of what
things you must achieve is recom-
mended. ‘‘List the things you have to
do for the day, the week, and then the
term,” Cappeto said. A school-term
date book, a monthly desk calendar,
or even a single sheet of paper canal
be helpful. Cappeto recommends you
“do your calendar in pencil.”

With this type of plan, you can
budget your time, by days, hours,
weeks or whatever it takes, Cappeto
said.

“Budget is the key word in this
whole time management deal.

A balanced budget is also impor-
tant — just ask your congressman.
Cappeto said a student needs to
budget, or plan for ‘‘when you're in
class, when you're going to study,
and when you’re going to play.’’ It is
important that you balance in this
manner, for the simple reason that
you won’t become an intellectual
vegetable.

Though Cappeto highly recom-
mends the planning of time (and the
adherence to those plans) for stu-
dents having academic difficulty,
time management can benefit even
the best students. However, we all
know that some people barely study
and do well, while others Well, see
you in the library.

One final helpful hint from Cappeto
is not to let ‘distractors”’ get in your
way — movies, phone calls and
friends, being examples.

 

INEWS BRIEFS

Associate Dean of Students
Michael A. Cappeto recently
distributed the following time
management tips for student
leaders:

Starting a Project:

Prior to starting any project,
ask yourself the following three
questions:

1. What would happen if this
were not done? If the consequence
of not doing the project is accep-
table, you should consider not
starting.

2. What would happen if this
were left until later? An accep-
table consequence for postponing
the start of a project will permit
the undertaking of more timely
projects (i.e.,studying). _

3. Could this be done by some-
one else just as well or better? If
yes, delegate the job to those in-
dividuals.

Using Your Time:

When undertaking a project,
pay careful attention to how you
use your time. There are, for any
project, three categories of time:
Creative, Preparatory and Pro-
ductive.

1. Creative time is thinking
time. It covers anything dealing
with planning, organizaing, and
evaluating.

2. Preparatory time is the ‘‘set-
up” phase. It includes arranging
your schedule, gathering all
materials and/or facts, arranging
for help, and so forth.

3. Productive time is the actual
work time. Creative and Prepara-
tory time make productive time
work easier and quicker to com-
plete. Too many students begin
projects by starting with Produc-

 

a
Cappeto’s tips on time

tive time. Effective time
managers consciously use all
three categories of time.

Tips for Time Management:

1. The telephone: Don’t get one!
If you do, don’t study in your
room. Hold and bunch return
calls.

2. Meetings: Learn to be goal-
oriented and direct your meetings
toward specific results. Have and
follow an agenda. Don’t let a
meeting run beyond 60 minutes.

3. Office: Plan to get away from
the office so you can do non-office
matters such as studying, writing
home, relaxing, etc.

4. Remembering: Develop your
ability to remember. Use associa-
tion techniques.

5. Playing the role: Don’t play
office. Don’t play executive. Don’t
write letters if you can say it by
phone or in person. Don’t ask for
written answers unless you must
have a written record. Don’t
develop elaborate files, record
keeping or paper work.

Working with Mr. Parkinson:

Parkinson’s Law, a _ widely
known discourse on administra-
tive behavior, contains several
principles which may be of in-
terest to student leaders.

Principle 1: Work expands to fill
the time available for its comple-
tion.

Principle of Triviality: In
meetings, the time spent on any
item will vary in an inverse pro-
portion to the amount of money in-
volved. Discussion of a new stu-
dent center will take 15 minutes.
Discussion of the furniture for the
TV lounge will take several hours.

Administrators create work for
one another.

 

 

“*You have to learn how to say ‘No’
to yourself, as well as your friends,”
he said. ‘‘It’s obviously harder to say
‘No’ to your friends.”’

If interest is great enough Cappeto
will organize a workshop for students

interested in getting more out of their
time.

He said group presentations to
halls, fraternities or pledge classes
also might be able to be arranged.

27 seniors, 7 law students chosen for 1986 ‘“Who’s Who’

Staff Reports

 

‘Who's Who Among Students in American Universi-
ties and Colleges’’ this week announced the names of 34
Washington and Lee students to be included in the 1986
edition.

The students have been selected as outstanding cam-
pus leaders. Campus nominating committees and edi-
tors of the annual directory have included the names of
these students based on their academic achievement,
service to the community, leadership in extracurricu-
lar activities and potential for continued success.

The 27 seniors and seven third-year law students join
an elite group of students selected from more than 1,500
institutions of higher learning in all 50 states, the Dis-
trict of Columbia and several foreign nations.

The undergraduate selection committee was compos-
ed of Dean of Students Lewis G. John, Associate Dean of
the College Pamela H. Simpson, and juniors Andrew
Caruthers, John Hudson, John Pensec and Pat
Schaefer.

Those selected to Who’s Who are:

Seniors: Michael P. Allen of Rossmoor, Calif.;
Lawrence S. Anker of East Windsor, N.J.; Michael J.
Black of Shreveport, La.; Christopher A. Bleggi of
Weedville, Pa.; John-Paul Bouffard of Berkeley
Heights, N.J.; Alexander F. Castelli of Potomac, Md.

Michael F. Guerriero of Houston; Patrick L. Hayden
of Rochester, N.Y.; James L. Hayne Jr. of San Antonio,
Texas; John W. Haywood of Hilton Head Island, S.C.;
John F. Henschel of Potomac, Md.; Lee M. Hollis of

 

Memphis, Tenn.; William T. Holmes II of Gladwine,
Pa.; Peter J. lerardi Jr. of Philadelphia; Christopher
D. John of Lexington; James Y. Kerr II of Goldsboro,
N.C,; John B. Lewis of Greenville.

David D. Lewis of Richmond; Kenneth L. Lindeman
of Atlanta; Thomas R. Mack of Camp Hill, Pa.; Brian
J. Oliger of Rocky River, Ohio; Nelson R. Patterson of
Mohnton, Pa.; Townes G. Pressler of Houston; Alfred
A. Puryear of Madison; Bruin S. Richardson of Port
Huron, Mich.; Robert J. Whann IV of New Orleans; and
John M. Wheeler of Anniston, Ala.

Third-year law students: Paul G. Beers of New York Ci-
ty; Stokely G. Caldwell Jr. of Lexington; M. Lee Doane
of Lexington; Julie L. Gregory of Gainesville, Fla.;
Walter W. Rayner of Greenville, Miss., Daniel P.
Shaver of Manassas; and Donald E. Williams, Jr. of
Thompson, Conn.

Car damaged in hit-and-run

A hit-and-run driver caused $150 in damage to the car
of a first-year law student who had parked in the Law
School’s lot last Monday.

Laura Mayes Hicks told police that she parked her
car about 8 a.m. last Monday and went back to the car
about 4 p.m. and found the right front and right back
door of her 1980 Oldsmobile Omega dented.

Lexington Police Officer Richard H. Sutton reported
that Hicks would prosecute. No suspect has been found.

In other police action:

eTwo unidentified men shouted obscenities at a third-

year law student Friday night and then told the student
they had a gun and would kill him if he got any closer to
their car, according to a complaint filed with Lexington
police.

Joel B. Johnston was leaving a party with some
friends at 133 Houston St. about 11:45 p.m. when two
men in a small light-colored 1981 Chevrolet with Virgin-
ia tags drove by and began shouting obscenities, ac-
cording to the complaint.

Johnston said he approached the vehicle, and the two
men threatened him. Johnston said he did not see a
weapon.

—Christopher Deighan

Former student indicted

A former Washington and Lee student was charged
last week with breaking and entering and grand larceny
in connection with a June 11 incident at the Phi Kappa
Sigma fraternity house.

Alexander M. Benedetto, a member of the class of
1987 until last December, was indicted by a Rockbridge
County grand jury in connection with the theft from
sophomore Chris Wiman this summer of sweaters
valued at $348.

IFC gives $8,500 to Contact

An $8,500 contribution to Contact was approved at
Tuesday night’s Interfraternity Council meeting.
IFC Treasurer Mac McGrew announced that an $8 to

$9 assessment for each fraternity member would be
necessary to cover the cost of the contribution. The
IFC s funding matches a similar donation by the Ex-
ecutive Committee to the speaker’s forum.

Also, all fraternities were encouraged to attend Sat-
urday’s pre-football party in the student activities pavi-
lion featuring ‘‘Charisma.” Beer and food will be pro-
vided. The party begins promptly at 11:30a.m.

—John Kalitka

Student wins frat scholarship

Senior P.J. lerardi Jr. of
Philadelphia has been
selected the Solon E. Sum-
merfield Scholar of the
year by the Washington
and Lee chapter of Phi
Kappa Psi fraternity.

Ierardi received a cash
award of $100 for the
scholarship. He will com-
pete with scholars from the
90 other Phi Psi chapters
for the Outstanding Na-
tional Scholar of the Year,
which is accompanied by a
check for $3,000. There are
also first and second
runner-up awards for
$1,500 and $500.

P.J. IERARDI

ei Ree cee a ee tee wos

 

 

 

a

ey! a le RR

ee

hl,

ee oS

ane
 

Acquittal

,) Continued from Page 1

The EC charge of stealing was not
‘contested by Zola. ‘It was not a ques-
éion of the facts,” he said. “We were
trying to get away from the black and
white of it. We said the whole time,
#We'’ve got to look at the whole pic-
jure.’ ”

“Being drunk was not my de-
fense,” Zola continued. “Being drunk
énitiated my actions, but my actions
were not an honor violation.”’

The difference between his position

d the EC’s view, Zola Said, had to

o with intent and premeditation. He
§aid that if he had premeditated the
theft of the wine at Spanky’s, that
Would have been clearly an example
ef a violation of the Honor System.

Zola said that if he had been to the
Festaurant earlier on the day of his
ye, and thought “I want that

 

ine,” then the element of intent
ould have been introduced in the
tase. Zola instead maintained that
kis action was a “stupid, drunken
rank.’”’

The jurisdiction of the Honor
System is something Zola said he is
concerned about. ‘‘I think the Honor

ystem works within the confines of
the University,” he said, citing the
ability of students to leave materials
in the library and to take unproctored
@xaminations.
|, Areas outside of W&L are ambigu-
| ous, Zola said. He said for instance,
Someone who steals in Rockbridge
| Gounty is no different from someone
who steals in Roanoke County. In the
first case, a student is supposedly
ander the Honor System’s jurisdic-
tion, but in the second, he is not.

“If you’re going to do that,’’ Zola

asked, ‘why not make it the whole

Flooding
closes some
businesses

iy
Sy HOLLY WILLIAMS

—

Staff Reporter

 

 

Many area businesses were
adversely affected by last week’s
flooding, including some that rely on
water for their business and others
that had property damaged by the
floods.

” Buena Vista Mayor Harold Kidd,
whose city was ravaged by floods,
said that despite heavy damage to
factories in the area, “Every in-
dustry is in the process of reopen-
ing.”

*A representative of Mead Assoc-
iates, the real estate firm that man-
ages many of the rental homes in the
Bean’s Bottom area, refused to esti-
mate property damages, but explain-
éd that leases are terminated if pro-
perty becomes uninhabitable.

Laundries, beauty shops and other
businesses that rely on water were
closed because of the water shortage.

The University Cleaners in Lexing-
ton refused to comment, but George
Beam, the owner of White Way Laun-
dry and Cleaners, said his business
was forbidden to use water.

By HOLLY WILLIAMS
Staff Reporter

‘

y The Lexington water plant became
fully operational again Monday after
‘a week of emergency rationing in the
aftermath of the flood of 1985.

, According te Lexington’s Water
Services Director Karen Roundy,
““We never got close to ‘turning off
the tap.’ ” The city still had one or
two days’ water left before the plant
‘resumed service, she added.

+ All operations at the plant stopped

 

*

 

(703) 463-7440

world?”

Zola said the EC “‘took everything
to its extreme”’ in his case. He said he
knows of instances in which students
have been convicted of larceny but
not brought before the EC. Those
cases involved the stealing of high-
way signs, Zola said, and were tried
by the Student Control Committee.
The channels used for his case should
have been the same, he said.

“It should have been Student Con-
trol to begin with,” he said. ‘“‘The EC
shouldn’t have been involved.” He
added that if he’d been tried before
the SCC, he would not have been sur-
prised had he been suspended for his
actions.

His argument against the EC’s
handling of the case stems from his
disagreement with the single sanc-
tion of the Honor System. ‘‘That’s
where the problem comes,” he said.
“The single sanction is a contradic-
tion of human nature.”

He was not surprised by the verdict
when it was announced, he said. ‘I
would have been more surprised had
I been convicted,” he said, adding
that he felt the process of the in-
vestigation, the closed hearing and
the open hearing was “more incredi-
ble’’ as it went on.

“‘T didn’t know what to expect,”’ he
said. “I was confident in my fellow
students.”’

Zola said he holds no animosity
toward the EC. ‘I have no personal
feelings against the EC,” he said,
“They're doing their jobs.”

He said he doesn’t think there is a
reason for animosity toward him
either. “I don’t think I violated
anyone’s honor,”’ he said. “‘I didn’t
breach their trust.

“I know in my heart that I’m not a
dishonorable person,” he concluded.
“T know that what I did was not dis-
honorable. I have to be content with
that, and lam.”

 

Reaction

Continued from Page 1

 

“They are doing the same thing in
two different ways,” Hollis said. The
EC interprets the Honor System in a
historical way, and the student jury
reflects the view of the student gener-
ation, he continued.

Hollis said although this is ‘‘not
really” a good way to handle it,
“that’s how it's evolved.”

Henderson added that the EC and
the student body seem to be drifting
away from an iron-clad definition of
the Honor System, and that might
make future convictions difficult to
uphold.

“You can’t acquit a guy in this
situation and have an Honor System
that means anything. How can we
justify to the next guy convicted that
his case is different?”

“Honor cannot be mediated by
drunkenness,’’ Henderson said.
“There must have been some cir-
cumstances, because I don’t see how
they can justify acquitting him. It
was a case of stealing.”’

Hollis noted that he is still an ad-
vocate of the single sanction of the
Honor System. ‘‘You’re either honor-
able or you're dishonorable,” he
said. “If you make exceptions then
you’re cutting down the Honor
System.”

Coulling expressed his support of
the strictness of the Honor System.
“T have always preferred, serious
though it is, the single sanction,”’ he
said. ‘‘But it’s up to the student body,
because they are the ones who have
to live with it.”

“One of the reasons, probably, that
we try to give the accused every ben-
efit of the doubt,’’ Coulling continued,

  

SIDNEY M.B. COULLING

“is the strictness of the penalty we
are giving.”

“The Honor System takes constant
reaffirmation” he said. “It was has
to be reaffirmed annually — it has to
be reaffirmed weekly. I stress that in
the pledging of papers that my
students turn in.”’

Coulling added that he thinks W&L
is lucky to still have a functioning
Honor System. He compared the
honor systems of several other col-
leges, some of which have done away
with them, to W&L’s.

“] do think it’s remarkable how

we’ve maintained the Honor System’

when very fine institutions have
abandoned theirs,”’ Coulling said.

Although the Honor System covers
all aspects of student life, Coulling
said the part he stresses is acade-
mics. ‘“The academic part means the
most to me. It is the very heart of the
Honor System.”

 

 

diet

 

A house in East Lexington is reflected in some flood water left over from last week’s storms

when flooding cut off the electricity
last Monday morning.

At that time the Houston Street
reservoir stood at 15 feet and the En-
field Road reservoir at 19% feet,
enough water for 1% days of normal
water consumption. An emergency
crisis was declared that Tuesday and
residents were asked to limit their
water consumption to ‘drinking,
cooking, necessary sanitation and
emergency uses.”’

On Tuesday morning almost one-
third of the water in the Houston
Street reservoir had been used, as

THE NEW OPTICIANS

Contacts— Glasses—Repairs

CHECK OUT CONTACT
REPLACEMENT COSTS

Next to Stop-in

 

 

  

Yaffe hite~Florist

Turkey and family, Thanksgiving
engagements,
Fill up your home with floral

    

the level sank from 15 feet to 11 feet.
The Enfield Road plant, which serves
Washington and Lee and Virginia
Military Institute, had only dropped
a foot from 1914 to 1814 feet.

“We could tell that people were do-
ing fantastic by looking at the tank
every day,’’ Roundy said.

The level of the Enfield Road tank,
which primarily serves the two
schools, showed that ‘““W&L and VMI
were doing their part.”’

The conservation measures work-
ed so well that a 6,000-gallon tanker
from Roanoke carried ‘‘borrowed’’

Water treatment plant resumes operations

water from the Enfield Road reser-
voir to Buena Vista on Tuesday.

Buena Vista’s water supply was
contaminated by flood waters that
entered the wells and it remains
quarantined. Roundy, who lives in
Buena Vista, said residents have
been advised to continue to decon-
taminate their water before use for
the next five to ten days.

By Friday, Lexington’s restric-
tions were relaxed and residents
were allowed to take showers and do
dishes.

By Matt Horridge/The Ring-tum Phi

 

 
  
    
 
  
   

 
   
 

Harrisonburg
82 South Main

433-6801

   
 

SHALIMAR

SANTA’S BACK
Another New York Warehouse Buy!!!

Imported Cotton Clothing

es
—

wr

= §)

Staunton
11 Frederick St.

885-3354

Te PRE
fer, CHRISTMAS
Bary, SALLI

STARTING
NOVEMBER §

   
   
 

  
  
   

  

Buena Vista
Magnolia Ave.

  

The Ring-tum Phi, November 14, 1985, Page 5

 

EC

Continued from Page |

 

that in a practical sense, there could
be repercussions.

“The student body is not bound by
a decision, but it is affected by it,” he
said.

Junior EC representative Shayam
Menon pointed out that suspected
honor violations are suited individ-
ually to decide whether EC action is
necessary, and that the role of prece-
dent is unimportant. ‘‘Each case is
taken on its own individual merits,”
he said. “That’s just the bottom
line.”’

Thompson said some students may
use examples of past cases to decide
what to report to the EC. “‘It may in-
hibit some of them,” he said. “They
might be more likely to approach the
person and say, ‘I don’t know about
this thing,’ and try to determine their
intent. Others won’t be hindered at
all.”

Lewis said he thinks “students
have a certain reaction to every case
that goes open.”’

“T’m not going to tell you what I
think the reaction to this is going to
be,”’ he said. ‘The student body will
weigh this and decide if this is truly
what the student generation believes
or not.”

“T think students understand that
alcohol is not an excuse for an honor
violation,” he continued. “‘It isn’t in
the outside world, it isn’t in Student
Control, and certainly the Honor
System must hold the Washington
and Lee community to a higher stan-
dard than either of them.”’

Menon defended the EC against the
notion that the EC is not representa-
tive of, or is out of touch with, the stu-
dent body.

Chappell

 

‘“‘We’re elected by our classes,’’ he
said. ‘‘I pick up what honor means
from my friends around me, what I
hear from people. I hope we're in
touch — I think we are.”

Menon went on to say that this
year’s EC is made up of a wide cross-
section of the student body. ‘We have
such a diversified bunch of people, as
far as fraternities, as far as in-
dividuals. We have independents, we
have Pi Phis, we have an SAE, wild
partiers, people who don’t party so
much. We're a very diversified set of
people in that sense, and I hope were
in touch with honor, I think I am.”’

A point raised by some students on
campus this week was the single
sanction of the Honor System — the
expulsion of a student for a convic-
tion on an honor violation and
whether it is still viable for W&L.
Lewis and Menon both believe it is.

“Absolutely,” Lewis said. “A
graduated system of punishment in
the death knell for a time-honored
Honor System. No person is partially
honorable. You either are or you
aren’t. There is no degree of honor.”’

Menon cited the EC guidelines in
his response. “The only thing I can
point to is the White Book, where it
Says, ‘Honor is not measured by
degree,’ ” he said.

If the Honor System is not main-
tained as it is; Menon said, it will no
longer be unique. And neither will
Washington and Lee.

“We'll just have all math exams on
Mondays, all history exams on Tues-
days, all chemistry exams on Wed-
nesdays,”’ he said.

“We'll lock our doors up all the
time, we won’t leave our books in the
library....We will be just like any
other place. We'll let the faculty
police honor violations and cheat-
ing.”

 

 

©) Continued from Page 1

ed her intention to resign. She said
that she intended to work out a date
in December or January to leave
work.

“I don’t have another job waiting
in the wings,”’ she said she told Cap-
peto.
Chappell said Cappeto called her
into his office and told her, “I think
today should be your last day.”’

Chappell said that she was ‘“‘really
surprised” when he said this.

“‘T shook his hand, said ‘Thank you
very much,’ and left,”’ she said.

When asked about the incidents of”

the past week, Cappeto declined com-
ment, saying it is not acceptable
policy to discuss personnel matters
with the public. ‘It’s not something
to be talked about,” Cappeto said.
“This is not to say that we're trying

 

to cover something up,’’ he said, but
that events of staff meetings and per-
sonnel actions are not for the public.

 

 

 

  
   
  
 

WLUR-FM

Your station for Generals’ sports

 

Charism
Saturday, Nov. 16, 9-1 A.M.

Also,
The Thanksgiving Break Special Event

91.5

 

 

 

Rev. Billy Wirtz

on stage

Thursday, Nov. 21

 

ee

arrangements.

From Harrisonburg to Staunton and Buena Vista SANTA is DROPPING
PRICES for our Pre-Christmas Sale. All prices are being slashed on ail India

cottons. '§.99 or under
STORE HOURS: Monday thru Saturday 10 AM-6 PM

 
    

 

 

165 South Main Street 463-9152

 

 

 

 

    

 
SPORTS

The Ring-tum Phi, November 14, 1985

 

Grid streak ends,
but Weaver rolls

 

By DAVID EMRICH
Staff Reporter

 

On Friday morning the Washington
and Lee football team left on a long
trip to play Ursinus in Collegeville,
Pa. Yet the return trip seemed even
longer after the Generals were hand-
ed a 26-23 loss that virtually dropped
them out of the NCAA Division III
playoff picture.

The Generals had entered the
game ranked sixth in the Southern
region, but the loss will certainly
cause their ranking to fall. With only
the top four teams in each region ad-
vancing into the playoffs, it seems
unlikely that W&L will be invited to
the tournament.

Saturday the Generals go against
Washington University at Wilson
Field in search of win No. 7 in what
probably will be their last game of
the season. Running back Kevin
Weaver will attempt to break W&L’s
single-season rushing record of 1,011
yards, held by Gene Girard. Weaver
needs 57 yards for the record.

Last Saturday, the Generals grabb-
ed an early 6-0 lead when Chris
Bleggi scored from his wingback
position on a 14-yard run. On the en-
suing kickoff, W&L recovered an Ur-
sinus fumble deep in the Bears’ ter-
ritory. However, Kevin Weaver
fumbled the ball back to Ursinus on
their 19-yard line.

“We had an excellent chance to

TIME

 

By Mike
Stachura

Unaware of his place

death of Pelle Lindbergh,
because a man has died before his
AS time. Lindbergh was a tremendous
athlete, but Lindbergh's ability does
not overshadow the unforgiveable
way which he led his last few hours.

score there and put them down 9-0 or
maybe even 13-0 before they got a
chance to get their heads above
water,” said Coach Gary Fallon.
‘But we fumbled the ball right back
and didn’t cash in on it. I think that
was the turning point of the game
— that was the spark that got them
started”

In the second quarter, the Bears
evened the game at 6-6 when they
scored on a l-yard run, and went
ahead 13-6 at the half on a 12-yard
pass from quarterback Brian Mc-
Closkey. McCloskey threw three
scoring strikes on the afternoon.

In the third quarter, the Generals’
B.J. Sturgill kicked a 32-yard field
goal to pull W&L to within four points
of Ursinus, 13-9. But Ursinus re-
sponded soon after with a 26-yard
touchdown pass to put them ahead,
20-9. They ran their lead to 26-9 on
another pass, this time a 24-yarder,
with 8:30 to go in the game.

“They scored the first time, and
then their defense held us and forced
us to give the ball back,’’ said Fallon.
“Then their quarterbaok got a hot
hand, and started finding his receiv-
ers. He put us on the run and they
scored a couple of times.”’

The Generals mounted a fourth-
quarter comeback attempt, scoring
twice in a seven minute span. The
first came on a 10-yard pass from Jon
Thornton to Randy Brown, followed

C)See Football, Page 7

 

..1 am saddened by the tragic
not

‘‘He loved life and lived it to the

 

 

 

fullest,’ was one of the comments
heard soon atter the death of Lindbergh, the Philadelphia Flyers
goaltender who drove his Porsche into a concrete wall while under the
influence of alcohol. The euphemism here is that it was OK that
Lindbergh drove a car too fast on an unfamiliar road while juiced
two-and-a-half times the allowable blood-alcohol level. Regardless of
the young man’s unfortunate death, Lindbergh’s actions have become
all too routine for the athlete of today, who more often than not is
something not worthy of respect, a species that barely sees farther
than his or her own nose.

Athletes cannot be and cannot consider themselves to be ‘“‘normal
people’’ in any sense. They are extraordinarily talented individuals
and their talent has placed them in the public eye. And because they
are in the public eye, they must act with the knowledge that their
every move is subject to public scrutiny. They must act knowing that
they are role models, that what they do in their lives affects many
more people than what you or I do. Simply put, they do not get to make
mistakes.

Harsh? Well, perhaps, but when you consider the important role pro-
fessional athletes play in our culture — misguided as it is — you relize
that we’re not just dealing with grown men playing child’s games.
When you ask about heroes in this society of ours, overwhelmingly the
list is topped with people who make a living out of wecring numerals
on their backs. Two things happen when an athlete fails to recognize
his own prestige, and, campers, neither of them is any good. Either
our younger athletes who look up to these hero-types say to
themselves, ‘‘Hey, this big-time world of sports is great. Big, fast cars
and you can stay out late and get drunk and have nothing but fun
without having anything to do with that silly old thing called responsi-
bility.” Or worse yet, our younger athletes don’t have any more
heroes.

Athletes don’t have the option to act carelessly, no matter how great
or how small. Kevin Weaver and Chris John are just as much heroes to
the professors’ kids here in Lexington — and maybe even more so
— than is a Pelle Lindbergh or a drug-using Dave Parker. It is a posi-
tion an exceptional athlete has to understand. It is that understanding
which should be in the front of his or her mind in the consideration of
any act: People are watching me. People respect me. Some people
even idolize me. Do I have license to do anything I want? No.

It is sad that Pelle Lindbergh died. It is sadder still that he died the
way he did. Sadder, because it is further indication that today’s athlete
is not aware of his place, and we are much the worse for it...

....Botching our way down the crumbling Colonnade, a month and a
half without a loss is nothing to be ashamed of. Trust that Gary
Fallon’s troops will be out in full force Saturday to get win No.
7....Let’s not discount those fine seasons by soccer, water polo and
cross country, either. It’s not wins and losses that measure a team’s or
an individual’s worth, it’s the strength of effort, and I see no Generals
coming up short in this category...

....Pro grid notes: ’Skins might wish to start thinking about 1986, or
baseball, for that matter...,Bears have not had a competitive game
against a worthy opponent since I don’t know when. Food for thought,
come this Sunday in Dallas...Steelers’ Louis Lipps reminds one a lot of
a young Pittsburgh receiver and punt returner about 10 years ago by
the name of Swann...

...Finally, something strange. If Notre Dame wins Saturday at
Penn State (not that unlikely), could Gerry Faust be the first coach

 

 

a -

 

By Appointment

Robin+ Peggy «Marie
LN A) ED) AA A 0 AE RE || EEO ERE TRY |) EES IE

   

ee

| as i Ml Ailes

463-9588

Chinese and
American Cuisine
Happy Thanksgiving
Exotic Cocktails

Carry-out Service

Available
Open Tuesday through Sunday

Luncheon 11:30 - 2:30
Dinner 5 - 10

Saturday Open 4 - 10
Sunday Lunch Buffet 12 - 2:30

 
 

ALOHA WOK

409 South Main St., Lexington, Virginia 24450
703-463-9342

Old Main St. Mall x

Lexington, VA 244 sof

<-> =

 

 

 

Senior Tim Stanford flies through the water en route to a Division III national quatitying time in the 100-yard butterfly ‘

Aquatics moves from one season.

 

By LEIF UELAND
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee water
polo team found itself in an unusual
situation as it traveled to the Eastern
Championships this past weekend.
While head Coach Page Remillard
waited with his wife for the birth of
their daughter, the team not only
played against the top teams in the
east, but coached itself at the same
time.

While the team was dissappointed
with the statistical results of the
weekend, which included losses to
Brown -(12-1), Richmond (13-3) and
Slippery Rock (7-6), it they saw the
overall weekend as a good ex-
perience.

The Generals played remarkably
tight defense against top-seeded
Brown. W&L held Brown to a score of
3-1 in the first period and a 12-1 final.

The biggest dissappointment for
the team was the 7-6 loss to Slippery
Rock in double overtime.

Coach Remillard praised the
team’s performance and its peer
leadership. Of the loss to Slipery

s(Rock, Remillard commented on the

Soccer ends season at

 

By ROB MacPHERSON
Staff Reporter

 

Last Friday, the Washington and
Lee soccer team competed in its final
game of the season, losing to a na-
tionally ranked Division II Liberty
University, 2-0.

The loss left the Generals with a 6-6.
record, and because of the cancella-
tion of the game with Averette, it
meant that the team would have to
settle for a .500 season.

Although they were truly out-
matched talentwise, W&L came out
fired up. ‘We took the play to them,”
head coach Rolf Piranian said. “The
scoreboard read one thing but the ac-
tual on-the-field play was another.”
The intensity level combined with a

difference of the players having to
coach themselves. ‘An athlete
should only have to be concerned
with his performance,’’ he said.

Senior co-captain David Lewis
commented on weekend: ‘‘It was a
learning experience. We had to coach

ourselves. We had a great time
though.”

The Generals’ eighth place finish in
the tournament matched last year’s
finish and put W&L at 19-14 for the
season.

Looking back on the year, Remil-
lard said he saw a great deal of im-

a

>

provement frustrated by the strength
of arch-rival Richmond throughout
the season.
a
“It was a tough season because we
didn’t have to work that hard to be
second. We did work that hard ahd
we’re still second.” :

.,. to the next season

 

By LEIF UELAND
Staff Reporter

 

Tim Stanford qualified for the
NCAA Division III nationals by win-
ning the 100-yard butterfly and the
four-member women’s team cap-
tured first places in five of the seven
events it entered to get Washington
and Lee swimming 1985-86 off to a
good start last night in Cy Twombly
Pool.

Last night’s double dual meet saw
the men’s team down VMI, 68-43,
while the women were defeated by
Mary Baldwin, 57-35.

Looking ahead to the rest of the

game plan suited strictly for Liberty
enabled the Generals to stay close.
The teams went into intermission
sharing a stubborn scoreless tie.

The Generals knew coming into the
game that their on-the-field talent
didn’t quite equal that of Liberty.
Consequently, Piranian installed a
strategy that saw his team give up a
little offense in order to obtain a
defensive advantage. As soon as
W&L lost control of the ball in the
Liberty end, it retreated to its own
portion of the field and calmly
awaited the arrival of its counter-
parts. Once there, the Generals took
the upper hand and created some fine
counterattacks, Piranian said. Pira-
nian described the tactic saying, ‘“‘We
played offense full field and when we

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

11 W. Nelson Sf.

4 SHERIDAN
R SHERIDAN

463-2022

Watches and Jewelry Repairs
Gifts for All Occasions
We have class rings as well as watch and jewelry repair.

November
Special

(! [Grilled Cheese &
" Large Soft Drink

Only *1”

Nights Only

8:00-11:00 P.M.

regular season, the 1985-86 campaign
holds in store such highlights as the
John Hopkins meet and the Tri-State
Championship, held at Washington
and Lee this year. In addition, the
swimming program is the first
Washington and Lee women’s swim
team.

The men’s team is in an interesting
situation, as head coach Page Remil-
lard points out. ‘Most of the swim-
mers also play water polo, a season
which ended on Sunday. The swim-
mers hope to use their special condi-
tioning from water polo to beat Johns
Hopkins on Nov. 22,” Remillard said.

Senior co-captain David Lewis
believes that the team’s biggest dif-
ficulty, early on, will be in making

the transition from water polo ‘to
swimming. a

For the men, Remillard sees the
season as offering the possibility fer
great rewards or great disappoint-
ment. He believes the rewards will
come from a great deal of hard work.

The women’s swim team has three
regular swimmers who will compete
in a schedule similar to the men's,
though there will be some strictly
women’s meets.

Remillard commented on the
young women’s program: ‘‘We hawe
three very talented women. You
can’t win a meet with that, but I Yo
think we can win an event or two pr
maybe three. We will just waa to
wait and see.’

6-6 with Liberty loss

were on defense, we went half the
field with them, so they could do any-
thing they wanted to in their own
half.”” Had the Generals been able to
catch a break, their strategy may
have earned them a victory.

Liberty’s first goal came on their
second penalty kick of the game and
dealt a harsh mental blow to W&L. It
left the Generals trailing a team to
whom they had conceded superiority
prior to the game, due in large part to
officiating which the coach described
as ‘‘a factor.”’

“‘That’s the state of the game,” he
said. ““You have to live with it [of-
ficiating } in any sport.”

Liberty’s second goal came under
strange soccer circumstances. A shot
came from the outside, ricocheted off

of a goal post and found its way irfio
the back of the W&L net. r

A proud Piranian discussed his
team’s play, “‘You’re not going ‘to
find us hanging our heads about it,”’
he said. Our kids were playing as
hard when it was 2-0 as they wete
when it was 0-0.” v

Overall, the coach was satisfied
with his team’s performance. ‘A
winning season would have been’ a
step up but I’m comfortable with the
way this team played,” he said. ,

“They improved tremendously, yet
we've still got a long way to go befote
we become a very good soccer
team,’ a goal upon which the
Generals of ’86 can now start to stt
their sights. :¥

Valley True Value Hardware

HAROW Thue Value STORES

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

E. Nelson St.
463-2186

Mon. - Sat. 8:30-6:60
Sun. 1-5 :

The Student Activities Board

presents

Kentucky Fried
Movie

with cameo appearances by
Donald Sutherland
Henry Gibson
Bill Bixby

Thursday and Friday — 8:30
GHQ — Free Popcorn
Sunday — 7:00 and 9:30 P.M.
Student Center, Room 108
Admission *2

 

 
alae de

#

of

wee ae eee
*

o

 

By DAVID NAVE
Staff Reporter

“I don’t have an answer for it. I wish that I did,’’ he
said,
Canfield recalls large crowds in Doremus Gymna-

 

Fewer than 100 spectators in the 2,500-seat Warner
Center for a basketball game. The “traditional”
halftime exodus of fans at football games. A sports
-. luncheon that has more athletic department representa-

tives in attendance than anyone else.

These are symptoms of a disease called apathy, and
it’s afflicting Washington and Lee athletics, according to
coaches and administrators in that department.

sium, before Warner Center was built. Because it is
smaller, Doremus is much easier to pack than Warner
Center, but the number of fans that attend games today
in Warner could not even make an impression in the old
gym, according to Canfield.

And examining attendance statistics would not be ac-
curate, Canfield said, because the basketball program
and the Sports Information Department often pad the
figures so that they are not so embarrassing. Often the

The Ring-tum Phi, November 14, 1985, Page 7

‘Disease of apathy afflicting W&L athletics

They are concerned that a home game does not secure
a home-court advantage, does not reward its athletes
with the respect they deserve and does not reflect the
camaraderie that a small school supposedly offers.

“I am totally disappointed in student athletic sup-
port,’’ said head basketball coach Verne Canfield, who
regularly has seen poor turnouts for his team. ‘‘It’s such
a great school, and with a little more effort it could be a
little bit greater.”

Athletic Director William McHenry said there is a pro-
blem with student support, but added that he does not
know how serious it is.

Aquatics director Page Remillard said his teams
sometimes get good support, but only when he and the
players talk it up among their friends.

Canfield believes that Washington and Lee falls short
when it gives so little support to its student athletes. He
admits that W&L athletes participate in the University’s
athletic programs because they enjoy the sport, but he
believes that a student who gives so much time and ef-
fort to the University deserves its support.

Remillard said that students should realize, ‘‘If I go to
that game and do some cheering, I can help that team
win.’’

Third-year lacrosse head coach Dennis Daly is aware
of the apathy problem, as well. ‘‘I don’t sense that there
is a commitment by fellow students to support their
peers at extracurricular events,” Daly said.

Supporting the student athletes ‘‘is not too corny and
old fashioned, I don’t think,’’ concluded Canfield.

McHenry recognized the importance of student sup-
port. ‘‘When you have an enthusiastic crowd it always
helps the players,’’ he said.

He also added that small crowds have a negative ef-
fect. ‘The players are aware of big and small crowds,”
he said.

Canfield said he cannot understand why basketball
gets such small crowds. During his 22 years at W&L,
Canfield has averaged 16 wins a season. Successful

_ athletic programs usually attract some support but Can-
_ field readily admits that his team’s winning perfor-
mances do not appear to make a difference in its sup-

port.

crowds donot number more than100. :

Canfield, however, remains optimistic. Each season
he hopes that the crowds will arrive, and each night he
has all the bleacher sections pulled out, despite requests
to use only one to accommodate the small crowds.

Indeed, the student crowd can have a major impact on
the outcome of a game. Canfield believes that his teams
could win an extra two or three games a year with good
crowd support, and Remillard believes that a large and
active home crowd is worth at least two goals.

He explained that he and his players appeal to their
friends and supporters when they expect a close game.
“I think we get enough when we appeal to them for it.”’

“There doesn’t seem to be much spectator support
without myself or the athletes’”’ Remillard said.

Two weeks ago, Remillard and his players made their
appeal to the students for support. They got it. The W&L
community filled Cy Twombly arena for the Generals’
Southern League Championship game against Rich-
mond. The Generals did not win, but they did register
their best performance against Richmond this season in !
the 11-8 loss.

Crowds have not been so sparse for lacrosse, although
they have fallen off noticeably since the glory years in
the 1970s. ‘At Washington and Lee, lacrosse is as well at-
tended as any other sport,’’ said coach Daly.

Daly recalls crowds having significant impact on
several games during his first two seasons at W&L. He
cited the 1984 Navy game and the 1985 Maryland games
as examples. The Generals lost these games but posed a
serious threat to two of the higher-ranked teams in the
nation. Daly remembered that after those games the op-
posing coaches commented to him on the impact the
home crowd had during the game.

Daly said, though, that he is often not aware of the
crowd at most games because of the students’ tradition
of arriving late and leaving early.

The halftime exodus at athletic events confuses Daly
and other coaches more than any other aspect of student

support. Daly said he thought spectators attended a
game primarily for two reasons: to support the team

 

 

 

File photo by Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Empty bleachers: A sympton of the disease of apathy

and to watch the outcome of a game. But if a spectator
leaves at halftime, he has not offered much support and
has left the game with the outcome in doubt. :

Daly, who is also responsible for athletic departmen
promotions, suggested that the students are fragmented
owing to their residential patterns. —=

“T don’t know whether that is good or bad, but it just
a not contribute to the support of athletics,’ said Da-

ly.

Because most students live in town or in the country,
they have to make a greater effort to get to the games. In
this situation, coaches also have to rely on posters and
“spreading the word”’ to get crowds at the games.

McHenry stated that ‘‘at times” the W&L athletes do
receive support. McHenry noted that students attend
some athletic events such as football and lacrosse
games. He also noted that the soccer team has had some
nice crowds at its games this year.

Because most students belong to fraternities, Daly
believes that “the fraternities can go a long way to in-
crease student support.”

Interfraternity Council President Jaimie Hayne said

he has encouraged houses to move their football game
parties to the upper athletic field and to participate in
the Alumni Association’s pre-game tailgate party.
Hayne added that similar parties could be scheduled
before lacrosse games. He also said that he would like to
do something for basketball and that he would listen to
suggestions.

McHenry and Daly both see coeducation as another
possible remedy to the apathy problem. Daly was a stu-
dent at an all-male Amherst during the early 1970s.
When he returned to his alma mater to coach later that
decade at a coeducational Amherst, he noticed that stu-
dent support of athletic programs had increased. He at-
tributed the increase in part to the increase of athletes
on campus,

The freshman banner contest and its strong response
at the Homecoming game are physical evidence that co-
education has already contributed to a heightened stu-
dent interest in athletic programs. Although coeducation
cannot promise increased interest throughout the year,
many coaches remain optimistic that it will help.

‘We would all like to think that, but it remains to be
seen,” Canfield said.

 

‘*
s
a

“*%

‘*

 

oo
i)

fe Oe OG

Football

-, ( Continued from Page 6

 

by a 2-point conversion to narrow the
gap to 26-17. The second came on a 4-

’. yard run by Kevin Weaver. The con-
‘version failed and W&L trailed by

26-23. They got the ball back with 1:42
remaining, but time ran out with the
Generals on the Bears’ 42-yard line.

“We finally caught fire in the
fourth quarter and had a chance to
win it when we got the ball back with
about a minute and half remaining,
but we stalled,” said Fallon. The kids
were disappointed in their play, and
it was just a matter of them wanting
it more than us. We didn’t play 60
minutes of football.”’

Next week the Generals will face
the Washington University Bears
here in Lexington. The Bears have a
3-6 record, and lost to Millsaps last
week, 35-7.

“We can’t get caught looking at
their record,” cautioned Fallon. ‘“‘We

Wendell’s

Barber
Shop

| need your head for
my business.

have to get the job done on the field.
We have to play good, aggressive,
heads up, W&L football.’’ Fallon con-
tinued, “We had a soul-searching
meeting, I told them what I thought
of their performance, and I told them
what I thought needed to be done.
“‘We had six wins in a row, and we
can’t allow this one loss to affect us.
We have to put it behind us,” Fallon
said. ‘‘I’d like to see an all-out effort
on the part of our kids, and given that
kind of effort we could come out on
top. If not, I’ll still be proud of our
kids.”
SIDELINES: W&L is now 6-2 with a
41 record in the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference...The ODAC

Sigma Delta Chi proudly presents the 3rd Annual
The Phi v. WLUR All-star Hoops Classic

champion(s) will be determined this
weekend when Emory and Henry
plays host to Maryville and Ran-
dolph-Macon plays host to Hampden-
Sydney. A Macon win assures the
Generals of at least a share of the
conference crown...Weaver rushed
for over 100 yards for the seventh
straight time this season against Ur-
sinus:..His eight points against the
Bears gave him the school record for
points in a season with 96..Saturday’s
game will be broadcast on WLUR-
FM (91.5) beginning at 1:20 p.m.
Coverage will include updates from
the E&H and R-M games.... Satur-
day’s gate receipts will be donated to
the flood relief effort...

Monday, November 18 7 p.m.

 

 
  

110 S. Jefferson St.
Le

Hours:
Sunday 10am to lam

 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi:

Needs an Advertising Representative.
Learn the “‘ins and outs”’
of the advertising world
from seasoned professionals

 

Leave your name and number at
the Phi office (463-8581, 8582)

Mon.-Sat. 9am to lam

 

Catering

   
     

     
     
     
      

463-6080

 

Sandwiches (Eat In-Take Out)
Gourmet Items of All Nations

Cocktails®@ Wine@Beer
Subs@Imported Cheeses

University Florisi-

Under new management:
George Tolley, W&L ’72
Manager - Lisa Kirby

Designs made with a special touch
Just For You!

Buy 1 Rose,
Get 1 Free
$2.00 Off On Any Rose Corsage

We Accept Student Charges ,

15 W. Washington St.
Lexington, Va.

Harriers third at ODAC meet

 

By REED HOWLETT
Staff Reporter

The Washington and Lee cross

 

country team finished third at‘Satur- _
day’s Old Dominion Athletic Con-

ference Championships.

Roanoke, as expected, dominated
the event, finishing 37 points ahead of
the nearest competitor. Roanoke re-
corded a 31, followed by Hampden-
Sydney with a 68, W&L with a 70,
Lynchburg College with a 71, and

Warner Center

 

  

Mon.-Sat.7 °
8:30-5:00

      
   
       
        
 

Eastern Mennonite College with a
125.

As is evident from looking at the
scores, the most competitive. part of
the race occurred between the teams
running for the second through fourth
places.

Once again, Eddie Goundry paced
the Generals, finishing sixth. Scott
Rippeon, Ash Andrews, Michael Wat-
son, Ron Moody and Ted Myers ad-
ded support, finishing fifth, 16th,
19th, 21st and 22nd respectively.

Our

4 ‘Typing’ 9
Is

WordPerfect

Despite the respectable third place
finish, Coach Dick Miller said, ‘“We
didn’t run too well. Ron Moody’s
back was hurting him, which didn’t
help us.” .

This weekend the Division III
regional semifinals will be run at
Emory University. The top seven
runners for the Generals will travel
to Atlanta to try to qualify the team
or some individual runners for fur-
ther competition.

DATA SERVICES
203 N. Main Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
463-9455

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The luxury salon
without the luxury pricetag

 

 

 

 

 

 

Hairstyling (10% off on

haircuts for
WE&L students)

    
 

 

 

|_ Cosmetics

 

 

— Tanning

 

 

 

 

 

 

Capers: When only the best
will do.

25 N. Main St.
463-2566

  

 
-BACK PAGE

The Ring-tum Phi, November 14, 1985

 

 

Taco Bell and more
all in Williamsburg

 

By PAUL DAVEY
Social Critic

 

The sign read something like this:
No motorized vehicles allowed be-
tween 8 a.m. and 6 p.m. In this world
of fast cars and fast women, why
would motorized vehicles not be al-
lowed on a street? The answer is that
the street is one not of the 1980s, but
of the 1770s. It is a street in Colonial
Williamsburg

Williamsburg is a town that see
thes with historical significance. The
fathers of our country met there
prior to the summer of 1776. The sec-
ond university founded in the United
States, William and Mary (they say it
was the first one planned) is there.
The Rockefeller family decided to
restore the colonial part of town. If
you think that the sum of all this
history is a boring weekend, you are
at least partially wrong.

Colonial Williamsburg is a place
that has been tastefully restored to
its pre-Revolutionary War grandeur
The old part of town is just like it was

way back when. Even the employees
of the place dress up in colonial
clothes. One can view of a number of
attractions there — the Governor’s
Palace, the Rockefeller House, a
blacksmith’s shop, a military gar-
rison, the College of William and
Mary and various stores that sell
“old timey’’ stuff. Although this
sounds quite boring, it really isn’t.
The old stuff really is interesting, if
not out-of-control.

Because no cars are allowed in the
historical area, one must walk
around to see everything. Walking
makes me hungry and Colonial Wil-
liamsburg has a number of fixed-up
old taverns. The Christiana Camp-
bell, Chewing’s, and the King’s
Arms’ Taverns are in the old district
and serve food similar to that of col-
onial days. Don’t worry, though —
the food is not squirrel tartar served
by a hefty woman who has not taken
a bath in weeks (those were two char-
acteristics of the 1770s, a tour guide
said). The food is very good and serv-
ed in a pleasant, different environ-
ment

As far as eating dinner goes, one
should try Berrett’s or the Williams-
burg Inn. Both are quite good and run
about $40 tor two people.

For those who think the idea of a
1770s town is boring, here is what you
have been looking for: the night life
is dead. Williamsburg is just not a
party town, unless you consider it a
madcap time dancing in a Best West-
ern lounge to the tunes of a band
leader who also advertises as a
notary _ public.

All in all, a trip to Williamsburg is
highly recommended. Besides, for all
the history one might learn, Wil-
liamsburg offers other advantages.
The serious tourists (equipped with
photo-Patriot passes) are quite
amusing. It is amazing to see how
many of them buy (and wear) those
stupid looking black triangular hats
with gold trim. And it is not unwise,
for humor’s sake, to take a picture of
the line of people waiting to get their
pictures taken in the stockade. And
last but far from least, Williamsburg
has a Taco Bell and that should con-
vince even the most skeptical to go.

 

A horse-drawn carriage rolls down Duke of Gloucester Street in Williamsburg.

 

 

By Matt Horridge/The Ring-tum Phi

 

 

‘Macready!’ plays Henry Street

 

Staff Report

 

Frank Barrie of the British Na-
tional Theatre will perform his inter-
nationally acclaimed one-man show
‘“‘Macready!’’ at the University
Theatre tomorrow and Saturday
nights at 8.

Barrie’s show was successful on
Broadway and London’s West End,
where it won him the best actor in the
Plays and Players Awards.

“Macready!” is based on the life of
19th century actor William Charles
Macready, who tovred America ex-

tensively and was involved in one of
the most scandalous episodes in
American theater history, the
famous Astor Place Riots of 1849.

Barrie was invited by Laurence
Olivier to join the National Theatre
and played leading roles with the
company for four years.

His show, sponsored by the drama
department, is the first in a planned
guest series to be presented annually
by the University Theatre.

It is open free to W&L students,
faculty and staff. For reservations,
call 463-8637.

 

FRANK BARRIE

 

  
   
     
   
   
     
   
 

Our lines features:

Visa

 

 

Aluin-Bennis
Welcome W&L Alumni

Alvin Dennis has expanded and invites you to
come in and view our fall clothing.

Sero Shirts, Woolrich, Izod, and Dean’s Sweaters, Woolrich
outerwear, Dress Corduroys, Duckhead Khakis, Bass,
Clark & Topsider Shoes.

102 N. Washington St.
M/C

 

  

 

Student Charge

 

   

 

hh,
P “4

   

 

Pri-4z-Z0

(Pre- -Ott-so) youll pronounce it delicious.

In Italy, there’s a pie filled with delicious in-
gredients and smothered in rich, zesty sauce and
melted cheeses. You really ought to try it.

Round-trip tickets to Italy are unnecessary
and far too expensive. Just visit your par-
ticipating Pizze Hut® restaurant after 4:00 p.m.
Monday through Friday or anytime Saturday
and Sunday and order our Priazzo1m Italian pie
in one of four tempting combinations of fillings.
Milano, Roma, Florentine and Napoli.

Fat In, Carry Out, Or Delivered

463-7000

600 E. Nelson
Lexington

 

 

$2. offany large pizza
or $1 off any medium. In-
cludes Pizza Hut® Pan
Pizza! Hurry; offer ex-
pires soon. One coupon
per party per visit at
participating Pizza Hut*
restaurants

Please present coupon when ordering Not
ash redemption value © 193 Piste H

Eat In, Carry Out Or Delivered

on
Pizza

   

Hut.

we
Se
si

600 E. Nelson St.
Lexington, Va.
463-7000

11-30-85

 

 

For Sale
1985 300 ZX Turbo

Many Extras
Call after 5 p.m. 261-3239

 

 

 

SERVICDTAR.

23 S. Main
Lexington, Va. 24450

Lexington Hardware
_ ___ 463-2242

 

 

 

5

Southern
Inn

Welcome
Students
Serving breakfast, lunch
and dinner for over
50 years
Main Street, Lexington

463-3612

 

 

 

Dac

 

 

 

 

The Shop for
PAPPAGALLO

Shoes, Clothing
& Accessories

23 NORTH MAIN STREET
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

463-5988

 

University Theatre.
Lewis Hall. Public invited.

8 p.m. — FILM SOCIETY FILM:
Lewis Hall.

Center. -

Auditorium, University Library.

Commerce School.
Center.
Room 203, Reid Hall.

4 p.m.

Commerce School.

Admission is $2.50.

 

7 and 9:15 p.m. — JOURNALISM FLIM:

ONCAMPUS

Thursday, November 14
7 p.m.— JOURNALISM FILM: ‘‘Soldier Girls.’ Room 203, Reid Hall.
7 p.m. — ROMANCE LANGUAGE FILM: “Umberto D.”’ Italian with
English subtitles. duPont Auditorium.
8 p.m. — CONCERT: Quink Vocal Group. Sponsored by Rockbridge
Concert Theatre Series. Lee Chapel.
8:30 p.m. — FILM: ‘Kentucky Fried Movie.”
dent Activities Board. General Headquarters.

Sponsored by the Stu-

Friday, November 15
8 p.m, — PLAY: ‘‘Macready!”’ One-man show starring Frank Barrie.

8 p.m, — FILM SOCIETY FILM: ‘‘Chan is Missing.” Classroom A,
8:30 p.m. — FILM: ‘‘Kentucky Fried Movie.”’ GHQ.

Saturday, November 16
8 p.m. — PLAY: ‘“‘Macready!’’ University Theatre.

“Chan is Missing.’’ Classroom A.
7 and 9 p.m. — FILM: ‘‘Kentucky Fried Movie.’’ Room 108, University
Monday, November 18
7 p.m. — SHAKESPEARE FILM: ‘‘King Lear.’’ BBC Series. Northen

9 p.m. — FOOTBALL: New York Giants vs. Washington Redskins.
Free Popcorn. General Headquarters.

Tuesday, November 19
5 p.m. — BIOLOGY FORUM: Film: “Life: Patent Pending.’’ Discus-
sion led by Dr. John Knox. Room 305. Parmly Hall.
7 p.m. — POLITICS FILM: “Nicholas and Alexandra.’’ Room 327,

7p.m.— WORKSHOP: Job Hunting Techniques. Room 114, University

“It’s a Wonderful Life.”’

Wednesday, November 20
— SOCIOLOGY & ANTHROPOLOGY COLLOQUIUM:
“Defending Land Rights of Australian Aborigines.’ Mr. Jeffrey Sher,
WA&L Visiting Law Professor. Room 9, Newcomb Hall.
7 p.m. — POLITICS FILM: ‘“‘Nicholas and Alexandra.”’ Room 327,

9 p.m. — WEDNESDAY NIGHT IN GENERAL HEADQUARTERS.
Featuring Brice Street. Sponsored by the Student Activities Board.

Compiled by Marie Kothman

 

 

 

Horror with.
big teeth

By TIM McMAHON
Movie Critic

 

 

Most recent horror movies seem
based on one premise: some psyco-
path is running around and hacking
up virgins. ‘‘Fright Night’’ does not
fit that mold. Instead, it is a modern-
day vampire tale with a lot of old-
fashioned feeling.

William Ragsdale plays a teenager
with a problem: he’s convinced his
new next-door neighbor is a vampire
and is killing people on his nightly
jaunts. The trouble is no one believes
his story, but he makes enough noise
to disturb the vampire and thus set
himself up as the next victim. He
eventually turns to Roddy McDowell,
for help. McDowell plays a washed-
up actor whose great strokes had
been as a vampire killer

The plot is tight, and the perfor-
mances are really quite good. Rags-
dale makes the perfect teen hero
—clumsy, scared and _ ultimately
triumphant, and McDowell is very
entertaining.

But the ‘master’ performance
belongs to Chris Sarandon as the
modern-day, yuppie vampire. He is
suave and menacing at the same
time, and his hypnotic seduction of
Ragsdale’s girlfriend Amy (Amanda
Bearse) oozes sensuality.

Writer-director Tom Holland has
created a truly uniquestory, combing
vampire lore with modern teen and
action movies. The special effects
add quite a bit; though, I was disap-
pointed that Holland spent so much
time showing us melting bodies at the
end of the movie.

All in all, “Fright Night” is enter-
taining and, at times, frightening.
This is a can’t miss picture, and I
recommend it highly.

SNL: not much entertainment

 

By BILLHANNA
TV Critic

 

It was Saturday, and since our
fraternity was still on social proba-
tion, a few of us decided to rent a
VCR along with about five movies.

We would stop the movies for an oc-
casional look at some football scores,
including the comedy occurring in
the last seconds of the LSU game.
Domino’s provided a way to keep us
inside and uninterrupted while not
starving, and it turned out to be a
pretty good way to spend the day.

At around 11:30 that night, some-
one mentioned that tonight was the
first episode of the new “Saturday
Night Live’’ season featuring a new
cast, and we decided to stop the
movie we were watching and see
what the show was like.

We tuned in as the traditional open-
ing was beginning and those familiar
words, ‘Live, from New York, it’s
Saturday Night” brought back me-
mories of past seasons, especially the
first ones. We hoped for something
from the new cast that would bring
back the quality the show had when
Chevy Chase, John Belushi, Dan
Aykroyd and the rest were still on.

As the stars of the show were an-
nounced, none were familiar, but
neither were any of the original ‘‘Not
Ready for Prime Time Players,” so
there was still hope.

The guests of the show looked good
as Madonna was the host and Simple
Minds was the musical group.

After the opening, Madonna came
out on the stage to do the monologue
and even this had a few laughs as she
showed some videotape of her wed

ding which was cleverly altered by
SNL.

As for the rest of the show, aside
from the appearances of Simple
Minds and the comedy team of Penn
and Teller, there was not much enter-
tainment. Aside from a line or two,
the new cast should have gone home
after the monologue.

To start with, the acting was so
poor you could see some of the cast
reading directly from cue cards,
Even Madonna acted circles around
the new players.

Granted, the material the cast had
to read was not the most amusing
and some or most of the blame for the
show’s lack of entertainment has to
be put on the lack of humor and crea-
tivity of the script.

Maybe one of the problems of the
show is the lack of personality por-
trayed by the cast. In the old shows,
you knew the type of character
Chase, Belushi or Aykroyd would be
playing. The comedy of each actor
came through with as much humor
no matter if the skit was ‘‘Samurai
Fisherman”’ or the sketches involv-
ing the bees

The show needs a lot of work if it is
to last past this eleventh season.

One idea NBC should try in order to
fill the time slot is to show all the past
episodes of the show starting from
the beginning. After a year or so,
maybe the network will begin to see
the big difference between the first
and the latest versions ot the pro-
gram and adjust both their writing
and cast accordingly.

Now for the highlights.
Thursday: Tonight at 8,
Follett’s screen adapted novel, ‘
of the Needle,”

Ken
‘Eye
will be shown star

ring Donald Sutherland.

ABC will also try to dent NBC's
successful lineup as the premiere of
“Shadow Chasers”’ will be on from 8
until 10.

Saturday: CBS will show the net-
work premiere of ‘‘Rocky III’’ at 9.
Not bad timing as ‘‘Rocky IV” will
begin playing in movie theatres soon.

After the Rocky movie, channel 5
will show the film, ‘The Day of the
Jackal’ at 11.

Sunday: Today, there are some
great movies that should keep just
about anyone entertained for a solid
eight hours. Things start at noon with
an Errol Flynn Classic, ‘‘The Adven-
tures of Robin Hood” on channel 12.

This is followed by three good
movies on channel 5. The entertain-
ment continues at 2 with Clint East-
wood starring in ‘‘A Fistful of Dol-

lars.” This is followed at 4 with
another Eastwood film, ‘Dirty
Harry.’’ Another police-type movie

follows at 6 with Al Pacino starring in
“Serpico,”

Unfortunately, this ends at 8 as the
networks have little to offer aside
from the CBS mini-series, ‘‘Kane and
Able,” an ABC theater presentation
and a made-for-TV movie on NBC.

Monday: NBC will show the Walt
Disney classic, ‘‘Dumbo”’ at 8, The
Woody Allen movie, ‘Annie Hall,”’
will also be shown at 8 on channel 12.

Wednesday: Again, channel 12 will
have a good movie as the original
“M*A*S*H” will be shown at 8. ‘St.
Elsewhere,” on NBC at 10, will bring
a character out of the past as Mr.
Carlin, from the old Bob Newhart
show, played by Jack Riley, shows up
in the psycho ward of the hospital
 

 

 

   
     
   
 

*" VOLUME 85, NUMBER 11

Basketball
Cagers kick off

new season

Page 5

 

| General
Notes

 

' Rapid ticket movement

Tickets go on sale for the
R.E.M. show in the student activi-
* ties pavilion starting Monday,
Dec. 2, at Room 108 in the Univer-
sity Center, from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m.
Tickets are $10 and there are 2,000
available.

Free for the asking

The Washington Scots Charity
and Education Fund of the St. An-
drew’s Society of Washington,
D.C., are accepting applications
for 1986-87 scholarships to be
awarded to men and women of
Scottish descent and to widows or
» people of Scottish ancestry study-
| ing at the college level.

Two scholarships foster study
* between the United States and
, Scotland. The James and Mary
Dawson Scholarship of $5,000 is
open to Scots coming to the United
+ States for graduate work. Another
, Scholarship, in an amount to be
determined, is available to U.S.
* residents planning study in Scot-
t land.

Other awards, as the availabili-
ty of funds permits, are made to
, persons of Scottish descent enroll-
ed in U.S. institutions. Informa-
tion and applications are avail-
, able from the Financial Aid Of-

fice.

"House talk

* “The Survival of the English
Country House’”’ will be the topic
of a lecture on Monday, Dec. 12,
» by Martin D. Drury, executive
, secretary of historic buildings for
the National Trust of Great Bri-
y tain. The talk, which will be at: 8
p.m. in du Pont Auditorium, is co-
* sponsored by the Fine Arts de-
» partment and by the Visiting Lec-
turers Committee. The presenta-
* tion coincides with the country
|, house exhibition in Washington,
D.C., that prompted the recent
* visit of Prince Charles and
, Princess Diana.

. Teacher, teacher

The Foreign and Domestic
’ Teachers Organization needs
teacher applicants in all fields
from kindergarten through col-
’ lege to fill over 600 teaching
+ vacancies at home and abroad.
Since 1968, the organization has
been finding vacancies and locat-
+ ing teachers both in foreign coun-
tries and in all 50 states. It has
hundreds of current openings and
+ all the information as to scholar-
|. ships, grants and fellowships.
For additional information,
* write The National Teacher’s
lacement Agency, Universal
Teachers, Box 5231, Portland,
* Oregon 97208.

. Baseball and oranges

The baseball team is beginning
+ its annual fruit sale to fund the
, team’s spring training trip to
Florida. The sale includes boxes
* of oranges and grapefruits. Con-
tact Coach Jim Murdock at
463-8690 or any W&L baseball
* player.

Holiday hours

The University Library hours
* during the Thanksgiving break
, will be: Friday, Nov. 22: Close at

5:30 p.m.; Saturday, Nov. 23:
* Open 9 a.m. — 4 p.m.; Sunday,
« Nov. 24: Closed.; Monday, Nov. 25
3 -through Wednesday, Nov. 27:

Open 8:30 am to 4:30 p.m.;
» Thursday and Friday, Nov. 28 and
, 29: Closed. ; Saturday, Nov. 30:
Open 9 a.m. -4p.m.; Sunday, Dec.
* 1: Open at noon to resume 24-hour
, schedule.

.Register at registrar’s

* The 1985-86 University Register
, is now available in the Registrar’s
Office.

Let it be known

Generals Notes are run as a
» public service by The Ring-tum
, Phi. To publicize your non-profit

organization’s event or informa-
* tion, fill out a General Notes re-
« quest form in the office of the

University Center secretary,
* Carol Calkins.

°

.

?-

°

¥

 

 

By SEAN BUGG
Staff Reporter

 

Road damage caused by the recent
flooding may endanger trips to
Goshen this spring, according to a
highway engineer for the state High-
way Department.

The heavy rains two weeks ago
caused two mudslides in a 1'2 mile
stretch of road in Goshen, causing it
to be washed out in two places.

Highway engineer Leo Ferris said
the department is ‘‘not sure what to
do with the slides.’’ Presently it plans
to build walls to keep the road from
sliding away again.

The initial time estimate for the
repairs to be finished was six mon-
ths. However, Ferris said, ‘‘It could
be 90 days ... depending on how soon

By PAUL FOUTCH
Editor

 

 

 

Maple Hall

The chef
knows best

 

Goshen trips |;
jeopardized

we can get the wall in.”

Without the washed-out road, ac-
cess to Goshen is impossible by car,
and if the repairs take six months it
would mean no day trips this spring
to Goshen for Washington and Lee
students.

But, Ferris said, the Highway De-
partment ‘‘probably will have a road-
bed in this week.”’

An “off-the-cuff estimate’’ of the
cost of these repairs is about $1,000
per foot of road. The total cost for fix-
ing the washed-out highway would
then come to about $1 million.

Under normal conditions, about 800
to 1,200 vehicles a day use the Goshen
highway, state route 39.

Ferris said that although the high-
way department has put up road-
blocks, people have taken them down
in order to drive through.

Page 6

 

 
  
   

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi —

WASHINGTON ANDLEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Your weekend weather

Rainy and cloudy
all weekend

 

|

NOVEMBER 21, 1985

 

Ne
ou

f

"

a!

 

eS
oy

a: -
jr

 

 

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

A stretch of road is blocked off near Goshen because of damage from heavy rains

 

After an impressive showing in a
1983 ‘‘U.S. News and World Report”
survey of college presidents, Wash-
ington and Lee has found itself mov-
ed to a different category in the re-
cent 1985 survey, and consequently
did not fare as well.

The survey two years ago, in which
W&L was cited by 47.6 percent of the
college presidents surveyed as one of
the top five smaller comprehensive
universities east of the Mississippi,
became a recruiting tool for W&L
and spawned bumper stickers and T-
shirts advertising the University’s
prominence in the survey.

W&L was first in its category that
year.

 

because we had one professional
school,’ University President John
D. Wilson explained this week. ‘‘Now
they’ve taken all these schools and
placed them in the national liberal
arts colleges category.”’

Williams College in Massachusets
led that division this year with 55.1
percent of presidents citing it, follow-
ed by Swarthmore and Amherst col-

leges. W&L was not in the top 10.

Two years ago, W&L beat out La-
fayette, Union and Gettysburg col-

leges in the lower category.

“Because of the new. categories,
comparisons with the 1983 ‘U.S.
News ’ survey should not be made,”

the report said.

Wilson said W&L is “stronger this

year than we were last year.”

“We're in the group we want to

compete with,”’ he said.

 

W&L falls from magazine’s survey — but...

‘“‘We were placed in that category

 

The 1983 college report (left) and 1985’s

 

 

 

 

 

By MIKE STACHURA
Sports Editor

 

Kevin Weaver, who wreaked havoc
upon the Washington and Lee football
record books and Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference opponents alike,

 

 

was named conference Player-of-the-
Year by a vote of ODAC coaches on
Tuesday.

Weaver's selection was the icing on
the cake on the afternoon for the
Generals’ gridders. Eight other W&L

players earned either first-or second-

team All-ODAC honors.

Weaver, who broke four school
rushing and scoring records during
the season, was the ODAC’s leading
rusher with 1,161 yards in just eight
games. He led the conference in scor-
ing as well, tallying 110 points on the
year

 

By W. Patrick Hinely /W&L

Kevin Weaver celebrates after his 64-yard touchdown run

Weaver tops ODAC

In his four conference games
(Weaver missed W&L’s first confer-
ence game — a 30-0 loss to Emory
and Henry — witha knee injury), the
junior running back was just as im-
pressive, piling up 521 yards and 10
touchdowns.

In addition to Weaver’s selection as
a first team running back, sopho-
more offensive tackle John Packett
and senior defensive back Tim Jany-
ska were named to the first squad.

Named to the second team were
seniors John Sanders (offensive
guard), Hugh Finkelstein (wide re-
ceiver), Chris Bleggi (tight end) and
Alex Castelli (defensive tackle).
Freshmen Tom Skeen was named
second-team linebacker and punter.

The ODAC also named its all-con-
ference soccer team, and W&L’s Bil-
ly Holmes was selected as a forward
to that squad

 

Chappell gets
new Wa&L job

Carole K. Chappell, who resigned
two weeks ago as Washington and
Lee’s recruiting coordinator, on Mon-
day began a 20-hour-a-week job in the
University Theatre.

“It’s something completely new,”
she said. ‘‘All I'd done at the Theatre
before was go to the plays.”’

Her duties include box-office and
public relations work. Chappel!, who
has worked for the University since
1976, was formerly the University
Center secretary.

“I was only gone a week, but it’s
great to be back,”’ she said. ‘With all
the calls and visits, the University
sort of came to me.”’

“T like the University and | like be-
ing associated with the University,”
she added. ‘I appreciate | Theatre
head and fine arts professor | Al Gor-
don giving me the opportunity to be
back on campus.”’

Thanksgiving in Lexington

doesn’t have

 

By PAUL DAVEY
Social Critic

 

If you have to stay in Lexington
over Thanksgiving break and are
dreading the presupposed boredom,
read on. It’s not really that bad.

The first and most important thing
to do is to find others that are in the
same predicament. A week without
school in Lexington is much better
spent with a group rather than alone.

Now that you have all assembled,
look for something to do. Granted,
the library will be open for most of
break, but who wants to go there
when the night club crowd is at home
for Thanksgiving? If the weather is
nice, some might enjoy playing golf
at the Lexington Country Club. Get-
ting a group out there for a round of
golf will no doubt be fun — and it kills
a lot of time.

Another daytime activity might be
to take a driving tour of Lexington
Just get in the car and go. There are
a lot of interesting places to see,
many of which are off the beaten
path. And if you take your driving
seriously, this too could use up a good
afternoon,

Sleeping late and going to bed early
are valuable parts of being here
when school is out of session. There
will be no parties and no papers to at-
tend to, so ‘hitting the bed’’ at 10
p.m. should cause no guilty feelings
A long night’s sleep will be necessa-
ry, especially when the library
(hostel) is closed.

For nighttime activities, the place
to discover is Estelle’s. Virtually
everyone that I’ve talked to who has
stayed in town over a break has
found the place a hotbed of activity
and spends a lot of time there. The
place is a bargain for a meal — $2.25
for everything. And the ornaments
— pool tables, juke boxes, t-shirt clad
Virginia Military Institute cadets, a

to be

   

a turkey

 

By Hank Mayer/The Ring-tum Phi

Jeff Mandak carves a turkey in the dining hall Monday night

group of stern waitresses, and 50¢
beers make the place a good change
after 10 weeks on the Palm’s and
Spanky’s circuit. This is definitely a
place to go witha group.

After spending a few hours soaking
up the atmosphere and other less-
seasoned items at Estelle’s, one
might wish to really go out on the
town. Start with the W&L basketball
team’s annual season-opening tour-
nament beginning Friday at 8 p.m
Since the rest of the school will be
gone, those staying will have no pro
blem grabbing prime seats. And
when else in the season can you see
so many undefeated teams in one
weekend?

After the game, the night owl
should roll a mile down the road to
the Holiday Inn. Unbeknownst to
most of the W&L community, the
Holiday Inn operates a lounge — the
infamous, generic ‘Holiday Inn
piano bar.’ Live entertainment
abounds, although as of last night
they were uncertain of next week's
lineup of artists

As well as being a center for a good
time, a visit to the lounge might be

activated,
chains, one is very unlikely to find a

beneficial to one’s fall term grades
When one sees the myriad of travel-
ing salesmen who live their social
lives in lounges like this, it is in-

evitable that one will be spurred on to

make better grades.
It should be apparent to any obser

ver that among the many keys the

lounge’s patrons will carry on spring-
fastened-to-the-belt key

Phi Beta Kappa key
After the Holiday Inn stop, it is
likely that even the most adventure

some ‘‘break-stayer”’ will be ready to

hit the sack. But if you begin to get
hungry, try something different and
swing by the Lee Hi Truckstop for
some truly excellent food

If you go by Lee Hi, your adventure
will be continued as you see inany
meaty hands wrapped around cups of
high-caffeine, hot coffee

So if you are here over break, find
some others who are also stranded
and do some things that get forgotten
during the 90 mph school term. The
change will do you good and you
might even feel as if you spent your
break in a ‘second Lexington.’

a
OPINION

 

It’s only fair

Last spring, the Executive Committee discussed placing a
woman on the Student Control Committee in case a woman
was not elected to a class office. Tuesday night, the Ex-
ecutive Committee again considered the issue. We think that
it is time to place an ad-hoc female member to the SCC.

The argument last spring for the additional ad-hoc mem-
ber was understandable: A woman appearing before an all-
male SCC might feel uncomfortable discussing a sexual slur
or sexual harassment or any issue of a sensitive nature. It
would not be unreasonable to expect a woman to fell intimi-
dated discussing an attempted rape before 12 men.

Although we do not doubt the sincerity of the individuals
currently on the SCC to treat such matters, we do understand
how a woman — a sympathetic ear, if you will — listening to
another woman would provide moral support and lessen anx-
ieties for all involved. Until a woman is elected to a class of-
fice, we believe it is only fair that one be on the SCC now.

Find the best legal aid

 

By TED LeCLERCQ

 

The Honor System can withstand
the acquittal at the open honor trial
two weeks ago. The jury’s decision is
not a matter of debate, but the sys-
tem that led to the acquittal under
those facts should be questioned. The
system needs at least one fundamen-
tal change.

Open honor trials operate on an
adversarial basis and not solely as a
means of discovering the truth. The
truth, in fact, can only be obtained on
later occasions by making the
system live up to its own standards.
The defense lawyers must force the
Executive Committee advocates to
meet the demands of the Honor
System. In other words, whether the
defense believes its client has com-
mitted the act or not, it must do
everything allowed by the system to
try to win.

The system currently allows the
accused student to choose his counsel
from a list of some of the best Wash-
ington and Lee law students. Since
the burden of proof is on the Ex-
ecutive Committee, it is essential
that the best legal minds at W&L re-
present the EC, as well. In fact, the
EC’s duty to uphold the Honor
System requires it to seek the best
legal counsel available.

The White Book rules currently
force the Executive Committee to
choose its counsel from its own

members. The logic of that require-
ment is based on the premise that
since the committee handled the case
up to that point, it can argue the case
most effectively for the open trial
jury. This reasoning has several
weaknesses.

First, if an EC law representative
is used as an advocate, it appears the
committee views this law student as
the most qualified on the basis of hav-
ing been elected to the EC. However,
there is not necessarily a connection
between being elected to the EC and
being the best counsel for an open
honor trial.

Second, the rule presupposes that
some very intelligent and articulate
law student outside of the EC could
not both understand and argue the
case with such a short preparation
time. Again, that underestimates the
quality of W&L’s law students.

Third, no undergraduate can
match the legal training of law stu-
dents. Therefore, the mere presence
of an undergraduate among the EC’s
advocates risks making the EC look
as if it has inferior representation.

Fourth, the rule assumes that prior
detailed association with the case is
an asset. In fact, independent cousel
could provide a more removed and
perhaps more objective analysis of
the issues.

An adage holds that ‘he who repre-
sents himself has a fool for a client.”’
The evidence suggests the EC could
better serve the system by seeking
outside counsel.

 

Great expectations can disappoint

 

By NELSON PATTERSON
Editorial Page Editor

 

 

In an age in which the latest craze
is no longer what they’re wearing in
Soho but what they’re sporting for
tea in Geneva, it is funny to see two
countries so ga-ga over a meeting of
their respective leaders. Granted, it
is the first time that the Soviets have
been able to keep a leader alive long
enough for Reagan to meet him, and
it is the first time that the Soviet
leader is younger than our president.

But when the world stoops to gaze
at two men exchanging trivialities
and cocktail conversation while the
“meat” of their discusssions goes
unreported because of a news black-

 

out, it is ironic, if not comical, that
we herald every word as if it were
manna from heaven. In a funny way,
we have become as crazy as those
who lined the streets of Washington
recently just to catch a glimpse of
some visiting royalty. We are so in-
tent on seeing something that we
forget the importance and the
significance of what we are seeing
and what results these actions pro-
duce.

Though the summit is finished and
the actors have left their sets and
returned to the grim worlds in which
each rules, the real issues have not
disappeared. We are only able to
focus more clearly upon them. But at
least we have seen the enemy for
what it is, and damn if it isn’t our own
expectations.

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 21, 1985

 

 

 

 

 

Trying the jury sets bad precedent |

 

MY VIEW

By STEVEN
POCKRASS

‘‘Who the heck are you?” I asked,
suspiciously eyeing the gray uni-
form, the polished brass buttons, the
dark black boots and the blue cape
billowing from his nape.

He wore many faces, yet they all
appeared to be those of friends and
acquaintances.

“Tam Captain Honor Code,”’ his
commanding voice boomed. *‘And
you,” he yelled, pulling what ap-
peared to be a very sharp sword from
its sheath. “You prepare to die, you
worthless scum,”’

“‘Hang ona second,” I said. ‘‘What
are you going to kill me for?”’

“*You're one of the twelve, aren't
you?’’ he screamed. ‘‘You’re one of
the twelve who nailed Lee’s coffin
shut with your decision in a recently
publicized honor trial.”

“IT was a member of a jury that
found a student not guilty of an honor
violation, if that’s what you mean,”’ I
said.

“That’s what I mean,” he replied.
‘*How does it feel to have killed the
Honor System?”

“T didn’t kill any Honor System,” I
said.

“Yeah, right. You all decided that
a student who admitted he stole a tub
of wine was not guilty of an honor
violation,’’ he said. ‘I know this. I
read about it in The Ring-tum Phi.”

“Oh right, The Phi,” I said.
‘Where you're guilty even after pro-
ven innocent. If there was ever a
time when we needed a Reader's Ad-
vocate column in The Phi, this was
if.””

‘‘What do you mean?” he asked.

‘‘Well, did you read about the trial
in the Law News?”

“There wasn’t anything about the
trial itself in the Law News,” he said.
‘‘According to the Law News’ story,
its attempts to report on the trial
‘was met with vehement opposition
by the Executive Committee offi-
cials,’ including EC President John
Lewis. And you wouldn't want to
mess with him. He’s a big guy and
lifts weights.”’

“I’m not saying I would want to
mess with him,” I said. ‘‘I just
wondered why The Phi, for the first
time I know of in W&L history, re-
ported on an honor trial. In fact, it
had interviews with both the student
acquitted and with Lewis after the
verdict was announced. It seems to
me like someone violated someone's
trust, which isn’t real cool at
Washington and Lee. That's what our
honor code’s based on, you know,
Trust.”

“Of course I know that,’’ he said.
‘I'm Captain Honor Code. And that’s
why I can’t believe you acquitted that
guy.”
“Hey, listen, buddy,” I replied.
‘Why don’t we get our facts straight
before we start leveling accusa-
tions? A student jury does not have to
be unanimous in an open hearing.

“What happens is that after the
jurors hear all the testimony and are
charged by the presiding officer,
they go into a room and discuss the
case until they feel like everyone's
had his say. And then they vote by

 

secret ballot. “Only if 2/3 of the
jurors — that’s eight people — vote
guilty, is the accused found guilty.”’

“So a majority could vote guilty,
and the guy could still be found not
guilty?”’

“That’s right.”

“Is that what happened here?”’

‘I don’t know. Like I said, it is all
done by secret ballot. It could have
been 7-to-5 guilty, or it might very
well have been 12-to-0 not guilty. You
just don’t know.”

“Well how’d you vote?”

“Is that any of your business?
Maybe I voted guilty, and, then
again, maybe not. But I don’t think
you should accuse me of destroying
the Honor System when you don’t
even know how I voted.”’

“But it was such a simple case,”’ he
said. ‘The guy admitted he stole the
wine but you,...er, at least five mem-
bers of the jury decided it was all
right because he was intoxicated.
What a precedent.”’

“There wasn’t any precedent,” I
replied. ‘“‘We‘re not like a regular
jury, and we’re not the U.S. Supreme
Court. You don’t know why he was
found not guilty. I'll tell you this —
the guy's representatives said his
defense was not intoxication, so it
would seem highly unlikely that
drunkeness was the reason he was
acquitted.

‘Supreme Court decisions are
written down. They set precedent
because not only do you know how
people voted, but you also know why.
Here, you don’t know the vote. You
don’t know why people voted as they
did. So how can you base one case on
another if you don’t know the reason
for the outcome? That’s just ignor-
ance,”

“But enquiring minds want to
know why the jurors voted as they
did,” he said. ‘‘And Lee Hollis told us
why in The Phi. Hollis said it’s
because there were a lot of freshmen
on the jury, and they questioned the
single sanction.”

“Yeah, I read that,’ I said.
“Hollis, who was not on the jury, was
quoted in The Phi as saying, ‘The
reaction of your average jury mem-
ber, especially on this one, which had
a lot of freshmen, is, ‘Who am I to be
kicking this person out of school?’ ”’

‘I don’t remember Lee Hollis sit-
ting in the jury room with us, analyz-
ing our brain patterns or conducting
a statistical poll, but he obviously
knows all there is to know about your
average jury member. Sure, a fresh-
man can get kicked out of school for
an honor violation, but he or she real-
ly isn’t qualified to serve on a jury of
one’s peers.”

“That story seemed awfully con-
trived to me,” I said. ‘‘I think I've
seen Opus make better analyses of
trends for the Beacon in the Bloom
County comic strip. But The Phi did
run an editorial a few weeks ago
about the single sanction, so it must
be accurate.”’

‘During jury selection, each poten-
tial juror is asked if he or she
believes in the system as it now
operates, under a single sanction,” |
continued. ‘Are you implying per-
jury by the jury?”

“OK, so maybe the single sanction
had nothing to do with the verdict,”’
he said. ‘The fact is that the guy was
found guilty in Lexington General
District Court. How could at least

five jurors think it in their power to
question a real court? The Phi asked
that in its editorial, you know.”’

“I know that,” I said. “I guess The
Phi figures that if someone is found
guilty in a real court, there's no
reason to allow the person to exercise
his rights granted by the White Book.
Gosh, that would be like giving the
guy the benefit of the doubt.

‘Another thing,’’ I added, ‘‘is that
unless you sat through the entire
trial, heard all the evidence and the
chairperson’s charge, can you be
sure that you know all the facts of the
case and understood the jury’s in-
structions?”

“If you did sit through it all, then
you know that the statement that ‘the
only relevant question was whether
the act was in fact committed’ is not
accurate. As The Phi itself noted, a
hallmark of the system is that all
cases are tried on an_ individual
basis.”

“Even generally accepted things
like using fake 1.D.s and stealing
road signs for fraterndty scavenger
hunts?”’ Captain Honor Code asked?

“Yes,” IL replied, ‘‘but I’m not sure
that you could necessarily call them
‘generally accepted.’ Because the
Honor System is not based on prece-
dent, past cases don’t matter. And to
tell you the truth, I don’t know of any
past cases regarding scavenger
hunts or fake I.D.s.

‘‘As always, we must take cases in-
dividually, but it would be very dif-
ficult to prove to me that taking a
road sign for a fraternity scavenger
hunt is not premeditated theft.

“The real problem is that pledges

Letter

The Ring-tum Phi considers all
letters from any member of the
Washington and Lee community
for publication. Letters to the
editor should be typed and double-
spaced and must include the
writer’s name and phone number.
Due to space considerations, some

eee

may put their loyalty to their frater*
nities ahead of the honor code. An@
anyone who would force someone
else to steal in order to become 4
member of a house is guilty, too. ¢

“It seems to me like pledges
oughta have the guts to say ‘no’ if
they’re forced to participate. I'm ina
fraternity, and I did not participate.

“If the Interfraternity Council is
really more than just a spineless, ti-
tular head, then it should ban such
scavenger hunts, not because they're
necessarily honor violations, but to
show that we can set higher stant
dards for ourselves regardless of the
Honor System. That’s what I think
we all need to do — to voluntarily set
standards for ourselves that are
higher than the minimums set by the
honor code — because that is what
will make our university great.”

“That's a pretty tough stance for
someone who found a convicted thief
not guilty of an honor violation,”’
Captian Honor Code said. ‘

“Would you quit making accusa-
tions!”’ I said. ‘Last week’s Phi
printed the accused student’s name,
yet the stories and editorial implied
that the jury was misguided and mis:
informed. ’

“The fact is that the accused fol-
lowed the proper procedures for an’
honor trial and was not found guilty.
You may not agree with that deci-_
sion, but you must live with it.

“I’m glad you have an opinion. Buty
stop making accusations against the
jurors and oversimplifying a difficult’
case. Our role in the trial was neither:
voluntary nor easy. The last thing we.
need is for you to put us on trial, too.”’

policy — |

é

letters may not be able to be pub-
lished every week. ’

Letters may be left at the Phi of-
fice before 5 p.m. Tuesday to be
considered for that week’s Phi or
may be mailed to The Editors,
The Ring-tum Phi, Box 899, Lex-
ington.

 

is otherwise independent.

definitions of libel and obscenity,

 

The Ring-tum Phi !

55s beds seectsinccrcelececs Mike Allen ‘

NG ah ahs EN hee he hee en di ccdacindesK Paul Foutch

oS bss: sss cssbsees sus heus Jim Strader
PTC ree eer en Peet: Chris Bowring ‘

ss 0s sees ccrksssCaepeubets Jeff Kimbell ‘
Be once ore Hank Greenberg
Pe err Keri Hinrichs ‘

Business Manager .......ccscccceccovens
Advertising Manager ...........:+++++e005
Advertising Salesmen ...........+--.505

fe eT Pere rreni Corie eer Cre ree Matt Horridge

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi ‘
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee, The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 200 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m, Tuesday of the week they are to be run, Or send them to The
Ring-tum Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450. This newspaper observes current court

Cotton Puryear a
.., Reade Williams
....Mike Stachura
.. Nelson Patterson

  

John Feyrer
Jay Reville

 

 

 

 
.
4
‘
‘

y

 

NEWS

The Ring-tum Phi, November 21, 1985

 

#
2
Gag

PS

EC criticizes coverage of open honor trial

 

By JASON LISI
Staff Reporter

 

The Executive Committee on Tuesday
criticized last week’s Ring-tum Phi coverage
of a student body honor hearing, calling the
reporting “irresponsible journalism.”’

After 50 minutes of discussion, the EC
voted to refer the matter to a subcommittee
formed last week to consider a possible
policy regarding press coverage of open
honor trials.

Articles in last week’s Phi included the
charge against an accused student, the clos-
ed and open trial verdicts and the name of
the student in an article for which he agreed
to be interviewed — information that several
members of the EC said violates a section of
the Honor System guidelines, The White
Book.

The section states that ‘‘any and all infor-
mation about ... an Executive Committee
Hearing is highly confidential,’ which the

EC members said is designed to protect the
accused student, witnesses and others.

“T just think it’s a question of tact and a lit-
tle bit of censorship,’ senior representative
Michael Black said at Tuesday’s meeting

Phi Executive Editor Mike Allen told the
committee the purpose of the paper is to pro-
vide a “responsible forum for intelligent
discussion of important issues to students.”’

‘What could be more significant, more im-
portant, more central to the W&L communi-
ty than an honor trial, especially this case?”’
he said.

One of the EC’s major complaints was that
since an open honor trial can be attended on-
ly by those in the W&L community and The
Phi is sent to parents and other schools, the
paper in effect was allowing those outside the
community into an open hearing.

Allen repeatedly posed the question of
what harm would be done if the facts and
issues of the case were discussed in the paper
and copies were sent out to the public.

Vice President Andrew Caruthers stressed
that the EC was trying to protect the accused
student, even though the student in this case
agreed to an interview regarding the honor
trial

“Confidentiality has been broken outside
the W&L community,”’ Caruthers charged.
He added that he had a problem with his
‘mother and the lady she plays tennis with’
discussing the facts of an honor trial.

Allen countered by saying: ‘I have enough
confidence and faith in the Honor System
that I don’t think it’s going to be destroyed by
having the outside community know what’s
going on withit.”’

The EC has the power to freeze The Phi’s
funds, but second-year law representative
Bill Thompson said later Tuesday night, ‘‘I
don’t believe that if it had come down to that,
we would have done that.”’

Allen also said he didn’t think the newspa-
per’s funds would be frozen.

If it were to happen, though, “the news-

paper would still come out, even if I had to
pay to Xerox it myself,”’ he said.

Allen said after the meeting that he’s ‘‘not
some wild-haired liberal trying to tear down
the system — that’s silly.”’

“But I don’t believe the students of Wash-
ington and Lee are well-served by having Big
Brother behind the horseshoe decide what
they’re going to read on Thursday afternoon
about honor or anything else,”’ he said.

“I’m willing to listen to them and don’t
disagree with everything they say,’’ Allen
continued. ‘But as long as they try to sup-
press information important to the student
body, I feel I owe it to my readers to resist.
And I will.”

“T think the EC has this nightmare of us
writing a point-by-point, quote-for-quote ac-
count of an honor trial,’’ he said. ‘‘We have
never done that, have never even considered
it, and will never do that. But the point is: We
made that_decision ourselves — we don’t
need the EC to make it for us.”’

Senior representative Pat Haydei
after the meeting that although he °° i
want to see a rule that forbids the pape
coverage of honor trials ... coverage that
too extensive [may reflect on] the guilt or i:
nocence of the persons involved,

Second-year law _ representative
Thompson said after the meeting that the F
has three main concerns: to protect t
rights of the accused student, ‘to avoid th
dissemination of specific names and facts «
a trial outside the W&L community,” and ‘‘t
generally avoid a retrial of the facts by th
students or outsiders but without impingin
on fair discussion of the issues.”’

“IT strongly believe in the necessity that tl
paper report on honor matters, but some «
the information needs to be restrained
Thompson continued.

“T think it’s unfortunate that student go
ernment and student publications should |
split over issues they should be in agreeme!
and act together on.”’

Coeducation helping
IU, Diffenderffer says

 

By JOHN PIPKIN
Staff Reporter

 

“The Independent Union is slowly
becoming an important organization
on campus,” said I.U. President
Chuck Diffenderffer.

According to Diffenderffer, this
year’s I.U. has gained additional
strength from the first women stu-
dents on campus, who are unable to
take advantage of the fraternity
system.

“T want to let the women know that
this organization could be their voice
in the way that a sorority would,”
said Diffenderffer.

In order to get this message across
to students, Diffenderffer said he
hopes to visit freshmen during man-
datory hall meetings.

Of the present student body, 35 per-
cent does not belong to fraternities
and are eligible for membership in
the I.U.

Members are requested to con-
tribute annual dues of $15, but that is

not mandatory for membership.
Those members who pay however,
are entitled to free admission to I.U.
activities, which are open to every-
one. Earlier this year, the I.U.
received $500 from the Executive
Committee to sponsor student ac-
tivities.

Diffenderffer is working on plans
for a Christmas Party or a pre-Fancy
Dress party. According to him, last
year’s Christmas Party, which was
held in what was then the Cockpit,
was a success, and he hopes that this
year’s party will be equally as en-
joyable,

Most I.U. activities are held in the
GHQ, but the organization stresses
that providing social activities is not
its sole function.

According to Diffenderffer, the
purpose of the I.U. is ‘‘to provide the
services and opportunities of a fra-
ternity without the obligations.’’ The
1.U. offers students an extensive file
of ‘cold tests,’’ counseling services
and intramural athletics.

Intramurals have been the most

 

Honor conviction

- - -
cael

 

CHUCK DIFFENDERFFER

successful I.U. activity so far and the
organization has fielded teams in all
competitions except golf, Diffenderf-
fer noted.

The I.U. has had several meetings
this year and will be holding another
meeting after Thanksgiving. Inter-
ested students can register for mem-
bership or intramurals at that meet-
ing, or by contacting Chuck Diffen-
derffer in the I.U. office on the sec-
ond floor of the University Center.

 

Fi
a

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Students leave Lee Chapel after Monday’s open honor
hearing, in which a student’s conviction for lying was
upheld by a student jury. It was the second open trial in
two weeks and the second of the year. According to Ex-

ecutive Committee Secretary Mike Webb, of the eight

 

Staff Reports

 

A second-year law stu-
dent has been elected
chairman of the American
Bar Association Law Stu-
dent Division for the 1986-87
term.

Gorham _ Sharpless
“Rory” Clark of Vienna
was elected chairman of
the Law Student Division at
the ABA’s Division Board
of Governor’s meeting in
San Diego. Clark was elect-
ed over two other candi-
dates.

Clark will assume his
post next August. As chair-
man, he will be responsible
for supervising the division activities in the 150 law
schools approved by the American Bar Association. He
will also work with the president of the ABA and repre-
sent the law student division to outside organizations.

Phillips book in second printing

A book by economics professor Charles F. Phillips Jr.
recently went into its second printing.

Titled “‘The Regulation of Public Utilities: Theory

“RORY” CLARK

 

 

honor investigations this school year, four have gone toa
closed trial — one of them was thrown out by the EC, one
resulted in an acquittal, and two were convictions. Both
were appealed, resulting in Monday’s conviction and the
previous acquittal.

EC tables
issue of
SCC woman

By JASON LISI
Staff Reporter

 

 

Although the Executive Committee
Tuesday heard lengthy discussion on
the subject of instating a woman ad
hoc member to the Student Control
Committee, it decided to hold off ona
vote until the first meeting after the
Thanksgiving break.

Freshman Valerie Pierson voiced
her request that a woman’s ad hoc
position on the SCC be created to bet-
ter represent the needs of women on
the presently all-male board.

“Tt would be really intimidating to
go before so many males,” Pierson
said.

SCC Chairman Townes Pressler
added that the position would be non-
voting and advisory, involving coun-
seling and representing women in
areas such as sexual assault and
slurs.

Last year’s EC considered creating
such a position in the event that no
woman won an elected position to the
SCC through class elections.

...... The same proposal on Tuesday was

met with some opposition. ‘I don’t
think that there is a problem with a
woman not being on the committee
just because there is no woman on
the committee,” first-year law
representative Bill Senft said.

Second-year law representative
Bill Thompson said women should
run for the office or choose a sympa-
thetic male candidate “if they are
really concerned about what happens
in the SCC.” A motion was made and
passed to table the issue to allow
more research before the next EC
meeting Dec. 2.

In other EC action:

eThe 1984-85 Calyx, which at one
time was scheduled to be given to stu-
dents at matriculation, is still undone
despite progress made by the editor,
senior David Sprunt. ‘As of right
now, I have six pages to do,” Sprunt
reported Tuesday.

Representatives of the Film Soc-
iety appeared to answer questions

» about the financial progress of their

organization. Junior Robert Meritt
and senior Jim Foley told the EC,

 

 

 

 

The photo taken for the cover of Liang Heng’s 1983 book

Chinese author and wife
to lecture on. history

 

By JOHN PENSEC
Staff Reporter

 

A survivor of the Chinese Cultural
Revolution will speak two weeks
from now on the differences in the
two Chinas that he has known: the
China of his boyhood and the China of
today.

Liang Heng and his wife, Judith
Shapiro, co-authors of ‘‘Son of the
Revolution,”’ will give a lecture titled
‘‘New Freedoms, Old Problems: A
Survivor of the Chinese Cultural Re-
volution’s View of China Today,” on
Monday, Dec. 2, at 8 p.m. in Northen
Auditorium. The talk is being spon-
sored by the East Asian Studies Pro-
gram.

“Son of the Revolution,’’ published
in 1983, is Liang’s story of growing up
in China during the Cultural Revolu-
tion. Described by ‘“‘The New York
Times Book Review” as ‘‘so well
written and revealing that it makes
most other works on the same sub-

Professor Roger Jeans’ class
modern China.

Liang graduated from the Huna
Teachers’ College in 1981. Since con
ing to the United States, Liang ha
earned his master’s degree from Co!
umbia University.

Shapiro taught American liter:
ture at the Hunan Teacher's College
She received her master’s degree i
Asian Studies from the University o
California at Berkeley. She has als
received degrees from Princeton an
the University of Illinois.

Liang is editor of Zhishi Fenzi (The
Chinese Intellectual), a Chinese lan
guage magazine that is used primari
ly by students from China.

Liang and Shapiro co-authore:
“Intellectual Freedom in China afte
Mao,”’ a book published in 1984 by the
Fund for Free Expression, which dis
cusses freedom of belief, speech an
information as well as artistic
freedom. Articles about China writ
ten by the couple have been publish

“‘We’re doing almost as well as we
were last year.”’

 

NEWS BRIEFS

and Practice,’’ the 812-page volume was first published
in June 1984 by Public Utilities Reports Inc. of Arling-
ton, Va.

The book is designed for use both as a classroom text-
book and a reference work for professionals in the field.

Phillips, who is also the mayor of Lexington, received
his bachelor’s degree from the University of New
Hampshire and his Ph.D. from Harvard. He joined the
Washington and Lee faculty in 1959.

Group offers cooking course

The Rockbridge Area Unit of the American Heart As-
sociation recently announced the return of one of its
“heart-iest’’ programs, the Culinary Hearts Kitchen
course,

Culinary Hearts, in its second year locally, will again
be taught by Jo Anne Willis, a dietician at Stonewall
Jackson Hospital. It is a six-week, once-a-week pro-
gram providing students with instruction in the prepar-
ation of healthy, appetizing and inexpensive meals.

Sponsored by the local Rockbridge heart association
unit, Stonewall Jackson Hospital and the Rockbridge
County Extension Service, the program this year will
run every Monday, 7 to 9 p.m,from Feb. 3 through
March 10.

Last spring, 15 area people learned new ways to cook
and eat to prevent heart problems. Organizers like
Henry Foresman, president of the local unit of the heart
association, would like to see more college students par-
ticipate in the program this year.

“We hope to get the young people interested in the
program, especially those in their early to mid-20s,”’
Foresman said. ‘‘The younger people have their whole
lives ahead of them. Those who eat smart will benefit in
their older years.”’

The course will be held in the Fellowship Hall of the
Good Shepherd Lutheran Church, 617 S. Main Street.
The cost for the entire course is $25 for the food used in
the demonstrations.

For more information, cont.act Jo Anne Willis,
463-9141, or Tom Brickel, 463-8460.

Programmers take fifth place

Washington and Lee recently sent a team to a
Regional Computer Programming Contest at the Col-
lege of William and Mary. Sponsored by the Capital
Region of the Association of Computing Machinery, the
contest enlisted 20 student programming teams from
colleges and universities in Maryland, Virginia and the
District of Columbia.

The W&L team, represented by Clint Whitaker and
any St. John, placed fifth in the competition despite the
fact that all the other teams were composed of four
members.

Astronomy article published

Physics Professor Ronald L. Reese and Reade
Williams, a senior politics major from Roanoke, have
written an article for the November 1985 issue of ‘‘The

 

ject seem little more than dress
rehearsals,’’ the book is being used in

ed in The New York Times and Life
magazine among other publications

ESP GTS

Student named head of division of U.S. bar association

Griffith Observer,” a national popular astronomy jou
nal.

The article, titled ‘‘An Astronomer’s Poet: Alfred
Lord Tennyson,”’ examines Tennyson's poetry and how
he used astronomy extensively in his works. Reese an
Williams also note Tennyson’s use of universal the:
and astronomical imagery and the similarities to y
John Milton’s development of the same themes

‘Tennyson's references to astronomy were les
mic in scope and more subtle, even technical” than Iii
ton’s, Reese and Williams write. “He incorporated r¢
ferences to contemporary science profusely into
poetry and ina way unlike his predecessors.”

Seniors to attend conference

Seniors Nelson Patterson and Townes Pressler are
two out of 200 students chosen to attend the Busines
Tomorrow XI conference in Houston Sunday throug!
Tuesday.

Sponsored by the Foundation for Student Communi
cation Inc., publishers of Business Today magazine, the
conference will be held at the Hyatt Regency West in
Houston. The program will include eminent speak:
and business executives.

Pressler, who is the senior class president, and |
terson were chosen ‘“‘from a pool of 2,000 outstand

student leaders” across the country, according |
conference organizers
 

 

Seni

SPORTS

Seconda-half blitz paces gridders, Weaver

Kevin Weaver breaks loose on another big run

 

Our Ladies

....We talked about this way back
in February (those of us who
remember) and darn if it ain’t

TIME resolved yet. That is, at least from

OUT.... where I sit. Of course, it’s this
women thing. I’ve asked it before

By Mike and I'll ask it again:

Stachura

 

What are we going to call these
women, athletically speaking?
: We can call this “The ‘Lady
Generals’ Controversy, Part II,’’ not to be confused with ‘‘North and
South.”

It may be no big deal to you, but y'all are apathetic anyway, right?
Seriously, campers, now that women’s athletics is firmly entrenched
at W&L — and quite impressively so, I might add — I think it’s high
time somebody made a decision about what the nickname for
Washington and Lee women athletes is to be.

As far as I can tell, the policy has been one of avoidance. And that’s
not a criticism, guys. I realize this one’s a toughie. Yeah, leave the
easy stuff to Ronnie and Mikhail.. What you’re faced with is choice
phrases like “the women’s team,”’ ‘‘the women”’ and ‘‘them.”’ (Well,
not yet, but you get the picture. )

Now we all know that ‘‘Generals”’ is a non-sexual referent ... it’s not
gender specific ... I mean it works both for boys and girls. Hence,
Mark Mandel, W&L sports information director, explained that since
Generals are Generals, the style will be to add no embellishment to the
W&L nickname. Indeed, Mandel said he would be ‘‘behemently oppos-
ed” to any such feminine distinction. The women’s teams and the
men’s teams will be just Generals.

If we don’t make the distinction, it’s a sad fact, but the women’s

’ teams will eventually be removed from any nickname designation at
all. The Generals will be the men’s teams and ‘‘the women’s team”’
will be the women’s team. And everybody deserves a nickname, right
Beverly C.?

' For one thing, designating the women’s teams as Lady Generals

* would clear up a lot of confusion. Pity the poor sports editor, who, fac-

* ed with a story about the men’s and women’s crosscountry teams, is

’ left with a paragraph that has the ‘“Generals”’ finishing third in the
meet. Who? Which team?

Are we just going to let this thing die? I say, ‘‘No — this is a serious
matter’ (let’s pretend). The big fear must be that such a nice name as
Lady Generals is sexist. Oh, please, can we talk?

Carolyn Arbogast, the leading Lady General Harrier, said it really
doesn’t matter, but she doesn’t find “‘Lady General’’ sexist. Hear,
hear.

I say let’s make a decision to go with Lady General. But, wait, you
say, we don’t call the men’s teams the Gentlemen Generals. Granted,
but I think this question is one of precedent. One need go no further
than Norfolk and Old Dominion for a fine example of a women’s title of
distinction. The men’s team is the Monarchs — a neuter name — while:
the women go by the name of, you guessed it, the Lady Monarchs. And
not too shabby a game of hoops do they play down there, either.

The addition of ‘‘Lady” to the W&L nickname does not invite deri-
sion, either. Certainly, not worthy of the ridicule of such sexually con-
fused monikers as Lady Longhorns, Lady Lions or Lady Bulldogs.

No, it would be a good thing. It’s a classy distinction for a group that
deserves to be designated as such...

 

 

...Walking by the Colonnade, an “oh, wow!” to Kevin All-
Everything Weaver. All-America recognition should not be far behind.
But you can’t stop there. A big tip of the cap to the entire squad and
staff for a class-act season. No question about it, you done good.... A
quick tip of the cap to all Generals earning All-ODAC honors and a

‘ special congratulations on a fine season to football coach Gary Fallon,

‘who wasn’t selected conference coach of the year but should have

‘ been...A good luck wish to Scott Rippeon at cross country nationals
this Saturday...And a final word to those planning ahead: Circle Dec. 3
on your calendars and make it a point to be in the Warner Center for
the General cagers’ clash against top-rated ODAC foe Hampden-
Sydney. Let’s dismiss this apathy talk right now....

....American Public Health Association is considering a resolution
calling for a ban to boxing. A good idea. It’s time that boxing go the
way of bear-baiting... Football: Chicago is a lock for winning the
Super Bowl. No questions asked ... More Football: Danny Ford and his
Clemson football team were way out of line in their end-of-game antics
after getting beat by Maryland. ACC deciding this week to penalize
Ford et. al., but really no matter of decision. Childishness is usually
obvious...

... Finally, seems Terry ‘‘Fat Tub of Goo,’ Forster has decided to go
on a crash diet. Crash is right. That’s what it sounds like when 270
pounds hits the scale. Your diet’s going to last, Terry? Fat chance...

(P.S.: A hearty congratulations to WLUR-FM on its 43-39 overtime

‘victory over The Phi. Indeed, the better team won....)

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 21, 1985

 

By DAVID EMRICH
Staff Reporter

 

“This team gave more of
themselves than the 1981 team.”

That is what W&L Head Football
Coach Gary Fallon said when he was
asked to compare this season’s 7-2
team that earned a share of the
ODAC title with Emory and Henry
and Randolph-Macon, to the 8-2 1981
squad that won the championship
outright.

“It is very gratifying as a coach
when the staff gets the team to give
all they can,” he said. ‘“‘They gave
good performances in all their
games, even the losses. My overall
feeling is that I’m pleased with the
season.”

On Saturday, the team earned its
seventh win of the season with a 29-14
victory at Wilson Field over the
Washington University Bears. The
triumph capped the sixth consecutive
winning season for the Generals.

Once again, junior running back
Kevin Weaver had a productive af-
ternoon, rushing for 207 yards and
scoring 14 points, two tallies that
should keep him among Division III’s
top three in those categories.

Yet, early in the Washington Uni-
versity game on Saturday, the
Generals looked like anything but a
team that had been in contention for
the national title. They failed to move
the ball with any consistency, and
had a potential drive killed when a
long pass from Jon Thornton to Hugh
Finkelstein was brought back
because of a clipping call.

Fortunately for W&L, the Bears
weren't doing much better.

File photo

SCOTT RIPPEON...qualifies for nationals

The Generals opened the scoring in
the second quarter. They began the
period with the ball on their own 14
and drove to the Washington 11,
where they stalled, before settling for
a 28-yard field goal by B.J. Sturgill to
make the score 3-0 with 10:06 left in
the half. The lead held, until, with
3:30 left in the half, Thornton was in-
tercepted deep in the Bears’ territo-
ry. The Bears took advantage of the
miscue, and scored on their ensuing
series to put them up 7-3 with less
than three minutes left in the half.

The Generals got the ball back, but
were forced to punt. The Bears were
moving the ball off a W&L punt, and
seemed to be headed toward another
score when the Generals took charge
of the game. On a fourth and short
play, Linebacker Bob Berlin broke

up a pass and the Generals took over .

on downs.

Three plays later, including passes
of 32 and 36 yards from Thornton to
Chris Bleggi, the Generals were on
the Washington four-yard line. In
what has become an almost routine
play, they handed the ball to Weaver,
who went over the top for the touch-
down to give W&L a 10-7 halftime
lead.

Four plays after W&L came out of
the locker room, Weaver romped 64
yards for a touchdown to put the
Generals up 16-7. The run also gave
Weaver the school record for most
yards in a season, previously held by
Gene Girard with 1,011.

“We knew we were facing a team
with a lot of individually talented
athletes,’ said Fallon. “But, our
team and our seniors worked very

chard, and they [Washington Univer-

sity] didn’t work together as a team
as well as we did.”

 

Weaver’s 207 yards came on 28 at-
tempts. It was his second 200-yard ef-
fort of the season (he rushed for 225-
yards vs. the University of the South
on Oct. 16. He now holds four major
school records, including most rush-
ing yards in one season (1,161), most
points in one season (110), most rush-
ing yards in one game (225) and most
touchdowns in one game, (five vs.
Hampden-Sydney on Oct. 19). He also
scored 13.8 points per game and
averaged 145.1 rushing yards per
game. The final NCAA statistics will
be announced Dec. 7, and Weaver
should be at the top of those lists.

Fallon said, ‘I’m pleased with the
team in general, the defense faced
some tough quarterbacks and some
good offenses, but they always reach-
My down and did what they had to

“The offensive line developed very
well, and I was very pleased with the
jobs ([placekicker] Sturgill, and
]punter) Tom Skeen did for us. We
knew we could have a good year if we
were able to avoid injuries.”

SIDELINES: The six con-
secutive winning season matches a
record set between 1919 and 1924 ...
W&L, E&H, and R-M, all tied for the
ODAC Championship with 4-1 confer-
ence records as the Wasps defeated
Maryville 48-46 and the Yellow
Jackets beat Hampden-Sydney
12-7.... his 64-yard touchdown run
early in the second half was Wea-
ver’s longest run of the sea-
son...Freshman linebacker Skeen led
the team in tackles, getting in on 101
tackles... The 7-2 final record is the
best W&L mark since 1981.

Rippeon beats heat
to make nationals

 

By REED HOWLETT
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee cross
country team ran very well last Sat-
urday at the Division III Southern
Regionals finishing with a score of 76,
Unfortunately for the Generals, two
other teams turned in better perfor-
mances than the W&L harriers could
muster. The top two squads at re-
gionals advance to the nationals.

In Atlanta, on Saturday, host
Emory was just too tough for the en-
tire field, 33 points ahead of second

place Roanoke with a 60.
Coach Dick Miller noted, ‘‘We ran
very well although we did not reach

our objective of advancing to the na-
tionals as a team.”

Running on a humid and misty day
with temperatures in the 80s, many
runners were forced to drop out from

heat exhaustion. Scott Rippeon was
not hindered by the weather, how-
ever, as he was able to finish fifth
overall and gain a berth in this week-
end’s finals. Rippeon qualififed
under the system which sends the top
two teams, and the top three finish-
ers in the meet from teams not quali-
fying, to the nationals held also at
Emory in Atlanta.

Carolyn Arbogast ran representing
the W&L women’s cross country
team and placed 4ist out of 54 against
some very tough competition. Mary
Washington College was the only fe-
male cross country team to qualify
from this region for the finals this
weekend.

Rippeon can earn All-America
honors if he finishes in the first 15
runners Saturday. Miller will be
honored for his 34 years of coaching
at Saturday’s meet.

‘Flabbergasted’: Swimmers. off to fine start

By MIKE STACHURA
and LEIF UELAND
Staff Reporters

 

After an impressive performance
last Wednesday night in which the
men defeated VMI and the women
captured five first places in seven
events against Mary Baldwin, the
Washington and Lee swimming team
is gearing up for a weekend of ‘“‘quali-
ty swimming,” according to Coach
Page Remillard.

“T was real pleased with the meet
against VMI,” the Generals’ mentor
said. “Some people came up with
some times that as individuals they
were surprised with, and as a coach I
was flabbergasted with.”’

Senior captain Tim Stanford, who
qualified for the nationals in the 100-
yard butterfly with his first try of the

Video Center
Of Lexington

Year Membership ...
Lifetime Membership..................... $7.95

With this coupon good thru 11/30

Mon.-Sat. 10-9

Membership Film Rentals
$2.00 for one or $5.00 for three

VC Player Rentals — $6.95/day

Lexington-B.V. Shopping Center
463-2177

season, was one of the General swim-
mers who led the way against VMI.
Remillard said the immediate future
looks bright for Stanford, and he in-
dicated that the senior is eyeing Jim
Born, Division III’s top swimmer.

Remillard spoke of Stanford’s
chances against Born. He said that
Stanford is getting close and, more
importantly, belives he can doit.

Freshmen Matt Brady (won the 50-
yard freestyle), Dave Dietz (won the
100-yard freestyle) and Tom Rawls
(won the 500-yard freestyle) also pac-
ed the Generals in their win over
VMI.

“Our freshmen are swimming real
smart,” Remillard said.

Remillard was pleased with the ef-
fort of the four-member women’s
team, as well. Elizabeth Miles and
Nancy Whalen were double winners
in the meet with Mary Baldwin. The

Sun. 12-5

      
 

Squirrels defeated the Lady Gen-
erals, 57-35, but with only four
members, it will be difficult for the
women’s team to come up with a vic-
tory all season.

W&L will be facing strong oppo-
nents this weekend, playing host to
Johns Hopkins on Friday and Divi-
sion II Shippensburg on Saturday.
It’s a weekend that has become a lit-
tle more challenging after some bad
breaks for the men’s squad. Brady,
who swam his lifetime best to win the
50-yard freestyle against VMI, broke
his foot this week. Remillard said it is

-

By Appointment 463-9588
Robin« Peggy «Marie

not known when he will be able to re-
turn.

“We have to swim great without
Brady, and we’ll do it. It was our
meet to have and Hopkins’ to steal
and now its Hopkins’ meet to have us
steal...We’re going to put the pres-
sure all over Hopkins, and we’ll see
how much they can take, they may
crumble.”

The meets and slated for 7 p.m.
starts on Friday and Saturday. The
women will swim with the men on
Friday night against John Hopkins.

reer esa |
LMF Mls Pa |

Old Main St. Mall
Lexington, VA 24450 i

D> ED (ED ED ED (ED 0 EDP) ED ED ) SD () ED (

 

 

115 S. Main Street
“For your extra

 

VARNER & POLE

Furniture Dealers

Frank’s Pizza

‘Best Pizza in Lexington’
Free Delivery for

W&L Students
463-7575 or 463-3133

463-2742
s of furniture'’

 

FP ee ae ae Oe om Om EE Oe 8 OO Oe Oe OD DO On ow en om am Ge OD Oe OP OD om om em om

$1 OFF

Large Pizza

fins cee sete eS ON A Se SS NY ER ND A GD A DO A GN Se NE Me ae Ge

!
i
|
J
!
I
1
4

#3
The Ring-tum Phi, November 21, 1985, Page 5

 

Canfield ‘excited’
about young squad

 

| By MIKE STACHURA

| * Sports Editor

, | When the 1985-86 Washington and
Lee basketball Generals open their
season Friday night against Salis-
bury State, taking the court will be
the youngest squad head coach Verne
Canfield has had in his 22 years in
Lexington. And he can’t wait for the
season to start.

“T’m excited about what this team
can do because of the amount of work
they've been doing and as close as

+ they are,’’ Canfield said. ‘‘They’ve
shown some things that — and I un-
derline the word — eventually they

= will be able todo.”

With no seniors and only three
players with substantial playing time
returning, youth and inexperience
are the watchwords for the Generals,
, and things Canfield was confronted
with in the first days of practice.

“The first week and a half I’m say-
, ing, ‘Watch the upperclassmen do it.’
I finally realized that the upperclass-
men didn’t know how to do it, either,”
» hesaid.

But Canfield doesn’t see the youth

“ of the Generals as a negative factor.

“I think you can have as good a
team being young — and maybe even

* better — than a team that has all re-

« turning and is all seniors,’’ he said,

, indicating that the 1985-86 Generals
have shown that kind of promise.

* “This is, right now, one of the

» Closest teams I’ve had this institu-

, tion. They like one another. They’re
working harder than any team. And

» there are some good things happen-

ing that may not show initially,’’ Can-
field said.

* Some good things W&L can now

, take stock in include those returning

‘Fencers split
‘dual meet

» Staff Report

 

«

A TT
»

” a

”

« «

“

+

 

 

| ‘The Washington and Lee fencing
» team split its dual meet on Sunday by

downing Virginia Tech, 18-9, and nar-
"rowly losing to Wofford College,
, 14-13.

Three W&L fencers swept their
rbouts in the match against the
_ Hokies. Senior captain Mike Berg
and junior Jeff Blomster led the

insti

sabre squad with 3-0 performances, .

j and junior Will Baber added a per-
' “fect score to pace the epee squad.
The foil squad was 4-5 overall with
junior Mike Weisbrock and Blomster
’ posting 1-2 records, while sophomore
,Chris Gorman was 1-0 and freshman
Peter Sherwin was 1-1. .
» Junior Andy Tartaglione added his
2-1 effort to give the sabre squad an
8-1 trouncing over Tech.
, The epee squad was 6-3 against the
Hokies. Senior Cotton Puryear went
*2-0 for W&L, junior Mike Wacht was
,1-2 and freshman Jim Cobb was 0-3.
Tartaglione and Weisbrock posted
perfect scores in the 14-13 loss to Wof-
,ford. Berg was 2-1 and Blomster was
1-2 to give the sabre squad a 6-3 total.
« The foil squad was 5-4, with Blom-
ster going 1-2, Sherwin 1-1 and Gor-
"man 0-1.
» The epee squad was 2-7 with 1-2
., performances from Baber and Wacht
~ while Cobb was 0-3.

+
>

¥

a

*

   

 

Commons.

sentatives to help you.

+

 

¥

Dick Emrey (703) 463-4362 (evenings)

_ tarot ama RF BERRA DEERE IND it ED RN RSG OME

Generals with some experience. Big
men, 6-foot-6 junior Jeff Harralson
(third-leading scorer last season)
and 6-7 sophomore Harmon Harden
(second-leading rebounder last sea-
son) are the team’s returing starters.
Canfield said junior Fred Bissinger
and sophomores Lou Trosch and
Steve Hancock should round out the
starting lineup for the Generals, but
that he sees plenty of contributors to
the W&L cause this season and that
there could be as many as 10 differ-
ent starters over the course of the
season.

“IT don’t like the words ‘starters’
and ‘subs.’ We'll play nine or 10
guys.”’ Canfield said.

One of the early-season chores is
getting the right combinations of
players. ‘‘This is a time factor and
cannot be rushed,”’ he said, “‘sort of
like a good wine — we’re not going to
serve it until it’s ready.”’

Despite the youth on the W&L
squad and its early-season inconsis-
tency, Canfield’s traditional stress on
defense will continue. Offensively,
the Generals should show balanced
scoring, and despite the loss of four
exceptional guards, this year’s back-
court could be quicker and better ball
handlers, the coach said.

One part of Canfield’s usual strate-
gy, the patient, ball-control offense,
may be tested by the addition of the
45-second clock, an addition he calls
“totally unnecessary.’’ Canfield said
the Generals will work around it, and
may even use it to their advantage by
forcing opponents to play defense for
the entire 45 seconds.

Canfield is not discouraged by the
pre-season Old Dominion Athletic
Conference coaches’ poll, which
places the Generals seventh in the
eight-team field.

“I think they picked us where they
had to pick us,” he said. ‘Our
chances are better than most people
might think.”

“Before all is said and done, we are
going to be a factor in the ODAC race
in that someone’s going to have to get
by us to win it. The ODAC race itself
is going to be out of sight.”

The Generals will get an early in-
dication of the ODAC’s competitive-
ness with a Dec. 3 home game
against the conference’s top-rated
team, Hampden-Sydney. Canfield
termed the match-up a “great oppor-
tunity” for a partisan W&L crowd to
give the Generals a chance at an
upset.

“I promise you, it would be worth
six to eight points and that could be
the difference,” he said.

But before the Hampden-Sydney
conference opener, W&L goes on the
road against Emory on Tuesday
after this weekend’s stern challenge
as host of the W&L Pizza Hut Tip-Off
Tournament. It will be four-team af-
fair featuring North Carolina Wes-
leyan (18-9) NAIA powerhouse Cas-
tleton State (26-2) and W&L’s first-
round opponent Salisbury State, a
23-6 squad from a year ago that rank-
ed 10th in the nation and returns five
lettermen.

“This may be a little more of a for-
midable field than we’re quite ready
for,’’ Canfield said. ‘‘But, you know, I
have a good feeling about the kids.”’

The tournament begins Friday
with the North Carolina Wesleyan-
Castleton St. game at 6 p.m. The
Generals and Sea Gulls are slated to
play at 8 p.m. Saturday, the consola-
tion game is set for 6 p.m. with the
championship game to follow.

 

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Mike Weisbrock (left) fends off an attack

 

BORDEN

 

} COMMONS

| | - Lexington's Fin Condominium nee

At Borden Commons we haven't stopped with our first success!

’ Phase | of Borden Commons enjoyed a successful welcome trom the community and quickly sold
out. Now, with some new designs and interior layouts, we are introducing Phase II of Borden

These new and beautiful condominiums are designed to fulfill your every need, and they're located
just a short distance from Washington & Lee, V.M.I. and the historic Lexington community.

Isn't it time you considered the ease and financial rewards of condominium living?

If you have any questions about Borden Commons, we have a brochure available and repre-

Baker Real Estate
Post Office Box 723
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Office (703) 463-7319

Tom Baker (703) 463-2510 (evenings)

~~ SCAR

 

 

 

 

File photo

Junior Jeff Harralson drives the lane in action from last year

j.V. by John V. Lowe

Passing the torch

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

POAAAPAIABIAAAIAAAAAAMAP Mw

 

Grapplers
poised for

strong year

 

By CHARLES T. GAY
Staff Reporter

 

Despite the loss of four seniors
from last year’s 12-2-1 squad, the
1985-86 W&L wrestling team and
head coach Gary Franke appear
poised for another strong campaign

Senior co-captains Larry Anker
(134 lbs.) and Brian Lifsted (126) will
undoubtedly spearhead the Generals;
but the key to this team’s success will
be the development of younger wrest*
lers in an effort to fill the shoes of Joé
O’Neill, Greg Kendrick, Mark Wea-
ver and captain Jeff Dixon, who
graduated in June.

Franke said, ‘‘We hope to be as
successful as we have been the last
two years,” but admitted, ‘‘It will be
a challenge.” Still, Franke expressed
confidence in his young wrestlers, ‘‘I
do think they’ll help us pick up the
slack,” he said.

Although as Franke has stated, it’s
a bit early to judge how the team will
develop, several returning wrestlers
have showed much promise in prac:
tice and challenge matches. Among
the most impressive have been junior
Jeff Mazza (134 Ibs.), sophomore
Steve Castle (118) and senior Win
Phillips (167).

Among the freshmen, Coach
Franke expressed enthusiasm over
the abilities of Mark Robertson (177):
and Richard Redfoot (190) in particu-
lar. Much depends on these wrestlers
if the Generals are to reach what:
Coach Franke called “‘our obvious
goal’ — the national tournament at
Trenton State in February.

The Generals’ season opener
against Hampden-Sydney doesn’t
take place until Dec. 4, but the team ~.
has been far from idle. Aside from
the usual rigorous practice schedule,
the Generals participated in the an-
nual pre-season James Madison
takedown Tournament. The meet in-
cluded wrestlers from Virginia, Vir-
ginia Tech, VMI, and host team
JMU. Coach Franke was pleased
with his squad’s performance, as
Larry Anker placed third in his
weight class for the Generals.

In addition to the Hampden-Sydney
opener, the Generals have two other
dates before exams. The eight-team
W&L Invitational is slated for Dec. 7
while the Generals expect to con
clude the 1985 portion of their season
against Newport News Apprentice on
Dec. 11,

Se GR
OLD
i CALYXES f
i Available ‘
S Thursday & &
i Friday in f
The StudentCenter ¢

>) SS | | ee

ae

 
   

 

   
  

 

 
  
 

   
 

Lexington, Va. 24450
Lexington Hardware

 
 

 

PHI ADS ; A “Spring Break’”’ Welcome To
, SELL! , Washington and Lee

f ; University Students

KECK KKK KAK AIRE II MM IONG at

Venetian Court Apartments
Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. 33301
Heated Pool * Lawns * Cable TV * BBQ * Parking
Good Rates for Apts., Efficiencies,
Hotel Rooms

           
      
   
  

 

 

 

463-2242

 

  

White Glove

   
   
      

Cleanin ’
-* Wendell’s
We tackle any mess in
Student Apartments, Barber
Houses and Fraternities
And feature: Shop

General, Window, and
Carpet Cleaning, Waxing and
Buifing Floors | need your head for

my business.

Call for appointment
and estimate
261-6298 or 348-5155

 

 

Phone (305) 525-2223

Sandwiches (Eat In-Take Out)

Pa - = _— Gourmet Items of All Nations _
465-3558 Cocktails® Wine® Beer

ve dam tolam SUbs@Imported Cheeses

Sunday 10am to lam Catering

   
      
       
     
  
  
 
 
   
   

Typists—$500 weekly |
at home. Write: P.O.
Box 975, Elizabeth,
NJ 07207

 

 

}
en

Southern |
Inn

Welcome
Students
Serving breakfast, lunch
and dinner for over

50 years
Main Street, Lexington

 

 

463-3612
-BACK PAGE

By JAMIE BERGER
and CHRIS KOMOSA
Food Critics

 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 21, 1985

Chef chooses at Maple Hall

 

 

What's going on here? Under our
very noses, Lexington quickly is
becoming the cuisine capital of mid-
dle southwest Virginia. Maple Hall is
the newest contender in the bid for
your sophisticated dining types. So
how could we resist?

The first thing you will notice about
Maple Hall is that it isn’t in Lex-
ington at all, thus not suitable for the
non-mobile Mink. About four miles
up Route 11 north, Maple Hall is a
beautifully restored house that’s im-
possible not to notice. On our most
refined behavior, we jaunted up the
outer stairs and stepped inside.
“Table for two?”’ the gentleman ask-
ed. “Try downstairs.”
much for sophistication.

We found the living room where the
other dinner guests were seated. Our
hostess, Delores Kostelni, introduced
us to the other dinees and offered a
glass of wine. Now this was more like
it! We sat and chatted with the other
guests for a while.

conversation, Mrs. Kostelni explain-
ed what we would be eating that
evening. You see, the menu is chef’s
choice so the only decision you need
worry about is just how much wine
you will partake of. We were seated
and presented with our appetizer, a
pasta and broccoli dish smothered
with hot, Fontina cheese sauce. This
was what pasta should taste like. It
was perfectly cooked and the broc-

The cheese sauce was rich and
smooth and had a taste unlike any
cheese we have had before.

With our appetizer came a basket
of bread and real butter. The bread
was unusual, but very good-tasting.
We found out it was homemade pecan
bread. Chris and I didn’t argue. To
make sure the first basket was not a
fluke, we got another — just in case.

After the appetizer came a salad
with red lettuce and wine vinaigrette
dressing. Once again, the salad was
very fresh and the dressing had
enough flavor to keep vou interested.

 

Ah, well, so P

‘coli was very fresh and flavorful.

 

After a few minutes of this lively Pe

 

 

Maple Hall, located four miles north of Lexington on Route 11

Ah, but what sophisticated dining
experience would be complete with-
out a palate cleanser to whet the
W&L savant’s whistle? After the
salad, we were supplied with a small
scoop of pineapple sherbet to inspire
our world weary tastebuds.

A beef ragu was the entree this
evening. This is an excellent beef
stew with gobs of vegetables and pas-
try dumplings. The beef was perfect-
ly cooked in large, tender chunks.
The vegetables were also good. The
real indicator was that I actually ate
(and enjoyed) the mushrooms, my
arch-enemy in the vegetable group.

But who cares about that? We were
now ready for the last and greatest
course of our meal. Let’s face it, the
appetizer and entree are only ex-

cuses we use So we can get to dessert.
We both chose the apple tart with es-
pecially-made chocolate-cinnamon
ice cream on top. The apple tart
was terrific but it was the
the ice cream that intrigued us.
Could it be that we perceived a slight
Sweet Things taste therein? We call-
ed Mrs. Kostelni over and confronted
her with this revelation in front of
everyone. She admitted that al-
though the secret recipe was her
own, yes, Sweet Things made the
chocolate-cinnamon especially for
Maple Hall. We explained that any-
thing made by the patron saints of
‘scream was all right by us.

After dinner, we spoke with Mrs.
Kostelni. She is an extraordinary
chef who cooks or supervises the

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

cooking of everything made in Maple
Hall. As we suspected, everything is
made from scratch, from the apple
tarts down to the sauce in the ragu.

Maple Hall is open for dinner Mon-
day, Friday and Saturday evenings,
with dinner being served at 7 p.m.
Open since Oct. 9, Maple Hall hasn’t
repeated one dish since opening, and
more power to them. This country
inn would be the quickest way of im-
pressing a big date, (aside from a
Porsche), and relatively inexpensive
at $20 a person. If you want to learn
some of Mrs. Kostelni’s secrets you
could read her ‘‘Happy Cook’’ col-
umn in the Roanoke Times and World
News; but Chris and I, functional il-
literates that we are, would rather
eat it than read about it.

 

 

THE
VIRGINIA
STATION

Hub’s Gourmet Peanuts...
Only the best and always
fresh and delicious. Shipping
available from Virginia
Station for an ideal
Christmas gift.

29 N. Main Street

Old Main Street Mall
Lexington, Virginia

 

=

| Lexington Shoe
Hospital

  

We have a complete

stock of Vibram Sole Sets—
for hiking

and foul weather

      

be 3 West Nelson St.

  
   
  

   

  

E. Nelson St.
463-2186

Valley True Value Hardware

Shute Value STORES

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

 

 

 

(Pre-ott-so

In Italy, there’s a pie

Round-trip tickets to

 

 

Pri-az-Z0

youll pronounce it delicious.

gredients and smothered in rich, zesty sauce and
melted cheeses. You really ought to try it.

and far too expensive.
ticipating Pizze Hut® restaurant after 4:00 p.m.
Monday through Friday or anytime Saturday
and Sunday and order our Priazzorm Italian pie
in one of four tempting combinations of fillings.
Milano, Roma, Florentine and Napoli.

Eat In, Carry Out, Or Delivered

 

filled with delicious in-

Italy are unnecessary
Just visit your par-

600 E. Nelson
Lexington

Unique Jewelry

Handcrafted from precious
metals and gem stone beads.

Artist’s in Cahoots
Gallery

in Old Main St. Mall at Main and
Henry Streets

Mon.-Sat. 10a.m, to5 p.m,

 

 

 

 

 

Eat In, Carry Out Or Delivered

eee

$2 oFF

$2. off any large pizza
or $1 off any medium. In-
cludes Pizza Hut® Pan
Pizza! Hurry; offer ex-
pires soon. One coupon
per party per visit at
participating Pizza Hut*
restaurants

Please present coupon when

ash redemption + PYES Pizza Hut. Ine &

 
 

ordering Not valid ini ombina

”
Pad
|

600 E. Nelson St.
Lexington, Va.
463-7000

= ge

12-10-85

   
      
  
     
 
     
     
   
   
   
   
   
   

  

Mon, - Sat. 8:30-6:00
Sun. 1-5

Stockbroker
Trainee:
Opportunity in Virginia
Beach, Richmond or Wash-
ington D.C. area [please
specify] for hardworking,
enthusiastic individual.

Send resume to:
P.O. Box 8814
Virginia Beach, VA 23450

 

 

Thanksgiving!

165 South Main Street

 

463-9152

 

 

University Florist

Designs made with a special
touch just for you!

Buy I Rose,

Get 1 Free
$2.00 Off On Any Rose Corsage

+) > 15 W. Washington St.

“9 Lexington, Va
463-6080

 

 

Auditorium.

Ethies.”’ Dr.

Federal Government.”’
ment. Room 206, Howe Hall.

 

ONCAMPUS

Monday, December 2
8 p.m. — LECTURE: English Furniture

8 p.m. — LECTURE: ‘New Freedoms, Old Problems
the Chinese Cultural Revolution’s View of China Today.”’
and Judith Shapiro. Northen Auditorium.

Tuesday, December 3
4 p.m. — RELIGION COLLOQUIUM:
Ronald Nakasone,
Graduate Theological Union, Berkeley. Room 28C, Newcomb Hall.
7 & 9:05 p.m.— FILM: ‘‘Citizen Kane.’ Room 203, Reid Hall. ‘
8 p.m.— CONCERT: Aspen Woodwind Quintet. Lee Chapel.

Wednesday, December 4
4:30 p.m, — GEOLOGY LECTURE
Elisabeth Newton, Bureau of Land Manage-

7p.m.— POLITICS FILM: ‘‘The Trial.’’ Room 327, Commerce School.
8 p.m. — GEOLOGY LECTURE:
Estate.’’ Elisabeth Newton. Room 206, Howe Hall.

Martin Drury. DuPont

A Survivor of
Liang Heng

“A Buddhist Approach to
Institute of Buddhist Studies,

: “Careers for Geologists in the

‘Managing the Federal Minecal

 

 

‘Jagged Edge’ is |

an audience-jolter

 

By TIM McMAHON
Movie Critic

 

Few movies leave you guessing the
way director Richard Marquand’s
“Jagged Edge”’ does, and even fewer
have endings as jolting and satisfy-
ing.

Writer Joe Eszterhas and Mar-
quand tantalize the audience, putting
out only enough pieces to this puzzl-
ing mystery to keep even the most at-
tentive viewers on their toes until the
very final shocking sequence.

Jeff Bridges is the epitome of
“eool’’ as the rags-to-riches newspa-
perman accused of brutally killing
his wife for her money. His move-
ments, speech and presence all lead
us to believe that this charismatic
man knows how to get what he wants
by using those around him. Amazing-
ly, though, those he uses, and even
the audience, like this guy. He seems
that sincere.

Glenn Close plays the attorney who
reluctantly agrees to defend Bridges
and later becomes emotionally in-
volved with him. Her character is
tough yet vulnerable. She is bothered
by her past association with the

MTV and

;

district attorney to nail Bridges, angi
she fights for her client if only to
clear her conscience of that secret ih
her past. ‘

Two strong supporting perfor
mances are turned in by Peter
Coyote and Robert Loggia. Coyote
plays the secretive and ambitious
district attorney who goads Close in-
to defending Bridges. Loggia, mean-
while, is straightforward, crass and
full of one-liners. He’s a tough guy
with a soft heart, and he does every-
thing he can to convince Close to
avoid Bridges.

If there is one thing I disliked about
‘Jagged Edge,” it would be its slop
py editing. At one point in one scene
Close’s costume changes without rea
son and then changes back as if a few
seconds of film were spliced in just tv
complete the scene. Scenes occa,
sionally jump from one place to the
next, creating unnecessary jolts for
the audience. In this otherwise super
ior movie, such mistakes are almost
inexcusable. ’

Still, this is one movie I recom-
mend enthusiastically. ‘Jagged
Edge”’ will keep you on the edge of
your seat, and you'll leave the
theater with your heart pounding.

Disney

coming in spring -

 

By BILL HANNA
Teievision Critic

 

Well, it’s true. The rumors about
the Lexington Cable Co. expanding
the number of channels available are
justified.

Juanita Hamm of Lexington Cable
Co. said the company will add Cine-
max, the Disney Channel, the USA
Network, Nickelodeon, MTV and pos-
sibly others to its existing service.

Unfortunately, this process will not
be complete until sometime in the
spring because of the time it will take
to get the supplies needed to handle
the expansion and the work involved
in installing the new system.

There will also have to be an in-
crease in subscription rates to cover
the new services, but nobody should
have too much to complain about as
this is the first rate increase since
1981, according to Ham. The amount
of the increase will not be known for a
while, she said.

Turning to serious business, this
week’s review is of a new series on
ABC show Saturday nights at 8, ‘‘Hol-
lywood Beat.”

The show is about two policemen
halting the flow of crime in, you
guessed it, Hollywood. McCarren and
Rado are your typical young, enthu-
siastic crimefighters we have seen on
police shows for years.

I thought, ‘Maybe this won't be
just another cop show.’’ “Miami
Vice”’ is a cop show and it is good, so
maybe this will have some original
writing and good enough direction to
make it successful, but no such luck,
at least in the episode I saw.

The plot was one done on probably
every police drama ever made. Our
heroes are assigned to protect an ac-
countant who is going to testify
against a powerful underworld fig-
ure. They are shown disguising him,
sneaking him out of the courtroom,
but it’s no use. There is a leak
somewhere telling the evil criminal
every move the police plan to make
to keep the witness alive.

This is working out well, as they
think they have the criminal thinking
that the witness is already dead, but
only a cardboard cutout of the wit-
ness was shot.

Then another oft-used idea is
brought into the plot when one of the
cops falls for a girl he just met and
she turns out to be one of the killers. I
think I saw this on ‘Starsky and

Hutch” and at least a few other cop
shows.

I don’t think this show has much of
a future. The season is barely twa
months old and the writers are al-
ready watching repeats of other
shows to get their ideas. If they woul
start coming up with some origina
ideas instead of watching reruns, i?
may have a slight chance at a second
season.

In the news this week, NBC plans to
take advantage of the made-for-TV .
movie, ‘Fatal Vision.’’ NBC Presi-
dent Brandon Tartikoff liked the
character Andy Griffith played, and
the network is planning a series
about a country attorney called
“‘Matlock,’’ who is played by Griffith.,

ABC brought Lauren Tewes back
for an episode on the ‘‘Love Boat’’
and liked her performance. They arg
trying to find a spot for her in the
final episode, but are having trouble
fitting her in. The captain will marry
Emily Haywood, played by Marion
Ross of ‘‘Happy Days,” and Gopher
will leave the crew.

Now for the highlights, although
they’re cut short because of break.

Thursday: Two good thrillers will
be shown at 8 tonight. Channel 12 will
show “The Killer Elite,” starring
James Caan and Robert Duvall}
while HBO will have William Hurt,
starring in ‘‘Gorky Park.”’

WTBS will also have a good film at’
8:05 with “The Wings of Eagles,’’
starring John Wayne and Maureen ,
O'Hara and directed by John Ford.

Saturday: The Brian DePalma’
thriller “‘Body Double’ will be shown,
tonight at 9.

“Saturday Night Live,” after arf
improved second show, will try again
as Pee Wee Herman hosts the show
on NBC at 11:30 p.m.

Sunday: NBC will begin its mini»
series at 8 when George C. Scott stars,
in ‘Mussolini: the Untold Story.”

The rest of the week’s highlights’
are shown on local stations and,
wouldn’t apply to many of the stu-
dents while away, but anyone within’
WDCA’s range (channel 12 in Lexing-
ton) should tune in to the movies at 8
on Monday, Tuesday and Wednes-
day, Monday features ‘“Casablan,
ca,” Tuesday ‘‘One Flew Over the
Cuckoo,s Nest,’ and Wednesday’
“True Confessions.” All well worthy
watching, especially the first two.

One last reminder to those who are
planning to study over break. It
doesn’t work; watch some tube in,
stead.

 
 

Stiff fines
Penalties for

WWII scholarships

 

VOLUME 85, NUMBER 12

Page 3

 

Stiff arms

Weaver tops
in the nation

 

Page 7
L —papeaeeneneaietameatamaalll

 

~*

Niv@rery wior
Tr eerPoms @ AM UNIVER

DEC

 

 

Ohe Sista hi

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Your Christmas Weekend weather

Rain chance tomorrow;
fair, cold on Sat., Sun.

 

DECEMBER 5S, 1985

 

 

General
Notes

 

 

‘Fanny’ showing:

The Washington and Lee Film
Society’s next presentation will be
Ingmar Bergman's marvelous
‘‘Fanny and Alexander” (Sweden,
1983).

The showing will be at 8 p.m.
Friday and Saturday in
Classroom ‘‘A”’ in Lewis Hall.
There is no charge for admission.
The film is in Swedish, with
English subtitles.

‘Clowns’ and ‘Bums’

The University Theatre at
Washington and Lee announced
Circus Ridiculus with Tim Car-
ryer and Babs Bailey performing
in ‘‘Here Come the Clowns”’ Dec.
6-8 at 8 p.m. in the University
Theatre located at the corner of
Henry and Main streets.

“Bleacher Bums,” the Univer-
sity Theatre’s second production
this season, will play Dec. 10-12 in
the Boiler Room Theatre at 8 p.m

The play is set in the bleachers
of Wrigley Field during a Chicago
Cubs baseball game in the sum-
mer of 1977, and the action evolves
as the ensemble of actors play off
each other and the happenings of
the game.

For ticket information, call the
University Theatre at 463-8637.

Prints charming

An exhibit of 42 original prints
from the Virginia Museum collec-
tion is on display through Dec. 18
at duPont Gallery.

Spanning the 15th through the
20th centuries, the collection con-
tains a special section of 21 im-
ages by Honore Daumier, the
great 19th-century French satir-
ist. Other featured artists include

Albrecht Durer, Rembrandt,
William Hogarth, Winslow Homer
and Diego Rivera.

Arias aired

Mascagni’s opera ‘‘Cavalleria
Rusticana’’ and _ Leoncavallo’s
“Pagliacci” will open the season
of the performances broadcast
live from the stage of the Metro-
politan Opera House over WLUR-
FM (91.5), Washington and Lee’s
campus radio station. The operas
will be aired Saturday, Dec. 7 at 2
p.m.

Scrooge?

Budget reports are due to the
EC Monday for the following
organizations:

SAB, Contact, Emergency
Loan, Journal of Science, MSA,
Ariel and Mock Convention, Any
questions should be directed to
Andrew Caruthers at 463-8588.

Sing for supper

An informal dinner followed by
the celebration of Advent in
Lessons and Carols will be held
Sunday at 5:30-7 p.m. in WesFel
Lounge at the Lexington Presby-
terian Church.

Chapel carols

The annual Service of Lessons
and Carols will be held next
Thursday at 7:30 p.m. in Lee
Chapel. The University Federa-
tion sponsors this traditional ser-
vice, which will also feature
music by the University Chorus
and the brass ensemble.

A honey of a prize

A $10,000 grand prize is being of-
fered in Honeywell's fourth an-
nual Futurist Awards Competi-
tion. Nine other winners each
receive $2,000, and all winners will
be offered a paid summer intern-
ship with Honeywell

For information,
1-800-328-5111, extension 1523

call

Scholarly pursuit

The University Scholars
undergraduate honors program
invites applications from fresh-
men and sophomores with-high
academic motivation and a record
of academic excellence. Interest-
ed persons should see H.T
Williams, Parmly Hall Room 210,
not later than Wednesday

 

 

 

 

ty

 

Jump!

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Junior forward Jefferson Harralson soars above Hampden-Sydney’s
defenders in Tuesday night’s ODAC-opening 65-57 victory. The Generals,
ranked seventh in a pre-season Old Dominion Athletic Conference coaches’
poll, stand at 2-2 after the victory over the top-ranked Tigers. The Generals’
next games are at Lynchburg College on Saturday and at home against
Greensboro College on Wednesday. See story, Page6.

Freshman midterms
highest in 10 years

 

By SEAN BUGG
Staff Reporter

 

The average freshman grade point
average at midterm this fall was the
highest it’s been in at least a decade
— 2.451, an improvement of three-
tenths of a point over last year’s
2.151.

Dean of Freshmen H. Robert Hunt-
ley said the figure ‘‘is higher than
about ten years back.” He has not
checked beyond the 1973 figures.

As to whether coeducation might
be a factor in the improved GPA,
Huntley said he’s “really not sure if
that’s relevant’’ but that ‘‘we know
that on paper they were stronger
than any class we've seen in years.”

Of the top seven freshmen at mid-
term, five were women. In the class
of 410, 37 had GPAs in the “danger
zone’’ below 1.5. Only four of those
were women.

Huntley said that even with this
year’s higher scores, freshmen ‘‘still
encounter difficulty with the same

departments as they always did,”’ in
cluding math and history.

From current indications, the class
of 1989 ‘‘will be a good class through-
out its tenure here,’’ Huntley said.

He also noted it was a ‘‘much more
independent class’ than most pre-
vious classes. One indication of that,
the dean said, is the large number of
freshmen who asked for a change in
their faculty adviser.

Huntley said that in the past, most
students have just settled for the first
advisor they were assigned.

Perkins released from prison;
winter admission not sought

 

By MIKE ALLEN
Executive Editor

 

A former Washington and Lee stu-
dent convicted this summer of aiding
in a triple murder in North Carolina
was released from prison Tuesday
after serving four months in low-
security facilities.

University officials say, though,
than Ian M. ‘Doc’ Perkins, a W&L
junior last year, has not attempted to
enpoll for the winter term.

Perkins, 21, pleaded guilty in July
to being an accessory after the fact to
three May killings in Winston-Salem.
He testified that he became involved
with the slayings because he believed
he was assisting the CIA in a crack-
down on drug trafficking.

Perkins was housed at the med-
ium-security Polk Youth Center in
Raleigh from Aug. 15 to Oct. 1, when
he was transferred to a minimum-
security Guilford County correction-
al facility.

Guilford Superintendent
Bridges said Perkins was nha i
go’’ after 7 a.m. Tuesday.

Polk Assistant Superintendent R.C.
Lee said Perkins was transferred
because of his fine performance on
the point-system the facility uses to
track inmate behavior. Lee said Per-
kins had no disciplinary infractions.

Dean of Students Lewis G. John,
who this fall exchanged letters with
Perkins, said he has not requested re-
admission.

“Originally he intended to re-apply
for this winter, but now I think he just
hasn’t made up his mind, at least the
last time I talked to him,”’ John said.

Associate Dean of the College
Pamela H. Simpson, chair of the fac-
ulty committee on the automatic rule
and readmissions, said Perkins
would have to make such a request
by Dec. 16 to be considered for the
winter term.

Perkins’ current status with the
University is ‘eligible to return; did

not return,” according to Registrar
D. Scott Dittmann.

Philosophy Professor Harrison J.
Pemberton, Perkins’ former faculty
adviser, said that in letters Perkins
sent while incarcerated, he talked of
possibly returning to W&L, but now
he may have to go to school in-state.

“T think he spent all his money on
lawyers and he can’t come back,”’

Pemberton explained.
He said Perkins ‘“‘seemed to be
in good spirits — in fact very

upbeat about it.’’ He was on work-
release at an insulation job all day
and then came back and watched tel-
evision, so the prison experience was
“about as un-awful”’ as possible, ac-
cording to Pemberton.

Perkins, a former ROTC cadet,
“said it wasn’t much worse than be-
ing in the army,” the professor ad-
ded.

‘He wasn’t locked up in the pen-
titentiary like the hardened crimi-
nals.”’

Storms sidetrack and strand sleepy students

 

By JIM STRADER
News Editor

 

Rainstorms that swept through the
southeast last weekend caused unex-
pected problems for some Washing-
ton and Lee students returning to
school after Thanksgiving break.

Freshman Shawn Gulley of San An-
tonio, Texas, had to wait three hours
at the Charlotte, N.C., airport Sun-
day because weather conditions pre-
vented the continuation of his Pied-
mont Airlines flight from Dallas to
Roanoke. After waiting, Gulley
boarded one of several buses the
airline had chartered to ferry the
stranded passengers to Roanoke. He
said the trip took three hours.

A Piedmont public affairs office
spokeswoman said several flights
were forced to “‘overfly’’ Roanoke
because of adverse weather condi-
tions at the airport in Roanoke. Nor-
mally, she said, Piedmont puts

stranded passengers on later flights,
but in this case, all other flights were
booked because the weekend after
Thanksgiving traditionally is the
busiest of the year for Piedmont.

Gulley said his luggage remained
in Charlotte and he was unable to
pick it up in Roanoke until Monday.
He added that no compensation was
made by Piedmont for the missed
flight and that plane tickets were col-
lected from passengers when they
boarded the bus.

Once in Roanoke, Gulley said he
hooked up with two fraternity
brothers who had also been caught in
Charlotte, but chose to rent a car for
the trip to Lexington rather than take
the bus ride.

The experience of this trip made
Gulley rethink his Christmas travel
plans. “If I can get away with doing
something else, I sure am going to,”’
he said.

The toll of travel was not enough to
stop one student from meeting his

R.E.M. sold out; crowd
to be pavilion’s largest

 

By COTTON PURYEAR
Editor

 

If you haven't bought your ticket
for tomorrow night’s Christmas con-
cert, you'd better make plans to do
something else. For the first time in
its two-year history, the student ac-
tivities pavilion has been sold out

Tickets for the show, featuring
R.E.M. with the Minutemen opening,
ran out at 2:20 p.m. yesterday. The
quest for tickets began Monday after-
noon, with lines forming in the Stu-
dent Center so die-hard fans could
get their quota of two tickets

“We sold 850 tickets the first day
and 700 the second day,” said senior
Mike Guerriero, executive director
of the Student Activities Board. ‘‘We
sold the last 450 tickets in 20 minutes
on Wednesday.”

During the first two days of the
ticket sales, students were limited to
two tickets. Yesterday, the sales

quota was raised to four and sales
were also conducted at the law
school.

The sellout means the pavilion will
be jammed with at least 2,000 spec-
tators as well as SAB workers and
the bands’ road, sound and lighting
crews. That will be the biggest crowd
the pavilion has yet seen

“The closest we've come to this
before have been the two Homecom-
ing concerts where we had around
1,700 people,’ Guerriero said.

A bigger crowd: means bigger
headaches for the SAB. Guerriero
said there will be an increase in
security for the show, and the Lex-
ington rescue squad has been alerted
to the possibility of heat victims

Guerriero attributed the concert’s
success to the popularity of R.E.M.
“They're not the biggest name we’ve
ever had in the pavilion, but they are
the most popular,”’ he said

“They are very current
students like them

and the

academic responsibilities. John
Atkins, a junior from Shreveport,
La., was flying from Atlanta to Roa-
noke but instead landed in Hunting-
ton, W. Va., where passengers were
instructed to leave the plane.

“T knew I was in trouble then,’’ he
said.

Atkins boarded a bus Piedmont
had chartered and, with at least
three other W&L students aboard,
rode six hours to Roanoke, arriving
at about 4:30 a.m. Monday. The stu-
dents reached Lexington after day-
break.

Despite the unexpected delays and
additional travel, Atkins attended
class Monday morning. ‘I crashed
for a couple of hours, but I had class
at 10,” he said. ‘‘I wasn’t in the best
shape that day.”’

Atkins’ geology professor, Samuel
J. Kozak, also took note of the stu-

dent’s condition. ‘‘He did look
sleepy,’ Kozak said, ‘‘but he was
there.”’

 

By JASON LISI
Staff Reporter

 

This weeks drop — in
temperature forced the ROTC
cadets inside for some afternoon
training, but an aerobics class
continues to tough it out in the
chill.

Those were just two responses
to the post-Thanksgiving dip of the
mercury, which sent students
scrambling for mufflers, topcoats
and gloves.

Geology Department readings
showed a 38-degree drop in
temperature from Thanksgiving’s
low of 58 degrees to yesterday’s
sub-freezing 20 degrees.

ROTC, which does drill and

 

ROTC moves in, aerobics stays out

 

ceremonies in front of Lee Chapel,
was forced inside the student ac-
tivities pavilion Tuesday after-
noon when the thermometer bot-
tomed at 22 degrees. Capt. Ran-
dall R. Hill notes that ROTC has
few outdoor drills left this term.

Assistant Athletic Director Cin-
da L. Rankin, who teaches an
aerobics class on Mondays and
Wednesdays, said of the weather:
“T suspect it’s going to get worse
before it gets better.”’

Rankin said that despite the
cold, the class is meeting outside
and will continue to do so. ‘‘We’re
planning to keep going outside
unless it’s a real bitter cold,’’ she
said.

(© See Chill, Page 5

 

 

 

 

, =:

At

 

iin

 

= os
tha < adt
é

4 Se “a, oN
j

 

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

 

 
OPINION
Restraint of...

The Executive Committee’s decision Monday night to draft
a temporary policy guiding future discussion of open honor
— is a wise attempt to clarify a gray area in the White
Book.

The new policy reminds students that ‘information concer-
ning a student body hearing is considered to be highly con-
fidential within the Washington and Lee community... [and]
should not be published or otherwise transmitted outside the
Washington and Lee community.”’

An ad hoc committee of EC members and publication
editors from the undergraduate and law schools is to recom-
mend a formal policy guiding future publications in their
coverage of student body hearings at next week’s EC
meeting.

Although the statement adpoted at this week’s meeting on-
ly represents the sentiment of the committee, the direction
the EC would like to see a formal statement take is altogether
evident: Don’t publish any information about a hearing that
might expose our system to outside judgment or ridicule.

Such a restraint on the discussion of cases is dangerous and
should be avoided in any and all policies guiding a coverage
of honor trials. The student newspaper does and should serve
as a forum for discussion of campus concerns, and not just
those that the EC deems allowable for consideration. As one
faculty member asked: ‘Does the EC have something to
hide, and if so, should they be allowed to hide it?”’

Where the new policy makes allowance for fruitful discus-
sion of student body hearings is not certain and needs
clarification. Should students and writers only discuss
generalities, or are those even unacceptable, since such
discussion surely leaves the campus in the form of a
newspaper or radio transmission?

While the policy attempts to ban all printed or transmit-
ted discussion of open hearings, it fails — perhaps on pur-
pose — to address any recourse the EC holds in the case of a
violation of the principles of the temporary policy. Since the
statement is not officially part of the White Book — the hand-
book of the Honor System — any punishment outlined in that
booklet holds no bearing. The EC is simply asking that its
policy stand as a decision ‘‘in the best interests of the student
body,”’ as outlined in the Student Body Consitution, until a
future, more permanent guideline can be agreed upon.

We hope that all future policies will continue to deal in the
generalities of this statement, and that any attempts at
outlining specific violations or punishments ought to be
avoided at all costs. To create a tangle of words in such a
policy would serve no purpose.

Additionally, we hope the EC will seriously consider the in-
put of the publication editors with whom they will meet to
hammer out a new policy. Agreement upon a statement will
help to guarantee compliance by publications in the future
and will also help to refine campus discussion of honor mat-
ters.

Dirty laundry

Sometimes, you can’t do anything right.

When the trustees decided to allow the entrance of women
at the undergraduate level, they foresaw many difficulties in
the transition from an all-male school to a coeducational
university. To their credit, they created a committee to
oversee this transition and to try to covercome any obstacles
the school might face.

That committee met faithfully last year, carrying out its
charge with an almost religious zeal for detail and faithful
compliance. So far, coeducation has met with few problems.

But where the committee failed, it failed (?) with a
vengeance, or so the rest of the literate world has been told in
a recently published article on the ‘‘washing machine’
crisis. It seems guys traditionally have done their laundry
less frequently than do the women this year, and the
resulting demand for washers and dryers meant students
were doing their laundry at all hours of the night.

What a failure of the committee! ! What a failure of coedu-
cation! ! Don’t laugh too hard. It might crease your starched
shirts.

Although there were problems with the laundry room in the
basement of Graham-Lees earlier this year, they have been
corrected and were never important enough to warrant an
article that went from The Richmond News Leader to The
Washington Post to an editorial in the Raleigh, N.C., News
and Observer, which said that W&L considers its laundry
problems ‘‘serious.”’

A crisis over laundry machines seems rather trivial in an
age when high schools and universities are graduating in-
creasing numbers of functional illiterates. While we might
not know when to do our laundry, functional illiterates can’t
even read the detergent box listing ‘‘hot, warm, or cold.”’

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

  

Executive Editor. ..... Fi Lk bole Mike Allen
0 Pe eee ee cbs hele Baek A es estes Paul Foutch
Cotton Puryear

Ne rere Reade Williams
errr
pe gg os ee er ee . Nelson Patterson
News Editor . er Jim Strader
WO eo ha ii ON ee es Chris Bowring
Mesinaes MONAIOE 8 5 5s 5 as bc cek has iguais ... Jeff Kimbell

Advertising MAMNGET .ciiccc Cred betes ceneees eve sasetaesistteses Hank Greenberg

Advertising Salesmen....... .. Keri Hinrichs
John Feyrer

Jay Reville

Circulation Manager . so ceeees. Matt Horridge

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 200 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m, Tuesday of the week they are to be run, Or send them to The
Ring-tum Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450. This newspaper observes current court

definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, December 5, 1985

a
“ay VOLANE Wome

    
     

LEAVES TUESDAY, AT
NOQN, So 111 HAVE
TO TAKE 3

-

  

vw

“SCHEDULE CONFLICT”

   
   

eT TO ho Ki Caer
Ss BCG oe ‘ sia o

 

‘
e
‘ee
=e 7
mt

  

1?

 

 

Unaware W&L students aren’t unusual

 

MY VIEW

By Marie Kothman

 

There’s a trend I’ve noticed among
Washington and Lee freshmen, al-
though I’m sure it’s not limited to
freshmen or W&L. I refer to it as the
“College News Blackout.” It’s not
that we don’t know what’s happening
on campus, but we are appallingly
unaware of world and national news.

During my senior year in high
school, a bright, intelligent friend on
break from college came to visit me.
During the conversation, she noticed
a month-and-a-half-old Time maga-
zine on the coffee table. On the cover

W&L has

MY VIEW
By Tom Maguire

 

 

Thanksgiving Break has come and
(alas) gone, yet the holiday is not so
far in the past that one cannot stop
and reflect on those things that give
us cause to be thankful.

The biggest concern of students,
faculty, and administration at the

was a woman from Bhopal, India.

“Why does she look so sad?” my
friend asked. I explained about the
Union Carbide gas leak and was com-
pletely floored when she said she
hadn’t heard anything about it.

“When you're away at college, you
really don’t hear about what’s going
on,” she said.

Now I know what she meant. In an
effort to keep up with the news, I’ve
subscribed to a daily newspaper. But
often I’m in too much of a rush to get
beyond the headlines or the Far Side
comic strip.

I recently was talking with the wife
of a 1972 W&L graduate (who herself
happens to be a Hollins College grad-
uate). They came to the W&L Home-
coming this year for the first time in
several years. The two biggest
changes they noticed from their stu-
dent generation and ours is that we

dress up for football games (they
didn’t) and that the atmosphere is
less tense than in the early 1970s in
the midst of peace demonstrations.
Perhaps that degree of political
awareness was too much, too fever-
ish. Our ignorance is the other end of
the spectrum. We need to find the
middle.

So often I hear people in the dorms
remarking how unaware we, as col-
lege students, are about world af-
fairs. ‘‘So what’s the deal about this
hijacking?”’ We no longer have Jane
Pauley or David Hartman squawking
at us every morning from the living
room television set, nor do we have
the family Sunday paper to read at
leisure. We once were informed of
world news in rather casual manner,
listening to the radio news while driv-
ing, or overhearing the nightly news
while doing homework.

Now one must make a concerted ef-
fort to watch the nightly news or read
the paper because parties, tests,
papers (and more parties) take
higher priority. In some respects the
cloistered atmostphere is necessary
and beneficial; it is easier to concen-
trate on Keats, calculus and chemi-
cals. Many of the distractions that
were casually informative have been
removed, and while it helps us con-
centrate on one area of learning, it
leaves us ignorant of the “real
world,”

So, as the cliche goes, because we
will be living in the ‘real world,’’ we
should be aware of what is happening
out there. It will affect us. Even it it’s
just a glance at the headlines of a
paper while walking through the li-
brary, or the five-minutes newsbreak
after ‘‘General Hospital,” it’s worth
the effort. Stay informed.

many reasons to give thanks

beginning of the term had to have
been the introduction of coeducation.
We must all be grateful that —
so far — it has worked remarkably
well. True, there have been a few
problems (who worries about laun-
dry?), but surely these have been of a
trivial nature. ‘I'he curmudgeons and
arch-reactionaries who complained
so bitterly about coeducation when it
was first announced have, to their
credit, adapted to change with good
grace. At this point, coeducation is
almost universally considered a
beneficial change.

Another thing to be thankful for is
the conduct of our athletic teams. At
Washington and Lee we have no
scandals (such as those at University
of Florida or Texas Christian Univer-
sity) and no unsportsmanlike behav-
ior (such as Miami’s shocking and
loathsome running up of the score
against Notre Dame). Here, athletes
compete as amateurs in the strictest
sense of the word: they play for love
of the sport, not for money or scholar-
ships. The remarkable success
achieved by our teams does us all
credit.

Finally, we should all be thankful
that so much is being said on the sub-
ject of the Honor System. Many stu-
dents were willing to go on record (by
means of letters to The Ring-tum
Phi) expressing their outrage (justi-
fiably, I think) at the outcome of the
first open honor trial this year. The
discussion prompted by the verdict in
that case cannot help but heighten
awareness of the Honor System,
which in turn will make the system
both more effective and more resi-
lient. That is truly something for
which we can be thankful.

6s

 

 

 

 

LETTERS

Graffiti embarrasses, damages aesthetics

To the editors:

I would like to publicly address a relatively
“‘minor’’ problem here at W&L a that is mani-
festing itself into a dilemma that poses a fair
amount of concern to me. I am referring to the
existence and increasing incidences of graffiti
(vandalism) that appear on the inside of the
elevator doors in the University Library. It has
been my observation that within the past three or
four weeks these doors have been the focus of
considerable defacement.

It appears that a few members of the student
body (or perhaps some of our so-called guests)
have taken up a hobby that consists of writing
various slogans and ‘‘jokes’’ within plain view of
the elevator passengers. Although some of these
are rather clever from a psychological stand-
point, they can and have become rather offen-
sive, especially to the legitimate guests of the
school, as I am sure you will admit.

As a member of the Student Recruitment Com-
mittee, I am often in the position to see the condi-
tion of our buildings from a perspective that
most students do not possess — specifically, that
of the prospective student and his or her family.
As you may well know from your own exper-
ience, the University Library is a highlight of the
tour that our committee members give to the
prospective student. Taking this into considera-
tion, | am sure you can well imagine the damage
that this ‘‘mess”’ does to the aesthetics of not on-
ly the library but the school as a whole, especial-
ly when one contrasts this to the beauty of the
rest of the campus.

I have encountered many instances over the
past two years where visitors have actually
remarked that they were “‘surprised’’ that the
students here would deface the very objects for
which they have received so much praise. The
extent of this problem has reached the point now
where I will no longer take guests downstairs via
the elevator to show them our study carrels — a
point in the tour, by the way, that I often remark
about how well our well-known Honor System
protects the student from the dishonorable ele-
ments that can exist in academic life.

Let me just say that I feel that this moronic

scribbling has gone on long enough and now must
stop, so that we can maintain the aesthetics of
our school, as well as to provide the members of
the student recruitment committee the chance to
tour our guests without having to hide the embar-
rassing acts of a childish minority of our stu-
dents.
Craig T. Monroe
Class of ’87

Student questions coverage

To the editors:

I noted with great surprise that The Ring-tum
Phi has again violated the tradition of respect
toward honor hearings before the student body.
This newspaper has long held itself out as a guar-
dian of tradition at Washington and Lee. I see
now, however, that its editors respect only those
traditions that suit their own temperaments. Ap-
parently, the tradition of keeping matters of
honor private within the University is not among
the approved group. Nor is that of respect for the
verdict of a student jury.

Last year, this paper allowed one of its colum-
nists to attack the advocates for the accused in
the year’s sole student body hearing, and was
widely criticized for its indiscretion. This year’s
performance, however, goes far beyond indis-
cretion: The coverage included three front-page
articles, a long editorial, and one letter to the
editor, all referring directly to the hearing, and
between them reciting details of the case, includ-
ing the name of the accused, and indignantly dis-
puting the verdict of the student jury. Tradition,
clearly, along with the reputation of an accused
student, and of the Honor System and the Univer-
sity, is safe in the hands of The Phi only when the
editors are happy with the hearing’s outcome.

That paper raised more issues than I can ad-
dress in one letter, but I must make three brief
points.

First: however we may individually feel about
the verdict of a student jury, it is final and

private, and must be respected as such. If we
know the facts of the case, and disagree with an
acquittal, we are under no obligation to speak to
or associate with the acquitted student. We have
every right — perhaps even a duty — to discuss
our objections with our fellow students, but the
student newspaper, easily accessible to out-
siders, is no place for such discussions.

Second: The editorialist’s shocking assertion,
that ‘Lee and the Honor System ... had nothing
to say about intention or motivation or mitigat-
ing circumstances,”’ is patently ridiculous.
Judgments of honor are based on character, not
on mere deeds considered in a vacuum. In an
honor system, deeds are important only when
considered in the light of motivation and inten-
tion and all the circumstances, as evidence of
character. To say, as the editorialist does, that
“the only relevant question was whether the act
was in fact committed,” is to erect immutable
rules of conduct and defeat one of the chief ad-
vantages of an honor system, its flexibility, and
thus to put every student in peril of automatic ex-
pulsion for an accidental, unintentional, or justi-
fiable breach of those rules.

Third: [The student’s] contention that a theft
must be planned in advance in order to be dis-
honorable is equally ridiculous, and, along with
his suggestion that the Honor System our to app-
ly only ‘within the confines of the University,”
demonstrates a serious misunderstanding of the
concept of honor. For him, apparently, honor has
nothing to do with character or personal morals,
which apply at all times and in all places (why
not make it ‘the whole world,” [name deleted], )
but is merely the ability to restrain oneself from
breaking certain rules while one is on campus.
{The student] would seem to suggest that any
thief is welcome at W&L, as long as he steals on-
ly from townspeople, or steals as soon as the no-
tion strikes him, instead of meditating on the
issue beforehand. One of us has missed the boat
as to honor, apparently. Whichever of us is
wrong ought to think pretty hard about the first
paragraph of the White Book.

James D. Crutchfield
Law Class of '87

 

 

Ate inte

we ewe

roan a
 

 

she aE

 

 

 

 

NEWS

-

-

Parking fines

fund WWII
scholarships

 

By MATT HORRIDGE
Staff Reporter

 

Would your heart be warmed if you
were to find that the $13,000 collected
in parking fines last year was used to
fund scholarships?

If so, it should get warmer this
year, aS more expensive parking
fines have been implemented to al-
leviate parking problems in Univer-
sity lots, according to University
Proctor Charles F. ‘Murph’ Mur-
ray.

The increases from $1, $5 and $10 to
$5, $15 and $25 are meant to dis-
courage illegal parking by punishing
violators’ checkbooks. Last year,
$13,109 was collected in parking fines
from both students and faculty. Uni-
versity Tresurer E. Stewart Epley
said the fines help fund World War II
Memorial Scholarships.

Why are students willing to shell
out — or charge home — such large
amounts for parking infractions?

“T like to park close,” said
sophomore Porter Davis. “I’m will-
ing to pay the price.”’

Senior Wes Boatwright, who said
he received more than $100 in park-
ing fines last year, added that there
is not enough parking close to the
University.

He said the shortage of spaces at
night may discourage students from
studying at the library or attending
sporting events at the Warner
Center.

Assistant to the President Frank A.
Parsons said two incidents last spr-
ing prompted him to help draft
changes in the parking regulations.

First, he said, emergency vehicles
had difficulty getting to the Com-
merce School, where an alarm had
sounded, because of cars parked il-
legally.

The second reason is his close work
with the Lexington City Council and
Planning Commission regarding
W&L’s development program. The
council was hesitant in approving the
building of a 240-bed dormitory, he
said, until plans for parking for the
proposed building were introduced
by the University.

Murray thinks he has given fewer
tickets this year than he did in the
same period last year. When asked if

 

 

 

 

Security guard Steve Tomlinson gives a ticket (o the

the new system of fines was responsi-

ble for the decline, he replied, ‘‘It’s
helping.”’
According to Murray, 1,107 stu-

dents have parking stickers and
there are close to 600 faculty and
staff personnel with cars. In the
beginning of the year, registration
for students was $20 per car. The
price of stickers is now $10. Murray
said many students bring cars back
to school after Thanksgiving and
Christmas breaks and for spring
term.

The money collected for parking
registration is considered University
income, according to Epley. Murray
said he has turned over more than
$15,000 in registration money to the
Business Office.

Parsons thinks the cause of the
parking squeeze is laziness. Many
people who could easily walk, drive
instead, he said. In fact, some

 

students drive and end up parking
farther away fron yus than they
live, he said joking]

To summarize, he said, ‘We're
spoiled rotten,” and expect a parking
space within feet of tination

Parsons said the key to reducing
parking problems is more efficient
use of the 1,055 exist ne parking
spaces. He said he would like to see
stricter enforcement in the parking

lots.
Parsons explained that
men parking ‘lot bey

the fresh-

md the old

railroad station is rarely used. He
pointed out that the long-standing
tradition allowing dormitory coun-
selors to park next to Graham-Lees is
against regulations and that allowing
counselors to park there causes pro-
blems for Universty Bookstore and

Co-op em]
Ja renr ore ed

I arsons ( bia! \y
William C. “Barr Dat

plovees

with keeping

 

 

By BILL BLOOM
Staff Reporter

 

The question of coeducation must

» be moot now that Washington and
_ Lee’s first undergraduate women

.

*

-

.

«

have been attending classes for 10
weeks.

So what was Public Speaking Pro-
fessor Halford R, Ryan doing giving
a speech on the coeducation argu-
ment? The speech was given at one of
the few colleges in the country still
all male — at Ryan’s alma mater,
Wabash College in Indiana.

Ryan returned to Wabash in
Crawfordsville to deliver ‘‘A Rhetori-
cal Analysis of the Coeducational
Argument at W&L.”’

Staff Reports

 

Wabash is an all-male school, as it
was when Ryan graduated from
there in 1966. The school is not
seriously considering coeducaiton,
but the reaction to Ryan’s speech
showed that the possibility is not be-
ing ignored.

‘* ‘Ohs’ and ‘ahs’ came from those
in favor of coeducation,”’ Ryan said,
“but there were several audible
goans as well.”

While at Wabash, Ryan also met
with the Feminine Studies Commit-
tee, was interviewed by the LaFay-
ette, Ind., newspaper and delivered a
lecture on demagogic discourse to a
speech class in persuasion.

Ryan joined the W&L faculty in
1970. He received his M.A. and Ph.D
from the University of Illinois.

ee

The Ring-tum Phi, December 5, 198°

 

 

ssistapt Proctor...

 

By Eric S. Obeck/The Ring-tum Phi

owner of an illegally parked car

Woods Creek Apartments residents
from parking along Woods Creek
Road this year.

Parsons went on to outline possibil-
ities for more parking areas in the
future.

A temporary lot is planned for the
old bulk gas distributorship on state
Route 60 across from Woods Creek
Road, Parsons said. He explained
that this lot will be used to accom-
modate the cars now parking next to
the former Coca-Cola bottling plant.

Parsons further stated that the cur-
rent Law School parking lot would be
enlarged to accommodate all law
students’ cars.

Senior John Falk pointed out that

although the University as a whole :

probably has adequate parking, stu-
dents like to park close to the build-
cin 8

walt’ Se justb-a matter of conven-
ience,” he explained.

 

Trial coverage
~|discouraged

 

By JASON LISI
Staff Reporter

 

Citing the “‘highly confidential’’
nature of student body hearings, the
Executive Committee Monday ap-
proved a temporary guideline discou-
raging publication of information
from the trials.

The guideline is the EC policy until
a month-old special committee stu-
dying the reporting of honor hearings
can return a decision.

The text of the policy reads: ‘‘Any
and all information concerning a stu-
dent body hearing is considered to be
highly confidential within the Wash-
ington and Lee community; this in-
formation should not be published or
otherwise transmitted outside the
Washington and Lee community.”

EC President John Lewis said the
ruling is ‘‘an explanation of what is
obvious to us but is apparently not ob-
vious to a lot of people.”

Facts from an open honor hearing
and an interview with the acquitted
student were published in the Nov. 14
issue of The Ring-tum Phi. The pre-
vious week, the EC had formed the
subcommitteee, which is composed

of members of the EC, Publications
Board, the W&L Law News and The
Ring-tum Phi. It has not yet met.

Although the guideline is only tem-
porary, the wording will be passed on
to the subcommittee, which is ex-
pected to return a decision at Mon-
day’s meeting.

“I view this as a harmless guide-
line,” EC Vice President Andrew
Caruthers said after the meeting.
“Hopefully this will deter a play-by-
play report of honor trials going out-
side the W&L community.”’

Caruthers said he thought Monday
night’s guideline would be respected
and reflected the feeling of all the
members of the EC. “I think there
was a need to put down in writing the
unanimous feeling of the committee
that information on a student body
hearing is confidential within the
W&L community,” he said.

Caruthers said it would be taking it
“to the extreme” to interpret the rul-
ing as forbidding talking about an
honor trial with a person not connect-
ed with W&L, but that would ‘‘proba-
bly be in the best interest of the ac-
cused and the witnesses.’’

“We're really thinking of the stu-
dent when we do this,” he said.

Christmas parade
to feature students

 

By JASON LISI
Staff Reporter

 

 

 

Professor’s allenale alma mater
‘hears benefits of coeducation

In support of coeducation, Ryan
presented data lramatic in
crease in SAT scores and applicants
and the decrease in students on aca-
demic probation uding from
these statistics and personal in
volvement that ) works

The Wabash students and faculty,
having received this insider's view,
asked numerous quest after
Ryan’s presentation that were simi-
lar to those heard here. Ryan said he
answered such questions in a
favorable light ition, em
phasizing that the move was the re-
sult of effective planning

Wabash stuc opposed to co
education by about 60 percent to 40
percent put the tacuilly vors it, ac
cording to a recent pol

ine

edu

IONS

to coeduc

 

 

 

> under

ly Rhodes material.”

 

 

“You better watch out, you better
not cry, you better not pout ...”’ that’s
right, Santa Claus is coming to town.
The annual Christmas parade will
wind its way through the streets of
Lexington tomorrow evening. And in-
cluded in the procession will be
several Washington and Lee organi-
zations and students accompanying
St. Nicholas in his appearance.

The parade will start at 6:30 p.m.
at the Lexington High School, taking
Houston Street to Main Street. The
parade will travel down Main and
turn right at Court House Square onto
Washington Street, then follow East
Nelson Street to the Maxway/Mick or

Mack parking lot
The grand marshals of the parade

will be the W&L singing group,
Southern Comfort. They will ride in
an open carriage and sing Christmas
carols. They will stop in front of the
judge’s stand which will be located
on the front porch of the First
American Bank.

“T think it’s going to be fun,” said
Bruin Richardson, a member of the
group.

He added that he felt a perfor-
mance such as this will increase the
group’s “name recognition’ within
the Lexington community. He men-
tioned the Southern Comfort’s perfor-
mances around the country had
made the group’s name recognizable
in Lexington and the parade is ‘‘the
kind of thing that will add to that.”’

Richardson said that the group, by
performing in the parade, will be
“ambassadors of the university.” It
will be good for the image of the
students, Richardson said, when
students are seen participating in a
community event, ‘‘instead of stay-
ing in the shells of our frats.”’

  

Last of Calyx sent to printer: yearbooks due in January

“The recent flood crisis touche:

The WLUR radio staff will form
what journalism associate professor
Robert J. de Maria called ‘The
WLUR Marching Radio Band.” It
will be composed of members of the
staff marching with ‘boom boxes’
tuned to WLUR, which will be play-
ing Christmas music at the time of
the parade.

De Maria said that the idea, which
originally came from University
Editor Jeffery G. Hanna, would show
a sense of unity between the Univer-
sity and the town of Lexington. ‘The
only thing I’m upset about is that it
wasn’t my idea,’’ he said.

De Maria said six people had sign-
ed up to march by Tuesday. He added
that anyone interested in marching is
welcome and that it seemed like a
good way to begin the evening before
the SAB concert that night with
R.E.M. De Maria said, ‘‘The more
people we have, the more fun we’re
going to have.”’

Members of drama _ professor
Joseph Martinez’s Drama 133 course
will be marching and interacting
with the spectators as ‘clowns.’ Mar-
tinez said that his students will not be
traditional clowns, but rather will be
acting in their own ‘‘comic and sort
of absurd characters.’’ He said that
the students have been developing
these characters with the aid of pro-
fessional actors Tim Carryer and
Babs Bailey who are in Lexington to
perform a play.

Martinez said about 16 to 20 people
will be chosen from the class to
march in the parade and take some
of their ‘personas’ onto the street to
“try and liven things up.”’

He said that this type of acting is
difficult, calling it a ‘‘bath of fire.”’

“There is nothing more challeng-
ing than creating a character in the
studio and taking it out into the
street,” he said. ‘‘It’s really a testing
ground for any persona.”

 

Senior David Sprunt, the 1984-85 Calyx editor, told the
Executive Committee Monday that last year’s year-
book has been completed and sent off to the printer.

He said that according to the publisher, the books
should be ready for distribution by the first or second
week in January.

Juniors Dennis Francis and Charles Nusbaum told
the Publications Board that next year’s book is pro-
ceeding on schedule.

Proofs of senior photographs are available for inspec-
tion and selection in the Calyx office.

Freshmen raise $500 for floods

Over three-quarters of the freshman class went on a
fast the week before Thanksgiving break to aid Rock
bridge County flood victims, and raised more than $500
in the process.

Members of the freshman class agreed to sacrifice
their meal at Evans Dining Hall on Tuesday, Nov. 19.
The raw cost of the food was then donated to the flood
victims, Mike Forrester, the freshman class president
who organized the fast, said 315 students participated in
the fast and raised over $470. In addition, $20 was
donated at the door.

Forrester also negotiated a deal with Domino's Pizza
in which $1 was donated for every large pizza sold at the
W&L dormitories during the fast.

The Minority Student Association also contributed $50
for flood relief.

 

stand the community effort that n ide
Derrick Freeman, president « y Student
Association. “We are donating thi » aid the
people of Rockbridge County i:

said

Washington portrait loaned

A painting of George Wa
Washington and Lee has tempx ed to its
former home in India
hang for a year inthe U.S. em!

The W vill

The portrait of Washington, p "5 and the
last portrait of Washington dor ( if
tributed to William Winsta
‘‘Lansdowne” style. The
Washington and Lee in 19:
caloosa, Ala., a trustee eme!

Three advance in

Three Washington and Lee
State interviews in the comp olar
ships
John-Paul Bouffard will be inte: ond
Mike McAlevey will trave
and Gerald Shepherd qualiti«
“I’m honored to say the |
most,’’ McAlevey said
Associate Dean of the |
said yesterday that ‘just to b
views Is an honor because |

 

President John D. Wilson, himself a Rhodes scholar,
is on the interviewing panel for Virginia and will dis-
qualify himself when Bouffard is considered, Simpson
said

The scholarships, founded under the will of Cecil J.
Rhodes, allow students from the U.S. and the British
Commonwealth to study at Oxford University for two or
three years

Former basketball star hired

Joseph H. Grist, a resi-
dent of Lexington since
1964, has been named
equipment manager at the
Warner Athletic Center. He
replaces Richard ‘Chub’’
Yeakel, who died Nov. 4

A graduate of Piedmont
College in Demorest, Ga.,
Grist also attended the
University of Miami and
Abraham Baldwin Agricul-
tural College. As a college
basketball player, Grist
was named Most Valuable
Player for the University of
Miami in 1951. He was
chosen to the Kappa Sigma
\ll America team, was named to the Georgia All State
ind All Regional teams, and was elected to the Pied-
mont College Sports Hall of Fame this year,

JOSEPH H. GRIST

 

 

Oxford program announced

One Washington and Lee student will attend Universi-
ty College, Oxford, next year under the auspices of a
new exchange program established between the two in-
stitutions.

‘We are delighted that Oxford has invited us to par-
ticipate in this new program,” said William J. Watt,
professor of chemistry at W&L. ‘For a number of years
faculty members have benefited from our exchange
program with University and we are pleased to be able
to extend this opportunity to include students."’

Ideally, students should participate during their
junior year. Seniors may be considered in exceptional
cases, but because the Oxford academic year runs from
the first of October until late June, seniors would find it
difficult to complete all required work in time for W&L
commencement,

Additional information may be obtained by contact-
ing Watt.

Graduate selected to book

The Board of Advisors for the Outstanding Young
Men of America awards program has selected B. Scott
Tilley, a 1985 graduate of Washington and Lee, for inclu-
sion in the 1985 edition of Outstanding Young Men of
America.

Tilley was among men selected from nominations
received from senators, congressmen, governors, may-
ors, state legislators, university and college presidents
and deans as well as various civic groups.

 
 

 

a, am

 

 

2007 2 i, CO EA A

Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, December 5, 1985

UC to review W&L’s campus master plan

 

By JOHN KALITKA
Staff Reporter

 

Washington and Lee’s new dor-
mitory is expected to be a key topic of
discussion when the University Coun-
cil meets today. The body has asked
Executive Assistant to the President
Frank A. Parsons to explain W&L’s
campus master plan, which was ap-
proved by the Lexington City Council
last spring and includes provisions
for new campus housing.

The master plan was compiled and
submitted to the City Council follow-
ing creation of a new “institutional
zone’ within the city limits. The new
zoning ordinance requires the Uni-
versity to submit a master plan de-
scribing all projects and improve-
ments anticipated for roughly the
next 10 years.

“Onee a master plan has been ap-
proved, we do not have to get further
approval ... unless we depart sub-
stantially from the master plan or ...
come within 200 feet of a city street or
200 feet of our property line,” he said.
Parsons also explained that site
plans will have to be submitted on an
individual basis in many instances.

The planning guidelines provide
for improvements and renovations of
existing campus facilities and the
construction of the proposed dormito-
ry and a teaching theater. The follow-
ing list highlights some of the main
proposals:

ACADEMIC FACILITIES:

The master plan shows no growth
in either the main core or Lewis Hall
areas, but does include provisions for
a teaching theater and recommends
renovations to the existing Trou-
bador University Theatre.

Seating 400-450, the proposed facili-
ty would also include shop and design
areas, classrooms, offices, rehearsal
areas, a lecture and seminar room,
and receiving and parking accommo-
dations. The old railroad station and
gasoline storage property across
Route 60 from the Warner Center is
the proposed site for the new teach-
ing theater.

Once the new theater is completed
renovations and improvements are
planned for the current University
Theatre. Possible future uses dis-
cussed for this structure include the
establishment of a University movie
theater.

SPORTS AND RECREATION FA-
CILITIES:

No major changes or additions are
planned within the sports and recrea-
tion areas, although new outdoor
courts and playing fields have been

 

Southern
Inn

Welcome

Students
Serving breakfast, lunch
and dinner for over

50 years
Main Street, Lexington
463-3612 _

WLUR
91.5 FM

Your station for
Generals’ sports

 

 

 

 

 

 

recommended.

«Renovations and modernization of
locker room and public use facilities
are already underway at Wilson
Field. Improvements are planned for
the press box as well as stadium seat-
ing, and the creation of a new en-
trance court, complete with ticket
booths to be located at the north end
of the pedestrian bridge leading to
Wilson Field.

Additionally, the installation of a
track and field area in the open space
between the stadium and Lewis Hall
is under consideration.

eResurfacing of the existing tennis
courts under the footbridge were
completed last year. Expansion of
this area to include additional court
facilities for such activities as bas-
ketball and volleyball are recom-
mended in the master plan.

eA thorough renovation and up-
grading is proposed for existing
athletic fields as well as the creation
of new field facilities in the open
space adjacent to Route 60 near
Liberty Hall and in the area now ser-
ving as the University dump. The
new fields will probably be soccer,
field hockey, and softball facilities in
anticipation of W&L’s growing coed-
ucational sports programs.

Two satellite structures housing
storage, first aid and restroom facili-
ties will be constructed in conjunc-
tion with the new athletic fields as
well.

HOUSING:

Studies conducted by the Universi-

ty foresee a resident population in-
crease of 240 students in the near
future. To alleviate overcrowding in
the existing dormitory sites, the
master plan recommends a new dor-
mitory.
Once completed the multi-story
structure will provide 240 beds at the
corner of Washington and Nelson
streets. The site was chosen due to its
proximity to campus.

CONSERVATION AND PRESER
VATION:

Preservation of the landscape and
natural beauty of the back campus
area, a vast expanse extending
roughly from Lewis Hall north to the
Maury River, is a key recommenda-
tion of the plan. A conservation
district extending into the developed
campus on either side of Woods
Creek is also proposed. Moreover, a
Liberty Hall “preservation park”
that includes an archaeological ex-
cavation area, laboratory and visit-

ors’ center is under consideration.’

ADMINISTRATIVE FACILITIES:

Renovations and improvements to
existing struotures promise to allevi-
ate overcrowding in Washington Hall

  
 
 
 
 
 
  

 

The Shop for
i PAPPAGALLO

Shoes, Clothing
& Accessories

 

23 NORTH MAIN STREET
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

463-5988

 

 

EAST LEX

 

Bud «2 pack)

 

 

 

U.S. 11 North Open until

Midnight
Cigarettes Co $6.89
Natty Bo Long Necks ‘case)................. $5.53

Cee ee mee ee ween

 

 

   

E. Nelson St.
463-2186

HAROWARE STORES

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

Mon. - Sat. 8:30 - 6:06
Sun.1-5

 

17 $. Main St.

(7€3) 463-2323

—— oe eee ee ee ee oe ee ee ee ee ee ee ee oe

! 10% Off
Russell Stover Candy
|

Expires

12-20-85

as at a Se eee es ee oe oe

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
DEVELOPED MAIN CAMPUS

 

  
   
    
 
     
   
     
   
  
 
 
    
    
  
    
  

I
|
|
i
|
I
I
J

 

pe

SLIO8 singe

PROPOSED

  
 
 
   
   
  
    
  

VIRGEGA MAITARY INSTITUTE

CITY OF LEXINGTON

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
CAMPUS MASTER PLAN F

PROPOSED NEW DEVELOPMENT

GWSM, inc. Landscape Architects
Marcellus Wright Cox & Smith Architects

 

 

The campus master plan, as drawn up for the next 10 years; the circled letters represent proposed new development

and provide atrractive accommoda-
tions for campus visitors.

eMajor renovations and additions
to the storage facility known as 32
University Place will provide new ac-
commodations for the admissions of-
fice and open space in Washington
Hall. The plans also call for an ex-
pansion to the staff parking area now
serving the Alumni House, which
would provide spaces for admissions
staff and reserved parking for admis-
sions visitors. :

The Joella & Stewart Morris Guest
House and Seminar Center, currently
under renovation, will accommodate

Wendell’ s
Barber

Shop

| need your head for
my business.

 

up to three overnight or short-term
guests, provide meeting and seminar
rooms, and house a catering kitchen
for social events and receptions. The
building should be completed by the
spring.

SERVICE AND SUPPORT FACI-
LITIES:

A second, pre-fabricated building
was constructed on the site of the
maintenance complex this year. The
facility provides storage space and
houses plumbing, carpentry, elec-
trical, and other maintenance shops
serving the University community.

 

PARKING AND CIRCULATION:

The construction of new parking
spaces, the re-examination of park-
ing regulations, and stepped-up park-
ing regulation enforcement within
the campus boundaries are some of
the proposals under the master plan
aimed at relaxing current and pro-
jected parking difficulties.

New lots are planned for the new
University Admissions Office, Howe
and Howe Annex, the new dormitory,
the new athletic fields, the students
activities pavilion, the University

 

110 S. Jefferson St.

Lexi Gourmet Items of All Nations
Cocktails@ Wine@ Beer

Nour t.9amtolam SUubs@Imported Cheeses
Catering

 

5:30 p.m.

Dec. 15 11:00 a.m.

12:00 noon

Dec, 22 11:00a.m.

choir)
Dec. 24 7:30p.m.

Advent Services
and Programs

LEXINGTON PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH
Dec.8 11:00a.m. Church Service - ‘‘God’s Gift’
Dinner & Christmas Program for
college students.
Church Service - “Apocalypse Now”’
Exam-time ‘‘care packages” for
students given out after church
Joy Gift Luncheon (college students
especially invited as guests of the
church)
Nine Lessons and Carols - (worship
through music and scripture (adult,
children’s choirs, youth handbell

Christmas Eve Candlelight Service

tego morning services broadcast over WREL).,

   

Sandwiches (Eat In-Take Out)

Stop by for your Christmas
party supplies.
We have a complete selection of
beer, wine and food for all your
party needs.

'

teaching theater, and the proposed “._,

new athletic courts near the pedes- ,
trian bridge. Moreover, improve-
ments are planned for some existing ‘
lots. The Woods Creek lot resurfacing ,
was completed earlier this year, for
example. ‘

+‘

The completion of the loop access +
road that now extends from its pre-
sent entrace to the maintenance com-
plex can be anticipated in the near ,
future. When finished, the road will
rejoin Route 60 (Nelson Street) near *
Liberty Hall.

¥

t

    
 
 
     

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Frank’s Pizza

  
 
     
    
   

      
    

oe ee ee ee ee co : me :
OP FR MMO MI IT Ty | Bae Se ww eS cen ee

    

 

 

y

?

     
 

“Best Pizza in Lexington’’
Free Delivery for

W&L Students
463-7575 or 463-3133

$1 OFF

 

Large Pizza

 

i

:

Serving the W&L community

over 30 years. 4

8 ‘

r Enjoy Christmas Weekend! : :

E i

: Rowers For AW Occasions ‘ ;

We Wve Flowe Anywhere b

=

THE FLOLUER CENTER a:

if Sane

! g (703) 463-4521 4

be ge E

! : Surprise your date with a special corsage. %

it $1.00 Off With Coupon 4
i &

‘

my,

‘ '
 

-

ee EI
eRe

ete

  
  

ym Ve me ee ee ee

get QS oy! -GG6W Ce Me oe wR eee”

re ea
a = Xa

*

%

ally Cae

8

- i -+
<I I A BN 8 BR IRS ET NY EI III Cee Co, te eet DET AIAG IT

The Ring-tum Phi, December 5, 1985, Page 5

 

‘French text |
-makes use
of computer =

By SYDNEY MARTHINSON
Staff Reporter

 

 

French professors Russell C.
Knudson and Kathy Koberstein are
co-writing a computer software
package that they say can condense
the amount of grammar that normal-
ly takes one year to teach into one
semester.

The two hope the package will be
published and used with a textbook to
give a fast grammar review to stu-
dents who have had some French in
high school, but not enough to put
them into the intermediate college
class in French.

Though other computer programs
have been published in foreign
language study, Koberstein and
Knudson’s software is innovative
because it was written to go along
with a textbook, and each section
builds on a previous section, while
other programs offer little or no se-
quencing.

Knudson said the most advantage-
ous aspect of the system is that ‘‘stu-
dents receive as much individual at-
tention as possible.”’

He added that with computers
there is immediate feedback so
students are less likely to feel embar-
rassed if they answer incorrectly and
are able to work at their own speed.
Knudson stressed that this allows for
better use of the students’ time.

“The trick is to design materials
where students learn a lot while us-

\ hi

 

 

 

et

 

 

Russell Knudson and Kathy Koberstein work on new textbook

ing a minimal amount of time,” he
said.

The program, the result of four to
five hours of daily work over the
summer, is still in its early stages. It
is being implemented in intermed-
iate level French classes at Washing-
ton and Lee, where students’ reac-
tions have been positive, according to
Knudson.

“The program is working better
than we ever thought it would,” he
said. “‘It’s a pleasant surprise.”

Koberstein and Knudson still feel a

ey | RE | ERR | ARC EERE ORE aE

| nia Sis Flys)

By Appointment 463-9588
i Robin» Peggy * Marie

Old Main St. Mall x
Lexington, VA nso

| RRND RIN RIBERA RRNA RS RE AAR RR) R

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The luxury salon
without the luxury pricetag

 

 

 

 

 

| Hairstyling (10% off on

haircuts for
W&L students)

 

 

 

| Cosmetics

 

— Tanning

 

 

 

 

 

 

Capers: When only the best
will do.

25 N. Main St.
463-2566

need to review their initial program
before submitting it for publishing,
however.

They hope to receive a grant from
W&L awarded to professors for
“scholarly, artistic, and pedagogical
betterment” while working on a
special program that can be im-
plemented into W&L’s curriculum.

If the grant is awarded, the pro-
fessors hope to adapt their program
to other computer systems so it can
be used at colleges with less-sophisti-

By Matt Horridge/The Ring-tum Phi

cated hardware. They also hope to
adapt their work for use on personal
computers.

Knudson, who has been teaching
here since 1966, has already publish-
ed a French instructional book with
Alfred G. Fralin Jr., another W&L
professor. Called ‘Piste Gram-
maticales,”’ it has been in use at W&L
for five years.

Koberstein, a University of Wis-
consin graduate, began teaching at
W&L in 1984.

 

5 day lift ticket

 

 

Fine Men’s Apparel

Lexington, Virginia

Avoid the city rush and do your

Christmas shopping here.

= E.S. Deans Sweaters

= W&L Belts and Ties
: Duck Head Pants

= Kangol Hats
E Bass and Walkover Shoes

London Fog Raincoats

Visa

al

i

 

W&L SAB and Ski Club Present:
Powder Hunt ’86
Feb. 15 - 23
Jackson Hole, Wyoming

Or
Park City, Utah
7 nights condo lodging

Round-trip air from Washington
$585 *

Organizational meeting Tues., Dec. 10
Rm. 108 Student Center

* Dependent on current air fares
and min. participation

Aluin-Bennis

Second-year law student Rory
Clark, recently named chairman of
the American Bar Association Law
Student Division, suffered a neck in-
jury and totaled his car the Thursday
night before break, police said.

Clark, 23, overturned his 1978
Toyota Celica on Woods Creek Road
about a half mile north of West
Nelson Street. The 11:58 p.m. acci-

; 4 Law student injured in car accident

dent occurred when he struck a curb
and a tree and the car was flipped on-

to the side of the road, Lexington
Police Chief L.O. Sutton said.

Clark, who was not wearing a
seatbelt, was admitted to Stonewall
Jackson Hospital for tests.

“He was lucky,” Sutton said.
‘Usually when you break your neck,
you get your ticket punched.”

 

Chill

 

 

IM

 

Formal Wear and

Accessories

Woolrich Outerwear

Sero Shirts

Cashmere and Herringbone

Topcoats

Ceramic Items for Sale

Free Gift Wrapping

MasterCard

Choice

Student Charge

I

E

( Continued from Page 1

“It’s very boring to make them run
indoors on the track,” she noted.

Rankin mentioned that on Monday
some of her students came to class in
shorts, but didn’t complain. ‘“‘Once
we get moving, it gets better,’’ she
said.

“We look like we're half-frozen
when we're running,” she said, ad-
ding the slowness of her students was
due not so much to the cold weather
as to Thanksgiving indulgence.
“‘We’re all a bit sluggish but I think
that’s from too much turkey,”
Rankin said.

She said she is teaching the same
class next term and does not look for-

ward to the weather. “It could be
tough come winter time,”’ she noted.

Some students have a more chari-
table view of the recent weather.

“T like it this cold,” said freshman
Delia Ford. She added the weather
here was much different from the
weather she experienced at home in
Atlanta over Thanksgiving break —
it was so warm her brother went
waterskiing.

Monica Burke, a freshman from
Yardley, Penn., compared the Vir-
ginia weather to the temperatures at
home. “‘I knew it was probably about
the same here as it is up there,” she
said.

She added the cold weather in the
mornings was “‘invigorating.”’

Ford remarked that although the
outside weather was cold, the dormi-
tories were much warmer. “I have

my window open all day,” she said.

 

  
 

 

   

jai Florist

Send Flowers To
Someone Special

For Christmas

165 South Main St. 463-9152 |

Enjoy Happy Hour
at

GENERAL

Friday Afternoon
4-7P.M.

WLUR Disc Jockeys
eens Live

 
   
  
 

 

  

 
    
    
     
     

 

(Pre-ott-so

eh.

a
Bz:

 

 

 

you'll pronounce it delicious.

In Italy, there’s a pie filled with delicious in-
gredients and smothered in rich, zesty sauce and
melted cheeses. You really ought to try it.

Round-trip tickets to Italy are unnecessary
and far too expensive. Just visit your par-
ticipating Pizze Hut® restaurant after 4:00 p.m.
Monday through Friday or anytime Saturday
and Sunday and order our Priazzo 1m Italian pie
in one of four tempting combinations of fillings.
Milano, Roma, Florentine and Napoli.

Eat In, Carry Out, Or Delivered

463-7000

600 E. Nelson
Lexington

 

 

$2. off any large pizza

or $1 off any medium. In-
cludes Pizza Hut® Pan
Pizza! Hurry; offer ex-
pires soon. One coupon
per party per visit at
participating Pizza Hut*
restaurants

Please present coupon whenur dering Not valid
ash redempt slue TYR Paa H

12.
Shoe ae ee te ee ss

Eat In, Carry Out Or Delivered

en
Pizza
Hut

  
 

al

$ gore

600 E. Nelson St.
Lexington, Va.
463-7000

a
SPORTS

 

Cagers tame top-rated Tigers

 

By DAVID EMRICH
Staff Reporter

 

Facing the conference’s top-rated
team is a difficult experience for any
team, much less one as young as this
year’s W&L basketball squad. But
Tuesday night, with an assist from
the crowd, the Generals came
through against the Tigers of
Hampden-Sydney and recorded a
65-57 victory in the season’s first Old
Dominion Athletic Conference con-
test.

W&L was rated seventh in the pre-
season ODAC poll, but handled the
adversity as if the predicted finishes
for the Tigers and the Generals were
reversed, a turn of events that pleas-
ed W&L head coach Verne Canfield.
“The team showed a lot of poise and
togetherness.”” he said. ‘But,’ he
cautioned, ‘‘there is still a long way
to go.”’

When the teams took the court for
the opening tip-off, it was clear which
side had the physical advantage.
Hampden-Sydney fielded a front line
which averaged 6-5, 210 lbs. com-
pared to a 6-5, 185 lb. average front
line for W&L. Yet, the Tigers’ size
didn’t seem to bother the Generals.

W&L stayed right with the Tigers
and began to force their opponents in-
to mistakes. In one three-minute
span midway through the first half,
the Tigers turned the ball over four
times and were whistled for a 3-
second violation. The Generals took
advantage of the Tiger’s errors to
build a 20-10 lead before Coach Don
Thompson called a timeout to re-
group his team, with 9:30 to go in the
half.

Up to that point, Hampden-Sydney
had spent most of its time attempting
to force the ball inside to its leading
scorer, John Lee (averaging 15.3
points per game) and the Generals
had spent most of their time prevent-
ing the Tigers from doing so.

After the time out, however, the
Tigers’ Ralph Baker, who finished
with 10 points, hit from the right cor-
ner to pull Hampden-Sydney to with-
in eight. Next, the Tigers forced a
turnover that led to a basket and
reduced the deficit to six. But, that
was as close as they were to get in the
first half.

The Tigers could do no better than
to keep pace with the Generals for
the remainder of the half, and W&L
took a 30-24 léad to the locker room.

At the start of the second half
Hampden-Sydney seemed to have ad-
justed their strategy. They began
taking more shots from outside, and
seemed to be having some success.
They outscored W&L 12-7 over the
first five minutes of the second half,
and were within one point when
Thompson called a timeout with
14:30 remaining.

The Tigers began forcing the ball
inside again, but the Generals re-
mained equal to the task. They got
Hampden-Sydney’s big gun Lee to
foul out with about 10 minutes re-

  

 

ee

 

The Ring-tum Phi, December 5, 1985

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Sophomore guard Steve Hancock leaps out of bounds to save the ball Tuesday night

maining. He was not a factor in Tues-
day night’s game, taking only two
shots from the field and not scoring
before his departure.

With the score tied at 43, the crowd
began to make themselves apparent.
Said Canfield, ‘‘The crowd was ex-
cellent, they were just great.’’ The
Generals used the momentum
created by the partisan fans to jump
to a 53-47 with four minutes remain-
ing. This spurt included scoring by
the Generals’ Steve Hancock, who
led both teams with 22 points, and
point guard Fred Bissinger, who con-
tributed eight baskets.

The Tigers continued to fight back,
riding Chris Sibold’s 14 points in the
second-half to tie the score at 53 with
two minutes left in the contest. Can-
field stopped play with a time out.

After play resumed, the Tigers
became very sloppy, committing
nine fouls in the remaining time. The
Generals took advantage of the op-
portunity, sealing the win by scoring
eight of their last 10 points from the
free throw line.

Despite the size disadvantage, the
Generals were able to keep the
Tigers’ big men from doing much
damage on the inside. Canfield said,
“We appealed to the players’ pride,
and their ability to execute. That was
how we did that. I was very pleased
with the way that they responded.”’

Thompson simply said, ‘‘They out-
hustled us inside, that was how they
beat us.””

Tuesday’s win evens the W&L
mark at 2-2. Over the Thanksgiving
break, the Generals went 1-2, in-
cluding a third-place finish in the
season-opening W&L Pizza Hut Tip-

 

 

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Guard Fred Bissinger attempts a jump shot

Off Tournament. The Generals fell to
the nation’s 10th-ranked team from a
year ago, Salisbury State, in the first
game of the tournament. Hancock's
27 points paced W&L into an extra
period, but the Sea Gulls turned aside
the hopes for an upset, 78-76. The
Generals bounced back in the consol-
ation game, downing touted Castle-
ton St., 76-69.

Grapplers open season
with Saturday’s Invitational

 

By CHARLES T. GAY
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee wrestling
team will attempt to continue its win-
ning trend of the past several years
as it opens its season Saturday with
the eight-team W&L Invitational.

Coach Gary Franke assessed the
tournament as ‘‘a good early-season
test for us.’’ Franke said he expects
the tough competition to come from
Gettysburg, Hiram and York.

Still, he said, ‘‘We hope to be in the
thick of things in the championship
finals.”

In addition to the three favorites,
four other squads will visit Lex-
ington. Longwood, Loyola, Muhlen-
berg and Scranton round out the
field.

W&L was to have wrestled Hamp-
den-Sydney last night, but that school
rescheduled some special testing

Wrestling coach Gary Franke has high hopes for grapplers

that forced the postponement of the
match. The Generals and Tigers
have rescheduled their meeting for
January 29, according to Franke.

The Generals could be at a disad-
vantage, not having a match under
their belts as they enter the tourna-

 

ment.
idea.
“It won't necessarily be a disad-
vantage. There are enough veterans
on the team to carry us through,” he
said.
Seniors Brian Lifsted (134 lbs.),

But Franke discounts that

Rippeon’s better time places

 

 

SCOTT RIPPEON

 

By REED HOWLETT
Staff Reporter

 

Despite dropping two minutes off
his qualifying time, Washington and
Lee’s Scott Rippeon fared no better
than 108th place at the Division III
national cross country dhampion-
ships at Emory University in Atlanta
on Nov. 23.

The W&L senior ran the course in
25:35, bettering his time of 27:55 run
on the Emory course at the Division
III Sourthern regional the week
before.

Rippeon beat the heat in Atlanta as

 

WA&L Sports Information

Larry Anker (142) and Win Phillips
(167) are the veterans Franke ex-
pects the leadership to come from

Saturday’s tournament begins in
the morning at 9:30 with preliminary
round action. The finals are slated
for 6:30 p.m.

him 108th

temperatures soared into the upper
70s, not ideal for running and certain-
ly not expected for mid-November.
Nine runners in the 185-man field did
not finish the course.

Rippeon outran all but two quali-
fiers from this region as Tony Lewis
of Emory University finished sixth
and Duane Stoller of Ronaoke Col-
lege finished 65th. Coach Dick Miller
commented: ‘‘Despite the fact that
Scott was disappointed with where he
finished, he really did run well.”

In team results, Luther College of
Iowa finished first, followed by North
Central College of Illinois and
Rochester Institute of Technology

The second W&L loss of the season
came at the hands of Emory in Atlan-
ta last Tuesday, 61-58.

The Generals continue their ODAC
schedule on the road Saturday at
Lynchburg. Wednesday, W&L will be
back in Lexington to conclude the
1985 portion of its season with a game
against Greensboro. Tip-off in the
Warner Center is 7:30 p.m.

>

 

PR ed ee
L

et’s remember:
coach’s success

is not in fine print

...It seems somewhere along the
line we've lost sight of what a coach
is supposed to do. The rash of college
football firings and “resignations”
during Turkey Week brought me ter-
rible nightmares of the world being

TIME
OUT....

 

 

quality in terms of how large the numeral under the ‘“‘W”’ in the sports
pages’ fine print is).

Look, when I was growing up, a coach’s job was to be the guy in
charge, not the guy whose job it was to win games. Doesn’t it make
sense anymore to talk about ‘‘It’s not whether you win or lose, but how
you play the game’’? It seems not. It seems that if you don’t win, you
don’t get to stay.

Oh, well, I guess it makes sense. The world of sports has gone the
way where every other thing is a dollar sign. You don’t win, nobody
goes to the football games, the alumni stop sending those nice, fat
“donations,”’ and Keith Jackson and Frank Broyles don’t come knock-
ing on your stadium door anymore. And, heavens, we all know what
a terrible fate that would be. So, we might as well get rid of the coach if
he’s not winning games.

Very fine. In the meantime we’ve got coaches like hapless Bob Cur-
tis. Pity Bob, or at least take note and wonder where this whole mess is
headed. Bob was the coach at Bucknell, Most of us don’t even know
what a Bucknell is, but they play football there. Of the Division I-AA
variety (a merciful division the NCAA powers-that-be created in 1978
for those football teams that couldn’t throw the money, er, uh weight
around with the best of them).

Even though Bob’s had the longest tenure (11 years) of any previous
Bison football coach, his 48-56-3 record over the last five years wasn’t
good enough. Well, let’s put it this way, it wasn’t good enough for Bob.
Said the resigned coach in a prepared statement: ‘I thought I could
win here, I really believed it.’’

You have to say there’s something seriously wrong with life when
the first words out of a coach after his resignation have to do with wins
and losses. And especially when that coach is from something called
Bucknell. It’s scary to me because I remember when a coach con-
sidered it a good day’s work when that slow offensive lineman got
through the agility drills without looking like a bear on roller skates.
(If you’re looking for that statistic in the fine print the morning after
the game, it’s not there.)

On top of all this nonsense, we get these words of wisdom from Bruce
Corrie, athletic director at Bucknell: ‘“‘But even bigger schools with
huge football budgets [the Bison program is not one of those unlimited
resources programs] have found out that simply running out and hir-
ing a hotshot coach doesn’t always guarantee a successful program.”’

Unless I’m mistaken, somewhere success and wins and losses have
come to mean the same thing. Call me old-fashioned, but I don’t buy
that. What’s worse about this attitude is that it has started to take hold
of what coaches think their job is. Curtis’ statement indicates that not
winning seemed to go hand-in-hand with not enjoying your job. Sure,
wins feel better than losses, but if that has become your only yardstick
by which you judge what you do, then you’re in the wrong profession,
sir.

Let’s see that next time before we become so quick to judge the
coach, we try to remember that wins and losses don’t make the man
It’s the things you don’t see that are the real measure of a coach...

....In our trip down the Colonnade this week, a word that we not jump
to any undue conclusions regarding the hoops squad. Tuesday’s was a
big one, but let us let them go at their own pace...Grapplers will have a
tough act to follow (looking at the last two seasons). A trip by the
Warner Center Saturday should give inquiring minds an ideaas to the
strength of this year’s squad.....

....Zounds! $255,000 for a half a round of golf ain’t bad. What I’m
wondering is why it’s so appealing to watch a foursome of multi-
millionaires faced with the pressure (?) of making a putt for $150,000.
Another stroll on the beach, all expenses paid, it seems to me

 

 

 

 

 

 

Clothiers for Men and Ladies

1/2 Off

Early Fall Merchandise

22 W. Nelson St.,

463-9340

 

 

 

 

Attention Seniors!

“ee.

“er
ae s+

wwe
LS,

+
«

rate

By Mike taken over by big, overbearing !
Stachura  know-it-alls (know-it-littles like, uh,
George Steinbrenner, who, like
overanxious alumni measure (

ay

ae

 

Come pick out your Calyx picture
Proofs on view in the Calyx Office

Sunday, December 8

2-4P.M.

Wednesday, December 11
2-6 P.M.

This will be the only opportunity to
choose pictures, so don’t miss it!
ih

”

‘

pagel

st ies

ith ia

 

 

 

Dudek who?

Weaver does it Dad’s way to lead nation

 

' By STEVEN POCKRASS
, Special to The Phi

 

‘

Daniel Weaver ran down the damp wooden bleachers,
across the soggy cinders and onto waterlogged Wilson
Field as the final seconds ticked off the scoreboard. Into
"Weaver's arms jumped his little boy, Kevin, and the
“father bounced all 6 feet 3 inches and 205 pounds of him
‘up and down in the air like a baby.
Even from a distance, one could see the thick veins
running across 20-year-old Kevin Wayne Weaver’s mud-
‘caked forearms and hear his whoops of joy. On that day,
Nov. 16, the junior tailback from Martinsburg, W.Va.,
_ broke W&L’s single-season rushing record with 1,161
yards and raised his single-season scoring record to 110
‘points.
This week, Weaver can celebrate the announcement of
the National Collegiate Athletic Association’s final Divi-
“sion III football statistics, numbers that put the W&L
+ junior first in the land in scoring with an average of 13.8
, Points per game. Weaver also ended the year as the na-
tion’s fourth leading rusher at 145.1 yards per Saturday
» afternoon.
. Weaver’s first-place rating in scoring places him a
notch above Plymouth State’s Joe Dudek. Dudek was
* featured on the cover of this week’s Sports Illustrated as
, the magazine’s choice to win the Heisman Trophy.
But rather than boast about his accomplishments,
* the soft-spoken Weaver saves all his praise for others.

The person who receives most of that praise is his
.father, a General Motors supervisor who played running
back while enlisted in the Air Force.
“He’s my biggest fan, critic, friend,”” Weaver said.
, “Everything I’ve ever done, I owe to him.”’

+ Weaver is very close to his parents, Daniel and
_ Mildred Weaver, and to his 12-year-old sister, Pamela.
His family has missed only five W&L football games in
* three years.
, Kevin was only 7 years old when his father began
coaching him in football, but Daniel Weaver started
‘ teaching his son about the game of life even earlier.
, Weaver said his father has always stressed academics
as his first priority. A chemistry major and ROTC
“scholarship recipient whose sights are set on medical
* school, Weaver juggled 24 hours of classes and labs
_ along with football this season. He also commits time to
the Rangers, an elite group of military science students.
* Schedule conflicts forced him to miss 10 of the football
, team’s 18 practice hours per week. Fallon said he was
worried that the lack of practice would cause Weaver to
" get injured or that he would be unfamiliar with the
. plays.

But Weaver kept himself in strong enough physical
’ shape and learned the plays on his own to compensate
, for the missed practice, Fallon said. Although his heavy

workload limited his social life to perhaps one movie a
«week during the football season, Weaver said he did not
feel pressured to cut back.

“T had to do it in high school,” he said. ‘It was just a
matter of carrying it all over.”’

As a senior at Martinsburg High School, he was an All-
‘Conference football player both offensively and defen-
_Sively, an All-State linebacker, student body president

and a member of a traveling school chorus.

» He’s wanted to go to medical school and play college
football ever since he was a tot. ‘‘I wanted to do both, soI

,

 

i

 

did both and I’m doing both,” he said with quiet deter-
mination.

This mix of quiet confidence, hard work, humility and
desire has earned Weaver praise and respect both on
and off the field.

“The thing that’s most impressive is his attitude,”
said Lt. Col. Luke B. Ferguson, who sat on Weaver’s
ROTC scholarship review board. “He just has a go-
getter’s attitude. He’s always up.”’

“The kids really respect him not only as a fine athlete
but as a person,” said Fallon.

The star tailback recently was elected a tri-captain of
the 1986 football squad, yet he credits much of this year’s
success to the blocking of senior running back Frank
Surface and a maturing offensive line that Fallon said
will lose only one player to graduation.

Fallon had planned to go with a pass-oriented offense
this year, but when opposing defenses began multiple
coverage of W&L’s receivers on both ends, the Generals
switched to an up-the-middle running game.

As Weaver began compiling rushing statistics that put
his name on the USA Today scoreboard, defenses began
keying on him and W&L was forced to open up its pas-
sing attack again.

Weaver said the added pressure psyched him up and
made him play better. He scored a W&L record five
touchdowns against Hampden-Sydney on Oct. 19 and set
another record the following week with 225 yards against
the University of the South.

He was named the Old Dominion Athletic Conference
Player of the Year about two weeks ago. Fallon said he
congratulated Weaver the day after the announcement,
and Weaver thanked him but was disappointed because

‘Swimmers split; Miles qualifies

Kevin Weaver, right, celebrates with his father, Daniel

By W. Patrick Hinely/W&L

more of the offensive linesmen were not recognized by
the conference.

“Tf the team is doing well, I’m happy,’’ Weaver said
recently as he rested his long, blue-jean-covered legs on
a wooden table outside the Co-op. As passers-by stopped
to exchange greetings, his friendly disposition, close-
cropped hair, frameless eyeglasses and blue denim
jacket plastered with buttons bearing such sayings as
“A Hug Will Make My Day” and “I’m Worth Waiting
For’”’ belied his reputation as a mean football monster.

But make no mistake about it — Weaver is big, fast,
strong and well-proportioned. His broad shoulders taper
to a 32-inch waist, and he said he has bench-pressed 300
pounds and has run the 40-yard dash in 4.58 seconds.

Behind solid blocking, this combination of speed,
strength and the ability to fake and cut has made
Weaver successful, Fallon said.

Although Weaver started playing baseball even before
he picked up the pigskin, football has always been his
favorite sport. His senior year in high school, he decided
to run track to build up more speed for college football
rather than return to play first base for a state runner-up
baseball squad.

Weaver had once planned to play linebacker for Divi-
sion I-AA James Madison University in Harrisonburg.
But when two players who were not expected to enroll
accepted soholarhips there, his scholarship offer was
withdrawn.

Weaver said that since he could not play Division |
football where he wanted, he decided to go where he
would receive the best education. He played mostly
special teams as a freshman at W&L and made his

The Ring-tum Phi, December 5, 1985, Page 7

i,

 

    

presence known with a school record 100-yard kickoff
return.

“‘T broke to the outside, and there was nothing but open
space,’’ remembers Weaver, the only freshman to letter
on offense that year.

As a sophomore, he played both offense and defense,
but he was used strictly as an offensive weapon this
year.

Weaver had a fine season in 1985, but it wasn’t perfect.
The toughest game for him was the opening contest, a
30-0 drubbing at the hands of ODAC rival Emory &
Henry College. He had to watch the entire game from
the sidelines as he waited for torn cartilage in his knee to
heal. The next week, W&L had an open date, and Failon
thinks the extra rest helped Weaver.

Coming off the injury, Weaver rushed for more than
100 yards in eight consecutive games. With statistics like
that, Fallon said, Weaver is fully recovered from the in-

Jury.
“If he isn’t, I’m waiting for him to get healthy,”’ he
said.

After graduating from W&L, he plans to attend medi-
cal school, fulfill his military obligation and practice or-
thopedic surgery. Although professional football is a
longshot, a scout from the Pittsburgh Steelers watched
Weaver during a practice when he was a sophomore and
complimented him on his play

Fallon said the possibility is there, but ‘‘the competi-
tion is just phenomenal. He’s gotta look like a man play-
ing [against] little boys.”’

“If I could go, I’d go,” said Weaver without any hesita-
tion. ‘‘If they would have me, I’d definitely go.”

 

Happy Holidays To All

Students At W&L

 

» »
ah vy) VU “
a ms JOO 0

.

By LEIF UELAND
* Staff Reporter

 

 

+

While the bulk of the student body
" fled Washington and Lee for Thanks-
« giving vacation, the swim teams
were active “back home” in Twom-

* bly pool.
The men’s team kicked off its
break by splitting back-to-back
* meets on Friday and Saturday. Al-

» though the women lost their only

meet of the week on Friday, they
* were not without accomplishment as
, the team, as well as the University,

obtained its first qualifier for the
* NCAA Division III women’s cham-
. pionships with Elizabeth Miles’ per-
formance in the 500-yard freestyle.

Coming into Friday’s meet against
, Johns Hopkins, the men’s team knew
, that it was facing a tough meet,

’

4

s
! J

4

V.

wel time GUE)
YE cove NO
Ess

I0U ) bey
C iw & ae is “ O cy
& O (> ;
c f ,
UO Od ~ /

w@ ©

Sie bee: ae

  
  

 

ee Eo
‘ ) CJ O/ ’
Ne ee ye
j a ) CO O/ Vo oO

(2) 00 / Je ‘
oo KOS
w / (

W&L

especially with the loss of injured
freshman Matthew Brady. Coach
Page Remillard had commented ear-
lier that Hopkins would have to
“crumble”’ for W&L to win.

In the first half of the meet the
Generals poured on the pressure with
fine performances ‘by senior Tim
Stanford in the 200-yard butterfly,
freshman Dave Reavy in the 200-
yard freestyle, and freshman Moose
Herring in the 500-yard freestyle, and
for a while it seemed there might be
an upset. In the second half, how-
ever, Hopkins powered back to crush
hopes for a W&L victory, winning the
meet 64-31.

The W&L women met a similar

_ fate against Hopkins, losing 58-37,

though with only two swimmers. in
the meet they did not have much of a
chance, The highlight of the women’s
meet was Miles’ performance in the

by John V. Lowe

   
 

SLAMDUNKS
SYDNEY! \#
’ / &, \
\ <h)

500-yard freestyle. Her time of
5:17.44 qualified her for nationals.

On Saturday, the men’s team came
up with a surprising victory over
powerful Division II team, Shippens-
burg State, 58-37. The Generals ap-
proached the meet as a chance to get
some experience and to do so, Remil-
lard changed the team’s line-up.
While the team had not scouted Ship-
pensburg, it inadvertently struck at
the visitor’s weaknesses. These
changes, according to Remillard,
combined with outstanding perfor-
mances across the board, brought
the men their second victory of the
season.

“‘We did to them what Hopkins did
to us,”’ Remillard said of the meet.
“And it was not just our senior play-
ers but our freshmen. We are pegin-
ning to look like an experienced
team.”

 

Technics SA-101
Stereo Receiver
20 Watts/Channel
Excellent Condition! !
$75.00, negotiable
463-9410, ask for Chris
Typists—$500 weekly
at home. Write: P.O.
Box 975, Elizabeth,

NJ 07207

 

Stockbroker
Trainee:
Opportunity in Virginia
Beach, Richmond or Wash-
ington D.C. area [please
specify] for hardworking,
enthusiastic individual.
Send resume to:
P.O. Box 8814

 

 

 

Virginia Beach, VA 23450

Craft Fair
Hand-crafted pottery,
jewelry, stained glass,
knits, toys, country
crafts and more
Old Main Street Mall

(Main and Henry streets)
Friday, December 6
10:00 a.m, to 10:00 p.m.
Saturday, December 7
10:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.

 

  
    
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  

 

Sree RS rr TO

 

‘Remember to book early in the New Year
for Spring term abroad.

See us for best fares to Europe for spring and summer plus:
Eurail and Britrail Passes

Herring Travel Services, Inc.

Lexington’s ‘‘Main Street” Agency
41 South Main Street
463-2197
A fully computerized agency.

 

 

Due to the request from students the
SNACK BAR will remain open later
on these nights with SPECIAL
HOURS for EXAM WEEK

Friday — 8 p.m. - 12 a.m.
Sunday — 8 p.m. - 12 a.m.
Monday — 8 p.m. - 12 a.m.
Tuesday — 8 p.m. - 12 a.m.

Wednesday — 8 p.m. - 12 a.m.
Thursday — 8 p.m. - 11 p.m

 

 

Egg Mc Quicks will be available for 99°

English muffin cheese

egg ham or bacon

Along with FREE coffee

 

The Snack Bar & Supply Store will BE OPEN ON
SATURDAY from 8 a.m.-2 p.m. December 14 for your
convenience.

 
“<BACK PAGE

The Ring-tum Phi, December 5, 1985

 

New bands rock the halls Xmas Weekend

Minutemen
‘jam econo’

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Music Critic

 

There is no need to look toward the
British anymore for vital, current
pop music. All the good stuff is being
brewed right here in America.

In fact, there is a new wave of in-
dependent artists who bypass the
rock music industry and take their
music straight to the people. Led by
R.E.M., this new movement has
created a string of bands that repre-
sent the healthiest trend in rock
musie since the punk movement of a
decade ago

There is probably no other group
that epitomizes this new trend better
than the Minutemen, who will open
tomorrow night for R.E.M. Formed
in a backyard of San Pedro, Calif.,
this feisty trio has been putting out
brittle, uncompromising music for
five years now.

“We like the idea of punk rock —
where anybody gets to play’’ bassist
Mike Watt said in a recent interview
with The Ring-tum Phi. ‘‘We don’t
think there’s a ‘punk rock’ musical
style.”

Trying to describe the music that
Watt, guitarist-vocalist D. Boon, and
drummer George Hurley make is no
easy matter. They called themselves
the Minutemen originally because
that was how long all their songs
were. But their music has evolved in-
to a punk, funk, jazz, rock avant-
garde, pop package that climbs into
your head and threatens to stay
forever. You have to hear it to
understand it.

‘‘We juxtapose all kinds of stuff,’
said Watt. ‘‘We use anything we can
to get people to hear our heartbeat.”’

The Minutemen’s motto is, ‘We
Jam Econo.”’ Watt explained what it
meant.

 

 

 

 

 

The Minutemen, a California punk band

“Twenty-five gigs in 25 days,’’ he
laughed. ‘‘And.a lot of those gigs are
two sets. We have no road crew —
just a sound man. So we all share
driving ‘

The group has released nine
records on the independently-based
SST label and has managed to clear a
profit on each one, even though none
of their records have even touched a
Billboard chart. How do they do it?

Simple. They jam econo.

For instance, their break-through
double record, ‘‘Double Nickels on
the Dime”’ was recorded for $2,000 —
all 45 tracks! Their latest Ip, ‘“Three
Way Tie for Last’ only cost them
$1,800.

Watt says the new album is a ‘‘real
Minutemen record.” It has 16 tracks,
5 of them covers, including a Minute-
men version of Creedence Clearwa-
ter Revival’s ‘Have You Ever Seen
The Rain?’ Judging from a preview
listen of the album’s single — a D.
Boon composition called ‘‘Courage”’
— the new record might be the com-
mercial breakthrough that they've
been uh,...avoiding.

‘All we want to do is more records
and more gigs,”’ said Watt. ‘“Money
ain’t gonna save us. I think if we had
a million dollars, D. Boon would be a
million and a half in the hole!”’

SST, their record company, was
started by Black Flag guitarist Greg
Ginn because, as Watt said, ‘‘Nobody
else would put out our music. We
want to make sure it’s done the right
way, so we doit ourselves.”

The Minutemen’s lyrics are didac-
tic, beatnik poetry that attack the
social conscience. The uncompromis-
ing political nature of their music
might put off some listeners, but
Watt probably likes it that way.

“We like the liberal idea of being
tolerant of each other,” he added.
The ’80s aren’t so tolerant, especially
on the college campuses — very
right-wing and preppy. But we think
we can change that.”’

With the increased attention the
group has been receiving lately, they
might just shake some things up
after all. Many consider the Minute-
men one of America’s best bands.
They are not to be missed; their live
show is supposed to be similar to
kissing a locomotive or something.
Let Watt explain.

“There is an atmosphere these
days that is ripe and conducive to
playing gigs if you’re some weird,
lame dude who looks like a trash col-
lector,” he said. ‘‘And we're lucky
for that.”’

R.E.M. leads new wave of American bands

 

By COTTON PURYEAR
Editor

A word to the wise Christmas-
concert-goer: The show will be only
as good as you make it. R.E.M.
makes it clear that the success of
their performance lies in the people
in attendance.

“The audience has everything to do
with it,” R.E.M. drummer Bill Berry
told The Ring-tum Phi. “Their reac-
tion makes the show for us. The
quality of the show really does de-
pend on the audience.”

Spectators, then, should go tomor-
row with an open mind and be ready
for anything. In the Nov. 7 Rolling
Stone, bassist Mike Mills recounts a
show in Buffalo, N.Y., at which the
band played only about five of its own
tunes.

When disgruntled fans asked for
their money back, Mills told them
they were ‘missing the point.”’

-
-
Cd

 

a

R.E.M.: from left to right, Peter Buck, Bill Berry

we were piaying rock and roll,
and we gave everything we had for
it,” he said.

It is perhaps that commitment to
music for music’s sake that makes
R.E.M. unique. Although their latest
album, “Fables of the Reconstruc-
tion,” sold 300,000 copies in three
months and the band sells out places
like New York’s Radio City Music
Hall, commercial success is not their
driving force, they claim.

“My biggest goal isn’t to be num-
ber one,’’ lead singer Michael Sipe
told the Los Angeles Times. ‘‘It’s to
be able to think in 10 years from now,
I'll be able to listen to our third
album and not be embarrassed by
it.”

“We're not a singles band,” Berry
echoes. ‘‘ ‘Fables’ is a theme album,
meant to be taken as a whole. It’s a
narrative in itself,”’

“First and foremost, we want to
make music,”’ he added. “If we get

 

Aen ct

 

rich along the way, that's great. We,
do it because around the corner is
another thrill, not another thousand’
bucks.”’ ‘
The four men of R.E.M. have come,
a long way since their 1980 formation
in Athens, Ga., and the memories of °
the early University of Georgia trat+
gigs remain
“The college thing has always been
our forte,"’ Berry said. ‘We'll never**
forget our roots.”’ ‘
So big, bad R.E.M. coming to little
ole Lexington is not as incongruous *
as you might think. Berry said the,»
band likes playing in smaller arenas Z
“We like the intimacy,” he said
“We don’t like playing when it’s jam- +
packed and there are a bunch of Nazi ,
security men all over the place.”
Keeping that good college spirit, ’
Berry makes this recommendation to |
those joining him tomorrow night in
the pavilion: ‘Drink lots of beer and *
have lots of fun.”

-.

aif '
a.

 

, Mike Mills and Michael Stipe

Planning for 1986 Superdance progressing very smoothly

 

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Superdance-bound Xenon performed last night in GHQ.

 

 

By COTTON PURYEAR
Editor

 

The 1986 Muscualr Dystrophy
Superdance is more than a month
and a half away, but the dance
organizers have been hard at work
since September preparing for the
event.

Co-chairmen Paul James and San-
dy Whann head up a committee of
nearly 40 people that will make
Washington and Lee’s 30-hour dance
marathon a reality. Both chairmen
agree that things so for have been
running smoothly.

“Things have been really steady,”
James said, ‘‘and we’ve gotten a lot
of good participation.”

“Everything is going really well,”’
Whann agreed. ‘Our controllable
factors are looking strong.”’

By “controllable factors,’’ Whann
said he was referring to the coordina-
tion of the food and refreshments for
the dance, the obtaining of prizes for
dancers and the booking of bands for
the weekend’s entertainment.

All these factors are important
parts of what makes the W&L Super-
dance a successful fundraiser. The
majority of the money made for the
Muscular Dystrophy Association
comes from those people who actual-

ly dance. The food and refreshments
are necessary to take care of the
dancers during the dance itself. The
prizes act as incentives for people to
dance and to reward the dancers that
raise the most money. The bands not
only entertain the dancers, but they
also bring in spectators and more
money for MDA.

Whann said there was no way they
could prepare for everything, but
they look at each year as a building
year and try learn from the past
Superdances for improving ideas.

This year’s dance will see a
number of improvements over
dances of the past. For the second
year in a row, the dance will be held
in the student activities pavilion, and
great thought has gone into the pick-
ing of the date.

“In past years, the Superdance has
fallen on the breaks of one and
sometimes two of the women’s col-
leges,”’ James said. “‘That cuts down
on the participation, but this year
we've made sure there are no con-
flicts.”’

James said he hopes the January
24-26 scheduling will prove to be a
“big weekend back’’ for the local
schools. As well as improved sched-
uling, Superdance ’86 will also be see-
ing improved entertainment.

“These bands are the best we’ve
ever had at Superdance,”’ James

Family viewing hour brings out the worst

 

 

By BILL HANNA
Television Critic

 

It was the last Saturday of break and my folks
decided to have a nice dinner and convinced the
kids to sit around the house for the last night of the
holiday.

We had a fire in the fireplace and had rented a
movie or two for the evening, but it took a little
while to get everyone together to start the movie.
One sister or another stayed on the phone getting
that last bit of phone use in before going back to
school where the thing costs money to use. This led
to watching a few shows I usually don’t have time
to watch.

The show selection was made more by the net-
works than anyone, as CBS had ‘‘Airwolf”’ on at 8
and ABC brought back ‘‘The Fall Guy” for an epi-
sode. NBC was the only thing left and had ‘‘Gim-
me a Break!” It is a good show, but I refused to
watch it because its star, Nell Carter, is just too
darn huge to watch for any length of time. Luckily,
an old episode of ‘‘The Honeymooners’”’ was on.

At 8:30, I wasn’t so lucky and ended up changing
the channel back to NBC for ‘‘Facts of Life,’’
against my better judgment.

As soon as I began watching the show, I began to
remember how bad the few episodes were I had

watched. The familiar faces of Mrs. Garrett,
Blair, Jo, Natalie and Tootie (nice name) appear-
ed on the screen and I almost turned the tube off
and went to do a little studying. This idea was

almost instantly dismissed and I watched the
whole thing.

The show was avuut au vu .viend of Mrs. Gar-
rett’s who comes in for a visit and ends up accus-
ing Mrs. Garrett of having an affair with her late
husband.

Mrs. Garrett and the girls were shocked and
could not believe that the accusation could have
been true.

As expected, the suspicion was unsound and the
show wrapped up with a traditional heart-warm-
ing conclusion.

In short, I thought the show was stupid. Sure, it
may appeal to the intelligence of some of the avid
TV viewers, but it is probably shown past that
specific group’s bedtime.

The next thing on NBC was ‘‘The Golden Girls.”
It turned out to be a much better show with a few
good laughs in it.

The show is about three older women. Dorothy is
played by Bea Arthur, Rose by Betty White and
Blance by Rue McClanahan. These three share a
house, Dorothy’s mother, Sophia, played by
Estelle Getty, makes frequent appearances.

Some of the best lines of the show were those of
Sophia as her caustic personality makes for some
unexpected and funny comments.

The show ended up being fairly entertaining
Although I don’t think I would make a point of
staying home to watch it, it is worth watching if
you happen to feel like just sitting around,

How about that game Monday night? ABC had
its usual announcers as Marino and the Dolphins
picked apart that ever-shifting Chicago defense
we have heard so much about. We even got to see
the start of William Perry's acting career as he
gave a stunning performance in that McDonald's

commercial.

The highlights on the tube this week are few, but
there are some good shows on.

Saturday- The afternoon gives John Wayne fans
a choice of three of his movies as channel 12 will
show the Duke in ‘Sands of Iwo Jima”’ at noon fol-
lowed by ‘‘Flying Leathernecks”’ at 2. Channel 5
will show Wayne starring in ‘‘The Alamo,’ a film
he also directed, at 2.

Sunday- CBS captured my eye for tonight with
something called ‘‘All Star Party for ‘Dutch’ Rea-
gan” at8 as some of the stars come out ina special
honoring Reagan for his work in show business
before he went into politics. Frank Sinatra will
host the show and the only time Reagan will be
called Mr. President will be in a speech by
Charlton Heston. The rest of the time he will be
“Dutch.”

Also on CBS will be the event people wait each
year to see. At 9, the tenth annual ‘Circus of the
Stars’ will be on. This could have its better
moments. Christopher Atkins will be in a cage
with 10 tigers and lions. Mary Hart will be on a
high-wire. Olympic skater Scott Hamilton will be
shot from a cannon. These situations will most
probably be harmless so some of the expectations
of Atkins being torn up or Hamilton missing the
net will probably never oocur

Monday- CBS will start its two-day mini-series
‘Alice in Wonderland.’ The show has plenty of
stars and has possibilities. It will be on from 8 to 10
on both Monday and Tuesday nights.

Tuesday- Barbara Walters has another one ot
her specials on ABC tonight at 10. The show looks
like it will be interesting. The guests are Cybill
Shepherd, Angela Lansbury and Michael J. Fox

boasted.This year’s dance will
features the White Animals, Xenon,
The Maxx and Spark Plugs.

Another big addition tothis year’s
dance is the raffling of a 1986 Handa
Civic. The car was donated by Paul
James Sr. and Milam Turner Jr. '54
of Turner Honda in Selma, Ala.

The car give-away is unique to this
year’s dance. Chances to win are
available for $5.

Other prizes being given away in-
clude a four-day, three-night trip for
two to the U.S. Virgin Islands as well
as trips to New York, Washington,
D.C., and Florida.

It is important to remember that
the car, the bands and the trips are
all designed to increase the support
for one thing — the fight against mus-
cular dystrophy. Whann points out
that the succes of the fight depends
on the cooperation of a great number
of people.

“It’s not the committe that makes
this dance a success — it’s the com-
munity that does,”’ he said.

Whann stressed the support from
area merchants in providing food
and money donations and named sev-
eral examples of support from the
W&L community.

“We get monetary contributions
from the fraternities that help offset
some of out major expenses’’’ Whann
said. ‘‘We also hope that all 17 frats

duPont Auditorium.

A, Lewis Hall.

A, Lewis Hall

8p.m.— PLAY: “Circus Ridiculus

Boiler Room Theatre

 

ONCAMPUS

inursday, December 5
7 p.m.— JOURNALISM FILM: “‘Atomic Cafe.’ Room 203, Reid Hall.
7 p.m. — ROMANCE LANGUAGE FILM: “‘Hiroshima Mon Amour.”

Friday, December 6
3:30 p.m. — PHYSICS SEMINAR:
Dr. Paul Schoen, Naval Research Laboratory. Room 201, Parmly.
8 p.m, — FILM SOCIETY FILM: ‘Fanny and Alexander.”’ Classroom

8 p.m. — PLAY: “Circus Ridiculus.”’ A clown show with guest artists.
University Theatre. Call box office for reservations.
8:30 p.m. — SAB Christmas Concert: R.E.M

Saturday, December 7
9:30 a.m. — WRESTLING: W&L Invitational. Warner Center
8 p.m. — PLAY: “Circus Ridiculus.”’ University Theatre
8 p.m. — FILM SOCIETY FILM: “Fanny and Alexander.” Classroom

Sunday, December 8
University Theatre,

Monday, December 9
8 p.m. — CHRISTMAS CONCERT: Glee Club and Sweet Briar Concert
Choir, Brass Ensemble. Lee Chapel.

Tuesday, December 10
8 p.m. — PLAY: “‘Bleacher Bums.”

Wednesday, December 11
7p.m.— POLITICS FILM: ‘‘The Trial’’ Room 327, Commerce School
7:30 p.m. — BASKETBALL: Generals vs. Greensboro College
8 p.m, — PLAY: ‘Bleacher Bums.” Boiler Room Theatre

will encourage
dance.”

WLUR will be holding its third an-
nual Radio Marathon to help raise
money for MDA.

W&L graduates Eric Heinsohn and
Roger Day have been donating their
time playing their acoustic guitars at
organizing functions and will also be
playing the Saturday afternoon of the
dance.

While the community support is a
great help to the success of the
dance, the best support comes from
those who come out and dance for the
30 hours.

“It’s a damn good time,” Whann
said.

“It is a blast,’’ James agreed. ‘‘It
gets tiring, but it’s well worth it.
When it’s all over you feel like you’ve
done something because you've
danced for 30 hours to help someone
out there who will probably never be
able to do that.”’

Whann points out that you don’t
have to have a date to participate in
the dance and stressed that it’s a
good way to meet new people.

Anyone interested in dancing
should pick up an information packet
before the trip home for Christmas,
Whann suggested. He said that was a
dancer can get donations from people
back home as well as members of the
W&L community.

their pledges to

‘“Lipid-Based Micro-Structures.”’

Directed by Chris Carmouche '86

 

 
      
      
 
 

 
   
    
 
   
 

 

 

4

al

 

» Date rape

Greensboro

VOLUME 85, NUMBER 13

ce

 

+ By JIMSTRADER

News Editor

 

- two four-letter words that inspire as
much confusion as they do dread. ==
National statistics show that the phenomenon is in-

* creasing, and the once-taboo topic now is discussed on

talk shows and in popular magazines.
Although a number of Washington and Lee women say

Y they don’t feel threatened by the possibility, the Univer-

sity is taking steps to increase awareness of the issue.
According to Justice Department statistics, 47 percent

* of the women raped in the United States last year were
, raped by someone they knew — commonly referred to as

‘date rape.” That is about a 7 percent increase from the
previous year.

Though this number shows an apparent increase in the
occurrence of date rape, Michael Rand of the Justice
Department’s Bureau of Justice Statistics said in a
telephone interview that it’s difficult to say whether that
constitutes a trend.

Many victims are reluctant to report the crime when

[ the perpetrator is a relative, co-worker or date, Rand ex-

Bleacher excitement

Cagers edge

Page 6

 

 

Bleacher bums

 

Reports of date rape said to be rising

plained.

Rand said a 10-year survey by the bureau showed that
32 percent of reported rapes were committed by so-
meone known to the victim. That, though, may not be a
true representation of the pattern, he said.

“We've always had a problem detecting year-to-year
differences,’’ Rand said. “I would suspect that a
somewhat higher percentage of rapes than we report are
committed by non-strangers.”’

The Justice Department figures may actually under-
state the case. Bernice Sandler of the Association of
American Colleges said in a telephone interview that the
problem may be increasing.

A survey released Tuesday by the association’s Pro-
ject on the Status and Education of Women said women
knew their attackers in 50 to 75 percent of all rapes.

Cases involving co-workers, casual acquaintances,
former lovers, blind dates, relatives and friends all have
been documented as date rape, which Sandler called ‘‘a
real problem” on college campuses.

At Washington and Lee, though, a number of women
students and dormitory counselors said this week that

CO See Date, Page 5

Tonight last night

for thesis show
Page 8

Che Ring-tum Phi

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 

 

 

General
Notes |

 

‘Chapel carols

, and Carols will be held tonight at

*versity Federation sponsors this

y

«sity Chorus and the brass ensem-

‘Please deposit

+ The Executive Committee and

+ Library and Law School for the

* needy of Rockbridge County.
,
A
* All books from the University

’

+ to the circulation desk by Satur-

*Live from the Met

* Richard Wagner’s ‘‘Lohengrin’’

4

*p.m. on WLUR-FM. “Lohengrin”

*

"tory.

’
*

The annual Service of Lessons
7:30 p.m. in Lee Chapel. The Uni-

traditional service, which will
also feature music by the Univer-

ble.

the University Federation have
placed boxes in the University

contribution of clothes to the

Please return
Library with due dates on or
before Dec. 14 should be returned

day.

will be broadcast live from the
Metropolitan Opera Saturday at 1

is the most popular Wagner work
in the Metropolitan Opera’s reper-

Exam help

 

  
  
   

 

Your exam weather

 

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

90% chance of rain tomorrow
and much colder Sat., Sun.

 

DECEMBER 12, 1985

Freshman faces rape charge

 

By MIKE ALLEN
Executive Editor

 

A Washington and Lee freshman
was charged Sunday with raping a
Hollins College freshman in Graham-
Lees Dormitory.

Burgess A. ‘‘Tommy” Thomasson
Jr., 19, of Mobile, Ala., was arrested
at his dormitory room at 10:30 a.m.
and released from the Rockbridge
County jail Sunday night on a $10,000
property bond posted by a local bail
bondsman.

Thomasson is the president of the
Phi Delta Theta fraternity’s pledge
class.

A preliminary hearing will be held
Jan. 21. In Virginia, rape carries a
possible sentence of five years to life
in prison.

The incident is said to have occur-
red between 1 and 2 a.m. Sunday.
Lexington Police Chief L.O. Sutton

 

 

By Paul Foutch/The Ring-tum Phi

English Professor Jean C, Dunbar makes a point at Monday night’s EC meeting

said Sunday that the mother of the 18-
year-old woman first reported the in-
cident to police by telephone from the
Midwest.

The call was received at 4:42 a.m.,
but police were unable to locate the
woman. ‘‘We couldn’t find her
because the mother didn’t know,”’ he
said. ‘‘There was really nothing we
could do.”’

The police investigation was not
begun until 6:53 a.m., when an of-
ficial at Stonewall Jackson Memorial
Hospital telephoned the department.
Sutton called the delay on the part of
W&L security personnel ‘‘inexcus-
able.”’

Associate Dean of Students Anne
C.P. Schroer said she and a W&L
freshman drove the woman to the
hospital.

The woman underwent the gamut
of tests used in sexual assault cases,
and Sutton said a blood sample is be-
ing tested for alcohol and narcotics

 

By MATT HORRIDGE
Staff Reporter

 

The Student Control Committee
will now have a non-voting, woman
member to sit in on all proceedings to

4) offer insights to the committee.

After over two hours of public
debate Monday night, the Executive
Committee approved a motion to ap-
point an ad hoc, non-voting woman
member to the SCC in a 7-6 vote. Stu-
dent Body President John Lewis,
Secretary Mike Webb and represen-
tatives Bill Thompson, Pat Schaefer,
Pat Hayden and Bill Senft were op-
posed to the motion.

Hayden said yesterday after
meeting with Dean of Students Lewis
G. John that the EC may not have
had the authority to make the addi-
tion. He said John is checking
records to see if the faculty has given
that power to the EC.

English Professor Jean C. Dunbar,
representing the faculty members on
the Student Affairs Committee, was
present at the meeting to answer
questions the EC had concerning the
report she helped write recommend-
ing the appointment of a woman to
the SCC.

Proponents of the motion argued

content.

Evidence in the case includes parts
of the woman’s clothing and photo-
graphs of her jewelry and of Thomas-
son’s bed and room, Sutton said.

At least five students have been in-
terviewed by investigators, and Sut-
ton said more will be contacted.

The police chief said Thomasson
knew the woman but declined to say
whether she was his date.

Thomasson is being represented by
Eric L. Sisler of Lexington and G.
Marshall Mundy of Roanoke.

Sutton said that when Thomasson
was arrested, he was ‘‘cool’’ and “‘did
not resist,’ and ‘“‘when advised of his
right not to make a statement, he
chose to exercise that right.”’

Dean of Students Lewis G. John
was present while officers armed
with a warrant searched the dorm
room because the school wanted to

C See Charge, Page 5

SCC to have
female input

that a woman would feel uncomfor-
table approaching an all-male SCC,
especially in cases dealing with sex-
ual slurs, harassment or any other
situation with sexual overtones.

Junior dormitory counselor Sydney
Marthinson, who testified at an SCC
hearing earlier this year, said, ‘I
personally did not feel comfortable
bringing it before a committee of all
men.”’ She also said the woman on
the SCC would ‘‘add extra perception
toa body of all males.”’

Senior representative Michael
Black said the addition of a female
member would be ‘‘very advantag-
eous ... in any Student Control mat-
ter.’’

He added that the female ‘would
not Serve as an advocate for women”’
but would help present a ‘‘better ...
well-rounded view”’ of the case.

Not all women in attendance sup-
ported the proposal, however.

“T don’t think women need to be
singled out,’’ said freshman Barbra
Byington. Freshman Susan Lewis ex-
pressed her fear that appointing a
woman to the SCC might cause a
“terrible division of the student
body.”’

“T think the males that attend

| See EC, Page 5

Kappa Alpha leaves the Old South for Lexington

  
   
 

  
    
 

The Independent Union will
«have its cold test file on cage
, reserve at the University Library

starting today for all indepen-
* dents.

, SDX speakers

, The Washington’ and
Lee Chapter of Sigma Delta Chi
will present a seminar titled ‘The
, Ins and Outs of Finding Intern-
ships in Broadcast and Print’’
tonight at 7:30 in Reid 203. The
4; guest speakers will be Bill War-
ren, managing editor of The Roa-
noke Times & World News, and
» Paul Lancaster, public affairs
director of WDBJ TV-7 in Roa-
noke.

Computer training

.

rhe computer center will offer
+ microcomputer word-processing
classes for the IBM/PC and
Kaypro in January. See the ad on
+ Page 3 for details

j MDA meeting

There will be a general meeting
of the Muscular Dystrophy Super-

 

* dance Steering Committee Tues-

. day, Jan. 7 in the conference room
of the Student Center. All mem-
*bers must attend. Dancers are
,also reminded to take home
packets over the Christmas break

| "to raise pledges.

Ls oe

By JIM STRADER
News News Editor

 

Kappa Alpha is coming out of the Deep South
and moving back home.

Next month, the national offices of Kappa
Alpha Order will move from Atlanta to Lex-
ington, where the organization was founded in
1865 at Washington College, a forerunner to
Washington and Lee.

Sigma Nu, which was started at Virginia Mili-
tary Institute, already has its national head-
quarters here.

‘“‘We want to get back to our roots,”’ said Greg

Cramming

Some helpful hints for surviving exam week ;

 

By SEAN BUGG
Staff Reporter

Singleton, KA’s national education and leader-
ship chairman. ‘‘We think it will be good for the
spirit of the brotherhood.”

Singleton said that Kappa Alpha, which cur-
rently has its national office on one floor of a
downtown office building, has been considering
moving to a permanent headquarters for some
time, and recently began to consider certain
areas of the country. ‘‘We just decided, ‘Why not
Lexington?’ ’’ he said.

In addition to the historical significance Lex-
ington has for KA, Singleton said the decision to
move north symbolizes the ‘‘drastic’’ expansion
of the organization, much of it in that direction.

While the group looks for a permanent loca-

to take first

Mack said that for freshmen, ‘‘Calculus is a good one

tion in town, temporary offices are scheduled to
open Jan. 6, and will be located in the Lexington-
Buena Vista Shopping Center, across Walker
Street from Maxway.

“We’re not sure where we're going to go,”
Singleton said. ‘‘We’re looking in and around the
Lexington area for a house to move into.”

One possibility being considered is Col Alto,
the mansion located across from the KA house
on East Nelson Street.

Jaimie Hayne, president of W&L’s Alpha
Chapter, said he was pleased with the decision.
“It will be a good thing for the chapter to have
national move here,”’ he said. ‘‘It shows pride in
the house’s heritage.”’

“You don’t want to take the hardest exam last because

 

you kind of get burned out.”’

“It will be really nice to have their input and
assistance when we need it,’’ Hayne continued.

“Tt will be nice to have them right around the
corner, rather than in Atlanta.”’

Hayne cited Rush and administrative respon-
sibilities as the major areas in which the na-
tional organization would be able to help,

KA’s permanent national office staff of five
people will relocate to Lexington, according to
Singleton. The remainder of the office staff, ad-
ministrative and clerical employees, will be
hired locally.

Singleton said KA plans to hold its National
Leadership Institute convention in Lexington in
the near future.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Freshmen: Thinking about taking all your exams at
the beginning of next week and getting a head start on
resting up for next term? Here is the rational side of the
argument.

“Obviously don’t do them all in the first three days,”’
says English Professor James Boatwright. He said he
“can’t see any pattern” in how people schedule particu-
lar classes to their advantage during exam week.

“It depends really on the course,’’ he said

Junior Jeff Mandak, a dormitory counselor in Gra
ham-Lees, has his own system for scheduling exams. ‘‘I
always take an easy one first, take my hardest one Mon
day, the next most difficult Wednesday, and my next
easiest the day I leave.”

Tom Mack, head dormitory counselor, takes his ex-
ams on a schedule similar to Mandak’s.

‘Just don’t cram them,” Mandak advised. ‘‘Take a
day in between for sleep and to gather your thoughts.”’

Avoiding burnout is something that both Mandak and
Mack warn against. “Always go to a movie Saturday
after your first exam,’’ Mandak suggested. ‘Relax.
You've got a lot more to go.”

Mack suggested going out for a long run or walk to
work off thé tensions built up by exams

According to both counselors, the best way to study for
finals is to make sure you've done all the work assigned
during the semester, and that you've made study out
lines from notes and readings

That way, notes and books don’t all have to be re-read
atexam time

‘And once you've taken a final exam,” Mack said,
don’t worry about it. And abide by the honor code.”’

+ - + 7
bwin ' et
eas fj}: ;
" ¥
> a .
> : i o °
2 . NV : x . =
- Ss.
i,
ee;
*e : ’ - i
a
o

e<,

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

S.R.O. for R.E.M.

These pavilion-goers don’t seem to mind the crowds at Friday night's
pavilion concert featuring R.E.M. and the Minutemen. Student Activities
Board Executive Director Mike Guerriero said he estimated there were

about 2,200 people in attendance Friday

 
 

 

 

 

 

.
*
-
.
.
+
:

‘

‘

So OO 8 ee OR e Re 88/8/08 S/eGye B.U)4, 4,8 eT

OPINION
Resolved

There are always those few, snide comments that everyone
likes to make about New Year’s resolutions. We know that
any resolution made is rarely kept. Surely, few are remem-
bered longer than the hangover — if they last even that long.

But because resolutions often are idyllic and quixotic is not
sufficient reason not to make them. This campus especially
needs a few exceptional resolutions — exceptional in that
they might, just might — be taken seriously even when the
New Year has begun.

eFirst and foremost, we cannot ignore the proposed an-
drogynization of a historical text and Washington and Lee
course. Charles Darwin, when he sailed upon the HMS
Beagle (Was that a bitch or a stud or had it been, as Bob
Barker says, spayed or neutered? ), attempted to understand
how life began. At that time, human (Gads! There’s that dirty
word again! Hu-person-kind?) life was referred to as ‘“‘man-
kind.”” Even Webster’s Ninth New Collegiate Dictionary
refers to “man” as “the human race: MANKIND, the
bipedal primate mammal called Homo sapiens.’’ But since
classics are on the decline these days, why not change Dar-
win’s book title, as well as the reference to that text in the
course name? Let’s resolve that courses will be courses,
classics will be classics, and men will be men while women
(Gads! Wo-persons? Woe to such! ) will be women.

eLet’s also resolve that ‘‘rape”’ will not be a frequently us-
ed word in the discussion of events on this campus. Rape
speaks for itself as a heinous crime. Any rape is one rape too
many, especially when it occurs on a campus where “‘gentle-
men”’ (as Lee said it, not gender-binding) reside. The vicious
gossip that allows rape because he/she ‘‘deserved”’ it or
‘“‘was asking for it’”” demeans the campus as much as the in-
dividual who uses the four-letter word.

eLet’s resolve that the faculty and students and the student
government will make a better effort to communicate with
each other. When a faculty member has to resort to im-
mature behavior and idle threats to press the student govern-
ment for an action the professor believes necessary, some-
thing is awry. With the recent student body honor hearings,
administration, faculty and students have become ever more

 

- leery of the other’s intentions. Honor cannot bé instilled or

nourished in such an atmosphere. It is especially important

| for the student government and the administration to work
closely. Let us work together to that end.

Finally, let’s resolve that we will be honest enough to ad-
mit when a job is well-done. It is always easy to identify a
task sloppily executed. As this year draws to a close, we
know that several administrators and faculty will not hold
the same posts at this same time next year. They — Com-
merce School Dean Edward C. Atwood, Associate Dean of the
School Pamela H. Simpson, and University Tresurer E.
Stewart Epley — deserve credit for service faithfully
rendered. Being quick to praise and slow to damn is a mind-
set worth cultivating.

Finest hours

The following is reprinted from The Ring-tum Phi of Dec. 6,
1984.

For seven days beginning Saturday at 2 p.m., Washington
and Lee will enjoy its finest hours. Students will be studying,
faculty will be correcting, and coffee sales will soar. The
campus will be quiet, except for the groans heard when the
bell tolls noon or 5 p.m.

But besides the subtle changes in appearance, the Univer-
sity’s finest hours come with the onslaught of final examina-
tions, for in those quickly passing hours is the character of
the school put to the test. Washington and Lee has an Honor
System, but not just any honor system. Our understanding of
honor allows us to schedule our final exams, make those ex-
ams without a proctor frantically pacing the room observing
the slightest blinking or nodding, and trusts that those
students who have completed exams will maintain a code of
silence until the examination period has finished. That is a
luxury few college students are afforded in this nation.

So, in these few frantic hours remaining of the fall term, as
you sit studying those notes you took last September in fine
handwriting and a green felt-tip pen, remember that you are
part of an exceptional process, a system that at once refines
character while defining it. At test this week is not merely a
myriad of courses, but a way of life.

On my honor, I have neither given nor received any
unacknowledged aid on this editorial.

Jul on Sebders m-

alte alas uamameaiaara cn cummvanmiciny

Che Ring-tum Phi

RS er Pe ee Mike Allen
jg ERT ERUEURSR TTT KTR TRE re Pere ry Paul Foutch
Cotton Puryear
ee Be re ee Lee Reade Williams
I hike rh es ce be 10s 0s 0s ss Mike Stachura
po tt Se ei oy rena er ee ee Nelson Patterson
PI 55 iv be Ra racer cee cr Lege usec er bedbotvecserrscereneceen Jim Strader
Es Es in Sa ean rc bbe eae Sa beee Ped eehe Chris Bowring
ga ee reer ee a ee Jeff Kimbell
ee ee ee Hank Greenberg
Vir OR Keri Hinrichs
John Feyrer
Jay Reville
Co EER ee ce ee eee Matt Horridge

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent,

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 200 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run, Or send them to The
Ring-tum Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

 

lineal descent of
their protechordate ancestry through the
vertabrate classes to the cultural begin-
nings as understood from the fossil evi-
dence, the evolutionary process, and the
geological background.

The Ring-tum Phi, December 12, 1985

An attempt to trace tke
"W&Lun" from

   
  
  
 
  

 

5

 

 

EC decision disrupts student unity

 

By MARIE KOTHMAN
Assistant Editorial Page Editor

 

“What can it hurt?”

That was the argument at Monday
night’s Executive Committee meet-
ing of students favoring addition of
an ad hoc woman member to the all-
male Student Control Committee.
Serving as a ‘‘consultant’”’ to add a
“woman’s perspective,’’ this student
would help to make the experience
less intimidating for other women
and the system appear “fairer,”
while not herself casting a vote in the
punishment deliberations.

Proponents of the ad-hoc member
note that she would only be on the
oo for a year, and “that can’t

urt.’”’

I disagree.

The addition of an ad hoc member
will be very detrimental. The majori-
ty of male undergraduates feels that
undergraduate women have already
received their ‘‘quota’” of special
treatment for the year. Adding
lounges in the dorms, lights on the
Colonnade, and cutesy flowers on the
dining hall tables has already anger-
ed many men. The addition of a
female member to the SCC would be
more galling.

Both sides for and against the addi-
tion of an ad-hoc member said that it
was not “such a big deal.” If it’s not
such a big deal, it could just as well
be asked, then why add a woman?

“Tf you believe in something, stand
up for it,”’ the adage says. People did
stand up on this issue, and they stood
on opposite sides of the fence. But by
the end of the meeting, the controver-

sy was approaching threats and
name-calling. After the vote was cast
and the EC had decided to allow the
female ad-hoc member, the debate
moved to the dorms.

I saw this issue dividing the ‘‘fresh-
women’’ — indeed the entire fresh-
men class — into ‘‘us”’ and “‘them.”’ I
also see it driving another spike bet-
ween the upperclassmen and
freshmen, or men and women. This is
an awful lot of controversy over
something labeled ‘‘no big deal.”

I want to be considered first as a
member of the Washington and Lee
student body and secondly as a fresh-
man. The addition of a woman to the
SCC demands that the women in the
student body are treated — unneces-
sarily, I believe — as a separate enti-
ty.
If and when it is necessary I should
appear before the SCC, I think a

woman’s input and presence on the
board will be comforting. In that
sense, I am glad the decision hag
been made. But it also seems that it
will cause resentment among Wash-
ington and Lee students. If a female
ad-hoc member could have been ad-
ded without all this controversy or
the ensuing division of the freshmen
class and the student body, then it
couldn’t hurt.

Meanwhile, we must live in a tense
atmosphere and endure the ‘‘grief”’
the decision has caused. Unlike the
remark by the faculty member at
Monday’s meeting, this decision will,
in the long run, raise far more hell in
the student body than it would ever
have raised among faculty or admin-
istrators. The addition to the SCC will
actually benefit relatively few peo-
ple, while the detriments will affect
many.

 

 

   

‘

Student demands EC fire SAB head

To the editors:

The R.E.M. ticket fiasco is proof positive that
there is no excuse for allowing Mike Guerriero to
continue as head of the Student Activities Board.

Because of R.E.M.’s immense popularity, the
SAB, over Guerriero’s objections, wisely decided
to impose a two-ticket-per-person limit, so W&L
students who wanted to purchase tickets would
have that opportunity. The SAB also put up
posters all over campus which said tickets would
be available ‘‘Monday-Friday” of last week for
the Friday concert. Guerriero said in last week’s
Phi that 1,550 of the 2,000 tickets were sold on
Monday and Tuesday. With only three days in
which to sell them Guerriero, in his incalculable
wisdom, decided to lift the restriction, leaving
many W&L students out in the cold. To make
matters worse, the only people he bothered to in-
form of his decision were those buying tickets on
Tuesday (most of whom didn’t want any more)
and, presumably, his fraternity buddies.

Did Guerriero assume that everyone knew by
Monday or Tuesday whether they or their dates
would or could attend? I have talked to at least
half a dozen people who didn’t know until
Wednesday, then found out that Guerriero had
decided for them that they didn’t need tickets
after all. Did Guerriero think the remaining 450
tickets wouldn’t sell during the three remaining
days they were advertised for sale? Nobody with
a brain could think so.

Obviously, Guerriero saw very little value in
protecting the interests of the student body,
although that’s precisely what he’s supposed to
do. He must have seen a much greater value in
selling out as quickly as possible, leaving himself
more time to ponder how much of the next
semester he can spend cruising on a yacht.

If the EC wants someone whose main purpose
in running the SAB is to pad his resume, fine.
Otherwise, it is the responsibility of the students’
representatives to fire Guerriero immediately
and appoint someone who is interested in serving
the students, not just himself.

Ken Jacoby
Class of '86

Lewis details exam policy

To the editors:

I would like to address the ladies and
gentlemen of the class of 1989.

One of the many benefits we enjoy as a result
of our honor system is the scheduling and self-
proctoring of our exams. You are about to take
your first exams here at Washington and Lee.
This letter is merely a clarification of the rules
under which we take exams.

All exams during the examination period from
Saturday, Dec. 14, at 2 p.m. to Friday, Dec. 20, at
5 p.m. are ‘‘hot.’’ That is, no aspect of any exam
should be discussed during this period to prevent
a student who has not taken the exam from gain-

ing unfair academic advantage. Even mention-
ing how long the exam took or how you think you
performed on an exam has been viewed adverse-
ly by the Student Body. At Washington and Lee
we believe such strict adherence to rules has
been beneficial, since without it, our open exam
policy would be impossible.
Best of luck on all your exams and best wishes
for a happy holiday season.
John B. Lewis
Student Body President

Professor lays down the law

To the editors:

I will be teaching two sections of Politics 102
this winter term. Ground rules are as follows: 1)
Classes will start on time; 2) Latecomers will not
be admitted; 3) No food may be brought into
class; 4) No gum may be chewed (the only place
a lady can chew gum and remain a lady is in an
airplane.) 5) No smoking; and 6) Three allowed
cuts, roll taken.

Milton Colvin
Professor of Politics

Students oppose EC vote

To the editors:

In light of the recent decision by the Executive
Committee to appoint a female ad-hoc member
to the Student Control Committee, we feel that a
few points should be brought to the attention of
the W&L community. This letter is meant to be
neither bitter nor accusatory, but is only the opi-
nion of some students. We are not trying to blow
out of proportion that which should not be con-
sidered a “‘big deal.’’

To begin with, many people who may have
valid arguments against the proposal of an ad-
hoc member were neither informed of the meet-
ing nor aware of the issue. The majority of the
“crowd’’ present might have been in favor of the
proposal, but the opposing side wasn’t given time
to lobby support. In addition, the idea of polling
students to determine the majority’s opinion was
refuted by supporters of the proposal on the
grounds that it would plant seeds of doubt in the
public’s mind about the effectiveness and
fairness of the established system which is at
present considered fair. If this is the case, is not
the proposed amendment planting the seeds of
doubt? Does a system which is already deemed
fair need to be changed at all?

The view that a woman’s perspective on many
affairs is different from that of a man’s was rais-
ed, but who is to say that: a) all women think
alike, b) all men think alike, and c) no men are
sensitive to women’s concerns. We, as members
of the freshman class, feel that we are justly re-
presented by our elected representatives and
that an ad-hoc woman is unnecessary. Women
have been a part of the W&L community for 15

years as law students, and the system has been
thought of as fair up to this point; so why should
it change with the introduction of undergraduate
women? Cases in the past have involved women
from other schools and have also had fair out-
comes. Knowing this, some have said that there
should only be this ad-hoc member for one year
to ease coeducation, but if it is only needed for
one year, why is it needed at all? Others wish to
set a precedent in that a woman always be ap-
pointed, because women are supposed to think
differently from men. As we all know, however,
the EC does not follow precedent. Each circum-
stance is judged individually. Legally, we need
to have a jury of our peers, and we feel that we
have that now. A non-voting member couldn’t
even, technically, be considered a member,
necessary or not, of this jury of peers.

Granted that there are some good points to the
proposal; but the likely ramifications outweigh
them because this could lead to a division of the
student body. Because some women may per-
ceive some things differently from some men,
other minorities may feel, and justly so, that
they deserve an ad-hoc member to the SCC since
some of their views may also be different. Being
risk-acceptant enough to join the first class of
women, it should be obvious that we are not
afraid to “rock the boat.’’ We are tired of being
singled out as a lump group of women instead of
simply being members of the class of 1989. We
wonder how this ad-hoc woman can be chosen in
the “interest of fairness.’’ What qualities should
be looked for? Sympathy toward womankind,
open-mindedness, or psychological well-being?

Should we now lose faith in this EC, as it was
suggested others would do had the outcome been
the reverse, because it didn’t vote in favor of our
individual views? No. We will accept this deci-
sion because we refuse to lose trust in people we
have duly elected and in the system for which
W&L stands, simply because a democratic sys-
tem allows for judgments with which everyone
cannot agree.

Barbra Ann Byington
Ashley L. Gray
Susan C. Lewis

Class of ’89

Parade participation lauded

To the editors:

As chair of the 1985 Lexington Christmas
parade, I would like to thank the groups from
Washington and Lee who helped make the
parade a tremendous success: Southern Com-
fort, the ROTC color guard, the Phi Delta Gam-
ma fraternity, the WLUR-FM Marching Radio
Band, the student clowns and Robert J. deMaria.

Their support and participation is greatly ap-
preciated.

Cheryl M. Shaw
Lexington

 

 
*
m
‘

via

 

1
|
ys
i

_ than time away from Lexington

a
i

Christmas vacation means more

Ae AON emer
MY VIEW

By John Pensec

 

I can’t wait to go home for breaks. I
have a rather large family, and we
all get along well. Holidays in my
home have always been occasions of
happiness. We have leaned on each
other in times of trouble. I am
grateful for that. It is a blessing to
have a family I can depend on.

When my exams are over, and they
can’t be over too soon, I will definite-
ly be in a hurry to leave Lexington. I
will travel up the interstate and into |
the Northeast to large meals, and
games of Trivial Pursuit, and fires
roaring in fireplaces. I will exchange
gifts with my parents, brothers,
sisters, and grandparents on Christ-
mas morning — or afternoon, de-

' pending on when we get up that day.

If we are lucky, there will be snow.
Even though white Christmases tend

SERVICITAR.

23 S. Main
Lexington, Va. 24450

Lexington Hardware
463-2242

Southern
Inn

Welcome
Students
Serving breakfast, lunch
and dinner for over

50 years
Main Street, Lexington

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
  

 

 
   
 
  

to be on the rare side, we can still
hope.

Breakfast that morning will be
delicious; it always is. The smell of
pancakes and sausage will blend with
that of the turkey roasting slowly in
the oven. It will be a lazy day.

The scotch pine tree is silver, and
we will forever be picking up the
stray strands of tinsel. The orna-
ments on the tree are a mixture of the
past and present. Some have been
handed down from my grandparents,
and then there are those that my
parents give each of their five chil-
dren every year.

I enjoy going home. It is not only a
change of pace, but it is also a chance
to keep things in perspective. Wash-
ington and Lee is a beautiful place,
but it is not the real world. The people
you meet and associate with are
special. They shape your mind dur-
ing the four years that you are here,
and in that way place a permanent
mark on you. I will think of those pro-
fessors and students that I have come
to call my friends on Christmas and
hope they are having as nice a day as
I will be having.

Unfortunately, we all have to leave
this hallowed place eventually. There

7}
Thr
4
i
)

poffmarEL/ re Florist

 

165 South Main St.

Good luck on exams, students!

Have a Merry Christmas and
A Happy New Year!

will always be ties to the school;
.wachers, fraternity, etc. And the fact
that we all are a part of the history of
W&L binds us together. But some of
the ties will become loosened over
the years.

With family it is different. There is
a special tie between a parent and a
child, a brother and a sister. They
are permanent fixtures in your life,
people who are willing to stand
beside you when no one else is. From
them you draw the stuff of which you
are made: the good qualities and the
bad.

Among the presents opened on
Christmas Day will be ones that
aren’t right. Maybe the argyle
sweater your grandmother knitted
has one sleeve longer than the other.
Maybe, by accident, you and your
brother give each other the same pre-
sent. It doesn’t matter.

What does matter is that after the
wrappings have been thrown away
and the last bit of stuffing devoured,
a gift remains. It needs no wrapping,
and there is always some left over. It
is the gift of love, and, if you are as
lucky as I have been, it will be wait-
ing for you when you finish your ex-
ams.

  

463-9152

 

 

 

| Due to the request from students the
ooo SNACK. BAR.will remain open later--<«»«
on these nights with SPECIAL

HOURS for EXAM WEEK

   
   

The Ring-tum Phi, December 12, 1985, Page 3

  
  
 
   
 
 
  
  
    
  
   
   
    
   
    
 
  
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
       
       
     
     
  

11o N. MAIN ST.

10-5 MON. — SAT.

"103 - 4b3- 3683
Your local

CUISNART
dealer

  

 

   
 
   

an CNT A BS Meh

 
 

  
  
   
  
  

Friday — 8 p.m. - 12 a.m.
Sunday — 8 p.m. - 12 a.m.
Monday — 8 p.m. - 12a.m.
Tuesday — 8 p.m. - 12 a.m.
Wednesday — 8 p.m. - 12 a.m.
Thursday — 8 p.m. - 11 p.m

  
 
   
   
   
 

 

  

Egg Mc Quicks will be available for 99°
English muffin egg

Along with FREE coffee

The Snack Bar & Supply Store will BE OPEN ON
SATURDAY from 8 a.m.-2 p.m. December 14 for your
con

cheese ham or bacon

        

 

  
    

    

   
 

 

| Christmas Ideas!
$ ™* Gitman Brothers — SHIRTS ARE HERE -
The ultimate in cotton shirts - Get several for

the holidays.

Word Processing

The Computer Center will be offering classes in WordStar

and Word Perfect during January.
undergraduate students to attend.

! Sue Ruley will be teaching two beginning WordStar classes
«| for Kaypro word processor users on Tuesday, January 14,
and Wednesday, January 22, at 7:30 p.m. in Newcomb Hall,
Room N-36B. Each class will cover formatting diskettes,
backup, and basic WordStar commands.

Two Word Perfect classes will be taught on Thursday,
January 16 and Tuesday, January 28, at 7:30 p.m. in Reid
Hall 3rd floor News Room for ISBM/PC users. Each class
will cover formatting diskettes, backup, and elementary
word processing functions.

We expect a large response to the above listed classes, so
please sign-up as soon as possible with Joanna Meade in the
Computer Center, X8842, Tucker Hall, from 8:30-4:30,
Monday-Friday.

We look forward to offering advanced classes in the future
for those of you who are experienced users of the microcom-
puters.

SRO SG SL ARE SAEED RST NO iA 3 ON Pm NMR DET Ta ANOMALOUS MEM MA 9 IER A TSMR BAM OR pot em SE

We invite all

* Duckheads — 300 pair - Hopefully never to
run out - Every size and color.

* Gifts For Moms - Sisters in our Ladies Dept.
— Cotton sweaters and lanz gowns.

* Do well on your exams — Leave the shop-
ping and wrapping to our competent staff.

College “foun Shop

111 W. Nelson St.

 

 

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi, December 12, 1985

 

 

 

Stores set to open

Additions to the College Square Shopping Center north
of Lexington on U.S. 11 should be ready for occupancy by
February. Two stores, Hair Mates of Staunton and the

 

=

By Matt Horridge/The Ring-tum Phi

Lexington Sherwin-Williams, are scheduled to open Dec.
20 after several delays. Construction at the Kroger shop-
ping center has been going on since summer.

Sophomores, male law students
now can apply for dorm counselor

 

Staff Report

 

For the first time in the Universi-
ty’s history, the Dormitory Counselor
Selection Committee will consider
rising sophomores and both male and
female law students for positions as
dorm counselors for next year.

In the past, only rising juniors and
seniors were eligible for the 28 dorm
counselor positions. Male law stu-
dents had not been eligible for the
positions ‘‘in recent memory,”’ said
Dean of Freshmen H. Robert Hunt-
Jey. Four female law students cur-
rently serve as dorm counselors.

“Two things made me think about
a change in policy,” Huntley explain-
ed “One innior counselor we have

this year came to [W&L] with strong
recommendations from Sweet Briar
where she had served as a sopho-
more counselor. She had done a good
job there.”’

“Additionally, psychologists say
people learn best from others who
have just gone through an exper-
ience,”’ Huntley added. ‘‘In the case
of dorm counselors, this could be
especially helpful for freshmen try-
ing to get adjusted to college life.
Recency of experience is something
we need to consider.”’

Huntley said that applications for
the positions will be available after
Christmas break from Penny C. Hen-
neman in the dean of students’ office.
He said he expects 80 to 90 applica-
tions for the 28 positions, although he

said, ‘‘nine counselors are definitely
returning as rising seniors and four
female law students might return as
well.”

When the application is returned,
interviews for qualified applicants
are scheduled with the Dormitory
Counselor Selection Committee,
composed of Huntley; deans Lewis
G. John, Anece F. McCloud and Anne
C.P. Schroer; University Counseling
Psychologist James W. Worth; and
the current head and assistant head
dorm counselors.

Huntley noted that a letter of re-
commendation from a faculty advi-
ser or professor might also be re-
quested with next year’s applica-
tions.

 

By JASON LISI
Staff Reporter

 

Reacting to what Dean of Freshmen H. Robert

Huntley calls a ‘ten-fold’ increase in dormitory

_ damage from the first four weeks of this academic year,
the University has said it will enforce a rule that says
students living on the hall near the damage must pay for
the cost of repairs of damage by “persons unknown.”’

As the notice released Dec. 2 reads, ‘The University is
going to invoke a statement in the dorm contract which
says that residents, on a given hall (including adjacent
stair wells), are jointly responsible for all damage done
to common areas.”

Payment for such damage will come out of the fresh-
men’s $100 damage deposit.

“It’s a nuisance to the University,” said Huntley. ‘It
bespeaks a certain amount of immaturity.”

Head dormitory counslor Tom Mack said he foresees
success with the new policy.

“Obviously this is not going to stop dormitory van-
dalism, but hopefully this will slow it down,”’ he said.

Mack, who calls the damage “ridiculous, stupid and
mindless,’’ said he cannot understand why people van-
dalize the dormitories.

“T can’t see anyone getting rocks off by breaking a
window,” he said.

“T think the idea is to convey that you’re paying for the
damage that you do,” he said.

“This will help put a little red signal in their minds.”’

Kathleen Plante, a dormitory counselor in Graham-
Lees, said she was surprised when she saw the new rule,
but thinks it’s fair.

“The girls were really shocked when they saw that,
and I was shocked too,”’ said Plante. However, she said,
“T think it’s fair, but the majority of the girls on my hall
don’t.”

Plante said most of the damage occurs between the
hours of 2 and 5 on Thursday, Saturday and Sunday
mornings. She said her hall was usually free from
damage and that she felt the destruction was occuring in
the sections of the dormitories occupied by males.

“T think it’s more prevalent on the boys’ halls,” she
said. ‘‘Our hall generally is very clean, very neat.”’

She said the problems on her hall consisted of writing
on the walls and floors as well as their hall rug being
thrown out a second-story window.

Plante said when she catches students damaging the
dormities, she decides what plan of action to take.

“T use my discretion whether to turn that person in to
Student Control, or just to talk to the person,’’ she said.

She said she believed W&L freshmen were responsible

school cracks down
on dormitory damage

for the dormitory damage. ‘I would be under the im-
pression that other freshmen have done it,”’ she said.

Of the new University policy, Plante said, ‘‘I don’t feel
very threatened by it because I don’t expect any
damage.”

Catherine McCubbin, a freshman on Plante’s hall,
feels the rule is fair, but does not like having to pay for
other people’s destruction.

“T don’t think anyone likes that,’’ she said.

McCubbin said she thought that both W&L and non-
W&L students are responsible for the damage, which,
she says, occurs after people return from parties.

“I think most of it is people in the University. Some of
it, I’m sure is by people not connected with the Universi-
ty,” she said.

“Basically people go out and party and come home
drunk and throw the rug out the window.”

“T think the rug was funny but the malicious things
bother me,”’ she said.

McCubbin said she felt her hallmates would take re-
sponsibility for any destruction they caused.

“] think if any one on the hall did something they
would own up toit,”’ she said.

Janna Johnson, a counselor in Gilliam, said that until
Huntley’s notice, she was unaware of vandalism
because there is none on her hall or in her dormitory,

“I didn’t hear too much about damage except from
that note,” she said.

Buildings and Grounds Superintendent James L. Ar-
thur said that, in the past, damage to ‘common areas,”
such as stairwells and doors, were not taken out of the
student’s room deposit, as the rule now states.

Now, ‘‘All common area charges will be broken down
between the people on the hall,”’ Arthur said.

He said that over the years approximately 75 percent
of the freshman class received their entire room deposit
back at the end of the year.

“It’s bound to change,”’ he said.

Huntley said this type of plan was considered last year
because of the high amount of damage that last year’s
freshman class caused.

The Class of ’88 was, in Huntley’s words, ‘‘one of the
most destructive freshman classes we’ve ever had
here.”’

Huntley added that there is a possibility of stricter
rules in the future.

He mentioned a rule that would call for the expulsion
of any student who discharged a fire extinguisher more
than three times in instances other than fires.

He said not only is the cost for recharging the ex-
tinguishers high, but there is a danger of a lawsuit
against the University if a student is injured during a
fire where there is insufficient emergency equipment.

Two new trustees express views on University, honor

Wife of former Virginia governor elected to board

 

By HOLLY WILLIAMS
Staff Reporter

 

A former first lady of Virginia
whose first contact with Washington
and Lee was as a Fancy Dress date
has been named to the Board of
Trustees.

Virginia Roger Holton, who will
serve a six-year term beginning Jan.
1, said this week she was very im-
pressed with the profile of the fresh-
man class and she hopes that W&L
can continue to attract top-notch
students.

“T see no reason that Washington
and Lee cannot be nationally recog-
nized as an academic center,’’ she
said, /

She would also like to see a greater
geographical diversification of the
student body including more ex-
change students.

Holton said both she and her hus-
band supported coeducation and they
were disappointed that neither of
their older sons had considered W&L

| a APE
Staff Report

—

because of its single-sex status.

Holton said that as a trustee, she
would like to see a pooling of re-
sources among smaller colleges such
as W&L that would allow an ex-
change of outstanding faculty.

She said she hopes that ‘‘coopera-
tion can overcome differences in en-
dowment” that make smaller col-
leges miss the opportunity of attrac-
ting a true specialist or outstanding
lecturer.

She said she can also envision a
televised lecture circuit so that small
colleges could share professors and

not have to duplicate faculty mem-
bers.

“We have the technological capaci-
ty to do a lot more sharing of a truly
distinguished lecturer,” she said.

Noting that as a member of a Uni-

versity of Virginia board of trustees
she always tried to talk with stu-
dents, Holton said she hopes to meet
with a lot of W&L students in

February, when the Board next
meets.

“T want to find out about problems

CSA.

 

English Professor Edwin
D. Craun this week receiv-
ed a year-long research
grant from the National
Endowment in the Humani-

that students might have that the ad-
ministration has not picked up on,”
she said.

After earning a bachelor’s degree
from Wellesley College, she attended
the School of Language at Middle-
burg College and the Latin American
Secretarial School in New York City.

The State Department stationed
her at the American embassy in
Brussels for two years, and she also
worked as an analyst for the Central
Intelligence Agency in Washington.
Washington.

In 1953, she married Linwood
Holton, a 1944 graduate of W&L who

served as governor of Virginia from
1970 to 1974.

From 1974 to 1982, Holton was a
member of the University of Virginia
Board of Visitors, chairing the
board’s academic affairs committee.

She is vice chairman of the Con-
serve Virginia Campaign of the
Nature Conservancy and is on the
board of directors of the Virginia En-
vironmental Endowment. She is also
a member of the board of the Univer-
sity of Virginia medical school fund.

Staff Reporter

 

By HOLLY WILLIAMS

1964 graduate favors single sanction

Regarding the Honor System, Ogil-
vie made the distinction between the
letter of the law and the spirit of the

 

law. He said that sometimes the

 

 
 

A

VIRGINIA ROGER HOLTON
yaaa, ee ,

W. BUCKNER OGILVIE

 

NEWS BRIEFS

lore about the the ‘Sins of the Tongue’ as they explore
how, why and with what consequences their characters
consciously misuse language.”

Craun’s project will build on his previous studies of
medieval blasphemy. He has written and published a
number of articles on the topic, which he researched
during the 1981-82 academic year as a Visiting Fellow of

Goebel, a W&L senior from Coolville, Ohio, also partici-
pated in the survey. Randall Ray, a 1985 graduate, serv-

ed as a field and lab assistant.

W&L given $2.75 million

   
 

The newest alumni-elected
member of the Board of Trustees
Says there is a danger the Honor
System would disappear if the single
sanction were eliminated.

The trustee-elect, W. Buckner
Ogilvie of Houston, will serve a six-
year term, beginning Jan. 1. He was
elected at the board’s Oct. 25-26
meeting.

Ogilvie, a 1964 graudate of Wash-
ington and Lee, was elected by a vote
of the alumni. He intends to ‘“‘solicit
and be responsive to the alumni.”’

He is executive vice president of
Excalibur Computer Systems Inc.
and holds a master’s degree from
Massachusetts Institute of Technolo-

gy.

At W&L, he was elected to Phi Beta
Kappa and Omicron Delta Kappa. He
was co-captain of the varsity football
team and an Executive Committee
representative for three years.

Professor Craun receives NEH grant for study at Oxford

death he was the senior partner of Tucker, Jeter &
Jackson in Shreveport.

One of Tucker’s greatest contributions was founding
the Louisiana State Law Institute in 1938, The institute
made possible modernization of the state’s civil code
and served as a model for law reform throughout the

DpIPit Ui iNe taw cue Ve Considered
as opposed to the letter, but it is up to
the current EC to maintain the Honor
System.

Ogilvie has served as a member of
W&L’s Alumni Board of Directors,
vice chairman of the Annual Fund,
president of the Houston chapter of
the W&L alumni and chairman of the
Houston Honor Scholarship Commit-
tee.

The trustee-elect said he was
against coeducation when the issue
first came up.

“T was wishing it was 1960 again,
but it’s not,’’ he said. ‘‘We had a
woman running for vice president
and it was time.”’

After thinking about the issue, he
added, ‘‘I’d have voted for it.’’

Ogilvie said he has no particular
plans for the University.

“T’ll do the smart thing and listen
for a while,” he said.

ties.

Edwin D. Craun is one of
111 scholars nationwide
selected this year to }
receive NEH Fellowships |g
for College Teachers.
Nearly 700 applied for the
grants, which support in-
dependent study projects in
the humanities.

Craun will conduct his
research during the next
academic year, when he
plans to be on sabbatical leave from Washington and
Lee. His proposed project, ‘‘Anatomies of Deception:
The Abuse of Language in Middle English and Scottish
Literature,”’ will be a book-length study of lying,
slander and blasphemy in late medieval religion and
British literature.

“Central characters in all types of late medieval
literature use words habitually to misrepresent them-
selves, their associates, and even their gods, just as
readily as they use words to distract and befuddle
others, ’ said Craun in a statement. “‘I plan to examine

 

EDWIN D. CRAUN

 

how major late medieval British writers use traditional

University College at Oxford University under W&L’s
program of faculty exchange with Oxford.

Food drive raises $2,500

The Interfraternity Council’s fall term community
service project, a canned food drive, raised about $2,500
worth of food for the Lexington Food Basket Program,
headed by Col. Richard B. Minnix. The food will be add-
ed to $1,400 of food and toys already collected by the
program, and presented to needy families in the Lex-
ington area in time for Christmas. The food was pre-
sented to the program Monday night.

Survey looks at farms

Asurvey of log farmsteads in Rockbridge County con-
ducted by Washington and Lee’s archaeology labora-
tory has provided important information about 19th
century settlement patterns of the Scotch-Irish in the
upper Shenandoah Valley.

The survey, conducted for the Museum of American
Frontier Culture in Staunton, identifies 16 farmsteads
and takes an intense look at 10 of the sites. Kurt C. Russ,
research archaeologist at W&L, directed the survey.
John McDaniel, professor of anthropology, and Ted

Washington and Lee has received a $2.75 million be-
quest from the estate of Mr. and Mrs. John H. Tucker
Jr. of Shreveport, La.

To honor. the bequest, the University has designated
the faculty library in the School of Law the Hortense
Rigby and John H. Tucker Jr. Faculty Law Library.

Tucker, a 1910 graduate, died May 22, 1984. His wife,
Hortense Rigby Tucker, died Jan. 16, 1984.

“Mr. and Mrs. Tucker's lifelong devotion to Washing-
ton and Lee and their abiding interest in education will
be permanently memorialized through their magnifi-
cent gift,’’ President John D. Wilson said of the bequest.
“We are grateful beyond measure for their lives and for
the benefit their bequest will bring for future genera-
tions of students and teachers.”

Tucker was born Feb. 25, 1891, in Pine Bluff, Ark. At
W&L he was a member of the Albert Sidney Boat Club,
the Student Committee, and the Sigma Nu social frater-
nity. He received the bachelor of arts degree.

Tucker served in the Army in 1916 on the Mexican
border and in World War I. He was recalled to service in
World War II and reached the rank of colonel. He
retired from the Army in 1951,

After receiving his law degree from Louisiana State
University in 1920, Tucker began practicing law with
the firm of Smitherman and Tucker. At the time of his

United States. It worked to modernize civil procedure
and codify criminal law.

Cappeto wins award

Michael A. Cappeto, associate dean of students and
director of placement, has received the 1985 Outstand-
ing Professional Award from the Virginia Association
of Student Personnel Administrators.

Cappeto’s honor marks the second time a Washington
and Lee administrator has received the award in its
four-year history. Lewis G. John, dean of students at
W&L, received the award in 1983.

The award was presented to Cappeto Friday at the
organization’s 25th annual conference in Richmond.

The Outstanding Professional Award is presented an-
nually to the administrator who has displayed “‘excep-
tional judgment and creativity in addressing current
issues and problems” and who is recognized by col-
leagues and students as “competent, effective and
knowledgeable in the field of student personnel work.”’

Cappeto is a 1970 graduate of James Madison Univer-
sity. He received his master’s degree in psychology
from JMU and his doctorate from Virginia Polytechnic
Institute and State University. Cappeto joined the W&L
faculty in 1975.

 

 
 

| -

\Big bro

| "Senior Jack Benjamin entertains some of the young
* participants in the Big Brother-Big Sister program at a
* , Mizza party held last Thursday night in the University
Center. The program, sponsored by the University

«

Si? Pe Rae RO’ Ti

 

 

By Hank Mayer/The Ring-tum Phi

Federation, allows Washington and Lee students to
spend time with and help community children. Ben-
jamin chairs the University Federation, and senior Jim
Kerr heads the Big Brothers group.

By STEVE SADLER
Staff Reporter

 

A plan to alleviate parking pro-
blems by building a satellite lot for
freshmen was branded by students
last week as being ‘‘unfair,’’ “‘unreal-
istic” and ‘‘ridiculous.”’

The proposed locatidn of the
fenced-in lot. beyond the athletic
fields in the Liberty Hall and pavilion
area drew the mischievous sugges-
tion that a monorail be built to tran-
sport students to and from their cars.

Frank A. Parsons, executive assis-
tant to the University president, pre-
sented the plan for comment at
Thursday’s University Council meet-
ing. Students in the audience reacted
with disbelief and criticism.

Parsons explained the plan was in
response to criticism from the Lex-
ington City Council of the Universi-
ty’s failure to provide adequate park-
ing facilities.

The council required improved fac-
ilities before it would approve the
master plan, Parsons told the au-
dience. The 200-300 additional spaces
that will be added upon completion of
the master plan are an integral part
of the required improvement, ac-
cording to Parsons.

Student Body Vice President An-
drew Caruthers opposed the idea,
saying a parking lot that far away
“would be too inconvenient and un-

 

The Ring-tum Phi, December 12, 1985, Page 5

fair to the freshmen.”’

“The freshmen pay just as much
tuition as I do,’’ Caruthers said.

Parsons’ responded that, ‘“‘Fresh-
men don’t use their cars on a day-to-
day basis,”’ and that with the social
changes coeducation brings, the in-
convenience to freshmen will be
minimal.

Sophomore Executive Committee
representative Brad Root, said he
was “much against” the idea.

“T feel it would be unfair to incom-
ing freshman classes,” Root said.
“They were told they could have cars
here, but no one mentioned a 34 mile
walk to the parking lot.”’

“They could have been more just to
all by choosing a different location,”’
he added.

The question of student safety was
brought up by sophomore EC repre-
sentative Pat Schaefer.

“It is a ridiculous idea. Parsons’
idea of students parking at the dorms
late at night and getting up at 8 a.m.
to go park is unrealistic.”

“Students will be walking to and
from that satellite lot at night,”’ he
continued.

The lot will be fenced in for securi-
ty, according to Parsons.

Schaefer contended the fence must
be locked to do any good. “A
locked parking lot will curtail severe-
ly the students’ access to their own
automobiles,” he said.

Parsons suggested that the lighted

Parking location proposal
draws protest and ridicule

walk in the Law School area could be
used to get there safely.

When a member of the audience
told Parsons that using that route
would double the distance, Parsons
responded, “I guess you’ll just have
to choose.”

The parking plan goes on to pro-
vide one parking space per law stu-
dent. Special Law School parking
permits will be issued and students
will be required to park in an improv-
ed Law School lot.

Parsons explained that this would
free space for Woods Creek resi-
dents, who will be required to park
there.

The dirt lot across from the plan-
ned coeducational $8 million dormi-
tory will be improved to facilitate 50
to 60 vehicles and will be reserved for
dorm residents.

The Admissions House, which will
be the Admissions Office after it
moves to 32 University Place, will
have a special parking area for its
own use. Also, Parsons said, the plan
for the dorm must be re-submitted to
the zoning commission and the City
Council because it is within 200 feet of
a city street.

The dorm plan may be approved by
early next month, in which case dem-
olition of the former bottling plant
will begin in February. Ground-
breaking will be in April, and the con-
struction time is forecast at 15 mon-
ths.

Committee formed to increase W&L alcohol awareness

 

| Sy DEBORAH HATTES
| Staff Reporter

 

¢

‘ A new university committee was
created this year to deal with alcohol
end drug issues on campus.

Associate Dean of Students
Michael A. Cappeto, a chairman of
» the Alcohol and Health Awareness
Committee, emphasized that the
cgmmittee is ‘‘not prohibitionary.”’

“We're not trying to tell people to
not drink, but of the consequences to
themselves and the community,”
Cappeto said. “Their behavior will
not be excused because of irresponsi-
ble drinking.”

,

The committee is divided into three
subcommittees and is composed of
faculty members, administrators,

Date

students at large and representatives
from the Student Control Committee
and Interfraternity Council.

The three subcommittees, health
awareness, counseling and _ policy
and administration, deal with the
committee’s main purposes, which
are:

eTo make students aware of the
physical and behavioral conse-
quences of alcohol abuse.

eTo provide counseling and other
support services for people with
alcohol or drug problems.

°To assure
a fair disci
with people who violate institutional
standards because of drinking too
much or usingdrugs.

Cappeto also explained the reasons
for creating the committee. He said

mary opal bok

the University realized three years
ago that ‘‘very little was being done”’
to educate students about alcohol and
substance abuse.

Also, at that time there were not
any “clearcut rules or regulations
governing unacceptable behavior ex-
acerbated by the use of alcohol.”’

The Alcohol and Health Awareness
Committee’s plans include reviewing
the existing policies and working on
drafting new ones, and reviewing the
educational and counseling services

available for people who haye an

aleohol problem, €appetosaid. »

Also, the committee is planning
some educational activities about
alcohol, which will probably occur
during an Alcohol Awareness Week
in the winter term.

said the resident advisers at Hollins take a different ap-

proach,

“At Hollins my freshman year, the RA always gave a

The University’s Alcohol and Health Awareness Com-
mittee took these facts about alcohol from three
quizzes.

¢ Alcohol is a depressant drug. It’s initial euphoric ef-
fect may cause the appearance of a stimulant, but this
soon gives way toa less active response.

alcohol intake.

eA 12-ounce can of beer, a five-ounce glass of table
wine and 12 ounces of 80 proof liquor all contain about
the same amount of alcohol.

On the average, it takes 25-30 minutes for alcohol in
the blood to reach a peak after you have had a few

eNothing sobers up a drunk except time. A cold
shower or black coffee will not help.

As a general rule, it will take twice as many hours as
the number of drinks consumed to completely sober up.

«Alcohol creates the sensation of warmth, but it does

 

 
    
   

 

C) Continued from Page 1
date rape is not a major concern.

“Everybody always thinks it won’t happen to them
—it’s like a car accident or anything else,” said
Associate Dean of Students Anne C.P. Schroer, who

 

“noted that date rape is ‘‘a hot topic’ in counseling and
«Gacademic circles as well as in the nation’s press.

Schroer, who said ‘“‘date rape”’ is ‘‘a whole new term

(fiugt in the last few years,” said the problem is not new,

bnt that women are now more willing to discuss it.
“Junior Kathleen Plante, a dorm counselor, said she

.>@did not introduce the issue of date rape to her freshmen.
Plante, who transferred to W&L from Hollins College, .
’

long talk on what exactly date rape is, what her inter-
pretation of it was, and what exactly we should do in
case we felt something like it happened,”’ she said.
“Hearing that at Hollins my freshman year always
put sort of an air of fear in it and I certainly didn’t want
to do anything like that to the girls on my hall,’ Plante
continued. “I never mentioned it to any of the girls on
my hall, because I think that if they were confused about
anything like that they would come and ask me.”’

Whether she would consider a situation to be a case of
date rape would depend on the individual cir-
cumstances, Plante said. ‘‘If in some respect she is con-
senting, then I think that leads to an unforunate situation
that shouldn’t be classified as rape,’’ she explained.

    
 

— Bi

Charge

 

1 Continued from Page 1

protect the interests of Thomasson as
w@ll as the woman, News Office
Director Brian D. Shaw said.

‘John, a W&L alumnus, said he can-
not remember another time in his 22
years with the University that a W&L
student has been accused of rape.

Sutton said the actions of the W&L
security official who had been called
to the dormitory shortly after the in-

 

4) Continued from Page 1
his school are intelligent enough to
‘ngw what is sexual, racial reference
wr whatever, and they can represent
ne,”

Webb said, “I really don’t think
outting a woman on Student Control

 

ho S. Jefferson St.
on

waaahs

Hours:

Sunday 10am to lam

 

Mon.-Sat. 9am to lam

 

cident were ‘totally inadequate,’’
but noted it was the individual and
not the University\that was at fault.”’

: “He did not secure the scene and he
did not notify the police depart-
ment,’’ he said.

Assistant Proctor William C.

“Burr’’ Datz said there ‘‘definitely”’
wik be some changes University

policy for future cases.

“The police will be called in the
event of a felony and escorted and
assisted in their investigation,” he
said. '

“Things’ll bea lot quicker.”’

will help any.”’ Hayden said much of
the faculty as well as a large number
of students were opposed to the ap-
pointment.

Townes Pressler, SCC chairman,
supported the proposal, but he said,
“T feel that our committee ... could
judge it [a case involving a woman]
fairly.”’

Dunbar said that if the EC voted
against the proposal, ‘‘There is going
to be hell to pay.”

   
 

Cal Bpar ae

Paul's
momla

att wittt
they

be
do
be

both here

Meet sstezat

1f the persone nho re—
moved the sign from
Mnglican

please

not,
considered

net actually raise the body temperature. Actually, it

eA person’s judgment is the first function affected by

Committee lists alcohol use guidelines

dilates the blood vessels, bringing more blood to the
surface to be cooled.

eIn Virginia, one is presumed to be under the in-
fluence of alcohol when the blood alcohol content
reaches .10 percent.

eBy spacing drinks according to an easily learned
schedule, it is possible to contiue to drink at a party
without getting drunk.

eLarge people can drink more than smaller people
and have the same effects.

eOne of the real dangers of drinking games is that
drinking too much alcohol too quickly can be fatal.

¢Following conviction for driving under the influence
of alcohol, a driver’s automobile insurance premium
may increase as much as 300 percent.

¢Forgetting what you did while you were drinking is
called a blackout and is one of the first signs of develop-
ing alcoholism.

Alcoholism is a physical addiction to alcohol.

eAlcoholism cannot be cured.

 

Sandler said the perceptions of both men and women
often are confused as to what constitutes rape. In a
report released Tuesday, Sandler and co-author Julie K.
Ehrhart said many male and female students answered
negatively when asked if they had ever been involved in
arape, yet admitted either to forcing sex or allowing sex
against their will.

“Date rape is more out in the open and people need to
think about it,’’ Sandler said. ‘Women are really more
vulnerable to date rape than other types of rape.”’

An increasing number of college campuses, Sandler
added, are operating programs designed to heighten
awareness of rape.

Freshman Lucy Anderson said communication is the
key to preventing such situations. ‘‘If there’s a sincere
lack of communication, that’s where you start having
problems between the two people involved,” she said.

 

The size of W&L is an asset to communication, Ander-
son said, “I think it gives you a feeling of fraternity,”
she said. “‘I think that a rape case would probably havea
lot less likelihood of occurring here, at least among W&L
students, because of the close association of students.”

Because of the nature of these relationships, Plante
said she would expect that ‘‘if date rape were to happen,
it would much more likely to happen with a girl from a
girls’ school than it would with a girl from W&L.”

Schroer agreed, noting that W&L women tend to be
“much more independent’’ than students at the area
women’s colleges, meaning they have more confidence
to express their values than students who have been less
successful academically and socially.

Women today, she continued, are more likely to feel
that they have “the freedom to say ‘yes’ or ‘no’ ”’ and ©
that ‘‘they don’t owe anybody anything.”

 

 

SS ipa Ot ta

   
 

St.

Chawch

115 S. Main Street
“For your extra pieces of furniture’’

VARNER & POLE

Furniture Dealers
463-2742

 

 

 

return ft,

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

forgiven. ITF
they may
thieves,

cima tm «(the

 

ropp

 

Sandwiches (Eat In-Take Out)
Gourmet Items of All Nations

Cocktails® Wine@ Beer

Subs@Imported Cheeses

Catering

OUR CHRISTMAS SPECIAL

5% of sales in the electronics.department and
25% of sales in all other departments
FROM NOW UNTIL DECEMBER 23, 1985
GOES TO FLOOD RELIEF PROGRAM.

3 Only those items with Fropps tags qualify

 

29 N. Main Street
Old Main Street Mall
Lexington, Virginia
E. Nelson St.

463-2186

 

Valley True Value Hardware

HARD

 

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

Mon. - Sat. 8:30-6:60
Sun, 1-5

 

 

Wendell's
Barber

Shop

| need your head for
my business.

 

 

 

TRAVEL UNLIMITED

 

21 W. Washington St.

Plan Now
For
Washington’s
Holiday
Break and
Spring
Break

Call 463-7174

 

 

 

 
 

 
SPORTS

The Ring-tum Phi, December 12, 1985

 

 

 

 

 

Larry Anker gets a takedown in his match at 142 lbs.

Grapplers pin Apprentice

 

By CHARLES T. GAY
Staff Reporter

 

Team captain Larry Anker led a
middle-of-the-match surge by his
fellow grapplers as the Washington
and Lee wrestling Generals opened
their 1985-86 dual meet season with a
35-13 pin of a Newport News Appren-
tice last night in Doremus Gym-
nasium.

Anker’s fall at 142 lbs. started the
ball rolling for W&L and enabled the
Generals to turn what had been a see-
saw affair into a blowout. W&L won
five bouts in a row from 142 lbs. to 190
Ibs.

The win comes on the heels of a
second-place finish at the W&L In-
vitational, a finish that although a
pleasant surprise, according to head
coach Gary Franke, did not make the

grapplers overconfident for the Ap-
prentice match.

“We thought they'd give us a close
match,” Anker said.

And indeed it was a close match
from the start. Senior Win Phillips,
the Generals’ 167-pounder, opened
things with a pin. The match then
bounced back and forth in the early
weight classes.

Apprentice’s Winn Traylor made
things closer with a decision over
junior Jeff Mazza at 134 lbs. But then
Anker and Co. took over for the
Generais.

Following Anker’s crushing vic-
tory over Brian Cox, the Generals
rode successive wins by sophomore
Kevin McNamara (150 Ibs.), and
freshmen Mark Robertson (158 lbs.),
Richard Redfoot (177 Ibs.) and
George Loupassi (190 lbs. ).

Dedicated

Wa&L will go into intense training over break

 

By LEIF UELAND
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee men’s and
women’s swim teams, with only five
meets between them, are now enter-
ing a month-long period of extensive
training, void of actual competition.

While, to the armchair athletes
among us this period may appear
monotonous and excessive, it is ac-
tually an extensively calculated nec-
essity, without which the team would
have a difficult time drawing the
types of athletes that they do.

“This is the hard part of the sea-
son,” freshman Jeff Bercaw said.
“‘Now is when the yardage really gets
poured on...you can’t withdraw what
you don’t put in.”

Training for swimmers varies ac-
cording to event: sprints, middle
distance or distance. Depending on
the swimmer’s event, he will focus on

certain aspects of the team’s five
main training areas: speed, anaero-
bic threshold, lactate tolerance and
race-pace. The common
denominator for the swimmers of the
various events is the amount of train-
ing. During this middle period the
training is relentless and there is lit-
tle chance for rest.

“Sprint training is very fatiguing,”
head coach Page Remillard said, ‘‘so
you need that early in the season. We
can’t have any quality performances
on the weekend, but since we don’t
have any meets that’s OK. It’s like a
pyramid, and right now they’re get-
ting the base.”

The fact that the team’s schedule
has a lapse in competition is a for-
tunate coincidence for the swim
teams. The swimmers are free to
work on their base. Having meets at
this point would not only force the
team members to taper back on their
workout, but there would also be the

aa gr ey

ee

i By Appointment 463-9588
Robin Peggy * Marie

Marie's Kain Sylens

AEE

Old Main St. Mall §
Lexington, VA oe |

LS ER EE ) GRRE) ERS () RE () ED <M () GREED.) aE 0 eee) <eme

       

Frank’s Pizza

Luncheon Special 11-3

10’’ Minipizza w/1 topping

10’’ Minipizza w/3 toppings

plus
Free Drink

 

463-7575 or 463-3133

$1 OF F

Large Pizza

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

Though he commented, ‘‘I’m pleas-
ed,’ Franke let his co-captain tell the
Generals’ success story.

“I was really pleased with our per-
formance. It was a good team effort,
and we blew them out,” Anker said.

At Saturday’s Invitational, the
Generals got good performances in
the clutch to earn their second-place
finish. The tournament was tight,
and only nine points separated five
teams entering the final round com-
petition.

The Generals were able to win five
of their six matches in the consola-
tion and championship finals, in-

_ cluding championship wins by Anker

and McNamara.

The team takes the next month off,
not competing as a unit until the
Johns Hopkins Quadrangular on Jan.
11. Individual grapplers will compete
at the Maryland Open on Jan. 4.

negative effect of the relatively poor
performances that would result from
the drain of training. In this sense,
Remillard believes the team is in a
strong position.

“It is fortunate that the team beat
Shippensburg and they don’t have
any meets so that they won’t be get-
ting any negative feedback. We can
keep them happy,” Remillard said.

Because mid-season training is so
crucial for the swimmers, they will
be coming back Dec. 29 to finish off
their vacation with two-a-day prac-
tices and weight training. Toward
mid-January the teams will begin
tapering down on training as they
resume competition, with the inten-
tion of peaking at the Tri-state cham-
pionships.

“Our big concern is conditioning.
To train these systems physiological-
ly and metabolically, you cannot
have big lapses in training. What is
really nice is that I think our swim-

 

= Avoid the city rush and do your

 

By DAVID EMRICH
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee basket-
ball Generals took a 20-minute war-
mup before they began to play. Un-
fortunately, that warmup came after
the opening tip-off. But W&L manag-
ed to bounce back in the second half
in impressive fashion to defeat the
Greensboro Hornets, 65-64.

The Generals earned their third
victory in six starts in front of
another boisterous, partisan W&L
crowd.

Early in the first half, the Hornets
spent most of their time taking the
outside shots and, for the most part,
making them. When the Generals ad-
justed their defense to try to compen-
sate, Greensboro began to pound the
ball inside, and were again very suc-
cessful.

Trailing 15-14 with just under nine
minutes remaining in the half, the
Hornets’ Jeff Patton made the same
shot from the’same spot (in the left
corner) on three consecutive posse-
sions to put the Hornets up 20-15
before W&L coach Verne Canfield
called a time out.

Freshman Manny Klump came off
the bench and sank his first shot to
make the score 20-17. Then, the 5-7
frosh drew a charging foul from the
Hornets’ 6-4 Tracy Frost that caused
the crowd to erupt with cheers and
spurred the Generals on to two con-
secutive baskets by sophomore Steve
Hancock to put W&L back on top,
21-20.

But the Generals’ offense sputtered
over the remaining five minutes,
scoring only three points, ail on free

throws, and the half ended with ~

Greensboro ahead, 30-24.

“In the first half, we weren’t get-
ting the rebounds and there were too
many possessions where we didn’t
get a shot,”

In the first half, we weren’t run-
ning the offense,” said W&L head
coach Verne Canfield. ‘‘We weren’t
getting the rebounds and there were
too many possessions where we
didn’t get a good shot.”’

In the first half, the Generals were
out-rebounded 21-13 by the taller,
quicker Greensboro squad.

mers really understand that,’’ Rem-
illard said.

With all of the charts, percentages,
and miles of swimming, one might
think that W&L is scaring off some
recruits, but Remillard points out
that the reverse is the case.

The quality swimmers look for
schools with programs such as
W&L’s that not only call for a high
degree of dedication, but also apply
the results of current research to
their programs. In this way, Remil-
lard points out, the school’s draw of
quality swimmers is a result of hav-
ing a “legitimate” program.

With sucha program, and such ath-
letes, Remillard sees the team in a
very positive light. ‘“‘They really
believe in themselves. I’m real hap-
py with the size of the team, their
depth, and the fact that we can really
give defending champions Fairmont
State a run for their money at the Tri-
states.”’

      

The Generals began the second
half in the same manner that they
ended the first half: by not scoring.
In fact, almost two minutes expired
before team captain Fred Bissinger
drove the lane to put the first W&L
points on the board. At this point the
Hornet lead was eight.

Three more minutes of ineffective
offense followed, but then the

Generals came to life. They became
more aggressive, and began to pres-
sure the Hornets.

Led by sophomore Harmon Har-
den, who scored all of his 12
points in the second half, and by Biss-
inger, who also did all of his scoring

 

7 Cagers stop G-boro, 65-64

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Pi
Rob Spencer takes a baseline jump shot last night ‘

(eight points) in the final period, thé
Generals mounted their comeback. »

For two-and-a-half minutes, start,
ing with 8:30 to play, the General
scored 10 unanswered points to put
them in the lead at 59-52. W&L useq
defense and foul shooting, including a
pair of free throws by Harralson witli!
30 seconds remaining, to ~ on for.
the win.

“We set the offense in the second
half, enabling us to execute better, +
Canfield said. ‘‘We also rebounded
better in the second half, and theré
were only four possessions in the sec,
ond half where we didn’t get a @pod
shot.”

 

ME a

Ow
ba

'
|

i |
ig a ey et

‘0, 0
" Mi!

1 i |

oaeeneesnws®

aca sa

A A a a RIE

 

ee ee

 

 

Alvin-Bennis

Fine Men’s Apparel

Lexington, Virginia

Christmas shopping here.

E.S. Deans Sweaters

Bass and Walkover Shoes
London Fog Raincoats

Formal Wear and

Accessories

HEU

IH

 

HUM

Woolrich Outerwear

Sero Shirts

Cashmere and Herringbone

Topcoats

Ceramic Items for Sale

Free Gift Wrapping

MasterCard

=]
: W&L Belts and Ties
Duck Head Pants
Kangol Hats
Visa
eT

Choice

RUTH

Student Charge

. Ell

JUDE

eH ee

saa

we

 

ay oa

 

ei Sl A

we ” a w “ i) Cy

 
 

 

FR

ae

 

 

 

 

Xmas ‘jeer’

....Mistletoe and Turf toe. Egg nog
and something called the Florida
Citrus Bowl. Candy canes and foot-
ball games in the middle of the week
during the day not on ESPN. Yes,
sports fans it’s Christmastime and
before we get to those infamous pro-
gnostications, I believe ol’ St. Nick is
going to make an early stop in that
quaint little hamlet known as Sports-
,town, where everyone’s favorite sports personalities reside.

Now, some of the inhabitants have been good boys and girls. The
rest have perhaps had their moments. In any case, all will get their
just rewards.

It’s always a chore to get that special someone the gift that’s just
right. Is it the right size? Is it the right color? Is it the right style? Will
it end up thrown in the closet with Dad’s ‘‘I Love Rehoboth Beach”
glow-in-the-dark tie(s), Mom’s ‘‘Bake Your Own Christmas Tree Or-
paments”’ Kit, and the family Masters version of Jokari, that inept
tennis-racketball-Jarts combination game that looked so easy at Sears
and ended up wrapped around telephone wires when you got it home.

Santa doesn’t have that problem. You see he knows all the right
gifts, or at least what everyone deserves and delivers it promptly.
Take his first stop for instance: It’s the home of a new resident on the
block, William Perry. Santa likes William simply because he would
probably fit into his suit and he could easily pull the sleigh, too. Pro-
blem is, Santa’s been seeing too much of The Refrigerator off the field,
in places like McDonald’s and Bob Hope’s Christmas Special. In an ef-
fort to remind young William who he is, Santa’s dropping off a case of

TIME
OUT....

By Mike
Stachura

 

 

 

. Diet Coke ... for Mr. Perry’s head, the only part of his body that needs
to lose weight.

The next chimney that the bearded, jolly one must navigate is at the
posh home of brash John McEnroe. Santa always has had trouble with
little Johnny, but this year, thanks to lovely Tatum, St. Nick has found
the perfect gift. You see, Daddy O’Neal has been boasting about soon
being Granddaddy O’Neal and Santa thinks it would be just dandy if
John and Tatum were blessed with a new addition. That way John
would have someone on his behavioral level.

Santa’s been watching a good deal of TV lately and especially on
Monday night. He’s dropping similar packages at the Gifford, Namath
and Simpson homes; Job offers, something in door-to-door sales where
their true wit will be allowed to flourish, I believe. Anything to keep
them on the road and off the air, Santa says.

Right next door to the Simpsons is the Cosell home. Santa’s dropping
off some slippers and plenty of warm milk so Howard can sleep. Truth
of the matter is, Santa wanted to drop this off last Christmas but never
got around to it. See what problems it caused.

Indeed, there are a number of sportscasters on Santa’s route. Roy
Firestone is being delivered more recognition. (He’s everything
Howard dreams he could be.) Bob Costas is down for an NFL Fact
Book, so Santa said, ‘‘What the heck!” and gave Ahmad Rashad one,
too. And Santa figured Brent Musburger (not Dennis Duggan) could
use just a few more cliches, so he stuffed as many as he could into little
Brent’s stocking.

There are others on the list. George Steinbrenner is getting coal
again. But this year, Santa’s going to let Peter Ueberroth deliver the
two-ton bag. Julius Erving is getting a very sweet swan song this year.
And Santa’s going a little out of his way to drop a whole bagful of
presents to the NCAA. Actually, I only thought it was a whole bagful of
presents. Turns out, each present is the same: a day’s supply of com-
mon sense.

The final stop this year is a house that has a moving van in front of it.
Oh yes, it’s the Fausts’ residence. Poor Gerry. He’s had it tougher
than Charlie Brown. Santa’s found just the thing for Gerry. There’s a
high school in Glenville, Minn., that hasn’t won a football game since
Jimmy Carter was president. They need someone like Gerfy-there,
someone who doesn’t measure success in terms of wins and losses but
by the number of times you smile each day. Santa likes that.

That’s all Santa has for now. He was going to see if he could instill
some prognosticatory prowess in me, but as you can see below, he fail-
ed. Merry Christmas....

Here, for your comedic enjoyment is the way I see the holiday grid
clashes going. Hint: Save your money for FD....

CALIFORNIA
Bowling Green 34, Fresno State 18

CHERRY
Maryland 22, Syracuse 14

INDEPENDENCE
Minnesota. 17, Clemson 14

HOLIDAY
Arkansas 38, Arizona State 10

LIBERTY
LSU 20, Baylor 14

ALOHA
Alabama 27, USC 6

FLORIDA CITRUS
BYU 33, Ohio State 30

SUN
Georgia 28, Arizona 9

FREEDOM
Colorado 24, Washington 14

GATOR
Oklahoma State 15, Florida State 6

ALL-AMERICAN
Michigan State 21, Georgia Tech 17

BLUEBONNET
Air Force 23, Texas 10

PEACH
Army 27, Illinois 17

COTTON
Texas A&M 31, Auburn 20

FIESTA
Michigan 13, Nebraska 6

ROSE
Iowa 24, UCLA 17

SUGAR
Miami 37, Tennessee 34

ORANGE
Oklahoma 22, Penn State 21

The Ring-tum Phi, December 12, 1985, Page 7

 

 

 

  
 
 
 

Holiday Storage
While your celebrating the holidays,
store your valuables ina secure place.
$5°° ber person
Callor come by:
Pres Brown’s Inc.

115 W. Nelson St. 463-3521 __

      

 

The champs

Here they are, the champs of the
great indoors. The hall of senior
David Lewis took top honors in the
First Annual Dorm Volleyball tour-
nament with a win in the champion-
ship match on Tuesday night. They
are (from left to right, first row)
Paul Eyerly, Bill Crabill, Jim Linza,
Scott Yates and William Martin;
(second row) Coach David Lewis, Ri-
chard Grace, Tom Wingfield, Clark
Peterson and James Ambrosini. (Not
Pictured: George Sporacio).

The only team to go undefeated,
David Lewis’ hall captured the
Freshman Volleyball Championships
with a 15-3, 15-9 victory in the final.
The first floor of Davis dorm attri-
butes its success to its supportive
fans, excellent coaching, and over-
whelming team togetherness, ac-
cording to Coach Lewis.

 

 

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

IM ban on Sigma Chi ends; Law Ill leads

 

By MATT HARRINGTON
Staff Reporter

 

Three months after intramural of-
ficials decided to “‘make an exam-
ple’ of Sigma Chi for missing an
organizational meeting, the fraterni-
ty once again is being allowed to par-
ticipate in IM sports.

“Banning us for the entire semes-
ter was ridiculous,” said senior John
Meloy, Sigma Chi’s president. “I can
see maybe taking some points away
from us, but banning us for the entire
term seems a little extreme.”

Junior Fred Bissinger, director of
the IM program, said that last year
several fraternities failed to attend
important meetings, hurting the
whole program.

“We had a lot of slack fraternities
last year, so when Sigma Chi’s direc-
tor didn’t show up at the meeting, he

  
   

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
         
    

was sort of made an example of,”
Bissinger said.

The pre-vacation Turkey Trot was
Sigma Chi’s intramural debut, put-
ting the fraternity four sports behind
the others and costing the house
many valuable participation points.

“If they do well the rest of the year,
they should be able to make up some
ground against the other fraterni-
ties,’ Bissinger said. Meloy, though,
said he was concerned about the
fraternity’s final standing. ‘We've
always had good participation in
IMs, and not getting points for four
sports is really going to hurt us,”’ he
said.

Bissinger said he relented after
meeting recently with an officer of
the fraternity.

“T didn’t want to punish the whole
fraternity for one guy’s mistake,” he
said. “I made my point, but I don’t
want to beat a dead horse.”’

Because of increased fraternity en-
thusiasm, intramurals this year
“have been going much smoother”
than last year, Bissinger said.

Law III won this fall’s football and
racketball competitions, Phi Delta
Theta captured the golf title and Phi
Kappa Sigma took first place in ten-
nis.

individual Resuits: FOOTBALL — Ist:
Law I1f (100 pts.); 2nd: Law | (97 pts.); 3rd:
Phi Delta Theta, Kappa Alpha (92 pts. each).

TENNIS — Ist; Phi Kappa Sigma (100 pts.);
and: Detta Tau Delta (97 pts.); 3rd: Law iil,
Phi Kappa Psi (92 pts. each).

RACKETBALL — Ist: Law II! (100 pts.);
and: Pi Kappa Alpha (97 pts.); 3rd: Law |, Pi
Kappa Phi (92 pts. each).

GOLF — Ist: Phi Delta Theta (100 pts.); 2nd:
Pi Kappa Phi (95 pts.); 3rd: Law II! (90 pts.).

ne

 

Grerny

Christmas Blowout Sale!

22 Watt AM/FM Cassette.
Reg. $260

now *159

614”’ Coax Speaker
Reg. $80/pair

now *OL1.,.. nie

7 Band, 25 Watt Equalizer
Reg. $150

NOW

For Your Car

Boston Acoustics

   

JVC

Cassette Deck w/Dolby B
Reg. $125

NOW

Fully Automatic Quartz
Lock Turntable
Rego

NOW

Linear, Tracking, Fully
Automatic Quartz Lock
Turntable
Reg. $240

NOW

TURKEY TROT — Ist: Law | (100 pts.); 2nd
Pi Kappa Aipha (97 pts.); 3rd: Phi Kappa
Sigma (94 pts.)

Current IM Standings

(After 5 events)

1, Law tll 473
2.Law!t 49
3. Phi Delta Theta 417
4. Sigma Alpha Epsilon 416
5. Phi Kappa Psi 415

Pi Kappa Alpha 415
7, Pi Kappa Phi 414
8. Sigma Nu 40)
9. Kappa Sigma 378
10. Chi Psi 370
11. Sigma Phi Epsilon 366
12. Beta Theta Pi 364
13. Kappa Alpha 344
14. Phi Kappa Sigma 343
15. Delta Tau Delta 295
16. Phi Gamma Delta 286
17. independent Union 236
18. Lambda Chi Alpha 211

Zeta Beta Tau 211

 

 

5’ 2-Way Speakers
15

per pair

4’ Full Range Speakers
Reg. “ 49 pe ir
NOW

per pair

 

 

 

 

AM/FM Receiver
Reg. $500

NOW

*37

   

100 Watt/Channel §
AM/FM Receiver @
Reg. $650

now *400

VALUE MART

Component Home & Car Stereos * Water Beds ¢ Furniture * Appliances « TVs « Video Sales & Rentals

 

 

 

 

Financing Available -

‘satteriaseee

 

261-2544 2175 Magnolia Avenue Buena Vista sama:

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-BACK PAGE

The Ring-tum Phi,

December 12, 1985

 

 

 

| Hey, what’s the score

_ These actors are part of Washington and Lee’s Univer-
‘sity Theatre production of “Bleacher Bums.’
-is directed by Senior Chris Carmouche as his senior
~ thesis, and he described the play as swinging ‘‘back and

’ The play

a

—

-

a

Te

es gs

~

By Hank Mayer/The Ring-tum Phi

forth from the cheerful and raucus to the deadly seri-
ous.”’ The production is the second of the University
Theatre’s season and the last show is tonight. For ticket
information, call the University Theatre at 463-8637.

;=

 

ae CHOW Hounds SU

ggest

Estelle’s brew ‘n’ pool

 

By JAMIE BERGER
and CHRIS KOMOSA
Food Critics

 

The exam week blues. The “D
hall” is serving chicken livers and
donuts and you've run out of money
for pizza. What is the ravenous yet
humble Washington and Lee sophisti
cate to do? In our never-ending quest
for chow, we may have found the
solution.

Estelle’s Grill located on North
Randolph next to Leggett’s, is no
secret to Virginia Military Institute
cadets, but still relatively unknown
to the W&L crowd. The first thing we
noticed was that coat and tie are not
required. We weren't even sure if
shirt and shoes are required but we
decided not to find out.

Estelle’s is an interesting place
Picture your local Exxon converted
into a restaurant. Add some pool
tables, jukebox, and decorative
paintings of sad kittens and you've
got the picture. Not to say that this is
bad. Estelle’s lack of pretentiousness
is really quite refreshing. It’s a place
to eat food, drink beer (National
Bohemian, preferably) and play
some pool.

We seated ourselves and waited pa
tiently for our waitress to take our
order. Forty minutes and eight Willie
Nelson songs later, Chris decided to

Bite of Big Apple is mixed blessing

 

-By PAUL DAVEY
-Social Critic

 

> Walking out the door of the train

“station, you might think you had just
fallen into a bait can full of live
minnows. Movement everywhere
— cars, taxis, people, buses, even a
white standard poodle wearing black
boots. The first thing to do is to act
like one of the minnows so as not to be
swum through in this bait can that is
New York City.

Over the recent Thanksgiving
break, this reporter traveled to New
York to see the city and get in a few
job interviews. I found the place to be
amazing — in ways both good and
bad.

Where else but New York can one
be immersed in three different cul-
tures at once — those of Italy, China
and of course New York (distinct in
itself) in the span of a few minutes?
Or eat some of the best food this side
of Texas? Or be interviewed by some
of the most powerful financial institu-
tions in the world? Or see one of the
finest museums in America?

But on the other hand, where else
does one have to endure a ride ona

subway car packed as tight as a case
of Ruby Reds in order to get to work?
Or where else does one have to dodge
scores of loud gentlemen wearing
multi-colored ‘‘Members Only”
jackets while searching for one’s séat
in a big “‘Garden”’ where basketball
is played? Or where else do citizens
need to be reminded not to spit on
public transportation vehicles? Or
where else does one need to place a
dozen locks on one’s door in order to
stop the oozing element of hooligans
and criminals?

Despite ail that, I had an enjoyable
stay — however, I was not moved to
cancel my Thanksgiving Day flight
to Florida in order to experience
more of ‘‘The City.”’

While in New York, I visited a
number of interesting places, such as
Park Avenue, SoHo, Chinatown, the
Metropolitan Museum of Art, a
Knicks game, “‘Little Italy” and Wall
Street. In retrospect, one must admit
that New York City is overrated.
Sure there are lots of neat shops on
Fifth Avenue, but their merchandise
can also be purchased in many other
places. Shopping in these stores
saves one the hassle of fighting off
street vendors hocking grossly fake

 

(Pre-ott-so)

ticipating Pizze Hut*

sh.

Bizza

 

 

Pri-4z-zo

you ll pronounce it delicious.

In Italy, there’s a pie filled with delicious in-
gredients and smothered in rich, zesty sauce and
melted cheeses. You really ought to try it.

Round-trip tickets to Italy are unnecessary
and far too expensive. Just visit your par-
restaurant after 4:00 p.m.
Monday through Friday or anytime Saturday
and Sunday and order our Priazzo1m Italian pie
in one of four tempting combinations of fillings.
Milano, Roma, Florentine and Napoli.

Eat In, Carry Out, Or Delivered

463-7000

600 E. Nelson
Lexington

 

 

$2. off any large pizza
or $1 off any medium. In-
cludes Pizza Hut? Pan
Pizza! Hurry; offer ex-
pires soon. One coupon
per party per visit at
participating Pizza Hut®
restaurants

cash redempt t9kU Pizza Ine ¢

  
 

Hut.

Please present coupon when order 1g Not valida

Eat In, Carry Out Or Delivered

een
Pizza

$QorF

Lexington, Va.
463-7000

Bo

z
&
a
g
§
zg
5
600 E. Nelson St.
e
$
é
*

1
25 fe nS

 

Rolex watches and Gucci purses in
order to buy something. I shopped in
a Tiffany’s that so resembled a
Kmart that I kept my eyes and ears
wide open for the Blue Light Special.

Another store I saw is a huge, glit-
zy Limited. For the gentlemen of the
student body who are unaware of
what the Limited is, it is an extreme-
ly successful women’s clothing store.
However, one need not travel to Fifth
Avenue to purchase the tangerine,
yellow and lime Wednesday night
party garb the Limited sells. The
chain operates a store in every two-
bit shopping mall in the country.
Another well-known store in New
York is Brooks Brothers. While the
New York store may be bigger, it
seems to have all the same things the
branches do, maybe just more of it. I
suppose having 60 size-42 blue
blazers is necessary to keep pushy,
cigar-chomping New Yorkers from
getting in one another’s ways.

As far as the old pastime of party-
ing goes, New York really is a fun
place. I patronized a number of bars
and each had an interesting and
diverse atmosphere. One was Mex-
ican, one Californiaish, one very Neo-
Art Deco and another apparently was

a college alumni hangout. (I hope the
colleges these alumni attended were
men’s schools, because by the end of
the evening almost all the patrons
were men.) The bars were ai! bust-
ling and fun.

Another bar I hit was the Oak Bar
in the Plaza Hotel. It was a very
oldish-type place and rather stodgy,
and I liked it. The restaurant and bar
atop the RCA building were also neat
places to go. Replete with an or
chestraa and woman who sang about
every sixth song, it was a big change
from the Lexington entertainment
scene.

The conclusions I have come to
after my visit to New York are these:

elt has a lot to offer.

eThe people don’t go out of their
ways to be friendly.

*Everything costs a lot.

¢Most anything that can be bought
there can be bought somewhere
within a three hour drive from Lex
ington.

eThere is a plethora of night life.

The sum of these conlusions is that
while I now can appreciate New
York, I am totally honest when I say,
“It’s a great place to visit ... but I
wouldn’t want to live there.”’

find out what was wrong. Estelle (the

real McCoy) patiently explained to
Chris that you make your order at the
grill and then sit down Hey, we
knew tha he said. ‘‘We were just
testing

On the menu was an assortment of
sandwiches. but we decided to test

two of the dinner platters. Jamie
chose the Chicken Filet Platter while
Chris went for the celebrated Chuck

wagon Platter. We also ordered a
bowl of chili each and two Budwei
sers (only the best for us

Well, if there is one thing you can
The Buds
and chili were on our table in no time.
The chili came in a big bowl and
could have been a meal unto itself.
There was lois of meat and lots of
beans, well...more meat and more
beans. We noticed something resem-
bling celery in there. (Whei asked by
an editor if that something resemb!
ing celery might by chance have
been green pepper, Berger replied:
“That was just our uneducated chili
guess. We didn't bring our food
review microscopes.’’) But it was
good and hot and only a buck; so
what do you want for nothing?

say for Estelle’s, it’s fast

Our platters came while we finish-
ed our chili. Jamie’s chicken filet
turned out to be your basic fraternity
chicken patty, garnished with let-
tuce, tomato and mayo. The platter
also came with fries, coleslaw and ic-
ed tea. The chicken burger was not
an actual filet, but was made from

5 p.m,
from the W&L Collections.”’

7p.m.
Auditorium
7:30 p.m
and Brass Ensemble. Lee Chapel.

&p.m.— PLAY: “
Boiler Room Theatre.

8 p.m.

5p.m., -

7:30 p.m, -

5 p.m,

 

 

ONCAMPUS

Thursday, December 12
- CHEMISTRY SEMINAR:
W&L Prof. Debora A. Ringe. Room 401,
Howe Hall. (Tea at 4:30 p.m. in Room 402.):
— POLITICS FILM: “The Trial.’’ Room 327, Commerce School.
7 p.m. — ROMANCE LANGUAGE FILM: “Story of Adele H.”’ duPont

— CHRISTMAS CANDLELIGHT SERVICE: W&L Chorus

Bleacher Bums.”

Saturday, December 14
2p.m,— Undergraduate Examinations Begin.
— CONCERT: Rockbridge Chamber Orchestra. Lee Chapel.

Friday, December 20
~ Undergraduate Examinations End.

Monday, January 6
ALL CLASSES RESUME.

Tuesday, January 7
Noon-l p.m, — GENERAL-LEE SPEAKING SPORTS LUNCHEON
Vashington Room, Evans Dining Hall.
- BASKETBALL: GENERALS VS. COURTLAND STATE.

Thursday, January 9
— CHEMISTRY SEMINAR: Howe 401. Tea at 4:30 in Howe 402.

chicken parts all fused together. Bu
Jamie didn’t mind, because after all
parts is parts

The tries were good, but tipped the
scale on our greaseometer. Although
the colesiaw wasn’t on our entry list
for the Slaw Hall of Fame (in Cleve
land), it was still pretty good. The ic
ed tea was, um, cold and had a very
distinct tea taste

It was Chris’s chuckwagon burger
that caused some serious concern
The big questions was, ‘‘What in the
hell is that?’’'It was a patty similar to
the chicken patty, but not half as ap-
petizing. Jamie took a chance and
guessed that it was something trom
the beef and poultry family, but that
was as far as it got. Finally, Chris

no stranger to dangerous chow

began to eat it, and we are glad to
report that he is still here to write
about it. The chuckwagon burger was
not all that bad, but as our safety tip
for the week, we would strongly sug
gest sticking with the chicken or
cheeseburger platters.

The ‘real test came hours later,
though. We waited and waited, pois-
ed to dial 911, but we are glad to
report that there were no ill gastrono-
mic side effects. So, forget the other
fast food places. Throw on your cow
boy boots and have a heap o’ chili and
beer at Estelle’s. Our platters were
Only $2.25 each, and the pool tables
aren't warped, and the people are
friendly. Definitely one of the best
food deals in town.

“Seven Remarkable Portraits

Directed by Chris Carmouche 86.

 

 

Exam week prime time for prime TV

 

By BILL HANNA
Teievision Critic

 

Well, exams are once again right
around the corner and the library
will soon begin to stay full all hours of
the night. Some will start getting in
strange moods as they begin to
realize they have to fit 12 weeks of
reading into the last few days before
the exam.

The television is usually a popular
device around this time as procrasti-
nation is made an art. Things that
are not normally watched become
more popular as exams draw near. I
happen to have a few suggestions.

For afternoon stalling, ‘‘Gilligan’s
Island’ comes on channel 12 at 2:30.
“The Jetsons”’ follows at 3 and if you
change to channel 6 at about 3:20 you
can catch an episode of “‘The Three
Stooges.”

Staying with channel 6, ‘‘The Flint-
stones”’ is on at 4:05 followed by that
long time favorite ‘‘The Brady Bun-
ch,”’ then “Leave it to Beaver,’’ ‘‘The
Beverly Hillbillys,’’ and “The Andy
Griffith Show.”

At 6:30, ‘Green Acres’’ comes on

- channel 2. Channel 5 at 7 has

“M*A*S*H,” and “Jeopardy’’ is on
channel 10 at 7:30.
This is a surefire way to waste an

NEXUS

122 So. Main

The Style House

Visit Lexington’s finest hairstylists where we use

and other fine products.
Call or walk-in.

afternoon. It requires no effort and,
most importanly, absolutely no
thinking.

Depending on what night it is, this
sort of thing can go on at least until
1:30 when Letterman is over. Mon-
day night, the football game is on; a
sure way to waste a few hours. Tues
day night leads into my review for
the week.

ABC has a good line-up with
“Moonlighting” at 9 and ‘Spencer
For Hire’’ following at 10. I found it to
be a pretty good solid viewing even

ing especially with ‘‘Who’s the
Boss?” preceding at 8.
“Moonlighting” is a lighthearted

drama about two not so-experienced
private investigators trying to make
a living. It usually has a good plot
and Bruce Willis adds a few good
laughs to the show playing the calm
and cool investigator, David Ad
dison.

His partner, Maddie Hayes, is
played by Cybill Shepherd and is not
as adept at detective work, but plays
well opposite David.

Aside from the good script-writing
and quality acting on the show, it has
one aspect which encourages about
half the television audience to tune
in. Cybill Shepherd, just on the
screen doing nothing, isn’t bad

As I was too lazy to get up and

    
 

  

Nucleic A

   

 
 

163-5954

  
 

 

change the channel (or even study) I
stay tuned for “‘Spenser: For Hire.’
This turned out to be better than I ex-
pected

Sure, Robert Urich is the star as
Spenser and is the same character as
he played in “Vegas” a few years
ago. He seems to try to be a little
more sensitive, but this doesn’t work
all that well

Spenser is a private detective who
makes use of the connections he
made when he was a member of the
police force in Boston. He often
makes use of the help offered by
Hawk, played by Avery Brooks, call-
ed ‘‘the biggest muscle in Boston” by
both friends and enemies. Hawk does
not work with Spenser, but is hired as
needed and is a good tough guy

The show is pretty good as there is
usually an interesting struggle be-
tween the good guys and the bad guys
riting and acting are both
acceptable

and the Ww

I only suggest the show to people
who like the type of character Urich
usually plays as it seems Dan Tanna
has moved from Vegas to Boston and
changed his name to Spenser

Now for the highlights

Thursday Bandolero”’ is on
tonight at 8 on channel 12 in this
western starring Jimmy Stewart,
Dean Martin, George Kennedy, and

Raquel Welch. Following this at 10 on

HBO is George C. Scott in ‘“Hard-
core,”
Sunday: Henry Fonda stars in

“The Battle of the Bulge” at 10:35
that morning. A great comedy star-
ring Danny Kaye in “The Court
Jester’’ comes on channel 5 at noon.

“The Gauntlet”’ is also on Sunday as
Clint Eastwood comes to the tube at 9
on ABC,

Monday: The Patriots play the
Dolphins on the week’s edition of

“Monday Night Football’? which
should be a good battle for first place
in the AFC East as the Jets will lose
to the Bears on Saturday.

Now a final note about ‘‘Miami
Vice.”’ The show continues to draw
some big names for guest appear-
ances. Last week Phil Collins was on
and later this month, G. Gordon Lid-
dy will be on the show.

“Vice” is also doing well on the
charts with their sound-track album.
It has sold over 1 million copies in the
four weeks since its release and is
now at the top of the Billboard album
chart.

The show is also doing well on its
own as it has stayed in the top ten
since the beginning of the season, Not
bad for what threatened to be just
another cop show before its premiere
episode last season.

 

 

 

 

 

EAST LEX

 

["
|
oa
|

11 North Open until
Midnight

‘ igarettes REE lias vc cas este $6.89
Natt 4 y 50 l Ong Noelia. Gs ) 0) eee eyes eee $5.53
PG en ee $5.43

 

 

 

 

 

 
* ~ - a . ~ - *. * . . - - - . 4 < < +. . - * ° - ‘

 

- - » - -~ » « 7 - ~ « + . . - ~ « * -

   
   
    
  

 

Time’s up
Student beats
chalk rap

Page 3

Che KRing-tum

VOLUME 85, NUMBER 14

 

Time Out

in Farmville

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Something rotten

 

Page 6

 

 

 

Your weekend weather

 

 

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Bhi *

Increasing cloudiness Friday,
fair Saturday; highs in the 40s

 

WASHINGTON & Lee
eee VA 24450

( 1986

AW

JANUARY 9, 1986

 

 

Day

Ariel’s oe
actions
probed

20 meal plan.

locations.

 

 

(print name legibly) _
I will eat (lunch) (dinner) in
the GHQ today rather than Evans Hall.

I understand that I may not dine in both

 

 

(signature)

= = em Of fhe
(class)

 

Darrell calls food theft
a growing problem

 

By MATT HARRINGTON
Staff Reporter

 

By JASON LISI
Assistant News Editor

 

Last month’s issue of the Ariel, the
University literary magazine, includ-
ed a question-and-answer article in
which ‘‘a lot of the questions’ were
from another magazine, the accom-
panying photographs were cut out of
a University Library book and print-
ed without crediting the source, and
the introduction was copied from a
press release, according to those
associated with the story.

Ariel editor Bob Strickland said he
cut two pages from a University
Library book for use in the magazine
and later returned the book to the
library without the photos.

University Librarian Barbara J.
Brown said it appeared the pages had
been sliced out with a razor blade.

Strickland said yesterday that the
photographs are now in his apart-
ment and that it was a case of “‘good
intention but bad judgement.”

“I took the pictures out of the
book,’’ said Strickland, a senior from
San Antonio. ‘I was responsible.”

The photographs came from ‘‘Sca-
vullo: Francesco Scavullo Photo-
graphs, 1948-1984,”’ a 224-page book
with an invoice price of $57.69.

Pictures by Scavullo of rock stars
David Bowie and Sting accompany
the question-and-answer interview
with the photographer that appears
in the Ariel. Brown, the librarian,
said those are the two pages missing
from the University’s book.

On Tuesday night, Strickland said
the Executive Committee had told
him not to discuss the matter, but
yesterday he confirmed details of the
incident.

Strickland said he does not con-
sider his actions to be the theft or a
potential honor violation. ‘I don’t
believe I stole the pictures,” he said.
“I don’t see it as an honor offense.”

“I did it for the benefit of the
magazine,’’ he added. ‘‘I didn’t do it
for personal joy.”’

In fact, Strickland said he wanted
to put more pictures in the December
edition of the biannual magazine. ‘‘I
wanted to have more pictures in
order to invite the reader into the
story,” he explained.

The issue first came to light on
Monday, when the EC announced the
damage at its public meeting and
said that next week it was going to
question Strickland and freshman
Monica Burke, who wrote the article
the photos accompanied.

Vice President Andrew Caruthers
said at the meeting that the damage
was brought to his attention by “a
person who works in the library” and
that ‘‘they were a bit irritated.”

Lewis held up a copy of the Ariel
while he passed along to the commit-
tee the information Caruthers had
given him.

“These two pictures came out of a
book,”’ Lewis began. ‘“They came out
of a book in the library. They were
cut out of a book in the library and

 

 

put in the magazine.”’
“Oh, gosh,” a committee member
said. T

“Believe it or not,’’ Lewis con-
tinued. ‘And we need to discover
from the editor of the Ariel who cut
these pictures out of the book
because the two pictures are missing

 

 

Students who eat in General Headquarters must sign this paper

 

A sign reminds students of continental breakfast rules

Students frequently break ‘‘crystal
clear” University food service rules,
costing the school money and possi-
bly violating the Honor System, ac-
cording to Food Services Director
Gerald J. Darrell.

Common offenses; he said, include
eating a meal in General Headquar-
ters and then wandering upstairs to
refill a soft drink or eat a dessert,
forgetting to present a point card to
the checker in the dining hall line,
neglecting to, pay for food in the Co-
op, and eating the dining hall’s con-
tinental breakfast when not on the
contract plan.

Darrell said that when a student is
confronted with one of these actions,
the response is generally along the
lines of “Oh, shoot. I’m sorry — I
forgot.”

“Tt happens all too often,’’ Darrell
said, adding, though, that he has
never turned a student in to the Ex-

Halley’s hopefuls

ecutive Committee for investigation
of a potential honor infraction.

“It’s a very difficult thing,’’ he
said. ‘I’m just trying to say to peo-
ple: ‘Hey, the Honor System does ap-
ply in food service.’ ”’

“If people continue to do this, I
foresee a big financial problem in the
future,”’ he continued. ‘‘It is already
starting to pinch us.”’

Executive Committee President
John Lewis said he thinks Darrell
should report such incidents for in-
vestigation. ‘‘It’s stealing,’’ he said.

“We all know Jerry Darrell can’t
afford to have us eat in both places,”’
he added. ‘It may be that people
don’t understand the policy.”’

Lewis said that for a student to fail
to pay for Co-op purchases is ‘“‘defi-
nitely taking advantage of the ex-
treme trust that’s there.”’

Contract students who elect to eat
in GHQ rather than Evans Dining
Hall sign a card for each meal that
says: ‘I understand that I may not
dine in both locations.”’

“We’ve made it crystal clear,”

Darrell said. ‘‘We’ve put it on the
meal cards and in bulletins and news-
letters. People should be aware now
that they can only eat in one place.”’

He said that some students also fail
to identify themselves to the checker
when they go through the Evans Din-
ing Hall line, meaning that they’re
not counted or their points aren’t
marked off.

“They're irritated when you ask
them about it,’’ Darrell said. ‘‘They
just don’t want to bother.”’

“This has proven to be a big book-
keeping problem for the food ser-
vice,”’ he continued. ‘‘Sometimes we
just don’t know who is or is not on the
meal plan.”

Dining hall contract students will
be required to pick up a green ‘‘Win-
ter Term” meal card from the Bus-
iness Office and show it to the
checker through Wednesday.

Another problem identified by Dar-
rell is with students who eat the din-
ing hall’s continental breakfast,
which is offered only to 20-meal con-
tract students.

A how-to guide to viewing the comet, and what to expect

 

 

from the book,”’ he said.
“T think we ought to freeze their

(See Ariel, Page 4

© What’s dinner in GHQ like? Find out how students we polled feel
about it, page 3

* Coeducational housing for the unromantically linked may be in
W&L’s future, page 4

* It’s going to be ‘‘musical offices’’ in the Commerce School when

the dean retires, page 5

¢ You’ve read Esquire’s Dubious Achievement Awards for 1985;
now take a look at ours, page 8

 

By Scott J. Ferrell/W&l

Above: Searching the skies; right: Look west-southwest

 

By TIM RICHARDSON
Staff Reporter

 

Hundreds of hopeful comet watch-
ers crowded into the darkened back
campus of Washington and Lee Tues-
day evening, braving freezing tem-
peratures, waiting for what many
thought would be the spectacular

flash of Halley’s Comet streaking

across the sky.

Binoculars, telescopes and squint-
ed eyes scanned the sky in search of
the comet until the fuzzy, dim pin-
point of light in the southwest was
identified as the comet by W&L

physics Professor Ronald Reese,
organizer of the viewing.

Reese explained that the comet’s
weak appearance was due mainly to
its position in relation to the earth
and also to the amount of light given
off by buildings, street lamps and
surrounding stars.

He said that the best time for view-
ing the comet should be within the
next 10 days, shortly before and after
the appearance of the new moon.
After that time, moonlight will make
observing the comet difficult at best.

Reese added that viewing the com-
et at this time is also good because it
appears in the evening and is high in
the sky.

When the comet reappears in
March and April, following its disap-
pearance in February as it gets close
to the sun, it can only be seen early in
the morning and will be very close to
the horizon, he said.

To see the comet, Reese suggested
that a dark area in the country, away
from lights of Lexington, be found
and that binoculars, rather than a
telescope, be used. He recommended
the binoculars because the limited
field of view of a telescope will not

f allow the entire comet to be seen.

During this month, one can locate
the comet in the southwest, about a
handspan .bove Jupiter, at about
6:30 p.m., he said.

 

 

‘e* Aquarian Water Jar

*

\ Comet Halley
Moon (Jan. 12)

@ Jupiter

  

West/Southwest

  

 

UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
UNIVERSITY

By PAUL FOUTCH
Editor

 

 

 

The fencing team, which has been operating on
the club level for nine years and was hoping to
become a varsity sport by providing the athletic
department with its fourth women’s team, won’t
be rising to the varsity level after all, according to
a decision made by University President John D.
Wilson.

Wilson said yesterday that his decision was bas-
ed on an athletic budget that is supporting 13 male
varsity sports, three female varsity sports, and
women’s team sports like basketball and lacrosse
that will become necessary as the number of
women at Washington and Lee increases,

“We have a big agenda before us,”’ Wilson said

Another consideration Wilson cited was that the
team is coached by two volunteers — University
psychologist Dr. David Worth and E.S. Humphries
of Lexington — and if the school makes a commit-
ment to a team and for some reason the coaches
stopped coaching, an added expense would be in-
curred.

“IT don’t want to do it in a half-baked way,”
Wilson said.

Worth, who has coached the team since its in
ception nine years ago, said the team is disap-
pointed but is thankful for the support it has
received.

The team applied for varsity status to the
University athletic committee two years ago,
Worth said.

“They agreed in principle, but it just wasn’t
possible,"’ he explained, because of budgetary

Money matters crush fencing’s varsity hopes

constraints.

The athletic committee voted before Christmas
to recommend that Wilson make fencing a varsity
sport, according to committee chairman and
geology Professor Samuel Kozak.

A National Collegiate Athletic Association rule
requires coeducational schools to field at least
four women’s teams. With two women members,
the team applied for varsity status again.

‘We naturally were hoping that would work
out,’ Worth said.

Even though it didn’t, Worth said he is pleased
that the team has the support of the athletic com-
mittee and that because of its efforts its members
may receive physical education credit.

Athletic Director William D. McHenry said golf
will probably be the fourth women’s team, and
that there is also interest in indoor track
 

 

 

 

OPINION
Nice try

At the time, it seemed nonsensical, bewildering, befuddling
and amazing. It still does appear to be a classic case of ‘‘open
mouth and insert foot.’’

, (@4Fttee Monday night discussed at its
enn whatunamy students would at first glance see
tls ‘a questionable action. Pictures, we were told, were torn
from a book in the library and reproduced in the Ariel, the
undergraduate literary magazine. The EC bafflingly con-
tends that there was nothing wrong with discussing the mat-
ter in public because it came to them as a disciplinary rather
than an honor matter.

If it was an act of vandalism, the Student Control Commit-
tee should have taken up the matter in private. If it were an
instance of theft and possible plagiarism, the EC should have
followed standard procedure for a secret honor investigation.
(That used to be the only kind there was). And if it was mere-
ly a stupid act by an inexperienced editor or writer, it pro-
bably wasn’t the EC’s business at all. That’s what the Univer-
sity Publications Board is for. So whichever option is correct,
it clearly was not a matter for public student body consump-
tion.

The committee, though, did not stop at describing the inci-
dent. It then went on to reveal the names of the two students
they plan to question regarding the incident. It was every-
thing you would think a preliminary investigation ought to in-
clude: the alleged action, the names of the people involved
and a call for further information. Yet the EC had let the pro-
verbial cat out of the bag by violating the confidentiality of a
possible honor matter — the very confidentiality about which
the committee recently has been crowing so self-righteously.

We urge the Publications Board to consider the Ariel alle-
gations seriously. Only by policing its own ranks in a profes-
sional manner can it preclude EC intervention in the internal
affairs of student publications. The committee, in turn,
should respect the board’s jurisdiction. Monday night’s cir-
cus in the EC room seemed amateur and unnecessary.

The Ariel editor — like any student officer — is not exempt
from the Honor System. At the same time, though, he de-
serves the same fair treatment, and due process should be
the rule — not the exception — in such cases.

We could repeat the adage that given enough rope, fools
hang themselves. We could say that the pristine image erect-
ed by the EC after a recent meeting about publication of in-
formation regarding a student bodv honor hearing has been
tarnished and that the men in white look a bit soiled.

But we won’t: the facts speak for themselves.

Why did the EC handle this particular case in this manner?
Why were the facts of this particular case presented in a
public meeting? It is one matter to discuss facts of a par-
ticular honor case after it has been tried publicly — or even to
publish those facts — but it is an entirely different matter to
discuss in a public forum the details of what might even hint
of a possible honor matter.

We hope that in the future the EC opens an investigation
before it opens its mouth.

Upset stomach

The news that students are abusing the newly-instituted
privileges at General Headquarters is distressing for several
reasons, not the least of which is the additional indication

that the Honor System at Washington and Lee might very
well be more rumor than reality.

When the ‘Cockpit’? began allowing students on the 20-
meal contract plan and point-card holders to take their lunch
in the dimly-lit eatery instead of the Evans Dining Hall,
everyone welcomed the switch. The change in environment
and menu met with little disagreement.

This year, the renamed GHQ Tavern started a similar pro-
gram for the evening meal as well. Students flocked to
the ‘‘restaurant’’ and, for the most part, were surprised by
the good food and service.

But at the bottom of every barrel is the rotten apple, and
we seem to have quite a crop. Students, we’re told, repeated-
ly, frequently — flagrantly — abuse the system designed to
rescue the financially-ailing GHQ. By lying about their meal
plan, eating the same meal on the same day at both establish-
ments or even by refilling their drinks from the GHQ at the
soft drink dispenser in the dining hall, students are cheating
the food service people. It seems to us to be of little difference
whether you refill a Coke or refresh your memory during a
test by glancing at a notebook.

Students seem to forget that the GHQ exists to serve
students and members of the community, and cheating the
establishment out of a few pennies here or a meal there will
only hurt students in the long run — especially when the GHQ
closes because it cannot operate at a profit.

Deceit is deceit, and the Honor System — whether alive or
ailing or deceased — cannot coexist with students who mock
it.

ee
Che Ring-tum Phi

 

DIRT 6a. s ist ccescsvccdeebcssscceetensssrcGeeeis) csepteees: Mike Allen
LL EUPPTESUT TE Cee PPLERE LETTER er or reir ye Paul Foutch
Cotton Puryear
WRI I 5 oc ccc rvce rcv cece ccesscecceserscctisessssssssts Reade Williams
I I ibn io cece e idea ek ewes ctdeedpssesewesscectiovesdast Mike Stachura
WOGPITUAT ARO TINIE oon ccc ccc rece cccscecccceeteccvccscseceeceee Nelson Patterson
TR G4 ao 6 S84 6 0h bs O85 ou eens ccc eg tdes erieacescsscsceeraas Jim Strader
i hake 6 heigbecd ceeas Wien eects diets iii nied iva Chris Bowring
te A igo ois os cuties versions eses cre piveescesccubens Jeff Kimbell
WEE Foi kirc oe heehee 0 88) bcc eer aerie dienes sees Hank Greenberg
A Keri Hinrichs
John Feyrer
Jay Reville
ee Seer re i Matt Horridge

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and businéss manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 200 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run, Or send them to The
Ring-tum Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

 

 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, January 9, 1986

 

Method 219: Continue to Drop/Add ’til February; Change your major twice
(by that time the road to Goshen Pass should be completed).

 

 

Honor system deserves public forum

 

MY VIEW

By Tom Maguire

 

In the weeks immediately
preceding the Christmas holiday,
there was an exhibition of photo-
graphs by Emile Zola (1840-1902) on
display in the library. I was some-
what surprised, though, by the vio-
lently anti-Zola graffiti that began
appearing in the library elevators. I
knew that Zola was a bit radical for
the political tastes of most Washing-
ton and Lee students — none of
whom, I dare say, are often caught
by shocked fraternity brothers in the
act of reading French social novels
or the great polemic ‘‘J’Accuse.”’

The graffiti did not abate with the

lc

passage of a week; in fact, it prolifer-
ated. Finally, I made the connection
that would have struck me earlier,
had it not been for the confusion caus-
ed by the posters advertising the
photographic exhibition: Emile was
the wrong Zola.

Without delving into the immaturi-
ty of writing on walls, it is clear that
the elevator doors in the library have
become the W&L equivalent of the
wall posters in Peking (or is it Beij-
ing, now?). Over the years, I have
seen statements that were anti-Rea-
gan (rare, but gratifying), anti-Mon-
dale (amusing), anti-women (stu-
pid), and anti-Wilson (preposterous).
However, this last round of scribbl-
ings has been the most thought-pro-
voking, at least for me.

Whether or not one believes that
the Honor System is operating pro-
perly (and my opinions on this mat-
ter have been oft-stated in this

space), it would seem that discus-
sions about the workings of the Honor
System can only serve to strengthen
it. But it is this very discussion the
Executive Committee wishes to
quell: Perhaps the EC fears that ar-
ticles in The Ring-tum Phi concern-
ing ‘‘open” honor hearings will ex-
pose the EC to ridicule. Whatever the
reasons, attempts to prohibit an open
debate on ‘‘open trials” would defeat
an ancillary purpose of such hear-
ings, which is to reveal to the student
body the methods by which the Honor
System is enforced and justice (for
that is what it is) meted out.

A newspaper is supposed to serve
as a means for debate. Editorials,
columns, and letters to the editor are
parts of this debate. The news report-
ing provides the foundation for the
debate, as otherwise discussion can
be based only on rumor and half-
truth. By banning any mention of

A RECENT STUDY SAYS BEER
IN MODERATION MAY BE GOOD
FoR YouR HEALTH.

 

lh’? OS

 

 

 

 

 

BEER. MAYBE

THAT'S THE SECRET.

Over Me guermo weW!
UPAVERIAL PRECS SWAID.

To the editors:

 

I’m writing to address the ridiculous practice
of placing W&L women on pedestals above
women of the neighboring colleges. Though other
administrators have done this in the past,
nothing can touch the statement made by Assoc-
iate Dean of Students Anne C.P. Schroer in the
Dec. 12 issue of The Phi. She is quoted as saying
that W&L women are ‘“‘much more independent”’
than women at area colleges. The Phi took this to

mean that “they have more confidence to ex-
press their values than students who have been
less successful academically and socially.’’ This
must sound great to the area women’s colleges,
hearing that they are inferior to the goddesses
we are blessed with here at W&L.

As W&L has such high criteria for admission, I
must concede that the W&L girl may be academ-
ically more successful. However, to say that this
superiority carries over to social aspects is
something I find humorous. W&L girls would do

BEER. MAYBE
THAT'S THE SECRET,

 

MODERATION. MAYBE
THAT'S THE SECRET

 

Reader says take W&L women off pedestal

well to take lessons in that area from the
women’s colleges.

I have no complaint against the female stu-
dents at W&L. The problem lies with the admin-
istration’s belief that these women are a super
race that are far from the reach of other female
students in the area, I only hope the women here
are intelligent enough not to believe this.

open honor hearings in The Phi, the
EC would protect itself from criti-
cism. However, it would also deal a
blow to the freedom we have to con-
Sider the EC’s actions and the effec-
tiveness of the Honor System. A
move by the EC to restrict the source
of news important to W&L students,

-

and thus to weaken the foundation of .

debate, would be tyrannical, uncons-
cionable and dangerous. It should be
opposed by all members of the W&L
community. Surely the EC can recog-
nize the untenable nature of the posi-
tion it has recently espoused.

To use a word that is oft-misused,
censorship of debate about open
Honor hearings is un-American, and
should be rejected. Let us take
debate out of the elevators, and put it
in The Phi, in the dorms and the fra-
ternities, where it can serve to im-

~

prove the system by which we govern

ourselves.

 

 

Michael C. Holifield
Class of ’89

 

 

 
 

‘

 

The Ring-tum Phi, January 9, 1986

 

 

 

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

A police officer looks for cars parked over the two-hour limit

 

By MATT HORRIDGE
Staff Reporter

 

Junior Timothy Friedman has the
dubious distinction of having a city
ordinance written because of a case
he brought to court.

Friedman said that on Sept. 27, he
went to move his car, parked oppo-
site the Dutch Inn, before the police
officer who put a chalk mark on his
tire came back and ticketed him for
parking there longer than the two-
hour limit. He said he ‘‘happened to
see the mark on the tire’ and erased
it.

The police officer observed Fried-
man erasing the mark and charged
him with obstruction of justice.
Friedman said the officer explained
that there was no way he could do his
job if people erased the marks.

So begins the story of the common
citizen who beat the system.

But you can’t do it anymore. Fried-
man went to Lexington General
District Court on Oct. 8 and was
found guilty of the charge by Judge
Joseph E. Hess. Friedman said he
paid the $30 fine and also paid the $20
fee for filing an appeal on the advice
of his father, a lawyer in Baltimore.

On Nov. 15, Friedman, his parents,
and Lexington attorney Bernard Nat-
kin went to Rockbridge Circuit Court
to appeal his earlier conviction.

Friedman said that ‘‘they were try-
ing to get me on a felony.”’ He said he
felt the charge was ‘‘so petty it was
absolutely ridiculous.”

Friedman said that Natkin’s basic
argument was that if a chalk mark
was placed on a car, it was then part
of the car and was therefore property
of the car owner. Judge George E.
Honts III agreed and overturned the
lower court’s decision.

The story does not end there, how-
ever. The Lexington City Council last
month adopted an ordinance that
deals with the erasure of chalk
marks because, according to Mayor
Charles F. Phillips Jr., there was “‘no
ordinance that provided for the
marking of tires.”’

 

 

 

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

A student returns to find his car being ticketed on Lee Avenue this week

The addition to the Lexington City
Code, Section 14-88.21, states that
parking on city streets implies con-
sent that marks can be placed, with-
out damage to the auto, on an auto so
that police officers can determine the
amount of time a car has been park-
ed in one place. ‘‘Any person obliter-
ating, erasing or removing such
mark, code or device shall be guilty

Placement personnel changes continue

 

By SEAN BUGG
Staff Reporter

 

In the lastest development in the
University Center staff changes that
began last month with the resigna-
tion of recruitment coordinator
Carole Chappel, the secretary in the
dean of students’ office will replace
Chappel and Placement Consultant
Stephen P. Bredin will leave the
University at the end of this
academic year.

. The, shifts were announced. this
week by Michael A. Cappeto, assoc-
iate-dean of students and director of
placement.

After leaving the dean of students
office next week, Penny Henneman
will assume the duties of recruitment
coordinator and office manager for
career development and placement.

Patricia Fallon, who has been the
secretary at R.E. Lee Memorial Ep-
sicopal Church for the last six years,
will replace Henneman.

Cappeto said he was ‘‘delighted’’

 

NEWS BRIEFS
Late calendar delays grades

 

that Henneman,has taken, the posi-
tion, noting that “‘she has very ex-

cellent mariaégerial and *administra- °

tive skills this job will call for.”’

“I’m very pleased to be making the
move,” Henneman said. She said she
is looking forward to working with
the students and others in the depart-
ment.

Henneman said her first major
project will be working with recruit-
ers that will be on the campus in
January, February and March.

Cappeto said her position will also

 

Staff Report

 

Fall term grades, delayed by an unusually late exam
week, didn’t make it home to some anxious students
and parents until after the students had returned to
school for this term, causing some complaints.

University Registrar D. Scott Dittman said the
grades were sent out Jan. 2, after the usual period from
the end of the term, Dec. 20.

“We didn’t get any grades until the 23rd,” he said.

One part of the process that takes up time is sending
the report cards to the dean of students office for per-
sonal remarks, Dittman said.

Because of the lateness of last term’s calendar,
statistical breakdowns of the grades by class, fraternity
and sex won’t be ready until next week.

Lynchburg alumnus killed

Dr. George B. Craddock,
a 1930 alumnus and a pro-
minent Lynchburg physi-
cian for 42 years, died Dec.
11 after being struck by two
cars while crossing the
street.

Craddock, 77, was
awarded an honorary doc-
torate of science in June by
Washington and Lee. He
was also a recipient of the
W&L Distinguished Alum-
nus Award and was a mem-
ber of the alumni Board of
Directors.

: . : Police said Craddock and
GEORGE B. CRADDOCK his wife were going to a
Christmas party when he dropped her off at the door,
parked, and tried to cross the street back to the party.
Craddock was struck by a car that threw him into the
other lane, where he was hit by another car.

He was pronounced dead at the scene. No charges
have been filed.

Craddock’s two sons, George B. Craddock Jr. and
Theodore J. Craddock, also graduated from W&L.

 

EC discusses honor, funding

“There’s not much tonight,’ President John Lewis
said at the start of Monday’s Executive Committee
meeting. ‘‘We’ll get you out of here quickly.”

Before he did, though:

*The EC officially revised the Honor System guide

lines to include a provision discouraging media cover-
age of student body honor hearings. The revision to the
“White Book” initially was approved at the last
meeting ; a second vote was needed for final passage.

*The EC “unfroze”’ the funds of the Washington and
Lee Journal of Science. According to EC Vice President
Andrew Caruthers, ‘‘they haven’t spent anything.” The
Journal of Science is scheduled for publication in the
spring.

—Jason Lisi

Washington prints to be shown

Twenty-eight selected prints of George Washington
will be on exhibit in duPont Gallery from Jan. 13 to Feb.
13.

The prints on exhibit were selected from a collection
of over 700 prints of Washington given to the University
in 1984 by the Joseph Carson family of Philadelphia.

Stanley Preston Lewis, a 1985 graduate of W&L and
guest curator of the exhibit, selected the 28 prints,
which represent some of the most significant images of
the collection. Lewis wrote his senior thesis in art
history on this collection.

Dana Foundation awards grant

The Charles A. Dana Foundation has awarded Wash-
ington and Lee a $290,000 grant to support three new
junior tenure track appointments in engineering, math-
ematics and computer science.

The University has agreed to match the grant with its
own support for an experimental 10-year phased retire-
ment program to be available on an optional basis to
full-time faculty members who reach the age of 66 dur-
ing the 10-year period. Under the plan, a faculty mem-
ber who reaches age 66 could elect to teach half of a full-
time number of classes while a newly trained Ph.D.
would teach the other half under the direction of the
senior professor.

Dean of the College John W. Elrod said the new retire-
ment plan will create continuity on the faculty as senior
professors retire and new faculty members are hired.

Council approves dorm plan

The Lexington City Council on Dec. 19 approved the
University plan to build a 249-bed dormitory on West
Nelson Street. The unanimous vote clears the way for
site preparation this month. Actual construction is
scheduled to begin in April and completion is expected
in November. Plans for the dorm include 150 parking
spaces

 

include working on resume clinics for
students at some future date.

** Platefiént Consultarit’Bredin said
he came over with the understanding
he would work for three years and
that time is up.

Cappeto said “that it certainly has
nothing to do with displeasure with
him.”

“I wish he could stay ten more
years,’’ Cappeto said.

Bredin said the purpose of his job
was to ‘develop a better network
with employers.”’

of a misdemeanor...’ the code goes
on to state.

How does the cause of all this feel
about the ordinance?

“T think you should be allowed to
wipe it [a chalk mark] off,’’ Fried-
man said. But, he added, “I think it’s
good it’s a misdemeanor’”’ as opposed
to a felony, with which he had origi-
nally been charged.

 

 

 

 

PENNY HENNEMAN

Lexington Police Chief L.O. Sutton
said that W&L students were a fairly
large part of the chalk-erasing pro-
blem. He added that such an action
seemed like it could be a potential
violation of the Honor System.

Sutton said the statute people had
been charged under prior to the coun-
cil’s new law was interfering with an
officer in the discharge of his duty.

 

 

 

 

STEPHEN BREDIN

 

What do

you think

of the food
and service

at General
Headquarters?

Interviews by
SYDNEY MARTHINSON

Photographs by
HANK MAYER

 

 

TALKBACK

 

 

Greg Turley, junior, Austin,
Texas: ‘The service is all right
—fair. Some of the food is good;
the dinner specials get a little mo-
notonous. Cheeseburgers are
good. I think they ought to
lengthen the happy hour. One
night a week? Come on! Prices
are pretty good and it’s good you
can use your point card,”’

Alston Parker, freshman, Bal-
timore: It’s sort of distressing to
go into GHQ thinking you have
enough time to make your meet
ing which starts in an hour and a
half, and having to leave before
getting to your food, because you
don’t want to be late.”’

 

Brad Stengel, senior, Darnes-
town, Md.: I’d say that the food
is normally good, especially for
the price. The service is usually
too slow or too fast, but they’ve
gotten better since they started
serving dinner.”

 

 

 

 

Walker McKay, junior, Colum-
bia, S.C.: ‘‘I just ate a cheesebur-
ger. What can you do with a
cheeseburger? I thought it was
good. I thought the service was
quick. | wasn’t there during rush
hour.”

 

 

Will McNair, sophomore, Char
lotte, N.C.: ‘‘First of all, call it
‘The Cockpit’; second of all, the
food’s mediocre; and, finally, the
service hurts.”’

 

 
 

alee «6's

Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, January 9, 1986

 

 

 

Graduation party

 

By Steve Sadier/The Ring-tum Phi

Graduating senior Luis Sa, second from the right, and
his adviser, politics Professor William Buchanan, left,
talk with English Professor Sidney M.B. Coulling at a
going-away party for Sa held Monday in the Alumni
House. Sa will be returning to his native Brazil after
graduating in December. Public Service Librarian

Peggy Hays and Serials Librarian Heline Harrison, who
is also Brazilian, organized the party, which is traditional
for a graduating student in Brazil. The two librarians
provided the food themselves. Hays said they organized
the party because Sa had become such a fixture in the
University Library.

Coeducation may spread
to housing in Lexington

 

By SYDNEY MARTHINSON
Staff Reporter

 

Coeducational housing — situations in which men and
women will live together in situations that are ‘‘not
necessarily romantically linked’? — may be just around
the corner for Washington and Lee.

Assistant to the President Frank A. Parsons said the
“evolution of sibling relationships”’ that he perceives in
the freshman dormitories this year likely will continue
outside campus facilities in the next few years.

“As the number of women increases, we will probably
find relationships developing where coed situations ex-
ist,”’ he explained.

Results of a survey of freshman women to determine
their preliminary housing preferences for next year will
not be available for ‘‘some time,’’ Parsons said.

The questionnaires, mailed during the Christmas holi-
day, were to be turned in to the office of the dean of
students this week. The women were asked to answer one
of two sections on the survey, depending on whether they
hope to live in University housing or off-campus housing
next year.

“We will evaluate them and make decisions about how
many sophomore accomodations the University will need
to make,”’ Parsons said. ‘‘We’ll also look into whether or
not we’ll need to make any sort of special arrangements
and just what these arrangements might be.”

Parsons added that the University will try to make it
possible for all women to live on campus, without depriv-
ing them of living where they choose. One option Parsons
noted is for the University to make Baker dormitory
available for any sophomores who choose on-campus
housing. Baker would also be available for overflow from
the other dormitories in furture freshman classes. It is
now reserved for law students.

In addition to the plans for Baker, Parsons said Davis

dorm may be changed as well. ‘We hope to undertake
modifications in Davis to eliminate the overcrowding
that we experienced this year,’’ he said.

Some rooms in Davis and Graham-Lees that previously
were single-occupancy rooms were made into doubles
this year. To alleviate the crowding problem, singles in
Davis will be made into doubles with the construction of
sleeping lofts. The built-in furniture in those rooms made
that impossible this year.

According to H. Robert Huntley, dean of freshmen, the
new dormitory will be built across the street from War-
ner Center will probably be open by fall of 1987. The dorm
will hold about 250 students and will be divided into suites
of two, four, and six students. Construction is scheduled
to begin in April.

Though women have the option of choosing to live in
off-campus housing, Parsons said he felt that women
students were ‘‘not eager to live in the country.”

Freshman Erin Cosby echoed that sentiment, saying
that “‘it’s a pain to drive and find parking, and I like to
roll out of bed and go to class.’’ Cosby and her roommate,
Anna Hampton, have already been to a real estate agent
to find information about housing in Lexington.

“‘We told him we wanted something nearby campus,
for three or four people, and furnished. He was hesitant to
rent to underclassmen,”’ said Cosby. ‘‘I don’t think any of
the girls realize how hard it’s going to be to find furnished
places.”’

The Woods Creek apartments will remain available for
housing and offer space for 178 students. Another option
that may be open to women in the near future is sorority
houses.

Elizabeth Cummins, a freshman, and four other
women students have drafted a questionnaire to distri-
bute to the freshman women to find out what their feel-
ings about sororities are. Cummins said that after con-
ducting the survey, she hopes to work toward establish-
ing a Greek system for W&L women.

Local color

History professor’s guests hear tales of the past

 

By JOHN CUMMINGS
Special to The Phi

 

‘‘T wasn’t sure what to make of him
at first, until I got to know him,”’ said
Dubois Thompson, a Washington and
Lee sophomore and frequent dinner
guest of Dr. Charles W. Turner, pro-
fessor emeritus of history.

“T used to think he was a little ec-
centric, but I don’t think so anymore;
he’s very sincere, dedicated and
helping to the students at W&L.”’

“Why teach history? Well, maybe
it’s because I couldn’t do anything
else,’ Turner joked. ‘But I’ve
always enjoyed telling stories and
trying to tell them as accurately as I
can.”

Turner, so far, has written 18 books
and some 50 articles in his field,
focusing mainly on Virginia history,
many having to do with W&L in par-
ticular. ‘I’ve got one in the oven now
about the Liberty Hall Volunteers,
Capt. John Newton Lyle in particu-
lar, but I’m slow as molasses in the
wintertime.”

Those who don’t know him well
may still call Turner ‘‘eccentric,”
but his charming sense of humor and
taste for a good bourbon set him in
the category of a real-life Virginia
gentleman.

Born and bred in the small town of
Fredericks Hall in Louisa County,
Turner attended public schools and
gained entrance to the University ot
Richmond. There he earned a bache-
lor’s degree in history in 1937 and

won the J. Taylor Ellison Medal for
his research on Virginia railroads.

After teaching history in the local
schools in Louisa County during the
depression, Turner earned his mas-
ter’s at the University of North Caro-
lina at Chapel Hill with concentration
on Virginia railroads.

With a meager $250 in his pocket,
Turner set out to the University of
Minnesota in 1943 to earn his doc-
torate. He spent half the money in
travel expenses by bringing an aunt
along with him.

While studying there, he got jobs
teaching military history to young
enlistees, peeling potatoes and wash-
ing dishes in a local co-op to make
ends meet. After he finished his
thesis, again on railroads in Virginia,
in 1946, a job opened at W&L teaching
history, and Turner was glad to
return to his home state. He’s been
here ever since, teaching everything
from Middle East history to Latin
American and American history.

Turner recalls from early in his
W&L career frequently eating at the
table of Miss Lizzy Graham, who liv-
ed on Letcher Avenue and often in-
vited the bachelor professors to be
her guests.

“The food was excellent,”’ Turner
remembered, ‘‘but she herself didn’t
cook, of course; she had a chef and
servants.”

Turner’s frequent dinner guests,
however, will remember that he him-
self cooked them excellent meals.
Many of them are students from the
W&L chapter of Lambda Chi Alpha,

which initiated him into the brother-
hood in 1947 for the purpose of ap-
pointing him their adviser.

“Oh, I was too poor to be a fraterni-
ty brother in college,’’ he said. He
served the chapter diligently for 36
years under the fitting nickname
“High Pi,” and “had lots of good
times at the house,’ as he put it.

“TI remember when he used to
come out and talk to everyone at the
house,”’ recalled W&L senior Dabney
Overton.

‘*He’d sit down in the wingback and
twist a rubber band while he talked.
He always had something on his
mind —a sharp mind, always willing
to teach, even outside the class-
room.”’

Turner has not remained stagnant
in this community, though: travel
has been one of his favorite pastimes.

But this hobby is a means of study
in itself for the conscientiousness and
up-to-date history buff. His extensive
travels throughout Europe and the
Americas with students and friends,
as well as his frequent research on
the latest historical developments,
have kept Turner busy during school
breaks.

Turner has been in retirement for
the past three years but is working
for W&L on a library of oral historv.

Junior Charles Nusbaum works
with Turner on this project. “Dr.
Turner’s insight into the usefulness
of oral history from the W&L commu-
nity and Rockbridge County will tell
the story of our times to people 50
years hence.”’

 

Ariel

Continued from Page 1

 

funds until they can tell us what hap-
pened,” sophomore representative
Pat Schaeffer said.

“We will discuss the Ariel thing
when we have the people in front of
us,’’ Lewis concluded.

Strickland said the purpose of
meeting with the EC next week was
to discuss the financial condition of
the Ariel. However, Caruthers, who
administers student body funds, said
the Ariel was not scheduled to make
a budget report.

Brown, the librarian, said she was
very upset when she. learned of the
damage to the Scavullo book. ‘‘I was
sick about it,’’ she’ said. ‘I was
disturbed that it would happen.”’

“T have not ever seen a situation
like this before,’ she added. ‘‘It’s
more common to have mutilation in
journals or periodicals.”

The editor said he was to have a
meeting with Brown yesterday,
although she said he did not have an
appointment scheduled. ‘‘She’s going
to be pretty p---ed,”’ Strickland noted.

He said it was not possible to give
the pictures to his printer without
removing them. “I could not have
given them the book,’’ Strickland
stated. “I would have to remove
them.”

Although Strickland said he had
received telephone permission from
Scavullo’s studio to reprint the pic-
tures, there was no acknowledgment
of the consent or photo credit on the
two pages. “I thought it would be
pretty self-explanatory,’ he said.

Burke, a freshman from Yardley,
Penn., said she earlier had “‘tried to

4

 

 

sell the interview to a major
magazine but they turned down my
offer.” She then submitted it to the
Ariel, which published it as the lead
article in its Winter 1985 issue.

Burke said she ‘took a lot of the
questions that I used from an inter-
view that a colleague of mine on [a
high school literary magazine] used
for his interview with Hal Prince, the
big director.’’ She said those ques-
tions gave her ideas for other ques-
tions.

The article is preceded by a 16-line

introduction in italics that Burke said
Strickland took directly trom a
media handout.

“To tell you the truth...the in-
troduction...is a direct quote from a
press release,’’ she said. ‘‘Bob took
care of that.... I said...to introduce
the interview, do whatever you
want.”

“He said, ‘Well, I really like this
press release; there’s nothing wrong
with this. Let me just put the press
release in, which is good, because it
Says the right thing; it’s terrific.’
And you don’t have to footnote press
releases. As far as I know.”

Burke said she resented having her
article scrutinized. ‘I’m angry and
my pride is hurt,” she said. “I don’t
have to copy.”

The University Publications
Board, composed of the editors and
business managers of four under-
graduate publications, has scheduled
a special meeting for Sunday night to
discuss the incident.

“Something like this obviously is
embarrassing for the ‘Pub Board,’ ”
said senior Mike Allen, president of
the board. ‘Any time there’s a possi-
ble misrepresentation in one of our
publications, it’s a serious matter.”

GENERAL

DH®

3
24pguartT®™

G7

 

 

 

 

+

 

Live Entertainment
This Week

 

Chinese and
American Cuisine

   

The Finishing Touch
Located in the U.S. Post

  

A Exotic Cocktails ’ ot ;

LOHKA WOK Carry-out Service Office Building, Lexington Thursday - Phil Hodges - Tape Show

409 South Main St., et oe vats 24450 Available Frida . Band . "Th t Q 9 ofThe” .
ey Open Tuesday through Sunday 463-1622 : suaee : ee

Luncheon 11:30 - 2:30
Dinner 5 - 10

Saturday Open 4 - 10
Sunday Lunch Buffet 12 - 2:30

Saturday - Band - “Charisma” - 9 P.M.-1 A.M.

q ys

Typing and Word
Processing Services

 

 

 

 

Frank’s Pizza

| oe
eorge’s Hairstylis

since 1963

 

Luncheon Special 11-3 a
Experience Really Is The Best Teacher’’

 

10’ Minipizza w/1 topping

 

   

Redken Nexus
Walk in or phone for appointment

Mon.-Fri, 463-39

   

The W&L
Snack Bar

   

10’ Minipizza w/3 toppings

 

  

plus
Free Drink

 
  

Valley True Value Hardware

 

"na be Every night a different
*-- Special throughout
January

463-7575 or 463-3133

$1 OF F

HARDOW.

 

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

Sunday-Thursday 8 p.m. to 11 p.m.

E. Nelson St.
463-2186

Large Pizza

SPO PT LENS Re PS SRS AE PET A APY NY OP TEE PT AE Se SG

Mon, - Sat. 8:30-6:68
Sun.1-5

a ae Be? ae aS

 

 

 

 
 

*

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Offices may change hands
with C-School faculty shift

 

By JIM STRADER
News Editor

Accommodating certain personnel changes in the Com-
merce School faculty next year may make some office
shifting necessary, according to Edward C. Atwood Jr.,
dean of the C-School.

Atwood said yesterday that up to four additional offices
will be needed next year and that presently there is no
empty office space in the building. :

The offices will be for the new faculty members and for
Atwood, who is stepping down from his position as
dean of the C-School

not be the case.

ed at this point.

Although Atwood’s replacement as dean has not been
chosen, if he comes from the W&L faculty, his office
would open up for one of the new faculty members. If the
replacement is from outside the University, this would

There are several options under considerafion to open
up office space, Atwood said, but nothing has been decid-

Among those options are making the first floor offices
of University Proctor Charles F. Murray and Dean of
Students Lewis G. John into offices for the new teachers.
John also has an office in Payne Hall, and, Atwood said,

has been told about the space problems.

The new faculty members will be:

e An East Asian economist, who will come to
Washington and Lee through a grant from the Mellon
foundation.

« A part-time political science professor to teach some
of the classes now taught by Professor William
Buchanan, who will begin an early retirement program
of half-time teaching next year through a grant from the
Dana Foundation.

¢ An economist to teach Atwood’s course’s while he is

on leave next year. Atwood said.

Another consideration is to change some small study
rooms into offices, as well as a room used by W&L
students involved in a business case-study competition
run by Emory University in Atlanta.

Atwood said there are no plans to convert classrooms
into offices, and said he was surprised to learn there was
discussion on campus about C-School office space. :

“I thought I was the only one who had thought of that,’

Mollenhoff returns from England

essary cost overruns and illegal bil-

 

By SAMUEL FOLEY ling practices such as the ones that

Staff Reporter were alleged against General Dyna-
mics, Mollenhoff said.

The Boomer is back “The Prime Minister and the rul-

Journalism Professor Clark R.
Mollenhoff has returned to Lexington
after spending the fall term in
Europe doing research for a new
book. Mollenhoff is preparing a book
that will compare and contrast in-
vestigative reporting in the United
States and England.

He spent most of his time talking to
reporters, editors and members of
the British government to determine
how investigations are carried out in
England and how they differ from
those conducted in the United States.

The main difference he came
across is the British Official Secrets
Act. That law allows Parliament to
withhold all information on govern-
ment spending and punish those who
illegally release such information.

By threatening to punish such
“whistleblowers,” the British gov-
ernment has made it extremely diffi-
cult for reporters to uncover unnec-

ing party control and dominate the
Parliamentary committees in a man-
ner that virtually eliminates the
possibility of any deep objective in-
vestigation of executive department
spending, operations or decisions,”
Mollenhoff explained. ‘“They don’t
have -the independent investigation
bodies to investigate these cases.”’

He adds that even if a reporter
were able to get all the information
on a scandal, he may not be able to
print the story because the press in
England does not have the kind of
protection that is given to the Ameri-
can press under the First Amend-
ment.

Mollenhoff said, though, that even
with those drawbacks, England —
after the United States — has the
most open press system in the world.

After more than three months

‘abroad, Mollenhoff, a former Pulit-
zer Prize-winning investigative re-

Two fraternities report

lar forced entry and burglary. The
110 W. Preston St. residence was
entered between Dec. 20 and Jan. 4,
and an estimated $400 in property
was removed and minor damage was
caused to a number of separate
rooms. Russel Shearer, Blair Severe,
and Brandt Surgner all told police
that their rooms had been ransacked.
Damage was placed at $30 for two
kicked-in doors and at approximately
$20 worth of stolen property.

 

By JOHN KALITKA
Staff Reporter

 

The Lexington Police Department
reported break-ins at two fraternity
houses over the Christmas holiday.

Lambda Chi Alpha President Tom
Hurlbut told police that a locked win-
dow on the east side of his fraternity
house at 225 E. Nelson St. had been
broken and that a $200 stereo recei-
ver was removed from the premises
sometime between Jan. 1 and Jan. 5.

Sigma Phi Epsilon reported a simi-

An official report is pending on pro-
perty stolen from the rooms of Rick
Robins, Neil Rankin and David At-
kinson. Police estimate that at least

117 West Nelson Street Lexington, Virginia

Entire Stock of Sheet Music
Entire Stock of Song Books
Off-Chart Singles

 

Tee

WILLSON-
WALKER f} |
HOUSE

Restaurant}

 

 

 

 

 

 

=

A CHAMPAGNE BRUNCH

Sundays
12:00-2:30

 

 

 

 

 

Open Tuesday through Saturday
Lunch 11:30-2:30, Dinner 5:30-9:00
Reservations requested for dinner
Closed Monday.

30 N. Main St.
Lexington, Virginia 24450
703-463-3020

 

 

 

 

CLARK MOLLENHOFF

porter with The Des Moines Register,
is glad to be home. ‘Oxford is
beautiful but Lexington is a great
place to come back to,”’ he said.

burglaries

another $385 worth of property was
taken from their rooms.

Chief of Police L.O. Sutton said
both fraternities were well secured,
but that discouraging burglaries over
extended periods such as the holi-
days is difficult. There are no sus-
pects in either of the break-ins,a fact
Sutton attributes to ‘‘stale evidence.”

In a separate incident, an officer
patrolling Lee Avenue reported that
a parking sign was vandalized some-
time around 10a.m. Saturday, Jan. 4,
in an area near the W&L campus.
Damage has been placed at $30.

 

The Ring-tum Phi, January 9, 1986, Page 5

 

The Ring-tum Phi is starting a
Classifieds section as a service to
its readers. Notices from non-pro-
fit organizations will be run free of
charge, in the style of the old
“General Notes,’’ under the head-
ing ““Announcements.”’ Classified
ads can be taken out under the
headings ‘‘Merchandise,”’ ‘‘Hous-
ing,”’ “Employment,” and ‘‘Per-
sonals."’ The deadline is Tuesday

at 5 p.m. for that Thursday’s
paper.
Announcements

Washington and Lee’s Army
ROTC Department is offering
two- and three- year scholarships.
All freshmen and sophomores,
whether they are presently enroll-
ed in ROTC or not, are eligible to
compete. Application deadline is
Feb. 1. For more information con-

tact Major Mike Cullen at
463-8480
The Washington and Lee

University ROTC Rangers are
sponsoring a Taco Party tomor-
row at 3:30 in the Military Science
Building. All cadets and any
freshmen or sophomores are in-
vited to attend.

First Union National Bank of
Charlotte, N.C., invites all in-
terested seniors to a cocktail par-
ty next Thursday at 7 p.m. in the
Alumni House.

Due to construction of the new
dormitory on the old Coke plant
site, freshmen are requested to
move their cars to a new parking
lot, located just under the foot-
bridge across Route 60. Faculty,
dorm counselors and commuting
students should park in the former
freshman lot, located across from
the Coke plant. Freshmen will be
ticketed starting Monday, Jan. 13,
if they remain in their old lot.

University Proctor Charles F.
““Murph”’ Murray says the student
who called about a stolen bicycle
may retrieve it at the police sta-
tion.

 

CLASSIFIEDS

The Student Activities Board,
Calyx '85 and Contact have
reports due to the Executive Com-
mittee at its Monday night meet-
ing at7 p.m.

Students wishing to apply to be
dormitory counselors for next
year should pick up an application
form from Mrs. Henneman in the
Dean of Student’s Office, com-
plete it, and return it to her by
noon, Wednesday, Jan. 15.

Auditions for “‘Lysistrata’’ by
Aristophanes, the University
Theatre’s winter production, will
be held Jan. 9 and 10 at 7 p.m. in
the theater on the corner of Main
and Henry streets. “Lysistrata,”
the best known of the classic
Greek comedies, concerns the ef-
forts of Greek wives to stop the
war between Athens and Sparta
by “going on strike.’’ There are
parts for 12 women and 12 men,
and the script, which will be based
on the Douglas Parker transla-
tions, is available at the theater
office. Call 463-8637 for informa-
tion.

Concerts

Junior Robert Vienneau will
present a piano recital at 8 p.m. in
Lee Chapel Tuesday, Jan. 21.
Works by Back, Chopin, Liszt and
DeBussy will be featured.

The Concert Guild will present
the Annapolis Brass Quintet,
featuring a variety of Renais-
sance and modern works, at 8
p.m. in Lee Chapel, Tuesday, Jan.
14. The public is invited, and
students are admitted free.

Meetings

WLUR-F is holding its organi-
zational meeting for this term
tonight at 7:30 in Reid Hall, Room
203. All air shifts are available,
and any student may apply. No
experience is necessary.

There will be an organizational
meeting for the W&L Journal of
Science next Thrusday in Room
301, Parmly Hall, at 7 p.m. All
those interested in writing or con-
tributing their efforts are en-
couraged to attend. For more in-
formation, see Guy Caldwell, J.P.
Bouffard or Craig Monroe.

There will be a MANDATORY
meeting for all chairmen of the
MDA Superdance Steering Com-
mittee tonight at 7 p.m. in the con-
ference room of the Student Cen-
ter.

Also, there will be a general
meeting for all members of the
steering committee on Tuesday,
Jan. 14, at 7 p.m. in the Con-
ference Room.

Remember, the Main Event is
only 15 days away!

Movie

Stanley Kubrick’s ‘2001: A
Space Odyssey” will be shown
Wednesday through Saturday,
Jan. 15-18, in Room 203 of Reid
Hall at 7 p.m., sponsored by the
Politics film festival.

 

 

 

 

 

   

  
  
         

 

Visa

 

 

115 S. Main Street

VARNER & POLE

Furniture Dealers

463-2742

‘For your extra pieces of furniture’

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Geta
60-minute
KIS.

 

THOMAS C. BRADSHAW II
Photographist - Frame Shop - Kis Mini Lab
7 North Main Street
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

 

No more waiting days for your prints to come.

Kis Photo gives you picture-perfect prints in

just 60 minutes. Extra prints and enlargements take
just minutes. We use Kodak paper exclusively.
What's more, we do if all in our store with the
revolutionary new Kis ]-Hour Photo Processor

In only 60 minutes, it turns your 110, 126, 135

and disc film into memories that last a lifetime.

1-HOUR
PHOTO

Ke

KOdak § a registered trademark of the Enctman Kadak Comnany

 

 

Aluin-Bennts

Fine Men’s Apparel
Lexington, Virginia

Winter Clearance Saie
Now In Progress

Ceramic Items For Sale
MasterCard

Choice

 

  
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

The Shop for
PAPPAGALLO

Winter
Clearance Sale
In Progress

Shoes, Clothin-
& Accessories

23 NORTH MAIN STREET
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

463-5988

 

Free Gift Wrapping

 

 

Siudent Charge

  

 

Attention Patrons

Lloyd’s of Lexington!

Now Delivers

Until Midnight,
Within 1 mile radius,
only 50° with *6.00 minimum
Guaranteed

Fresh and Hot.

Call 463-5592

 
 

SPORTS

The Ring-tum Phi, January 9, 1986

 

Cagers ‘sluggish’
in Cortland victory

By DAVID EMRICH
Staff Reporter

 

In its first game since Dec. 11, the
Washington and = Lee basketball
squad raised its record to 4-3 going
into this weekend’s four-team W&L

Invitational Tournament with an
82-75 win over Cortland State Tues-
day night.

The win was not one of the team’s
better efforts, according to Generals’
head coach Verne Canfield, and the
effects of the layoff showed as they
were forced to go the distance with
an 0-8 Cortland State team.

The win was sealed when, with just
over two minutes remaining, soph-
omore guard Steve Hancock was
fouled. The call prompted a shout of
disbelief from Cortland State’s David
Goodridge, who was given a techni-
cal foul for the outburst. The second
call prompted a cry of protest from
Red Dragon head coach Bill Wil-
liams, who was then whistled for a
two-shot technical.

After everything was sorted out,
W&L went to the line for five consec-
utive free throws. Hancock made
both ends of his one-and-one, and Rob
Spencer hit two out of the three shots
for the technical fouls to put Carlton
down 74-64, a lead W&L never relin-
quished.

Yet, the only reason Cortland was

in a position to win that late in the
game was because W&L didn’t play
the tough inside defense that is their
trademark. The Red Dragons stayed
with the Generals for most of the first
half, and even led by as many as four
points on several occasions, on the
strength of their inside game. They
shot 75 percent from under the basket
during the first half, compared with
20 percent from the perimeter. ‘I’m
not at all pleased with the way we
played tonight,”’ said Canfield, ‘‘Es-
pecially on defense.’’

But Canfield had to be pleased with
his team’s clutch free throw shoot-
ing. It was because of this success, as
well as Cortland State’s poor perfor-
mance in the same area, that the
Generals were able to take a five-
point lead, 38-33, into the locker
room. Over the last six minutes of the
half, the Generals were a perfect 7-7
From the line, including Jefferson
Harralson’s 4-4 shooting, while the
Red Dragons were 4-9, including an
0-4 collar from their leading scorer,
Goodridge. This streak helped turn a
four-point deficit into the lead the
Generals held at halftime.

After the intermission, W&L ex-
tended its lead to a nine by outscoring
Cortland 8-2 over the first two min-
utes. They could not, however, put
their scrappy opponent away. Much

C See Hoops, Page 7

 

 

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Harmon Harden tosses in a jump hook against Cortland State

some holiday

Swimmers ring in new year with 60 miles of hard work

 

By LEIF UELAND
Staff Reporter

 

To those of us who can look back on
our winter break and cite opening a
bag of Doritos or turning on the TV
as our inajor form of exertion, the
program of the swim team might
seem a bit frightening.

Undoubtedly many of the swim-
mers themselves viewed with ap-
prehension the prospect of swimming
close to 60 miles in one week.
Regardless of the sacrifices, though,
the team as a whole appeared to
understand the necessity of the train-
ing and the resulting payoff that is
expected to come at the end of the
year.

Head coach Page Remillard com-
mented on the team’s performance
during the training period. ‘‘They
just went out and did what they had
to do because they knew what they
had to do,”’ he said. They have a clear

    
 
 
 
       
   
 
    
    
 
   

‘22 W. Nelson St.,
Lexington, Va.

 
    
    
    

       

17 S. Main St.

Storewide Clearance Sale

1/2 Off All Fall

And Winter Merchandise

463-9340

i 15% off all Valentine
! Merchandisejexcept candy)
with this coupon
|

B

Expires 1-31-86
|e Ee Be Se aN RN SNe GN OR RR A a SS SS SS es a UY al AY a

understanding of investment

returns.”

The swimmers were back at school
on Dec. 29, after a week on their own.
Training consisted of a 45-minute
weight workout at 8 a.m. At 9 a.m.,
the swimmers were in the water for
two hours. This was followed by time
to eat and sleep and then at half past
three it was back into the water until
6p.m.

“Of ten years of college coaching,
this break was the most enjoyable
and effective. Traditionally it is not
as enjoyable as it is effective,”
Remillard said of the team’s train-
ing.

Variations in the team’s training
included what is called ‘‘one hundred
hundreds,’’ which consist of swimm-
ing 10,000 yards in two-and-one-half
hours. This took place on the last day
of 1985 and as Remillard put it, “It ig
the kind of thing you only do once a
year.”

  

M.C.-Visa
American Express

    

(763) 463-2323

‘Wanna
Wanna Rock?

The team spent New Year’s Eve in
Georgetown ringing in the new year
with a much needed mental and
physical break from training. There
was little time for rest, though, as it
was back to the pool the next day for
9,000 more yards of swimming.

While the work was gruelling,
members of both the men’s and
women’s team cited the conditioning
and the increased team unity as big
benefits.

Sophomore Darrin Denny com-
mented on the week: ‘We got in a lot
of work and we got into it really
quick. I thought everyone’ attitude
was great and nobody was complain-
ing.”

Freshman Jeff Bercaw pointed out
that while the team’s constantly be-
ing together was at times a bit dif-
ficult, the week as a whole “really
brought the team closer.’’

For the next several weeks, inten-

The MDA Superdance and WLUR-FM combine to bring you
W&L’s Biggest Party Jan. 24-26. While the dancers are danc-
ing, listen to WLUR-FM for a 30-hour All Rock-quest Week-
end. Help MD out by making a donation every you make a
song request. 91.5 FM Lexington’s Listening Alternative.

 

sive training will continue to be the
team’s focus. Swimmers find relief in
the fact that, after the upcoming
weeks, they will begin to taper down
the quantity of training as they get in-
to competition.

For the time being, team mem-
bers, as Elizabeth Miles pointed out,
can look to new classes and returning
friends as a bit of mental relief from
the past week of training.

The-team.can feel some satisfac-
tion as some of its number have
made their way into the current divi-
sion rankings. Senior co-captain Tim
Stanford, in both the 100-yard and
200-yard butterfly, freshman Moose
Herring, in the 1,650-yard freestyle,
and freshman Elizabeth Miles in the
500-yard freestyle, all are ranked in
first place. Miles was also in the top
ten in two other events and both of
the men’s relay teams were in the top

  
  
 

  

 

 

CRAFTS PLUS, INC.

GAMES, HOBBIES & CRAFT SUPPLIES

Open Mon.
31S. Main St., Lexington 463-3355

~Sat., 10-5

 

 

 

 

eee

 

A Year of Comparative Study
and World Travel

Film, Television and Social Change:
Cambridge, London, Rome, New Delhi, Poona, Bombay,
Chiangmai, Tokyo, Beijing, Shanghai, Hongkong, Los Angeles

Film and Politics:
London, Berlin, Paris, Rome, Rio, Buenos Aires,
Lima, Mexico City.

September 1986 — May 1987

Faculty from Harvard, Columbia, New York University,
University of California and Indiana University

Stanley Cavell, Robert Gardner, Wm. Rothman,
Charles Warren, Cristina Szanton, Katherine Morgan,
Victor Wallis, Robert Stamm, Eric Rentschler

Two academic programs limited to thirty students each

For further information
call Joan Tiffany collect: 617-267-8612
The International Honors Program
19 Braddock Park
Boston, MA 02116

 

 

I'd cry ‘Foul!’

 

 

... If you still think there
is some sanctity left in col-
TIME lege athletics, think again.
Somewhere between ex-
OU E ices am week and Christmas,
Se Hampden-Sydney put a
By Mike severe gash in that holier-
Stachura than-thou image that sur-
rounds Division III
athletics.

When the gentlemen’s finishing school in Farmville decid-
ed to relieve head basketball coach Don Thompson as a result of (get
this! players’ complaints, that little voice in my head — the same one
that tells me George Steinbrenner ought to be reassigned to another
galaxy — begins yammering things like ‘‘Whose team is it anyway?”’
and ‘‘Since whens does a university president get to step in and decide
how a basketball program is to handle its in-house problems?”

Before we go any further, here are the pertinent facts: Hampden-
Sydney, preseason favorites in the Old Dominion Athletic Conference,
went 1-6 to start its 1985-86 season. Then, as reported in The Richmond.
Times-Dispatch on December 18, a couple of senior captains were
disgruntled with Thompson’s handling of his coaching duties
(including his selection of starters and who would receive the most
playing time), which led to what president of the college Josiah Bun-
ting III told the Times-Dispatch was ‘‘a total breakdown of com-
munication. : The two captains were then dismissed by Thompson for
taking the team’s problems to outsiders, according to the Times-
Dispatch article. Following their dismissal, a petition calling for
Thompson’s removal was circulated among the team and then
presented to Bunting. Eight players signed the petition, five, including
at least three starters, did not. Two days later, Thompson, who had
been head coach of the Tigers for the last 12 seasons, was relieved of
his coaching duties at the college.

Bunting was unavailable for comment, but assistant to the president
David Cantlay told me that Bunting ‘did what he did in the best in-
terests of the school.’’ Cantlay said that Bunting’s decision had
nothing to do with the team’s record’ but that the president ‘had lost
faith in the coach’s ability to lead his players.”

I submit that Bunting’s loss of ‘‘faith’”’ was good, old-fashioned over-
reaction and that overreaction may have damaged permanently a
man’s career. He certainly severely tainted Thompson’s attitude
toward Division III basketball. The ex-coach told me that he would be
“very selective” if another Division III coaching job were to come up,
that in Division III can come to have too large a role in the running of a
particular athletic program.

The problem here is that Bunting was out-of-line, out of his jurisdic-
tion. Said Thompson, ‘‘I don’t know that there is a team in the country
that doesn’t have some in-house problems. I have had very few
problem-free years. ... I have never been able not to work out a pro-
blem within the squad.”

Thompson also said that this year’s problems ‘certainly could have
been worked out,”’ but that he did not feel bitter about Bunting’s deci-
sion.

“It’s just a bizarre and unfortunate thing,”’ he said.

Bizarre and unfortunate, indeed. How about just plain ‘‘wrong’’?
Imagine your economics professor deciding after the first test, on
which you received a 56 percent, that there was no way you could pass
the course and therefore you needn’t worry about attempting to pass
the course, you would just be given an F for the term. I know I’d cry
“Foul! ”

But assistant to the president Cantlay explained that the problem
had been “festering.’’ Hardly. Thompson had been at Hampden-
Sydney for 12 years, compiling a 155-125 record. He was established. If
the problem had been festering, I’m wondering why he was fired at
mid-season (why not before the season started?) and why he was fired
less than 48 hours after the disgruntled players came to the president.
Perish the thought, but it seems to me that President Bunting’s deci-
sion may have been a mite rash.

But that’s just it. In Division III, the institution is smaller, and
therefore the non-athletic administration can perceive itself as
playing a bigger role. Now, I’m all for an objective, watchful eye in the
administrateion, but notice those words were “‘objective” and ‘‘watch-
ful” and not “‘intrusive’’ and “‘interfering’.’’ Bunting turned an in-
house squabble into a volatile situation, and I don’t see how anyone
can construe such a move as a resolution to a problem.

What should he have done? I don’t think laughter would have been
out of line. No, really. Bunting should have simply patted the two com-
plainers on the head and said, ‘“‘Boys [he was being generous,
“children” would have served equally well], I think this is a matter for
you and Coach Thompson and the athletic director to talk over.” I
thought that was the purpose of delegating authority, so those closest
to the situation can give you informed opinions during a crisis.

Even if there were a great breakdown in communication, Bunting’s
role should have been one of restitution, a mediator providing a means
for the two sides to get together. If eight players sign the petition,
there must be some problem; if five players do not sign the petition, it
seems the differences could be resolved. Certainly, I see no reason to
believe the problem to be so great as to necessitate the firing of the
head coach. In other words, campers, Bunting should have pulled a
Joan Rivers ... “‘Can we talk?”

Unfortunately, it appears that to Bunting, talk is cheap, as in worth-
less. The Times-Dispatch quotes one of the players who did not sign
the petition as saying that Bunting did not talk to any of those who did
not sign the petition. Bunting said he did talk to one player, but refused
to name him.

All in all, the decision was at best ill-conceived. A conference or
some other means of discussion may have been in order, but not a fir-
ing. W&L head basketball coach Verne Canfield called the situation “‘a
travesty” and ‘“‘a gross misjustice.’’ Strong words, perhaps, but not
unfair, which is more than can be said for Bunting’s decision....

 

by John V. Lowe

<

 

x \ s - } : 7

~~ —_

Short Break for

the wener a\ S

 

 

 
we

The Ring-tum Phi, January 9, 1986, Page 7

 

 

Mark Robertson grimaces under hold from Kévin McNamara during practice

Grapplers try to gei the kinks out

 

By CHARLES T. GAY
Staff Reporter

 

After a three-week holiday layoff,
the W&L wrestling team returns to
action on Saturday when it travels to
Baltimore for the Johns Hopkins
Quadrangular.

Although the wrestlers had the op-
tion of competing individually in last
weekend’s Maryland Open, few
chose to compete and head coach
Gary Franke sees his first duty this
week as getting his grapplers into
shape.

“We're trying to get them back to
where they were before Christmas
physically. We’ve got a way to go,”
Franke said.

In reference to Saturday’s quad,
however, Franke, while admitting
“It [the layoff] is a setback,’”’ asserts
“Everybody is in the same
boat, so the break shouldn't be a fac-
i”

The Hopkins Quad will only be the
Generals’ third competition of the
season. In December, W&L had only
one dual meet, a 35-13 win over
Newport News Apprentice, coupled
with a second-place finish in the
eight-team W&L Invitational before
the break for exams. On Saturday,

the grapplers will compete in three
dual meets.

The meet will be the first away con-
test as a team for the wrestlers and
comprises half of their regular sea-
son road trips. The Generals’ next six
dates are in the friendly confines of
the Warner Center before closing out
the regular season with a trip to Pen-
nsylvania and a match with Washing-
ton and Jefferson.

Senior co-captain Brian Lifsted

S€EMS Even invie confident than his

mentor in his appraisal of the
Generals at this point in the season
Lifsted said he did a good deal] of run
ning over break, and said, ‘‘Most
guys worked out at their old high
schools in their respective home-
towns.”’

As far as this weekend goes,
Lifsted is bursting with confidence:
‘“‘We should come out with a really
good shot at winning all three match

Lexington Prescription Center
11 West Washington Street
463-9166

Welcomes Your Business

We accept charge accounts to your parents.
We will make special orders to get your brand.
Come in and get all your merchandise.

1) Prescriptions 4) Contact lens care products

2) Hair care products
3) Dental needs

 

5) Shaving products
6) Better colognes and after
shave lotion

 

 

Hoops

C Continued from Page 6

to their credit, the Red Dragons
never gave up, and they were always
in the game until their frustration
manifested itself in the technical
fouls and sealed their eighth defeat in
as many tries.

 

After the game, Canfield made no
attempt to conceal his displeasure
with his team’s performance. “We
played sluggish and uninspired. I
want to find five guys who will play

inspired basketball.” When asked if
this meant that there will be changes
in the lineup, Canfield replied, ‘“You
can count on it”

Canfield also had this to say to the
fans: “Please don’t hold this game
against us. Your support has been ex-
cellent and we appreciate it.’’ He
continued, ‘Give us another chance
and please stick with us for the rest of
the term.”

The next game for the Generals
will be Friday against Thomas Col-
lege in the opening round of the W&L
Invitational. In the other game,
Haverford College will play Nazareth

College with the winners advancing
to the finals on Saturday. Asked
about his team’s chances in that tour-
nament Canfield said, “If we don’t
play better than we played tonight,
we'll get our butts kicked!”

AROUND THE RIM: ...Goodridge
led both teams with 23 points; Har-
ralson was second with 20 ... Har-
ralson shot only 3 for 11 from the field
but 14 for 17 from the free throw line.
He was also in double figures for re-
bounds ... Freshman Lee Brading
scored a career-high 16 from his for-
ward position ... Friday’s tourna-
ment game will be carried live on
WLUR-FM (91.5).

   

Word Processing

The Computer Center will be offering classes in WordStar
and Word Perfect during January. We invite all
undergraduate students to attend.

Sue Ruley will be teaching two beginning WordStar classes
for Kaypro word processor users on Tuesday, January 14,
and Wednesday, January 22, at 7:30 p.m. in Newcomb Hall,
Room N-36B. Each class will cover formatting diskettes,
backup, and basic WordStar commands.

Two Word Perfect classes will be taught on Thursday,

 

January 16 and Tuesday, January 28, at 7:30 p.m. in Reid
Hall 3rd floor News Room for IBM/PC users. Each class
will cover formatting diskettes, backup, and elementary
word processing functions.

  

Phi Classifieds Bring Results!

Ll Lf tata

 

pe gm mgm fm fon fmm i fp fn fn i ri iol iii i ho ML Lil ial nlp ad ii ire fen fen rf fri ih ffi)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘ We expect a large response to the above listed classes, so
d .
CAMPUS 23 S. Main please sign-up as soon as possible with Joanna Meade in the
ADVERTISING REP Lexington, Va. 24450 Computer Center, X8842, Tucker Hall, from 8:30-4:30,
7 enters vo ? p Lexington Hardware Monday-Friday.
ae ane tore 29 N. Main St. __ 463-2242 We look forward to offering advanced classes in the future
__ | Work on exciting a ting programs for Old Main Street Mall S th for those of you who are experienced users of the microcom-
|__| dense as Antena ATT Lexington, Virginia outnern puters,
‘ ny and-Sierra Club. Choose your own é
800-426-8537 9. ccessories Sale Welcome
‘ 1-800-426-5537 9-5 pm.
(West Coast time) In Progress. Students
; Representative Program Cla rion 6700 Ca r Serving breakfast, lunch a too
7 see Stereo w/Dolby, and dinner for over tee
Seattle, WA 98119 Reg : $21 9.95 50 years ae aaa just fc one
' es ata $0995 Main Street, Lexington
a... 463-3612

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

}. A Saab 900s turbo, black exterior,
burgundy leather interior, sunroof,
performance package

 

           
          
    

  

°
i . i o 2. A penthouse apartment, fully
{ sind sities Sandwiches (Eat In-Take Out) ee
Lexington Gourmet Items of All Nations : :
° e ‘ on limit a t at AlVvin-
Cocktails® Wine® Beer A gg aaaiasat
Hours:
. Mon.-Sat. 9am to lam Subs@Imported Cheeses 4. An IBM PC, 256k, two disk drives,
Sunday 10am to lam monitor/printer adapter, Monochrome
monitor
oO

love, Skippy

 

 

 

 

By now you should know how to get exactly what you want. Honesty is not always
the best policy. That is, sometimes parents need a little deception to show them the truth.
The truth is that you need an IBM PC. Whether
its a word processor for a thesis or a direct link
into a mainframe, now is the time to buy.
Prices are low and the Christmas spirit of giving
is everywhere, especially at home.

  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  

 

Men’s Clearance

IBM set the industries standards when they
began production of the PC and it is still the
leading personal computer. No other MS DOS
machine maintains such an extensive software
base and such a reputation for reliability. So if
you demand the best, now is not the time to
compromise. Stick with the BUREAU. IBM.

¢ Group of Winter Suits. 1/2 Price
¢ Group of Sport Coats... 20% Off
¢ Selected Outerwear 1/2 Price

.... And while you've got them in the palm
of your hand, why not go ahead and ask for
+... everything you really want. After all once
you've got the computer you need hard
copies of your data. Knowing you want the
best we suggest the EPSON” FX-85. Epson
is to printers what IBM is to computers.
With excellent quality, long lasting durability,
a full year waranty and extremely low prices
the FX-85 is the answer. *

e Chamois Shirts

e Wool Sweaters

e Flannel Shirts

e Corduroy Slacks

e Topcoats - London Fogs
e Woolrich®

 

For more information contact Sue Ruley at the Computer Center on Campus

JACK HARTMAN

CUMPUILER CENTRE ate.

2840 Peters Creek Rd. Roanoke 362-1891 Gables Shopping Center Blacksburg 951-0802
Sales Service Software classes Support Toll Free 1-800-542-5899

 

Ladies’ Sale - 1/3 Off - Continues

College “oun Shop

| 111 W. Nelson St.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“BACK PAGE

The Ring-tum Phi, January 9, 1986

 

A look back at ’85

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
and MARK TRAINER
Staff Reporters

 

For those of you who tend to look at the past year
through rose-colored glasses, here is a list of Washington
and Lee events you might have forgotten:

Justice served again?: After allegedly boasting to
cellmate Frank Lane of torching tbe Phi Gamma Delta
fraternity house and after being identified by fourteen
witnesses, arson charges against Scot Mesner were drop-
ped on the grounds of ‘‘prosecutorial misconduct” and
“tainted identifications.’’ This gave new meaning to
“Scot free.”’

But Dad, the teacher didn’t like me: This time last
year, the average GPA for non-fraternity members was
2.736 while the average for fraternity members was 2.527.
Administrators said the gap between the two groups was
the greatest in memory.

...But the drive-in window will stay open late: In order
to ‘‘see where costs might be cut,”’ administrators deter-
mined that the library could save $20,000 a year by clos-
ing between midnight and 7 a.m. When that threatened to
put many overnight regulars out in the cold, the ad-
ministration decided to save face and leave well enough
alone.

Do as I say, not as I sing: In the midst of the Alcoholic
Beverage Control Board crackdown on alcohol at the
pavilion, rocker George Thorogood imposed a three-beer
limit on concertgoers attending his Jan. 19 show. The
meritorious Thorogood performed his biggest hits, in-
cluding “‘I Drink Alone’’ and ‘‘One Bourbon, One Scotch,
One Beer.”’

And if you apply before midnight tonight: By February
of last year, 2,605 high school seniors had applied for ad-
mission to W&L. This smashed all previous records. All
of which sounded great until all 400 freshmen that made
the cut ail tried to wash their clothes at the same time.

Sure the Boss plays for three hours, but does he play
the Pavilion?: After the Spinners’ stellar 45-minute set
at Homecoming, the Student Activities Board signed the
Four Tops for Fancy Dress. The Four Tops proceeded to
play for an equally economical 45 minutes.

Then who is Mr. Epley’s best friend?: After Universi-
ty Treasurer E. Stewart Epley stated in a memorandum
that dogs on campus were ‘becoming a problem,’’ dog
owners throughout the University rose up in defense of
their canine companions. Concern was well-grounded,
however, following reports of a strange, unexplainable

7 NORTH JEFFERSON STREET
LEXINGTON, VA. 24450
703-463-3622

 

incident in which a dog ‘‘jumped” a mailman. The event
was said to set modern theories of dog psychology back 30
years.

Guess who's coming to dinner: Jamie Berger and Chris
Komosa became W&L’s premier culinary critics. For
better or for worse, the ‘‘chow hounds” have been rating
any available Lexington eating establishment all year.
The question is: ‘‘Why?”’

Son, go clean your room: Following first Rush parties
of this year, the condition of the freshman dorms was
said to be at an unprecedented low. Tommy Sloan of
Buildings and Grounds advised: “If vou can’t party with
the big boys

I swear it was here last year: Playboy magazine
mysteriously disappeared from the bookstore shelves
this year. Entertainment for men is still available at the
library front desk.

We gotcha coming back?: For the first time, women
were allowed to participate in fraternity Rush. However,
distributing bids to women will still be confined to Fancy
Dress season.

Geez, I must have left my I.D. in the car: Following the
national trend, Virginia raised its drinking age to 21. Con-
sequently, alcohol was banned from the dormitories,
Last reports show that a startling 100 percent of the
freshman class has sworn off alcohol entirely. One
freshman was quoted as saying: “I’m glad I’m not old
enough. I never liked the taste anyway.”’

It had nothing to do with the girls: The name of the
W&L student pub was changed from the Cockpit to the
General Headquarters. Administrators said that the
change came about because the name “Cockpit” had no
relevance to the student “‘body”’ at W&L.

The 1984-85-86 Lastyearbook: The 1984-85 Calyx was
scheduled to be distributed last fall. At press time today,
proofs of the book had yet to return from the printer.
Editor David Sprunt maintains, however, that the book
will be the best ever. If ever.

I wonder if I left my windows down: The worst flooding
in recent Virginia history roared through the area this
fall. The water caused extensive damage in both Goshen
and Buena Vista. The greatest inconvenience to Lex-
ington residents, though, was that there wasn’t enough
water to shower or do laundry.

I remember this happened at a Who concert once: Over
2,100 people packed into the pavilion for the Dec. 6
R.E.M. concert. The group was openly concerned about
the overcrowding, prompting lead singer Michael Stipe
to say, ‘I’m not a kindergarten teacher.’’ Disappointed
concertgoers regrouped at Lexington Elementary for a
late night game of Simon Sez.

in Room 402).

information call 463-8637.

3:30 p.m. —

 

Milano, Roma, Florentine and Napoli.

Ah.

Hat

  

 

Pri-az-Z0

(Pre-ott-so) you'll pronounce it delicious.

In Italy, there’s a pie filled with delicious in-
gredients and smothered in rich, zesty sauce and
melted cheeses. You really ought to try it.

Round-trip tickets to Italy are unnecessary
and far too expensive. Just visit your par-
ticipating Pizze Hut® restaurant after 4:00 p.m.
Monday through Friday or anytime Saturday
and Sunday and order our Priazzo1m Italian pie
in one of four tempting combinations of fillings.

Eat In, Carry Out, Or Delivered

463-7000

600 E. Nelson
Lexington

Public invited.

Chapel.

Public invited.

 

 

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

Rasta invasion

An estimated crowd of about 150 people last night show-
ed up to help the five-man reggae band Art Awareness
Ensemble kick off the 1986 season of Wednesday night

parties in the General Headquarters Tavern. Wednesday
nights in the GHQ are sponsored by the Student Activities
Board.

CN

ONCAMPUS

Thursday, January 9
5 p.m. — CHEMISTRY SEMINAR: Room 401, Howe Hall. (Tea at 4:30

7 p.m.— AUDITIONS FOR “LYSISTRATA”’: University Theatre. For

Friday, January 10
6 and 8 p.m. — BASKETBALL: W&L Invitational. Warner Center.
7 p.m, — AUDITIONS FOR “LYSISTRATA”: University Theater.

Saturday, January 11
6 and 8 p.m. — BASKETBALL: W&L Invitational. Warner Center.

Tuesday, January 14
PHYSICS/ENGINEERING SEMINAR:
Crystals.”’ Leonard Lis. Room 201, Parmly Hall. Coffee at 3 p.m.

7:30 p.m. — BASKETBALL: Generals vs. Maryville. Warner Center.
8 p.m. — CONCERT GUILD CONCERT: Annapolis Brass Quintet. Lee

Wednesday, January 15
4:30 p.m. — GLASGOW ENDOWMENT LECTURE SERIES: Poetry
Reading by Rovert Pinsky. Northern Auditorium, University Library.

6 p.m. — WRESTLING: Generals vs. Duke. Warner Center.

‘Live and

By TIM McMAHON
Movie Critic

 

 

“To Live and Die in L.A.”’ is a com-
plex film of double-dealing and
deceit. It is fast and furious, flashy
and often unfeeling. Ultimately,
though, this cops and robbers light
show is a jumbled set of images, an
uninspiring, impressioniste portrait
of the downfall of decent men.

The story centers on U.S. Secret
Service agent Richard Chance (Wil-
liam L. Petersen) as he tries to
avenge the death of his former part-
ner at the hands of a counterfeiter
played by Willem Dafoe. Chance’s
name says it all — this is a guy who

“Liquid

 

 

 

are use to.

The Sandwich Shoppe
Old Main Shopping Mall
Is Under New Managment

It is our hope to keep the same fine food and service you

Featured everyday, Monday through Friday, will be home-
made soups along with the fine sand wiches you already like.

Please call 463-2595 for your To-Go Order.

Thanks for your continued patronage.

Frank Stinson

 

 

a

Die’
jumps off bridges for sport, and his
investigation of the counterfeiter’s
activities is done with the same aban-
don, bending and breaking the rules,
terrifying his trusting new partner,
John Pankow.

Supporting characters appear
throughout to bring out personality
quirks in the main characters.
Chance’s girlfriend is a double-
crosser. The counterfeiter’s girl is a
bisexual. And the counterfeiter’s
lawyer gives advice to both his client
and the trusting agent Pankow.

In fact, the ‘‘good guys’’ are never
really distinguished from the ‘‘bad’’
guys. Bent rules blur the line be-
tween good and bad until, in the end,
Pankow’s innocence melts away, and

is ‘sporadic’

he becomes a reflection of Chance’s
character.

Director William Friedkin loads
action, violence and toughness into
“L.A.” But his frenetic pacing and
silent, flashing images confuse
rather than impress. As the story
jumps from one center of attention to
another, it loses coherence and direc-
tion. Individual sequences are affect-
ing; the movie, however, is not.

“To Live and Die in L.A.”’ is color-
ful and full of action, but it is uncon-
trolled action that gets in the way of
an interesting storyline. By trying to
be more than its story allows, ‘“‘L.A.”’
loses direction and the audience is
left with a sporadic and unsatisfying
movie.

Curtis Q. Axelrod will
answer your questions

 

By CURTIS Q@. AXELROD

 

Dear Curtis,

Please try to forgive my ignornace,
but explain why shoestrings are tipped
with those little plastic attachments that
inevitably fray and fall off.

M.T.

Dear M.T.,

Ignorance is absolutely no excuse
for Curtis’ forgiveness. However,
your glaring lack of knowledge con-
cerning such rudimentary and trivial
matters like modern shoe architec-
ture is not surprising. Therefore,
Curtis has graciously consented to
answer your inquiry.

The curious contrivances you so
eloquently describe as ‘‘those little
plastic attachments” are known to
the educated world as aglets, similar
to the french word aiguillette, mean-
ing point, and a direct derivative of
the latin acus, meaning needle.

Aglets, or aiglets, as they were
known to their 16th century inventor,
whoever he may be (history books
rarely credit such achievements as
these), were originally developed as
a means of securing articles of cloth-
ing. Linen or silk threads were tipped
with metal tags to facilitate a speedy
adornment of frivolous renaissance
costume. Try lacing your shoes
without the seemingly insignificant
little s.o.b.s, M.T., and their prac-
ticality becomes apparent.

Shoelaces, by the way, were invented
by Harvey Kennedy, a Brit who
made an astounding $2.5 million on
the simple tool.

In keeping with Curtis’ campaign
to enlighten his readers, build their
vocabularies, and strengthen their
quest for knowledge, M.T., you can
thank Edward I for the basis of our
system of shoe sizing, a method
which claims no modicum of com-
mon sense in Curtis’ opinion. In 1305,
the English despot decreed that one
inch (2.5 em) would be the length of
three dried medium-sized barley-
corns placed end to end (a univer-
sally uniform measure, I suppose).
Of course, it would be over 500 years
before the standardization of shoe
sizes became commplace with the In-
dustrial Revolution. Until that time,
almost all footwear was made by
following the outline and shape of an
individual’s foot.

The American shoe sizing system,
as it has evolved from earlier con-
cepts to its present-day use starts
with size 1 in adult shoes and size 0 in
children’s shoes. A size 1 adult shoe
has an insole length of 8 7/12 inches,
while children’s size 0 has an insole
length of 3 11/12 inches. Each full size
increase represents a lengthening of
¥4 of an inch, the supposed length of a
medium-sized barleycorn,

So there. Curtis knows all. He
answers any question on any subject.
Send your feeble attempts to stump
the master, font of all knowledge, to
Curtis Q. Axelrod, c/o The Ring-tum
Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450.

 

 

 

 

 

Eat In, Carry Out Or Delivered

$9 07

$2. offany large pizza
or $1 off any medium. In-
cludes Pizza Hut® Pan
Pizza! Hurry; offer ex-
pires soon. One coupon
per party per visit at
participating Pizza Hut®
restaurants.

Please present coupor
cash redemption value

yor
Pp

 

Hut.

mbination with s

ily through

whenordering Not validir
1983 Pizza Hut Ine Good

1-20-86

600 E. Nelson St.
Lexington, Va.
463-7000

her after cent pO

Oy i

165 South Main St.

 

 

 

Welcome Back Students!

Come by for our
after Christmas Sale.

463-9152

 

 

 

 

21 W. Washington St.

TRAVEL UNLIMITED

Plan Now
For
Washington’s

Holiday
Break and
Spring
Break

Call 463-7174

 

 

 

 
-

-

-

~

~

~~

- ~ -

-

-

~

«

- * a

a ~ ° ~

“

   
   
    
  

 

 

 

: L

VOLUME 85, NUMBER 15

Rock ’n’ rollers

Law band forms
from Nabobs

Page 6

 

Rabble-rousers
Students sell

 

anti-coed T-shirts
Page 4

   
 

THE BEGINNING
OF AN ERROR!

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Your weekend weather

40% chance of rain Friday;
showers possible all weekend

 

JANUARY 16, 1986

 

 

Real snow

A sudden snow flurry surprised students Monday morning and left a
dusting of snow that was gone in an hour. The National Weather Service says
higher temperatures in the extended forecast will keep any snow from fall-
ing in the near future in the Roanoke vicinity.

 

 

Girard suspended by SCC

 

By JIMSTRADER
News Editor

 

Senior Gene Girard has been
suspended for the remainder of the
academic year for possession of co-
caine with the intent to distribute it.

The Student Control Committee
met for more than seven hours
Thursday night before convicting
Girard of the offense, which is
classified as ‘‘major’’ under
Washington and Lee’s disciplinary
rules.

The suspension, which Girard ap-
pealed, was upheld by the Student Af-
fairs Committee on Friday, accord-
ing to its chairman, Dean of Students
Lewis G. John.

Under new SCC guidelines that
took effect this year, the SCC could
have expelled Girard.

Girard, who came to W&L from
Coral Gables, Fla., in the fall of 1981,
is a former tri-captain of the football
team.

He was convicted Aug. 13 in
Rockbridge County Circuit Court
of possession of cocaine and sentenc-
ed to five years in prison, a sentence
that was suspended after he served
six months in the Rockbridge County
Jail.

A trial earlier in the summer, in
which Girard was charged with pos-
session with the intent to distribute,

Police arrest nine students

 

By SEAN BUGG
and JIM STRADER
Staff Reporters

 

Lexington police responding to a
noise complaint arrested nine
Washington and Lee students and one
former student on marijuana posses-
sion charges Sunday evening at one
of the students’ apartments.

A plastic bag containing less than
half an ounce of marijuana was Seiz-
ed, along with drug paraphernalia in-
cluding ‘‘a couple of bongs and a cou-
ple of pipes,”’ police said.

The students arrested are:

eGeorge Thomas Corrigan Jr., a
senior from Villanova, Pa.

eJames Edward Culnane, a senior
from Fitchburg, Ma.

*Frederick Paul Driscoll, a junior
from Dedham, Ma.

«Bradford Jenkins MacCachran, a
junior from Sudbury, Ma.

eWiiliam Allen Michaud, a senior
from Pearl River, N.Y.

*Christopher William Reavis, a
junior from New City, N.Y.

«Edward Augustus Richardson, a
senior from Holden, Ma.

eJohn Scott Schreiber,
from Williamsburg.

eWilliam Francis Zola, a senior
from Sudbury, Ma.

Also arrested Sunday was Gregory
Bryan Morcroft, W&L Class of 1985,
of Hollywood, Fla.

Lexington Police Chief L.O. Sutton
said the arrests were made after
police responded to the noise com-
plaint at 201 E. Nelson St., Apt. G,
where Culnane and Michaud live.

a senior

A preliminary hearing has been set
for Feb. 18 at 9a.m.

The misdemeanor charge carries a
possible penalty of up to 12 months in
jail, a fine of up to $1,000, or both.

Court records show that of the 10
arrested, only Zola has a criminal
record in Rockbridge County. He was
convicted Oct. 15 in Lexington Dis-
trict Court of petty larceny charges
brought after an incident last spring
involving a stolen tub of wine valued
at $160.28 from Spanky’s restaurant.

Zola was given a 30-day suspended
jail sentence and fined $50. Records
show he appealed the conviction, but
last week he filed a motion to drop
that appeal and paid over $100 in
fines and court costs. Zola is schedul-
ed to appear in court Feb. 12 to dro
the appeal. :

Women to fill out sorority survey

 

By SYDNEY MARTHINSON
Staff Reporter

begin.

with. She said she is unsure when colonization should

“We're still arguing about that.... don’t really think it

 

No one knows when or whether sororities will become a
part of Washington and Lee, but every female undergrad-
uate student on campus will be asked her opinion on these
issues in a survey that was distributed to them starting

this morning.

With the help of Dan N. Murphy, associate dean of
students, and sociology Professor David R. Novack, five
freshman women — Caroline Boone, Elizabeth Cum-
mins, Patience Jones, Anne Large and Melissa Thrasher
—composed a survey to evaluate the level of interest in
sororities among freshmen and upperciass women, They-
are hoping that the survey can be compiled within two or

three weeks.

If the survey reveals that as few as 30 percent of the
women are in favor of sororities, Murphy may still form
a committee to attend presentations given by the many
sororities that have shown interest in coming to Lex-

ington.

So far, between 11 and 15 have made serious inquiries
to Murphy’s office, but he has not told the students which

sororities he has been in contact with.

“We've got to start with something really strong na-
tionally,’’ said Large, one of the students Murphy met

INSIDE,

¢ Issues of health and housing will be a part of the planned Women's

Forum, page’

will be whiz kids, page 3

a half without competition, page 5

 

would be realistic to try to doit this year,’’ Large said.
Boone feels that the sooner, the better. ‘‘If we don’t get

started now, it’s going to bea lot harder in the future.”
Once the decision to bring a sorority onto campus is

made, the national chapters will have the students rush-

ed by either alumnae or by sorority members from near-

by colleges and universities with strong chapters.

Both Murphy and Cummins believe it would be more
beneficial to start with more than one colony. Most chap-
ters like to begin with at least 25 women, but it may be
that the sororities are so anxious to establish themselves
here, that they will be willing to start with fewer pledges.

Cummins said she’s hoping for at least three or four
sororities to start. ‘‘Two is just too competitive.”

‘No one’s going to be left out,’’ Boone said. ‘‘If we start
with four sororities, you may not get to be in the top one,
but everyone will be included.”

The five women seemed unconcerned about acquiring

a house if sororities take hold. Thrasher thought the
sororities were so optimistic that they may be willing to

buy a house fairly soon after colonizing. She explained

e Judging by this year’s early decision. applicants, the class of 1990
¢ Senior John Paul Bouffard just missed winning a Rhodes scholar-
ship at the finals in AUanta, page 4

¢ Associate Dean of Students Pamela Simpson will take the lead role
ina new University Theatre production, page 6

e The W&L swimmers return to action this weekend after a month and

 

 

that it would be possible to find a location for a sorority
“‘when the fraternities go down.”’

Board fires
Ariel editor

Senior Bob Strickland was dismis-
sed as editor of the literary magazine
Ariel by the University Publications
Board on Sunday.

The board said in a statement that
Strickland was removed ‘“‘for exer-
cising poor judgment in defacing a
library book in connection with the
preparation of the Winter 1985 issue
of the magazine.”

Applications for the position of
Ariel editor will be accepted in Carol
Calkins’ offic in Criversity
Center until Jan. 24 at 4:30 p.m

ended in mistrial. He was arrested
March 1 by Lexington police at the
East Lexington grocery store when
he went there to pick up a Federal
Express package, later found to con-
tain about an ounce of cocaine.

Girard, who did not attend classes
in the fall term, had applied for and
was granted re-admission for the
winter semester, according to John.
He said he did not know whether
Girard had attended any classes last
week.

While Girard was serving his
sentence, he participated in a com-
munity service project in Lexington
as part of a work-release program.
For his part of the ACCESS project,
Girard mapped the downtown and
historic areas of the city to help
determine whether those sections are
accessible to handicapped people.

During his time in jail, Girard also
worked in the W&L library on a
thesis for his major, and spoke
several times to church, athletic and
youth groups about his drug-related
experiences.

Senior Jay Kendall, one of Girard’s
roommates, said Girard left Lex-
ington Friday night for Washington,
D.C., and was planning to go to New
York City to interview at some ar-
chitecture firms. Girard’s major at
W&L is architectural history, an in-
dependent course of study.

Kendall said he was unsure of

 

Girard’s plans for the future but that
they might include returning to W&L
‘He told me that although it’s some-
what discouraging and frustrating,
that he plans on coming back in the
fall,’’ Kendall said.

The SCC, an all-student committee,
met for more than seven hours
Thursday night before convicting
Girard, according to John.

Senior Townes Pressler, chairman
of the SCC, would not say who
reported Girard’s case to the Com-
mittee and John said he wasn’t sure
how the case got to the SCC.

“I don’t remember if I officially
reported it,’’ John said. ‘“‘But there
has been so much publicity, that I'm
not sure it’s really important how it
got into Student Control channels.”’

SCC regulations state that follow-
ing a report to the committee of an
alleged offense, an investigation is to
be conducted by the chairman and
vice-chairman of the SCC. If the pos-
sibility exists that the offense is ma-
jor, the case is referred to a certifica-
tion committee, made up of the SCC
chairman, the SAC chairman and a
faculty member of the SAC.

Girard’s case was judged a major
offense by the certification commit-
tee of Pressler, John and Assistant
English Professor Jean C. Dunbar.

John said that at Girard’s hearing,
the SCC used transcripts from the

 

By Paul Foutch/The Ring-tum Pi

Harmon Harden tosses one up in Saturday night's loss

Roanoke rivalry continues

 

By ROB MacPHERSON
Staff Reporter

 

There's always a huge crowd

Fred Palmer gave his prediction

The who?

See Roanoke, Page 4

 

As most of us know by now, Washington and Lee is a very traditional
place. And one of the biggest traditions during the month of January is
the W&L-Roanoke basketball game, a confrontation that often goes
beyond the 10 athletes on the floor of the Warner Center

According to WLUR-FM sportscaster Ken Jacoby, the place will be
packed for what has become simply ‘The Game.’
said the senior who will bring the
game to those who don't make it to the Warner Center tonight. ‘It’s by
far the most highly attended game otf the year

Junior Sam Foley agrees. ‘‘It’s intense. | don’t care what you say
it’s outrageous. It’s the best game of the year.”’

In Roanoke, the students are just as enthusiastic. Roanoke junior
“Were going to wipe them out, as
always.” W&L hasn't beaten Roanoke since 1982

Sophomore Anna Liles expressed her view on the game: ‘'It’s one of
the main focuses down here at Roanoke. You wait until we get there.”

But don’t count on the W&L fans getting outdone by their Roanoke
counterparts. Not as long as the Unknown Fans are around

 

 

court proceedings last summer as a
basis for its questioning of Girard.

Girard’s advocate at the hearing,
third-year W&L law student Steuart
Thomas, said the defense he present-
ed was that Girard had no intent to

distribute the cocaine, thus making
the offense a minor rather than a ma-
jor charge. Minor offenses carry
possible penalties such as cash fines,
social probation or conduct proba-
tion.

Thomas said the hearing Thursday
evening lasted about three hours, and
that he and Girard were informed of
the SCC decision several hours later
that night.

Thomas said his primary function
at the hearing was to make opening
and closing statements for Girard
and to advise him in answering ques-
tions from the committee.

Because the student and faculty
SAC can only lighten sentences pass-
ed by the SCC, “‘it would'be stupid not
to appeal,’ according to Thomas.

At the SAC hearing Friday, a tape
of part of the SCC proceeding was
played.

Senior John Lewis, student body
president and a member of the SAC,
said that at the hearing, Girard’s
defense was the same as it had been
before the SCC.

“He thought it should have been a
minor offense because he had no in-
tent to distribute,’ Lewis said.

Sweet Briar
security

tightened

 

By MIKE ALLEN
Executive Editor

 

An “inexperienced” attacker has
attempted unsuccessfully to rape
Sweet Briar College students in two
separate incidents this month,
prompting concern and increased
security on the campus, officials say.

Director of College Security Jesse
F. Miller said that on Monday, a
Washington and Lee student ‘‘almost
caught the guy’’ when he saw the
suspect lurking in a parking lot.

The student said, ‘Hey! What are
you doing?” and “‘the guy ran into
the woods,”’ according to Miller. An
unsuccessful two-hour search follow-
ed.

Miller said the attacks appear to be
attempted sexual assaults. ‘‘Why
would you jump on a girl and tackle
her on the ground?” he asked. ‘“‘It’s
not robbery; rape is the only obvious
motive.”

“These failures on two attempts
show that he’s not very experienc-
ed,” Miller added. ‘‘This man seems
to be nervous and would try to build
up his confidence by talking to’ the
victims.

The first attack was Jan. 7 at about
11:55 p.m., when the man approach-
ed a sophomore outside Meta Glass
residence hall and asked her for
directions, Miller said.

The man followed her into the dor-
mitory elevator, still repeating the
directions, pretending he was lost.
When the door began to close and he
was in the elevator, ‘‘she realized
that she was in trouble,” according to
Miller

The second attack was Sunday
around 6:20 p.m. on two seniors walk-
ing along Lake Road toward the
school’s boathouse. He said it was
near the intersection with the road to
the president's house and is ‘‘not a
secluded area.’ The assailant was
pretending to be a jogger, according
to Miller

‘He tackled her and knocked her to
the ground,”’ he said of the attack on
the first woman. ‘‘He tried to get on
top of her but she fought back with
her fists.”’ Miller said that when the
other student resisted, the attacker
‘carried her about five feet on his
back” before he ‘“‘dropped her and
ran

“We had a real problem with doors
being propped open; that has stop-
ped,’ Miller noted. ‘We've tripled
and quadrupled our patrols.”

“It's put a strain on all of us,”’ ad-
ded Commander Willie H. Neal of
Sweet Briar Security
 

 

 

 

OPINION
Burned

WRARG) ‘TiPaave,
I though eve would be the ideat timé fo study in the library. A
Thursday ev atythe beginnitigeef the term to want to get
the assigned work done weekSf advance.

I obviously was mistaken.

After all, it is not any Thursday evening (or so I hope) that
one can observe students playing out their pyrotechnic fan-
tasies on trash cans in the library.

You know the situation: the trash can is full of scrap paper
or old newspapers. Someone, on a dare or just out of lunacy,
decides to light a match and throw it into the trashcan in the
middle of the floor. Maybe a flame, as was the case last
week, or smoke or both will rise from the union of paper with
lit match. What joy that creates in the hearts of the youthful
pyrotechnics.

And what disorder it creates for those trying to study. Not
only do the shouts of glee from the successful arsonists-to-be
distract one’s attention from fascinating study of American
political theory, but the children also insist on chasing each
other about one end of the library, perhaps out of a sado-
masochistic desire to have the next match applied to some
part of their anatomy.

 

It is not difficult, for most rational people, to see what is
wrong in this situation. Not only does the smoke freely float-
ing about the library floors damage the books, but it also
damages the eyes and lungs and throats of those students
who might — just might — have wanted to study that even-
ing.

Every year, someone always has a complaint about the
library. Either it’s too noisy or too crowded or filled with VMI
cadets or the books are never shelved that you’re looking for
or someone has “‘borrowed”’ a text or notes from your carrel
without permission. Lighting fires and playing with matches
outside of the designated smoking areas on each floor is a
quaint addition to the old complaints, but it is also one I think
we could do without. The library is too fine a facility to be
wasted on juvenile minds or by juvenile actions.

While this year’s freshman class may be touted as the best
and the brightest, certain members of that group have to
learn a few lessons in library etiquette. Especially important
among those first few rules is one I thought they (like every
other class here) would have learned in kindergarten — don’t
play with matches. _NRP

Technical foul

They call it ‘The Game.”’

The Unknown Fans will be there. Professors and students
will attend in droves. Ten students will run up and down a
wooden floor and throw a round orange ball into a steel, cir-
cular rim for 40 minutes. People will cheer from both sides of
Warner Center.

But unlike past years, it won’t be odd to see the bleachers
filled. Students have been attending basketball games this
year in great numbers. Apathy, often a common ailment in
recent years plaguing attendance at athletic events, seems to
have gone the way of single-sex education.

But while it is nice to see students and faculty taking
greater visible pride in the school through public support of
athletic teams, it is also disheartening to hear of students be-
ing charged with misdemeanors for possession of illegal sub-
stances or students being suspended from school for posses-
sion and possible distribution of cocaine.

Life may be full of incongruities, but to see students taking
pride in self and school through public attendance of sporting
events while members of the same student body — people
who also represent the Washington and Lee reputation in the
community — are busy making noise or doing bong hits
seems both out of place and unnecessary.

Although the Admissions Office deserves applause for
recruitment of a very competitive early-decision class, we
wonder why, at times, the people would want to come here.
When we see a full house at a Warner Center match-up, we
know why this school exists and why we take pride in it.

But when we have to report, week after week the public
relations blunders with the Lexington community, we often
wonder what value students (including us) have in the
scheme of things. When we can’t keep our act clean, or when
we can’t keep the noise down, it seems of little consolation
that attendance is up at basketball games or that Roanoke
will be crushed tonight .

Che KRing-tum Phi

   
 
 

NEWS STAFF
Executive Editor con edbeeee see 0000 ceeueseeseseseess0050s 540555 525s NUD
ee arc eee Paul Foutch
Cotton Puryear
PRE Nh his a 9 A kk Reade Williams
I sisi chastise itr Te ere
News Editer..,....... itaee ... Jim Strader
Photography Editor......... ... Steve Sadler
Chief Copy Editor .......... ... Matt Horridge
Entertainment Editor............... . Marshall Boswell
re ysis sbini doo ois bee ae beb busts oie eie ei Jason Lisi

Assistant Sports Editor
EDITORIAL PAGE

Eh ih cbekbs Chieei cect i
ee Marie Kothman
Cartoonist Os Chris Bowring

vebeseebehebeeeeceseeetsteceeey eases eserreeys David Emrich

BUSINESS STAFF

Business Manager ‘i See Jeff Kimbell

AGVOTURING MIGRREOR boii ie PONS bisdececd ecient as Hank Greenberg

AA VALAIN GROEN ih oe hcl ah WOE eee van John Feyrer, Keri Hinrichs,
Jay Reville, Greg Turley

Civcvidgon MONGKEE iiceccccecscivecvenecerscececeecsbeseersecsssis Matt Horridge

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent,

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 200 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m, Tuesday of the week they are to be run, Or send them to The
Ring-tum Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, January 16, 1986

(COLD CHECK AEROBICS)

 

 

Gentlemen don’t fight over sexism

 

By MARIE KOTHMAN
Assistant Editorial Page Editor

 

I always thought one of the major
goals of coeducation was the assimi-
lation or integration of women into
the W&L student body. Everything, I
was once led to believe, would then
proceed normally, as at most other
schools.

I believe we ought to attempt to
achieve this goal, but some people
—including many in the faculty and
administration — just can’t let well
enough alone. Their efforts seem to
be the proverbial three steps back-
ward for the two forward others
seem to make.

For example, consider all the re-
cent flurry of statistics on how
women and men (wouldn’t it be
easier — and less sexist — just to say
students?) are doing at this school.
The faculty and administration have
gone to great lengths to compare,
compile, record and announce to the
world the grades of freshman males
and females. The emphasis is on how
the sexes differ, which ironically is
just the opposite of the professed goal
of many administrators to create a
“sexless”? atmosphere. There have
been attempts to change the names
of courses, i.e., “The Descent of

Can sophomores control the

 

MY VIEW
By John Pensec

 

The more things change, the more
they remain the same. An old saying,
perhaps, but a very accurate one.
With the inclusion of rising sopho-
mores as potential dorm counselors,
the selection process has changed.
But at least there is still the
understanding that these men and
women have an important role in the
Washington and Lee community.
However, are sophomores up to the
task?

Every student remembers those
first few days at W&L and the feel-
ings of anxiety that accompanied it.

For those who were leaving home
for the first time it was a rough time,
but even for those who had been
away from home before, there were
cases of nerves to be dealt with.

Walking into the empty room that
was to be my home for the next year,
my stomach did flip-flops as I listen-

To the editors:

tional Enquirer.

publication.

 

I wish to compliment Jason Lisi on his superb
piece of investigative reporting. Who would
guess the Ariel could be subject to such scandal?
I find it comforting that at least one member of
the student body has the guts and determination
necessary to make it as a reporter for the Na-

Since I share an apartment with Mr. Strick-
land, the editor in question, I think I am more
aware of the circumstances than the average
W&L student. I watched Bob on many an occa-
sion working on both the layout and the design.
He wanted to do something new and interesting
with a previously undistinguished student

The Scavullo interview offered a chance to add
this new dimension. The pictures were to help
the reader realize that Scavullo was known in
most magazine and art circles, if not to the stu-

Man,” that might seem offending to
the freshman women (never mind
that the students in question were
never consulted on this matter). You
people advocating ‘‘Hu-person-
kind’’: Geta real cause.

Who really cares that seven out of
the top 10 students in the freshman
class were women? Oh well. That’s
very interesting. Does the desire to
know these “‘sexist’’ facts and figures
stem from faculty insecurity? Are
the faculty and administration hop-
ing to prove that the freshman
females are smarter than the fresh-
man males?

Well as long as we’re gathering
statistics, let’s find out how much
time the average freshman male was
committed to spending on extra-cur-
ricular activities (such as pledging a
fraternity) as compared to the
average freshman female. Let’s find
out how much the grades of males
and females differed in English and
math, to see if the old gender-based
(or are they genetic?) stereotypes
are true. Let’s also see how women
did in P.E. courses as compared to
men. Maybe that will prove men
might (heavens! ) be more athletical-
ly inclined. Let’s figure the ratio for
how many women skipped classes on
Thursdays (after Wednesday night

ed to the echo of my footsteps. In
time, the room would become livable
with the addition of rugs and posters,
but it lacked the comforts of home.
Being livable was a long way off. For
now, it consisted of four beige walls
anda tile floor.

The same was true of the Universi-
ty in general. At first, it was nothing
more than buildings and unknown
people.

As I joined clubs and got involved
with my classes, the University
began to take ona new dimension.

For the first few days, the world
was contained in the dormitory,
which my parents had seen. They
had also met my dorm counselor, and
the meeting did them good. Over the
course of the year, if I had a problem
] was urged by my parents to talk to
him. He took on the role, not of sur-
rogate parent, but of an adviser
whose opinion should be sought.
After all, my parents reasoned, as an
upperclassman he had been around
the block and knew the ins and outs of
the school.

As a hall, we decided the rules we
would live by. The only concrete rule
established for us by our dorm
counselor was to try to work out any

parties) as compared to men. How
many more men’s restrooms are
there than ladies rooms? That might
prove men have weaker bladders.
How interesting and what an intellec-
tual pursuit for the intellectually in-
clined. How many freshman men
have cars as compared to women?
After all, women don’t have to drive
to VMI. Maybe the men need more
cars to drive to the restroom. How
often do freshman females do their
laundry as compared to males? (Oh,
I forgot, we already know that one.)

What purpose would the gathering
of all these statistics serve? None.
Satisfaction of intellectual (after all,
that is why the faculty and ad-
ministration are here, to guide
students in the cultivation of the
mind) curiosity maybe, but that’s
about it. Comparing the grades of the
males and females in the freshman
class only promotes rivalry. No, the
freshman women aren’t goddesses or
super women, They are students who
are here to do the best they can. As
one freshman male put it: ‘‘There
are men in the freshman class too.”’

But why is the administration so
constantly compelled to compare the
female students to everybody else?
Do they need to reassure themselves
that coeducation was the right move?

problems among ourselves before we
went to him.

Living in the dorms that first year
taught me a lot about myself and
about other students. But the learn-
ing came, not only from doing, but
also from following an example, that
of my dorm counselor.

I had the benefit of his experience,
and I learned from his mistakes. He
told me what he thought was the best
way to get through my distribution
requirements and which professors
should be avoided. Can sophomores
do this if they are still completing
their General Education require-
ments?

A counselor is, to a degree, a
representative of stability. Up-
perclassmen have the advantage
because they have been here longer
and are more comfortable with the
system. They have a major and are
working toward completing it.
Sophomores do not have to declare
until the end of the year and will be
spending, one hopes, a lot of time
making this important decision. How
much time then will be left for the
freshmen as they struggle with these
decisions?

There is a tendency at the end of

LETTERS

dents at iarge. Granted, cutting the pictures out
of a library book was not in the best judgment;
but with a deadline it was the easiest.

What I do find appalling is Mr. Lisi’s implica-
tion that Monica Burke had plagiarized the inter-
view. It seems, having not found the scandal he
so desperately sought in the pictures, that he
grabbed at straws. We must realize that there
are a finite number of questions one can ask
these people. Miss Burke would have had to have
done extensive research to have not asked him
an already used question. Obviously Mr. Lisi has
not read many interviews or I’m sure his inquir-
ing mind would have discerned this.

Let us rest this ‘scandal’ next to his previous
“attempted scandal’’ and merely dismiss it to

Reader defends the actions of Ariel editor

To quesuon Bob's authority to print those pic-
tures is understandable. The copyright laws
could have placed the University in a quandary if
he had not obtained permission. But the point re-
mains that he did have permission.

experience. Hopefully Mike Allen will watch his
contributors in the future.

Student clarifies gun policy

1'o the Editors:

Student Control has asked me to write this let-
ter explaining the University’s policy on fire-
arms. There are to be no guns in the dorms. Any-
one living in the dorms who wishes to keep a fire-
arm atschool for hunting must store it with Dean
Huntley for safekeeping. Handguns are not per-
mitted. Students not living in the dorms are not
subject to any school policy but are subject to
state, county and city laws. Lexington law pro-
hibits the carrying of a loaded firearm and the
discharging of a firearm within city limits.

Or is it that certain members want to
rub the noses of other members (who
were initially against coeducation) in
the success of the move? Are they
trying to say, “Look at just how
wrong you were?” After all, this is
supposed to be the school for ‘‘gentle-
men’ (a genderless term, we have
been repeatedly told). How easily
certain members of the faculty and
administration seem to forget this
basic definition of civility and decen-
cy. Where have good manners gone?

If one has a cause to promote in all
of this (feminism, perhaps), then
fine. State it as such. Lay your
motives on the table. But itseems an —
awful lot of finger pointing and ,
change is being done in the name of
coeducation that really does more
harm than good. Changing the names
of courses that are offensive to a
small minority often ends up as of-
fensive to the majority.

In the words of another freshman,
someone needs to choose their battles
better. Everyone needs to take a long
look before doing any more leap-
ing. Fighting over what most people
consider: trivial details is not in the
best interest of the freshmen or the
student body. It is petty. And it ;
reflects as poorly on the school as
does any publicized honor trial.

dorms?

the freshman year tor students to
think they know it all, and because of
this sophomore year comes as quite a
shock. No dorm counselor is there to —
help solve problems between room-
mates. No quiet hours exist to help
students manage time. This second
year helps a student mature and, I
believe, is necessary before someone
is entrusted with guiding other
students during that first year. How
can a student really help guide
another student to maturity if he has
not had the maturing experience of
living on his own?

After freshman year, W&L be-
comes an entirely different place.
Professors suddenly become more
than people who lecture at you. They
become human beings you can talk ,
to.

During orientation, University
President John D. Wilson tried to
sum up the characteristics of my
class. This is a hard enough task at
graduation, let alone the first week of
school.

It takes time for the true leaders of
a class to emerge. Once they do, it’s
time for them to become dorm coun-
selors, and not before.

James Hansen
Class of '87

Drake Fason
Class of '88

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

NEWS

 

= Stilt
By DEBORAH HATTES
Staff Reporter

 

A Women’s Forum that will ad-
dress some of the concerns voiced by
treshman women is in the planning

tages, Associate Dean of Students
Anne C.P. Schroer said this week.

“Several women have come in to
usk about developing programs that
will begin to meet the needs of
women students,”’ Schroer said.

Areas the forum will be involved
th, each of which will have its own
@ommittee, are housing and loung-
yg, health and counseling, leader-
ship, social, recreation and athletics,
Greek, academic advising and
gareer issues, spiritual growth and
development, and community ser-
vice. Each committee will have an
@dviser from the W&L or Lexington
gommunities.

Associate Dean of the College
®amela Simpson, who was chairman
af the Coeducation Committee, said
the committee members heard re-
eatedly at a series of freshman hall
meetings in the fall that the
freshman women did not have a
thance to meet other W&L women,
that they ‘‘felt isolated to their own
living unit.”

“There was the feeling that guys
have the fraternities but the women
don’t have anything comparable,”

Early decision

applicants’
SATs soar

By JOHN KALITKA
Staff Reporter

 

 

Washington and Lee has become,
in the words of Assistant Director of
Admissions Julia M. Kozak, ‘‘a very
selective institution.”

“We've become a very popular
school,” Kozak said in an interview
Tuesday. Moreover, she continued,
‘We have every reason to believe
that the academic standards here at
the University will increase both
quantitatively and qualitatively.”

Of the 214 applications received
before the Dec. 1 early acceptance
deadline, 75 were offered admission,
a-“‘conservative”’ 35 percent accep-
tance rate. Last year, 52 percent of
early decision applications were ap-
proved for admission. Kozak discour-
aged any further comparisons, citing
the familiar analogy of ‘‘apples and
oranges.”’

The average SAT score jumped
from 1157 to this year’s 1207, while
the average class rank increased
four percentage points from the 79th
to the 83rd percentile.

she said.

Dormitory counselor Sydney Mar-
thinson stressed that “‘it’s not a
feminist group.”

“Many of the programs will be
open to both men and women stu-
dents, faculty and staff, and com-
munity members at large,”’ Schroer
said.

Valerie Pierson, a freshman who
supported the Executive Commit-
tee’s decision to appoint a temporary
female member to the Student Con-
trol Committee, said she sees the
Women’s Forum as “‘having the po-
tential to be a very positive thing on
campus.”

‘“‘My main concern is that the guys
won't respond to it positively,”’ she
said.

Susan Lewis, a freshman who op-
posed the appointment of an ad hoc
woman on the SCC, said she supports
the planned Women’s Forum.

“It would be useful, and I would
participate in it, but part of my par-
ticipation would stem from the fact
that through my conservative views
on the issues, a working balance
could be brought about,”’ Lewis said.

Dormitory counselor Kathleen
Plante said the forum could help br-
ing about needed changes in health
care for the women students.

“T feel as if the Women’s Forum
could help in that area. And with con-
cern to Greek life, this could either

help in organizing sororities or help
find out more closely student in-
terest,’’ Plante said.

Pierson said, ‘‘As far as frater-
nities are concerned, we're always
welcomed and invited to go there, but
we're not members — we're perpet-
ual guests. I'm not opposed to fra-
ternities at all; I simply think it
would be nice to have some reason-
able alternative.”’ :

Lewis added that there are some
changes she would like to see made

‘Housing sticks out in my mind,”
she said. “With women here now, I
don’t really think the University’s do-
ing enough to help us find someplace
to live.”

She said she became concerned
after visiting a realtor and learning
that it might be too late to find off-
campus housing for next year.

The housing sheet freshmen
received in their orientation packet
“didn’t put enough emphasis on it,
that it needed to be done immediate-
ly,” Lewis said.

On the general issue of coeduca-
tion, Lewis said she feels that she has
been accepted pretty well.

“T always got the impression that
the guys, although they might have
been against it at first, knew there
was nothing they could do to change
it, so they might as well make the
best of it,”” Lewis said.

But, she cautioned, “‘If things are

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, January 16, 1986

Appointment of SCC woman postponed

 

By JASON LISI
Assistant News Editor

 

The Executive Committee is reviewing its power to
appoint a female ad hoc non-voting member to the Stu-
dent Control Committee, according to EC President
John Lewis

The EC approved a motion to appoint a female ad hoc
non-voting member to the SCC by a 7-6 vote last month.
The EC has accepted no applications for that position
because it canhot find evidence in the Student Body
Constitution that it has the power to create that posi-

said in an interview yesterday. ‘‘My opinion is yes.”’
“I’m sorry the appointment was not done before,
John said.

“The EC is questioning its authority to do so because
the Student Control Committee is a creation of the
faculty and the faculty has nowhere said that the EC
can do this,”’ he added

“This is a legitimate question that they can raise as to
their authority.”

The point was raised at Monday’s meeting My senior
Representative Michael Black.

“Now that it’s voted upon, I really think we need to

Forum planned to address women’s issues

 

tion

“Our very ability to make that vote is in question,”

Lewis said.

Senior Representative Pat Hayden said he asked
Dean of Students Lewis G. John if the EC has the power

to appoint an ad hoc member.

“There is no simple answer to that question,”’ John

 

act on it,”’ Black said.

Hayden read a letter from John that outlined John's
opinion on the matter.

“The Executive Committee may, at its discretion, ap-
point such ad hoc non-voting members as it deems ap-
propriate,” Hayden read. He continued to say that John
recommended that a female SCC position be created.

 

 

pushed too far toward feminism
rather than just coeducation, they’re
going to start resenting it.”’

Pierson said that she has noticed
opposition to coeducation and “the
proverbial chip on the shoulder’
coming from freshmen as well as up-
perclassmen.

Simpson said the Coeducation

 

fae, Pic
In the trenches

Columbia Gas of Virginia workmen lay a main gas line
through the front yard of Chi Psi and along Lee Avenue
this week as part of the re-routing caused by Washington
and Lee’s plans to build its new dormitory. Harold
Washington, Columbia Gas’ plant and service supervisor
in Lexington, explained that the main gas line that con-
nects W&L and Virginia Military Institute with the gas
pipeline that serves Lexington currently runs under the

   

ngvaty

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi’

planned dormitory site. Because of maintenance pro-
blems with gas lines under buildings, and because W&L
owns the land for the dormitory, Columbia Gas is having
to re-route the line up Nelson Street, across Lee Avenue
and down Washington Street to Jefferson Street, where it
will meet the old line. Washington said that with good
weather the work should be done by the first week in

February.

 

‘Staff Reports

 

 

: A former Washington and Lee student pleaded guilty
‘to felony charges of credit card theft and fraud yester-
‘day and was fined $500 and given a 12-month suspended
‘sentence in Rockbridge County Circuit Court.
‘ Felton Edwin May II, 20, of Harrisburg, Pa. pleaded
‘guilty to charges of receiving a lost credit card with the
. ‘intent to use, and forgery. He confessed to Lexington
‘Police Sgt. Torben Pedersen last spring that he found a

* ‘brown wallet belonging to David A. Shugart, a W&L stu-

‘dent, and that he used an AT&T calling card that was in
‘Shugart’s grandmother’s name. May also confessed to

’ ‘purchasing several items at the College Town Shop in

‘Lexington with a Visa card that also belonged to

‘Shugart.

Commonwealth's Attorney Beverly C. ‘“‘John’’ Read

- ‘opened the case by questioning Pedersen about May’s

‘confession. Pedersen testified that May confessed to

‘having taken the two credit cards on Feb. 10, the day

- ‘they were reported missing by Shugart. Pedersen also

said May told him he tried using the card that evening

and proceeded to make 104 calls totalling $160.31 be-
tween that day and sometime near the end of March.

_ Pedersen testified that May told him he purchased
two rugby shirts and other items from the College Town
Shop, paying for them on the store’s voucher.

» Several other W&L students were involved in making
some of the telephone calls with Shugart’s credit card.
Two students, Walter Hopkins and Calvin Rankin, were

. convicted of misdemeanors in June in Rockbridge
County District Court.

Pedersen completed his testimony by reading a state-

» ment from May that explained May’s inability to cope

_ with the W&L environment.

“It was a way of getting back at them,”’ the statement

said. “It a is a racist school. They are all rich and they
treat us (minorities) like dirt.”’

May’s attorney, Bernard J. Natkin of Lexington ques-
tioned Pedersen about who actually picked up the wal-
let since there was some confusion on the point. In his
closing remarks, Natkin told Judge George E. Honts III
that May was unable to cope with his environment and,
although his actions were wrong, ‘‘he was just trying to

_ Bet back at the system.”

~

<

 

«

*

~

<

—Rick Pierce
Dining hall to help MDA

Contract and point-card patrons of Evans Dining Hall
can support the Muscular Dystrophy Association Super-
dance by giving up their Tuesday dinner with the pro-
ceeds going to the MDA.

 

NEWS BRIEFS

 

Ex-student pleads guilty to fraud

Signups for the donation will be in the dining hall dur-
ing Monday dinner and Tuesday lunch.

Roadtrips to the slave auctions and happy hours to
promote the dance will leave from Fairfax Lounge for
Hollins College at 5:30 p.m. today, Sweet Briar College
at 3:45 p.m. Friday and Randolph-Macon Women’s Col-
lege at 6:45 p.m. on Tuesday.

Check charge matter resolved

The Student Financial Relations Committee first was
irked when it learned that Domino’ s Pizza was charg-
ing students 20 cents to write checks to defray the cost,
the committee thought, of bad checks. After all, the pur-
pose of the committee, better known as Cold Check, is to
guarantee students’ checks for local merchants.

The problem was cleared up when it was learned that
the 20-cent charge is to defray regular bank charges
and is a national policy.

The surprise came when the committee was covering
a bad check written to Domino's by a student — and the
committee’s check to Domino’s required a 20-cent
charge.

“It’s pretty much all cleared up,’’ Chairman Peter
Bennorth told the Executive Committee Monday night
He said he talked to the manager of the local pizza
delivery store, who decided to drop the 20-cent charge
on the committee’s checks.

Bennorth said the problem was not with the 20-cent
charge as much as the idea of being charged to write a
check when the committee performs a service to local
businessmen.

“It isn’t the amount, it’s the principle,”’ he said.

“I don’t want to argue over 20 cents,’’ explained
Domino’s manager Tim Camden. The charge, he said,
is to defray costs the bank charges to process the
checks as well as other costs. ‘“‘It falls into all kinds of
categories,’ Camden said.

He added that the amount the bank charges him for
handling and processing his checks is high. ‘‘It’s more
than you would believe,’ Camden said

Camden said that while he places a charge of $10 on
community members who write bad checks, he waives
this charge in cases of students because of the services
of the Cold Check Committee.

In other EC action, President John Lewis said Dean
Lewis G. John told him the positions of sophomore dor-
mitory counselors would probably only be considered
for next year. According to Lewis, the law student dorm
counselors are being ‘‘phased out’ and sophomores will
not be dorm counselors after next year

— Jason Lisi

 

 

Committee heard some humorous
complaints from several freshman
men during the fall dormitory
meetings that they have to do things
they wouldn’t have had to do if
Washington and Lee were all-male.
Things cited included ‘“‘taking
showers and combing their hair and
being conscious of what they wear to

class,”’ Simpson said.
Schroer explained several of the
programs she foresees the Women’s
Forum offering students, including
two or three sessions of leadership
training during the winter term.

An organizational meeting for the
forum will be held Friday, Jan. 31, at
3 p.m. in Fairfax Lounge.

ODK to initiate 27
at Monday ceremony

 

By PETER BOATNER
Staff Reporter

 

Omicron Delta Kappa, the national
collegiate leadership society founded
at Washington and Lee in 1914, will
induct 27 new undergraduate and law
student members at its convocation
ceremony Jan. 20.

Five juniors, 15 seniors and seven
law students will be initiated, as will
4honorary alumni members. Though
the inductees have been notified,
their names are kept secret until the
ceremony.

The selection process for ODK,
which recognizes student leaders in
various areas of campus life, has
been questioned in the past by some
student leaders who have been pass-
“ed over.

. According to Religion Professor
David W. Sprunt, a faculty member
of ODK, this situation comes about
because the selection committee is
limited by the national charter of the
society to considering only students
in the top 35 percent academically of
the school. Several times in the past,
Sprunt says, and again this year,
campus leaders will be barred from

membership because of their grades.

Senior David Lewis, student presi-
dent o1 UUK agreed, “Everyone is
considered,” he said. ‘‘W&L is small
enough that no one falls through the
cracks.”’

While the society is leadership and
character-oriented, Lewis says, the
35 percent guideline has to be follow-
ed. Decisions about students who are
on the border academically are held
off until the end of the fall semester
to give them a chance to improve
their grades.

As far as deciding who the student
leaders are, Lewis conceded that the
decisions are subjective. ‘Basically,
a lot of itis a judgment call,”’ he said.

The class schedule for Monday will
be affected by the convocation. ‘‘A’’
through “‘D”’ hours will remain the
same, with the convocation running
from noon to 1:25. The rest of the
schedule follows.

E — 1:30-2:10
F — 2:15-2:55
G—3-3:40

H — 3:45-4:25
I— 4:30-5:10
J —5:15-5:55

 

What do
you think
of the idea

of sororities

at W&L?

 

Interviews by
SYDNEY MARTHINSON

Photographs by
HANK MAYER

 

 

New

Whann,
Orleans: ‘I think it’s going to add
an interesting new dimension. I
like the way the administration is
letting the girls make the deci-

Sandy senior,

sions about sororities. Without
support from girls, it wouldn't
have the positive impact that it
could.’

TALKBACK

 

Gretchen Bell, freshman,

 

 

Lynchburg
freshman, Winchester: ‘‘We don’t want them. We think the girls have it good
now because we get the social life without any of the responsibilities.”’

(left), and Beth Cousland,

 

Jim Godfrey, junior, Johnson
City, Tenn.: ‘It could be a good
thing. I mean, this past weekend |
went skiing with some sorority
girls from Florida State and it
seemed a lot different for them. It
seemed like they had a decent
relationship with the guys they
went to school with. They had a lot
in common because they'd been
throu;, . a type of pledgeship.”’

Susan Lewis, freshman, Wacha
preague: ‘‘I think it would be nice
to have them. It would do a lot for
the social life because the girls
won't have to depend on frater
nities. But, then again, it’s pro
bably too soon because | don't

think there are enough girls here
to start two or three sororities. It }
would be too competitive.”’

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, January 16, 1986

 

 

AIA not welcome, leaders say

 

SIMON PEREZ
if Reporter

ed on various campuses, began monitoring classes in
September and publish their findings in a monthly publi

cation

 

in Academia, a group formed to
propagandizing by professors in college class
across the country, would meet harsh opposition
Washington and Lee, according to faculty and student

leaders.

Adamantly opposed to such investigations is Dean of
the Commerce School Edward C. Atwood. He said stu-
dents making reports on class lectures would ‘‘make pro-
fessors feel under attack’ and also would ‘‘curb acade-

mic freedom.”

Although noting that ‘biases are present”’ in all class-
rooms, Atwood said that he knows of no professors at
W&L that would not ‘give students an opportunity to
speak” in class and to challenge what professors are

teaching.

AIA, which gets its information from students recruit-

monitor

Reed Irvine, AIA's founder, also. began Accuracy in
Media, which attacked what he perceived as the liberal
biases in the national news media. He began AIA because
he thought college students were being exposed to only
one point of view.

AIA’s executive director, Les Csorba III, defends his
group's actions by saying that professors should not be
immune from criticism.

W&L’s College Republican chairman, junior John
Pensec, said it was ‘“‘not AIA’s responsibility” to deal
with propagandizing problems.

“If there are problems, they should be taken care of
within the school, internally,’’ he said. Pensec disagreed

with ‘‘an outside organization deciding right and wrong”’

on college campuses.

T-shirts show anti-coed sentiment

 

oe
By PETER BOATNER
Staff Reporter

 

‘‘Women at W&L: The beginning of
an error!” So proclaim T-shirts be-
ing sold at the local women’s colleges
by two W&L students.

The shirts, which have the above
words along with the picture of a
female student with a red slash
through her on the back, and ‘“‘The
Roadtrip Continues °85-'86"’ on the
front, have been selling briskly so
far, according to sophomores Brad
Shaw and Lester Coe, the two stu-
dents who came up with the idea.

About 170 of the shirts have been
sold to students at the other schools,
and about 50 have been sold to W&L
students of both sexes at a price of
$8.

Shaw and Coe are quick to point out

Senior loses

By DANIEL BUNCH
Staff Reporter

 

 

Although five Washington and Lee
students applied for the prestigious
Rhodes scholarships and one made it
to the finals in Atlanta, it was a
Hampden-Sydney student who won
the Virginia award this year.

W&L’s John-Paul Bouffard made it
to the finals after applying with
Gerald Shepard, Mike McAlevey,
Ted LeClereq and Larry Anker. The
five seniors applied in early autumn
for the scholarship, which provides
for two free years’ study at Oxford
University in England.

Shepard, McAlevey and Bouffard
were selected to be interviewed in the
semi-finals. Bouffard was _ then
chosen to advance to the final inter-
view in Atlanta.

Of his prospects for winning in
Atlanta, Bouffard said, ‘‘I thought I
had a good chance. I wasn’t expect-

 

Roanoke

Continued from Page 1

 

The Unknown Fans — an...enthu-
siastic group of W&L students who
annually attend the Roanoke game
wearing bags over their heads to con-
ceal their identities.

According to Chris Komosa, a four-
year bag-head, the Unknown Fans
will be present and accounted for on
Thursday night.

“We'll be out in full strength again
this year,” he said.

Komosa added that the purpose of
the Unknown Fans is to promote par-
ticipation from the W&L side of the
bleachers.

“We just want to have fun and get
the fans involved. We try to keep
ourselves calm and try not to get
anybody mad,”’ Komosa said.

In the past, the Unknown Fans
have found it hard to restrain their
enthusiasm, continued Komosa. In
1983, the officials had to stop the
game to move them off the court, and
in 1984, a fight broke out after the
game, the blame of which was even-
tually pinned on the Unknown Fans.

“The whole thing looked like it was
our fault, but we really had nothing to
do with it,’ said Komosa. He also
said that this year the group will be
‘a little more restrained.”

One group that won’t be restrained
in the least is the W&L starting five.
Although half the team is new to the
rivalry, the players realize what
they're in for.

‘Roanoke is always a big game,
always tense and physical,”’ said
junior forward Jefferson Harralson.
“T expect a good team effort.”’

Rob Spencer, another junior for-

ird, had this to say: “This is our
year to beat them, it’s the best team
we've had since I've been here.”’

Head coach Verne Canfield down-
played the rivalry. ‘‘This year, it’s
not nearly as important,”’ said the 22-
year mentor, citing the youthful
team as the cause for the game’s sup-
posed lack of significance.

 

ny

Typists—$500 weekly
at home. Write: P.O.
Box 975, Elizabeth,
NJ 07207

 

ss Me,

 

THE BEGINNING
OF AN ERROR!

 

 

 

 

 

 

The back design of the T-shirt

that their shirt venture is ‘‘just a
business,”’ and ‘‘definitely nothing

Rhodes bid

ing to win in Richmond. I was in-
timidated by the competition.”

Philosophy Professor Joseph Mar-
tin, who is in charge of the Rhodes
program at W&L, said, ‘‘It’s definite-
ly the most prestigious scholarship in
the Western world...What they’re
looking for is someone who has de-
monstrated unselfish leadership.”’

Other requirements are that the
applicant be a citizen of the U.S., be
unmarried and be under 24 years of
age. Martin said they also look for
what he called ‘Victorian virtues’’
—strong character, devotion to duty,
physical vigor and a concern for the
weak.

The physical vigor requirement is
usually met by being on a sports
team. Martin said most applicants
have a grade point average of at least
in the mid 3.0 range.

This year’s winner from Virginia,
Maurice Jones, attends Hampden-
Sydney College. Martin said W&L’s
last winner was in 1984.

21 W. Washington St.

personal’ against the women at
W&L.

“Several girls have come up ask-
ing for shirts, so they can see it's just
a joke,” says Coe. But, he adds, ‘‘we
weren't stupid enough to think there
wouldn’t be some animosity.”

Still, they do have an argument to
make. ‘‘Some guys resent how quick-
ly change is coming,’’ Shaw said. The
T-shirt represents ‘‘just a quick jab
to show we're still a little upset.”’

“The administrators have to be
kidding themselves if they think that
after 250 years, going co-ed is going
to blow over in four months,” Coe ad-
ded.

Shaw said that he is not against the
coeducation decision, and that he
came here this year with an open
mind. Coe said he was against the
decision but that now he ‘‘can see the
advantages.”

Join Us For Dinner At

Maple Hall

One of the Historic Country Inns
of Lexington

463-4666 for reservations
Open Monday, Friday and Saturday

Route 11 North

 

Valley True Value Hardware

HARDW.

 

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

E. Nelson Street
463-2186

 

Plan Now
For
Washington’s
Holiday
Break and
Spring
Break

Don’t Delay

Call 463-7174

Frank’s Pizza

Luncheon Special 11-3

10’ Minipizza w/1 topping

10” Minipizza w/3 toppings

plus
Free Drink

 

463-7575 or 463-3133

Large Pizza

$1] OFF

 

CLASSIFIEDS

 

GENERAL NOTES

 

Summer Scholars ‘86, a four-
week academic and recreational
program for rising high school
seniors (June 29-July 25), is look-
ing for a few good men and women
to serve as counselors. Inquiries
should be made at the Office of
Summer Programs, 36 Washing-
ton Hall, 463-8723.

The Minority Student Associa-
tion will hold a dinner in honor of
Martin Luther King Jr., on Sun-
day in Evans Dining Hall. A pro-
gram featuring Gospel Way Choir
and author Garnell Stamps will be

held at 7 p.m. Monday at United

Methodist Church on Randolph
Street. A reception will follow the
program.

Those students who have receiv-
ed three or more notices to attend
meetings of the Cold Check Com
mittee will be sent to the Student
Control Committee unless they
pay outstanding fines by Tuesday
at 7 p.m. in Room 114 of the Stu-
dent Center.

FILMS

“2001: A Space Odyssey,” by
Stanley Kubrick, will be shown
Thursday and Saturday nights at 7

 

 

and Friday at 4 p.m. in Room 203
Reid Hall. This unusual departure
from conventional sci-fi and the
prequel to ‘'2010"’ is a technically
innovative attempt to legitimize
extraterrestrials’ role in human
history. No one will be permitted
entry during the last 14 minutes
Free admission. Public invited

MEETINGS

 

 

Inter-Varsity will meet this
Saturday at 7:30 p.m. in Room 114
of the Student Center. The Lam-
post will sponsor a General Lee
Birthday Bash following the meet-

ing.

 

 

 

 

Winter Clearance Sale

Ceramic Items For Sale

Free Gift Wrapping

MasterCard

Alvin-Benniz

Fine Men’s Apparel

Lexington, Virginia

Continues

Choice

ee

 

Student Charge

 

 

SR OSS ES EP) A ED) eS OE a nee

 

 

 

Marie's Kain Stylers

463-9588

| aaa RM

By Appointment

Old Main St. Mall
Robins Peggy «Marie Lexington, VA 24450 (
PR S| SESE SESE ED ae ee) ce)

ce

 

 

 

 

 

fpoffroe [eee Florist

If you want to make a statement,
and don’t know what to say,
Just send her some flowers

and really make her day.

165 South Main St.

Mon.-Sat. 8:30-6:00
Sun. 1-5 ‘

 

 

463-9152

 

 

 

Sandwiches (Eat In-Take Out)
Gourmet Items of All Nations
Cocktails@ Wine@Beer
Subs@Imported Cheeses
Catering

110 S. Jefferson St.
Lexington
463-3338

Hours:
Mon.-Sat. 9am to lam
Sunday 10am to lam

SAFEWAY

8-10

463-3146 onda.

Wise Potato Chips
Coors & Coors Light
Beck’s Beer
Fresh Made Deli Pizzas
2/56

Good Luck On The New Term!

 
SPORTS

The Ring-tum Phi, January 16, 1986

 

Cagers raise mark to 6-4

 

By DAVID EMRICH
Assistant Sports Editor

 

Last week the Washington and Lee
basketball squad won two and lost
one. Unfortunately, the one loss was
in the championship game of the
W&L Invitational.

The Generals won Friday, 92-80,
over Thomas College to advance to
the finals of the Invitational. But on
Saturday, in the finals, they failed to
convert on two key freethrow
chances and lost the tournament for
the first time in seven seasons.
However, they rebounded to end the
week on a winning note by defeating
Maryville 67-62 in conference action
on Tuesday.

After Saturday night’s loss, head
coach Verne Canfield was subdued.
““We hope to use this loss to learn and
grow.” he said. ‘‘The game bothered
the kids and that’s a good sign.”’

Canfield’s guarded optimism was

rewarded when the Generals came
up with a 67-62 win against the
Maryville Scots

The Scots entered the game with
the ODAC's leading offense, averag-
ing 76.7 points per game, and the
league’s top scorer in Clay Freels,
averaging 21.5 points per game

But the Generals’ defense rose to
the occasion and tightened up con-
siderably, especially on the inside
Freels was held below his average.
scoring 18 points, but more impor-
tantly, he was forced to foul out with
5:11 remaining in the contest

Freshman Lee Brading’s two free
throws in the last minute of play iced
the victory for W&L.

In Saturday’s game, Jefferson
Harralson hit one of two free throws
with 1:32 to go, giving a W&L a 66-61
edge over the Nazareth Golden
Flyers. Then the Generals stopped
scoring, they did not put a point on
the board for the remainder of the
contest. Nazareth, on the other hand,

kept right on scoring

They immediately took the ball
down court and scored ona strong in-
side move by Richard Sparks, cut-
ting the Generals’ lead to 66-63

“Tm very dissappointed,” said
Canfield. ‘‘We allowed them to make
too many shots in the paint.”

With 30 seconds left in the game,
Fred Bissinger had a chance to put
the game out of reach, but he missed
the front end of a one and one. So,
when Joe Convertino drove the lane
with ten seconds left, the W&L lead
shrivelled to one.

Nazareth then fouled Harralson to
get the ball back. Harralson also had
the opportunity to seal the victory,
but he too missed the first shot of his
one and one. Convertino grabbed the
board but during the transition, Har-
ralson fouled Convertino while going
for the ball.

When the teams returned to the
court, the 5-10 guard cooly sank both
of his free throws to give his team the

Duke hands grapplers first loss in

 

By CHARLES T. GAY
Staff Reporter

 

It was an up-and-down week for the
Washington and Lee wrestling squad.
After sweeping the Johns Hopkins

Quadrangular on Saturday, the
Generals were humbled by Division I
Duke last night.

Yesterday's 37-12 loss to the Blue
Devils was the first W&L wrestling
loss since Jan, 19, 1985

The Generals started out well
enough when scrappy 118-pounder
Steve Castle carried the first bout.
Castle’s technical fall put the
Generals up 6-0.

Co-captain Brian Lifsted, who fell
to Duke’s Bill Perri 9-1 in the next
match, commented, ‘‘Steve wrestled
really well. He was our bright spot.”’

Bright spot, indeed, as from there
W&L lost seven of the eight remain-
ing bouts to the quick and countering
Blue Devils. Co-captain Lary Anker

chalked up the Generals’ only other
points on the evening, forcing his op-
ponent at 142 Ibs. to withdraw

General wrestlers effortlessly
swept the Johns Hopkins Invitational
in Baltimore last Saturday by alter-
nately manhandling Loyola, Hamp-
den-Sydney and Johns Hopkins, and
in the process, got head coach Gary
Franke his 100th win as W&L head
coach.

Franke described his reaction to

 

 

 

 

JEFFERSON HARRALSON

67-66 victory and the championship.

AROUND THE RIM... Steve Han-
cock was named the Invitational’s
MVP... Harralson had 59 points in the
Generals’ last three games... The
Generals play archrival Roanoke
tonight at 7:30 in the Warner Center:
the game will be carried live on
WLUR-FM (91.5). Both teams are
tied for third place in the ODAC

a year

the squad's performance by joking,
“We're doing cartwheels

“We were very pleased with our
performance,”' he said. ‘We had a lot
of nice efforts.”’

According to Franke
ment in W&L’s victory was the fact
that, ‘almost everybody perform-
ed.”

The Generals resume action Satur
day at noon against Davidson in the
Warner Center.

  

 

Swimmers return to competition on Friday

 

By LEIF UELAND
Staff Reporter

 

Washington and Lee swim fans, the wait is over

After a month and a half of training, the
Generals will resume competition this weekend.

Friday night, the men’s team (2-1) will swim at
James Madison, Saturday, both the men’s and
women’s teams will host Georgetown and
Frostburg in Twombly Pool at 1 p.m.

While Friday's meet against James Madison, a
top Division I team in the region, offers little hope
for a victory, the team hopes the outcome will be a
rare occurrence.

‘We want to make that the last loss of the sea-
son,” said head coach Page Remillard.

To Remillard and the team, such a prospect is
not as grim as it seems. Having trained intensive-
ly for the last month and a half, the swimmers are
temporarily run-down and presently they may not
be capable of turning out two top-flight perfor-
mances back to back as they should be able to
when the national championships roll around in
mid-March. Thus, Friday's meet will be both a
physical warm-up for Saturday and also a chance
toexperiment with the team’s line-up.

“We cannot go into that meet and be irresponsi-
ble. Everyone will be in a certain event for a cer-
tain goal,” Remillard said. “The damage will
come if the swimmers don’t take the meet serious-

 

—

Considerin

e fact

ly.... Our meet Saturday kind of begins Friday.”

Georgetown and Frostburg are both strong
teams, together promising what should be a close
meet Saturday. Key events look to be in the free-
style events. The men’s relays could also play de-
ciding roles if Georgetown takes the diving com-
petition.

Remillard points out that, having just endured a
good deal of intensive training, the swimmers
may have excuses for a loss Saturday, but he sees
that as no obstacle to their rising to the challenge.

“If they capitalize on those excuses it will be a
real ho-hum season.... There is no indication that
this is a team that jumps at a chance to fail.”’

 

 

 

 

TIME
OUT....

 

By Mike
Stachura

 

 

 

: ... The idea ultimately behind the

s % NCAA's Proposal 48, which, by the

e. ; way, became The Law Monday

4 Pe night, is an attempt — albeit a feeble

7 rs one — to restore some validity to the

E — term ‘student-athlete.’ That some

es actually opposed the proposal —

> vehemently so, given the fact that it

+ was proposed two years ago and has

been struggling for approval

ever since — leads me to believe that it’s going ho take more than

watered-down proposals to save play-for-pay college athletics from
itself.

If you're wondering, campers, Proposal 48 is that nifty edict that
seeks to prevent insufficiently educated high school students from
receiving a free ticket to the institution of higher learning/motor
club/health spa/leisure resort of his or her (Are you listening, North-
east Louisiana?) choice. What the NCAA approved in New Orleans
(and isn’t that city of sin a fitting place?) was a set of academic
criteria that entering freshmen on athletic scholarship must meet if
they are to compete in their scholarship sport. The standards that
these respective whiz kids must be able to attain during their high
school careers are as follows (please refrain from laughing too loud-
ly):

eA 2.0 grade point average in 1i prescribed subjects.

*A score of 700 (total) on the Scholastic Aptitude Test.

A phone call to the College Board people reveals just how lame these
“standards” are. Fred Mareno, assistant director of public affairs at
the College Board says the 1985 national average scores were 431 ver-
bal, 475 math. That adds up to 906. Mareno said 14 percent of all those
who take the test score below 700. I submit that, for the most part, it’s
unreasonable to allow anything that scores 200 points below the na-
tional average into a supposed institution of higher learning

That doesn’t meanit isn’t done.

Granted, there is the notable exception of black student-athletes. Of
blacks taking the SAT, 56 percent score below 700, a result of what
some researchers claim is a prejudiced test. Prejudiced or not, if you
only answer less than half the questions on the SAT correctly, I can't
justify your getting a free ride to college, Mac.

Mareno provides us with one further tidbit that leaves me wondering
if those NCAA types were aware of what their decision involved. The
man from the College Board cited a recent study that shows that
athletes across the board did as weil in high school as their non-
athletic counterparts. The average SAT score for high school athletes
was 910. That’s (again) 200 points above the NCAA’s lofty standard. In
other words, 700 just doesn’t make it, as far as a legitimate academic
standard goes.

All these numbers aside though, folks, doesn’t it strike anyone as

peculiar that a collegiate association has to pass proposals to remind

 

 

 

The Sandwich Shoppe
Old Main Shopping Mall
Is Under New Managment

It is our hope to keep the same fine food and service you

are use to.

Featured everyday, Monday through Friday, will be home-

made soups along with the fine sandwiches you already like.

Please call 463-2595 for your To-Go Order.

Thanks for your continued patronage. Frank Stinson

 

 

that Jesus had his doubts,
why cant you?

If you believe in God, but still have doubts and questions, there's plenty of room
for you in the faith and fellowship of the Episcopal Church.
The Episcopal Church

 

fe _f Mem ra '
er epai Se
Sund:z
30 Fuchar t
15 Churct ho
30 Euchariat.tist and
Mornings Prayer .#andé
oo Canterbury Club
Evensona tiasst and 3ra
Eucharist 2nd and 4th
Followed by dinner
We dime ia.
Eu hari
The Rev Arthur i ia
Tne Fev Name vy ~ Ta lo
Assistant and Chapiai:

advantages like:

@ Earning $100 a month during the school year

Then get in on the ground floor in our undergraduate officer
commissioning program. You could start planning on a career
like the men in this ad have. And also have some great

Juniors earn more than $1900 during one ten-week

summer session

You can take free civilian flying lessons

@ You're commissioned upon graduation

If you're looking to move up quickly, look into the Marine Corps

 

@ Asa freshman or sophomore,
you could complete your basic train-
ing during two six-week summer

sessions and earn more than $1100
during each session

 

 

 

 

Tal ty

undergraduate officer commission-

ing program. You could
start off making more

|
| Want fo move i than $17,000 a year.

Were looking for a few good men,

today

at

bent
bt

Evan's Dining Hall, or ca

1 Fans € a =
re looking for a w good men.

 

 

 
EBACK PAGE

 

 

 

 

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

The Suspects (left to right): Cliff Coppola, Teddy Pender, Taylor Abbot, John Vita

     
       

 

EAST LE

U.S. 11 N. 463-3614 Open Until Midnight

 

Lexington Prescription Center
11 West Washington Street
463-9166

Welcomes Your Business

We accept charge accounts to your parents.
We will make special orders to get your brand.
Come in and get all your merchandise.

1) Prescriptions
2) Hair care products
3) Dental needs

4) Contact lens care products
5) Shaving products

6) Better colognes and after
shave lotion

 

 

 

The Finishing Touch
Located in the U.S. Post
Office Building, Lexington

463-1622
Typing and Word
Processing Services

  
      

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, January 16, 1986

i ‘Suspects’: New band

plays ‘what we like’

 

By MARK TRAINER
Staff Reporter

 

Rising from the ashes of the
mostly-graduated Nabobs, the Sus-
pects, this year’s musical offering
from the W&L Law School have be-
gun playing the local bar scene
including a Friday night gig al
General Headquarters.

The band was formed at the begin-
ning of the school year by Taylor Ab-
bot, who approached guitarists Cliff
Coppola and John Vita and drummer
Teddy Pender with the idea of form-
ing another ‘‘all-law’’ band.

Nabob veteran Abbot was the only
member of the group who did not
graduate last spring. Vita was the
founding member of the Convertibles

x Thespians to stage

Greek sex comedy

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Entertainment Editor

 

The Washington and Lee drama
department’s winter production,
“Lysistrata,”’ is an anti-war comedy
written in 411 B.C. by Greek play-
wright Aristophanes. The play is con-
cerned with the Peloponnesian war
between Athens and Sparta, but it is
certainly not meant to be a history
lesson.

The operative word here is ‘‘come-
dy.”
“Actually, it’s a lot like Saturday
Night Live,”’ said director Al Gordon.
“There was a skit on that show once
which was set in Beruit. A boy was
called inside for dinner but couldn’t
make it because he was too busy kill-
ing people. That kind of satire is a
great deal like Aristophones.”’

The play centers on Lysistrata
(Pamela Simpson), an Athenian

housewife who devises a_ brilliant
scheme to stop the war. She con-
vinces every Athenian, Boeotian and
Lacedaemonian woman to withhold
sex from their husbands to bring
about an armistice. According to
Gordon, this ‘“‘sex-strike’’ results in
some very funny scenes.

“We've tried to do it in a very
modern style,” said Gordon. “It’s no
more absurd than what's going on to-
day.”

Because the original play included
references to politicians living at the
time it was written, Gordon said he
streamlined it a bit in order to play
up the relevance to current events.
On the other hand, he didn’t want to
“beat people over the head.”’

“Lysistrata” will begin its run
Feb. 7 and continue through Feb. 12.
All performances will begin at 8
p.m., except a Sunday, Feb. 9 mati-
nee.

before leaving that band in 1983.
Coppola’s experience has been
limited mostly to coffee house perfor-
mances.

The Friday night GHQ show was
only the fourth time the band has
played for an audience. While the
crowd was extremely receptive, Vita
expressed dissatisfaction with the
group’s performance.

He blamed this on the lack of re-
hearsal time the band had during the
previous week. He also attributed the
band’s slow start to the difficulty of
balancing the Law School study load
with necessary rehearsal time.

Still the band has reached a point
where it feels ready to put some orig-
inal songs into its mix of rock stan-
dards and contemporary popular
songs. Coppola has penned many

merce School.

merce School.
Lewis Hall.

Sponsored by the W&L Film Society.

Warner Center.

merce School.

Sponsored by the W&L Film Society.

 

songs that will be included in upcom-
ing shows

The Suspects’ song list has chang-
ed from oldies, which were aimed at
the tastes of law students, to modern
songs by Talking Heads, R.E.M., The
Police and Elivs Costello. With their
relaxed attitude toward the future,
the bottom line is still “what we
like.”

With two of the four members
graduating at year’s end, Vita admit-
ted that the Suspects were formed to
‘be a diversion and have fun.”

Now. with exams behind them and
more time to concentrate on the
band, The Suspects want to expand
and enjoy themselves. The group
plans to play at Sweet Briar College
in the near Future and hopes to make
a number of fraternity appearances.

(alate
ONCAMPUS

Thursday, January 16
7 p.m. — W&L Journal of Science, organizational meeting. Room 301,
Parmly Hall. For information call Guy Caldwell at 463-9630.
7 p.m, — POLITICS FILM: *'2001: A Space Odyssey.’’ Room 327, Com-
7:30 p.m. — BASKETBALL: Generals vs. Roanoke. Warner Center.
8 p.m. — LECTURE: ‘Popular Images of George Washington from
the Carson Collection.”’ Stanley Preston Lewis °85, guest curator. du-
Pont Auditorium. Reception following the lecture Public invited.

Friday, January 17
4p.m. — POLITICS FILM: “2001: A Space Odyssey.’’ Room 327, Com-

7 p.m. — Newcomer's Gathering (prior to Film Society film). Lobby,
8 p.m. — FILM: “Nosferatu the Vampyre.” Classroom A, Lewis Hall.
9 p.m. — BAND: ‘‘The Deal.” Sponsored by GHQ. Cover charge, $3.

Saturday, January 18
1 p.m. — SWIMMING: Generals vs. Georgetown, Frostburg State.

1:30 p.m. — WRESTLING: Generals vs. Davidson. Warner Center.
7 p.m. — POLITICS FILM: *'2001: A Space Odyssey.’’ Room 327, Com-

8 p.m. — FILM: ‘‘Nosferatu the Vampyre.” Classroom A, Lewis Hall.

9 p.m. — BAND: “The Stains.”” Sponsored by GHQ., Cover charge, $2.

 

 

 

SE 238 ) .
Lexington, 7 24450

Lexington Hardware

 

 

463-2242

 

 

Southern
Inn

Welcome
Students
Serving breakfast, lunch
and dinner for over
50 years
Main Street, Lexington
463-3612

 

 

 

 

Dear Mom and Dad,

Here are a few things I'd like for
Christmas. You don't have to buy me
all of them, just choose one

}. A Saab 900s turbo, black exterior,
burgundy leather interior, sunroof,
performance package

 

2. A penthouse apartment, fully
staffed, in Trump tower

3. Anuntimited account at Alvin-
Dennis

4. An IBM PC, 256k, two disk drives,

monitor/printer adapter, Monochrome
monitor

love, Skippy

 

 

 

 

 

(Pre-ott-so) you'll pronounce it delicious.

In Italy, there’s a pie filled with delicious in-
gredients and smothered in rich, zesty sauce and
melted cheeses. You really ought to try it.

Round-trip tickets to Italy are unnecessary
and far too expensive. Just visit your par-
ticipating Pizze Hut® restaurant after 4:00 p.m.
Monday through Friday or anytime Saturday
and Sunday and order our Priazzo 1m Italian pie
in one of four tempting combinations of fillings.
Milano, Roma, Florentine and Napoli.

Eat In, Carry Out, Or Delivered

Wendell’s
Barber
Shop

| need your

head for

my business.

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

463-7000
HH 600 E. Nelson
ut @ Lexington The Shop for
PAPPAGALLO
ge a ;
g ; § Winter
i Eat In, Carry Out Or Delivered : Clearance Sale
Sn in Progress
i $49 off orr &
z _— you tame 2 som &
B sz. offanyi: izzs Ke :
# or #1 off any medium. 10 : Shoes, Clothing
cludes Pizza Hut? P: j
a Pia re utt Pan Pizza bok keen dk r & Accessories
oe ee eee H Lexington, Va.
eae Ul. 463-7000 :
@ restaurants t 23 NORTH MAIN STREET
oct Po g | LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
& 1-31-86 a 463-5988
eee tt

The truth is that you need an IBM PC. Whether
its a word processor for a thesis or a direct link
into a mainframe, now is the time to buy.
Prices are low and the Christmas spirit of giving
is everywhere, especially at home.

IBM set the industries standards when they
began production .of the PC and it is still the
leading personal computer. No other MS DOS®
machine maintains such an extensive software
base and such a reputation for reliability. So if
you demand the best, now is not the time to
compromise. Stick with the BUREAU. IBM.

copies of your data.

 

the FX-85 is the answer. °

For more information contact Sue Ruley at the Computer Center on Campus

JACK HARTMAN

By now you should know how to get exactly what you want. Honesty is not always
the best policy. That is, sometimes parents need a little deception to show them the truth,

 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  

_... And while you've got them in the palm
of your hand, why not go ahead and ask for
+. everything you really want. After all once
you've got the computer you need hard
Knowing you want the
best we suggest the EPSON” FX-85. Epson
is to printers what IBM is to computers.
With excellent quality, long lasting durability,
a full year waranty and extremely low prices

 

 

 

COMPUTER CENIRE

 

2840 Peters Creek Rd. Roanoke 362-1891 Gables Shopping Center Blacksburg 951-0802
Toll Free 1-800-542-5899

 

Sales Service Software classes Support

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

Rats

 

Beating hearts
in Tucker Hall

 

 

Mats

    
  

  

 

Page 5

  

Grapplers rebound
with two wins

   

Page 7

 

Your Superdance weather

 

Temperatures in the 40s;
chance of rain Sunday

 

   

 

Che King-tum

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 

JANUARY 23, 1986

VOLUME 85, NUMBER 16 LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Wilson: W&L is sound

 

 

By MIKE ALLEN
Executive Editor

 

Flanked by portraits of George
Washington and Robert E. Lee,
President John D. Wilson on Monday

' painted a picture of a Washington

, and Lee in transition — a University
on the Appomatox Courthouse side of
_its own civil war.

, The message: Coeducation’s
wounds, more scrapes than scars,
have healed or are well on their way,

. although no one can be certain exact-
ly what direction reconstruction will

’ take.

“I believe, ladies and gentlemen,
that the state of the University is
sound,” Wilson told a Lee Chapel au-

dience gathered to commemorate
Founders’ Day and to honor initiates

into Omicron Delta Kappa, the
honorary leadership society.

Topic A at W&L remains, of
course, coeducation. Wilson’s ver-
dict: success so far.

“T think we can say that we are off

to a good start,” he said, adding that
he is ‘under no illusion that the tran-
sition is completed.”

As evidence of that success, he
pointed to the increase in applica-
tions for both the undergraduate and
law schools, even as the pool of high
school graduates is shrinking and the
number of law school applicants is
dropping sharply.

In the area of alumni giving, Wil-
son also had what he called ‘‘reassur-
ing news’: Commitments to the An-
nual Fund last year were up by 616
donors and $156,000 from the pre-
vious drive.

Wilson said that based on the ex-
perience of other schools, ‘‘we will be
several years in making the large
and small adjustments that will en-
sure that Washington and Lee suc-
ceeds in meeting the educational
needs of women as fully as it meets
the needs of men.”’

The president offered a bold vision
for the future of the University,
declaring that ‘I don’t know why we
can't stake out a place in the top 12 in

this nation and get there in a dozen
years.”

In a 40-minute speech punctuated
by quips and lighthearted observa-
tions, Wilson assumed a serious tone
in discussing some findings about
W&L’s science ‘curriculum that he
said are not ‘‘alarming at this point”’
but are ‘‘cause for concern.”

In contrast with the trend in a
study group of 48 other “‘leading
liberal arts colleges,’’ the number of
biology and geology degrees award-
ed and W&L student applications to
medical school all have fallen off in
the last five years.

Another focus of University atten-
tion will be what Wilson called ‘‘a
serious problem of faculty-wide
renewal over the next 10 to 12 years’”’
as more than 40 professors reach
retirement age

He said a faculty committee
chaired by English Professor Sidney
M.B. Coulling has been formed to
study ‘‘the delicate task.”

Omicron Delta Kappa initiates 30,
page 4.

Bag it
The Unknown Fans “bleacher dive” at last Thursday's
basketball game against Roanoke, which the Generals

won, 44-42. The team’s record stands at 8-5 after a 51-50
squeaker loss to Eastern Mennonite Tuesday night.

 
 

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Unknown Fan Jamie Auch said the group will reappear
at the Emory & Henry game tonight at 7:30. Basketball
coverage begins on Page 6, and a letter about the
Unknown Fans appears on Page 2.

job market is looking up for ’86 graduates

Surveys

Say

By JASON LISI
Assistant News Editor

 

 

Increased projected hiring by a wide variety of
employers means Washington and Lee seniors will
benefit from the best job market in more than a

+ decade, a University official says.

A similarly favorable forecast comes from two
new market surveys, which show the job market
indeed will be better for this year’s graduates than
it was for last year’s.

Employers are predicting they will take on
about 2 percent more college graduates this year
than they did in 1985, according to a survey of
more than 400 employers by the College Place-
ment Council Inc. for its ‘Recruiting '86”’ report.

A similar survey by Michigan State University
for its ‘15th Annual Trends Survey” showed an ex-
pected hiring increase of 0.4 percent among the
more than 700 employers surveyed.

The ioh market is “slightly better for '86 grad-

uates than ’85,”’ said Judith O’Flynn Kayser, the
Placement Council’s manager of statistical ser-
vice. That is due to a continued expansion in
economic recovery from the recent recession,
Kayser said in a telephone interview.

“The economy is so much stronger — there still
is growing room,” she said. It appears that the
growth will continue for at least the first half of
1986, she added, but cautioned that projection is
“still tentative.’’

Kayser said the companies that will step up
their hiring depends on “which ones have recover-
ed better.”

“The service industries are expanding contin-
uously,” she said, citing fields such as banking
and finance and merchandising. Ones that will not

‘do as well will be the aerospace and automotive in-

dustries, according to Kayser.

Employers expect to hire 7 percent more busi-
ness graduates at the bachelor’s degree level, the
placement council’s survey found. Liberal arts

graduates also will be in greater demand, accord-
ing to Kayser.

“It appears to be better days ahead for liberal
arts graduates,’ Kayser said. ‘‘For them, it some-
times looks like doom and gloom time.”

Kayser said the survey showed accounting
would be popular with employers. ‘Accounting
came up again and again in the business cate-
gory,’’ she said,

The suryey. also showed an increased demand _

-for-grirdwates-with degrees in science” mali, and

technical disciplines, excluding engineering.
Employers expect to hire 3 percent more grad
uates in these areas, the survey said

W&L Associate Dean of Students and Director of
Placement Michael A. Cappeto said he agrees
with the surveys. “From everything I can tell, this
will be the best job market I've seen in the 11 years
I've been at W&L,” he said.

Cappeto said the increase in hiring is probably

See Jobs, Page 4

 

...but search is still difficult

By JASON LISI
Assistant News Editor

 

Several Washington and Lee students say that despite all the good
news about the-jobamnasket, offers. still aren't exactly falling into their
laps.

“Tve heard that this year is better but I’m still early in the game,”’
said senior Matt Coudert, an economics major from Greenwich, Conn.
‘No one’s knocking down my door. ”’

Peter Hunt, an interdepartmental science major from Huntington,
W.Va., agreed. ‘‘I’m pretty much worried.” he said. ‘‘Where I want to
go and where I'll end up will probably be two different places.’’

Hunt added that although he had little trouble getting interviews, he
thinks getting hired won't be easy because once the interview starts,
‘‘you realize you have really stiff competition.”’

 

‘Hearing
postponed

By JIM STRADER
_ , News Editor

 

 

The woman who last month
brought rape charges against a
Washington and Lee freshman has
left Hollins College, according to a
secretary in the dean of students’ of-
fice there.

“As far as we're concerned, she
has left school,’ said Kay Johnson,
secretary to Dean of Students

’, Margaret Evans.

The preliminary hearing scheduled

_ for freshman Burgess A. ‘‘Tommy”’

Thomasson was to have been held

Tuesday, but has been postponed

_ because the Lexington police in-

vestigation and certain laboratory

reports are incomplete, according to

| the prosecutor, Commonwealth's At-
, torney Beverly C. ‘‘John’’ Read.

Read said that, depending on the
availability of the defense attorneys,
he hopes to reschedule the prelimi-
nary hearing for ‘‘sometime within a

* month.”

Thomasson was arrested Dec. 8 in
Graham-Lees Dormitory in connec-
tion with a 2 a.m. incident involving

’ an 18-year-old woman who was then a
freshman at Hollins.

*Boots and bandanas make up
the new ‘‘barbarian wear" in the
weight room, page 2

eThe whole story’’ has chang-
d ed on a_ non-voting woman
member of the Student Control
Committee, the Executive Com-
mittee contends, page 3

*A look at a University retreat,
page 3.

Everybody eats at Lloyd's, but
have you ever eaten everything at
Lloyd's? Our boys did, page 8

 

SUPERDANCE

 

 

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Entertainment Editor

 

This weekend’s Muscular Dystrophy Association
Superdance may be the last one at which the beer flows
as freely as do the donations, planners of the dance-a
thon warn.

Tougher Virginia alcohol laws may mean dry Super-
dances. in the future, possibly jeopardizing the amount
Washington and Lee historically has raised through the
charitable event, according to the students

A grandfather clause in the new law raising the drink
ing age allows most upperclassmen to continue to pur
chase beer, but next year more than half the student
body will be ineligible to drink, jeopardizing the
school’s ability to obtain a liquor license for a bash such
as the Superdance.

This weekend's festivities get underway tomorrow at
8 p.m. in the Student Activities pavilion. The 30-hour
marathon, which includes dancing, pie throws and
music, continues until 1 a.m. Sunday

The benefit will feature four bands: The Maxx
Xenon, the White Animals, and the Sparkplugs. Taped
music will be played during the breaks.

Superdance co-chairmen Sandy Whann and Paul

 

 

 

& iad =

 

Superdance Special Events Chairman Sam Svalina conducts a slave auction

‘87 dance-a-thon may be dry

 

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

James, both seniors, hope to raise $30,000 through the
dance and other related activities. Last year’s event
raised $33,213.

As was the case with previous Superdances, the beer
will be furnished for pledged dancers. Spectators ean
attend the dance for $7, and beer will be sold.

“The beer is a big contributor,’’ James said

Virginia’s new drinking law, which requires a person
to be 21 years of age in order to purchase beer, could af
fect future dances significantly, said James

“If the Alcoholic Beverage Control Board doesn’t
grant us a license, I see the chance that they won't be
able to raise as much,”’ he added

The Superdance Steering Committee plans to hold
several meetings after the dance in order to study how
much beer sales contribute to the final donation figure,
according to James.

“We might have to live with the fact that the W&L
Superdance can’t make as sizable a donation as in the
past,’ James said. ‘‘Maybe we could find other ways to
get around it

Associate Dean of Students Michael Cappeto said that
the ABC probably will issue a state-wide policy some
time this summer. He said he hopes that any change in

See Dance, Page 5

 

 

ee erin

SUPER BOWL
Bears, Pats boring?

By DAVID NAVE
Staff Reporter

 

 

 

Though it has become
something closer to the
Hype Bow! than the Super
Bowl, Sunday’s match-up
between the Chicago Bears
and New England Patriots
has aroused the interest of
much of the nation, in-
cluding the campus of
Washington and Lee.

Everyone from Pete Ax-
thelm to Jimmy ‘The
Greek”’ has got an opinion
about the outcome of Super Bow! XX, and W&L will be chock full of
armchair quarterbacks Sunday afternoon. There are some who claim
they knew the opponents for the championship game months ago.

‘Nobody remembers now, but I did say it,”’ said Nick Berents, a
senior from Cohasset, Mass., who explained that he predicted a Bears-
Patriots Super Bowl after New England’s six-game winning streak in
October and November.

Mike Stachura, sports editor of The Ring-tum Phi and sports
commentator for WLUR-FM, said he made a similar prediction about
the Patriots’ fortunes on the weekly radio show, “SportsTalk.”

Conjecture faces reality Sunday at 5 p.m., when the Bears and

 

 

 

 

Patriots tee it up in the New Orleans Super Bow!

Oddsmakers have placed the Bears as 11-point favorites, but Spirits
have not dimmed in anticipation of this year’s world championship.

The General Headquarters will have three wide-screen televisions
for those viewing Sunday’s game. Numerous Super Bowl parties
~some planned, some not — will ocur on Sunday, too

But not everyone enjoys watching the Super Bow! with a crowd
WA&L standout tailback Kevin Weaver said that he intends to watch the
game at his apartment and ‘‘iust relax.’

University Publications Director Jeff Hanna, who covered three
Super Bowls during his 10-year career as a sportswriter for the
Nashville Tennessee and the Norfolk Virginian-Pilot, said that he en
joyed watching the game live until he realized he had a deadline to
meet, Otherwise, Hanna prefers Weaver's idea and plans to watch
Super Bowl XX at home

Strange as it may sound, some students do not have plans to watch
the game at all. W&L wide receiver Hugh Finkelstein said that if there
are no good movies on TV, he might watch the game

“It's a boring game on TV,” Finkelstein said “The playoff games
are good, but the Super Bowl is too commercialized ”

Hanna agreed and said that the game sometimes bores him, too. He
said that when the Super Bow] is exciting
do not play well

‘How can they raise their level of play
should this game be any better than the on

itis because the two teams

Hanna asked
played earlier

‘Why
this

See Bowl, Page7

 

 
OPINION
Dreaming

While the rest of the country commemorated Martin
Luther King on Monday and tried to remember his dream for
this country, the crowd in Lee Chapel for the Founders’ Day
convocation was treated to the dream of a different in-
dividual, University President John D. Wilson. For nearly 45
minutes, Wilson painted a rosy picture of the future of the
school; his vision seemed clear, the means appeared present
and the end was altogether too perfect. The megatrendy John
Naisbitt would have been proud of the budding futurist.

Wilson’s dream for the future of the school painted several
distinct pictures, Wilson boasted most about the academic
health of the University. The statistics, while in themselves
not evidence of the academic improvement in entering
students, were flowing freely: higher Scholastic Aptitude
Test scores, more valedictorians, and increased numbers of
applications for both the College and the Law School in an
age when the applicant pool is declining at most schools.

Included in the well-being of the W&L academic at-
mosphere are the special academic studies programs
created in recent years. The University Scholars program,
the expansion of the East Asian Studies program, the
establishment of the computer science major and the new
core curriculum all stand as evidence of the emphasis the
University places on refinement and perfection. Few other
schools of similar size can boast of such innovation or results.

Wilson also was optimistic about the future of the faculty,
especially in view of the recent influx of ‘“‘new blood”’ into the
administration and certain prominent faculty posts. While
his listing of the many new faces on campus may have been a
‘‘dizzying litany,”’ it nonetheless served to remind us all that
the University is indeed experiencing great change.

The challenges, though, are not all behind us. In the next 12
years, Wilson noted, 40 professors will reach retirement age.
Seeking new and talented faculty will be a formidable task,
and on it depends our academic excellence and reputation.
That a faculty committee is already studying the dilemma
and considering ways to meet the challenge speaks highly of
the foresight of administration officials.

Finally, Wilson’s description of the Washington and Lee
campus of the 21st century makes Donald Trump’s ambition
seem modest. Whether the president was talking about the
new dormitory (or is it a residence hall?) or 6 University
Place (the Morris House) or 32 University Place (the new ad-
missions office, upon completion in several years), he seem-
ed to be focusing on a grand master plan in which each of the
undertakings is but a small component.

In a nostalgic aside, Wilson also commented on the beauty
of the campus he has presided over for the past three years.
At least we know someone is walking the campus at dawn and
admiring the “‘Woods Creek ravine”’ or the back of the Colon-
nade.

Wilson’s closing hinted at a metropolitan and cultural mec-
ca developing in Lexington, all centered around the school in-
fluenced — founded, if you will — by Generals Washington
and Lee. We do not see ‘Aida’ or ‘‘The Barber of Seville”
playing Lexington anytime in the near future, although stu-
dent and faculty attempts at such a production might stretch
the imagination as much as the vocal chords.

One part of Wilson’s speech we wish he had developed fur-
ther was the involvement and cooperation that might be
strengthened between the University and the community. In
any other town, a firm employing as substantial a percentage
of the community that contributed so little to the town would
be an object of great scorn. We have been spared that
criticism, the community does not have unlimited patience,
especially when it comes to rude students and impolite
customers.

Finally, we’d like to note the ease and sincerity with which
Wilson spoke. When he talked of walking along the back cam-
pus with the sun rising over the Blue Ridge, you see the light
in his eyes as clearly as he sees the light in the Eastern sky,
and you could sense the humanity of John Wilson that so
many forget — or intentionally overlook. How sad that he
cares so deeply and genuinely for a campus that seems to
love him only part of the time.

His dream for the University is one we share. We hope the
time comes when it’s no longer just a vision, but a reality.

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi last week in-
correctly reported the disposition
of a misdemeanor charge against
sophomore Calvin Rankin. The
charge was dismissed

* * *

ties would be able to find locations
“when the fraternities go down”
was meant to refer to a few frater-
nities that may face closure and
not to fraternities in general.

2 3

A quotation from freshman
Melissa Thrasher in last week's
issue was accurate but lacked
context. Her comment that sorori-

Pamela H. Simpson was incor-
rectly identified in the ‘‘Inside”’
box of last week’s Phi. She is the
Associate Dean of the College.

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, January 23, 1986

 

 

 

Weight room: An exegesis on exercise

 

MY VIEW

By Mike McAlevey

 

The way I see it, God created
everything, everyplace and everyone
with a purpose — from the White
House to the outhouse, and from the
president to bovine scum. For exam-
ple, a prostitute’s existence seems to
be based on saying: ‘Hey, sailor!
How about a little bouncy-bouncy?”’
Or, and to address my issue for this
week, weight rooms were created
with the specific intent of ‘getting
big for the chicks,’’ or maybe for the
less serious, a place to lay the foun-
dation for athletic greatness. Why, to
mistake anything’s natural purpose
is as bad as mistaking the leader of
the greatest Western power as a
cheesy B-movie actor.

Weight rooms were once consider-

Founders’

By NELSON PATTERSON
Editorial Page Editor

 

 

Ask any alumnus what he
remembers most about Founders’
Day at Washington and Lee, and cer-
tain aspects of that venerable tradi-
tion will always be mentioned. There
is the usual cutely spun tale about
General Lee that always appears in
the keynote address. Some might
even note that Washington was occa-
sionally mentioned. Or there might
be someone’s memory of how the
faculty always looked so stately in
their academic dress.

But students and faculty who have
participated in the last 70 or so

ed sacred; memories of smashed
toes and detached fingers were as
thick as the smell of unwashed gym
shorts. But now the sanctity of our
weightroom is gone. Like bingo in
church, our muscle factory has
become a monument to bad taste.
With the advent of coeducation at
Washington and Lee, certain struc-
tural alterations have afflicted our
weight room and its patrons. Honest-
ly, when God was giving out brains,
whoever mandated the positioning of
the locker rooms was in the hemor-
rhoids line getting seconds. Now, the
zealous men who swarm for exercise
like drones to the honey nest on Mon-
days and Fridays must endure an ar-
duous trek. All that these guys
wanted in the first place was a pump
for the weekend or to sweat out the
toxins of a typical spree of orgiastic
excess. Now they must march with
tightened hamstrings and parched
lips, indicative of Sahara exposure,

just to get a damn drink of water, or
even more pressing, to pass water. I
don’t think it would be a bad idea to
distribute rubber bands at the door to
aid those of weaker bladder.

Architecture, however, is the least
of our worries. What has developed
now in not too far from our own little
version of an isometric singles club.
The effervescent vapors of a well-
worked underarm have been sup-
planted by the stench of Chanel No. 5.
Wouldn’t you rather smell Ben-Gay
than a yoking by violence of forty dif-
ferent perfumes and colognes? One
could easily mistake a trip to the
weight room for a visit to the Macy’s
fragrance counter.

Fashion has also become an un-
sightly issue, and men and women
are equally guilty. Do work boots and
bandanas really enhance one’s lifting
prowess? Come on, guys, how about
moving a little iron instead of being a
slave to the new trend in barbarian

wear? And, ladies, slick Adidas
leotards do little in the way of
enhancing aerodynamics when rid-
ing a stationary bike. Remember,
under physical stress, rouge and
mascara will only smear, rendering
one’s face a close facsimile to an im-
pressionist canvas.

To be fair, which is difficult, I
clearly regard all the preceding pro-
blems as ones to be confronted in the
short run. In the long run, however, I
foresee a bold new frontier of car-
diovascular felicity. Bag the Bruce
tape and jam a little Donna Summer;
this way the more creative couples
can do tandem jump rope acts. And
don’t we all anticipate that day when
a simple spot becomes an opportuni-
ty to meet your Jane or Arnold, a
romantic rendezvous at the military
press, a peck on the cheek at the
chinup bar, but please, no heavy pet-
ting on the situp mat. Let me not
stand in the way of progress!

Day not same without Latture

Founders’ Days will remember one
man who always was present — with
the only exceptions begin this year
and a couple of years during WWI
when he was stationed in Europe.
Even students today see him around
the campus, usually walking toward
the Alumni House or along the Colon-
nade.

Rupert Nelson Latture is certainly
no ordinary member of the W&L
community. Nearly a tradition in
himself, Latture has become as great
a part of the campus in his own 94
years as did Lee or Washington in
their lifetimes. It would seem that
were Professor Latture’s birthday
not so close to the celebration itself,
he might himself command center
stage at every Founders’ Day cele-

bration.

But Professor Latture was unable
to attend Monday’s celebration. He
was likewise unable to attend the
President’s reception beforehand for
Omicron Delta Kappa initiates or the
luncheon that followed the public
“tapping,’’ in which initiates formal-
ly professed faith in the qualities of
leadership upon which ODK was
founded. Latture, some might say,
was unable to revel in his own crea-
tion, since he was one of the original
founders of the honorary fraternity in
1914.

Latture has been resting and re-
cuperating at home recently, await-
ing the day when he will occupy
again his desk in the alumni house
and when he can catch up on the cor-

LETTERS

Origin of Unknown Fans said to be racist

respondence. I believe that the Uni-
versity, as President John D. Wilson
noted in his address Monday, is also
awaiting his return to campus. The
contributions he has made to the
welfare of the school and the prin-
ciples he has espoused and nurtured
at W&L have become such ap inte-
gral part of the school that one might
think without Latture, things will
proceed in a state of normalcy. We
couldn’t be further from the truth. He
may not be present, but he cannot be
forgotten.

The scholar-gentleman ideal he
has embodied before countless stu-
dents is an ideal that we as a univer-
sity honor on Founders’ Day. It is our
loss that we could not share in his
presence Monday.

 

EE ee

To the editors:

For the three years I’ve been enrolled in the
Law School, I’ve annually attended the W&L vs.
Roanoke College basketball game. W&L’s Coach
Canfield, one of the most skillful teachers and
tacticians of the game of basketball in the coun-
try, always has his team extraordinarily pre-
pared. His kids play with confidence, courage,
and unrelenting determination.

However, some of the most exciting and well-
played games I’ve ever witnessed have been de-
tracted from by the so-called entertainment of
the “unknown fans.’’ Having coached at
Roanoke College for three years and worked in
other capacities for an additional three years, I
am well aware of the history of the ‘unknown
fan’ and the derisive implication of the brown

Catholics, Hispanics and other racial and
religious minorities as well.

I told Coach McHenry that I was offended by
the “Grand Dragon” apron and that I thought it
was in poor taste. Coach McHenry expeditiously
but quietly and professionally called the young
man aside and apparently asked him to remove

* the apron. The student did in fact turn the apron

inside out. I thank Coach McHenry for his posi-
tive and professional response.

I know each person is guaranteed the right of
freedom of expression. However, I am sure there
are many ways to support the W&L team and
poke fun at the opposing team and fans without
injecting subtle racial overtones and certainly
without making overt reference to an idiotic and
fanatical group which is offensive to many in the

ment, nol LO Menuun al extucmiely UeiuUcU ual -
cissistic attitude that lacks any substance, and
actually reveals great insecurity. Simply attend-
ing classes at a university of great stature is not
the basis for judgment of others. Success comes
from within, and it seems to me that unless many
of our students look within themselves to dis-
cover that they also are deeply flawed human be-
ings like those they condemn or step on, they will
be failures as human beings no matter how high
their careers soar or how much money they
make.

In conclusion, the public displays of this worst
type of student apathy, moral apathy, I find to be
the single greatest problem within this universi-
ty. The barbaric behavior at the R.E.M. concert

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

NEWS STAFF
BEROUU VG ID es ch sins a eas Mike Allen
ee ae ee Paul Foutch
Cotton Puryear
PURSE 8a hie nc Reade Williams
Epes dei eee
bg ee cae Jim Strader
Peetepaply GO 8. hii i eee
ge eee ee Matt Horridge
EOISIAMIET II . wii iae Marshall Boswell
PURPURA RI 6 oie ek ccna ba rea cee cee ee Jason Lisi
AEG EE CARA ss i iis David Emrich
EDITORIAL PAGE
Beihai! ae TN coos ob bas coi ce io sn oes tas a steaks Nelson Patterson
Amit TA I ins 6 ccc ei tse tinienent Marie Kothman
COPECO eho bes 65 os a is Chris Bowring
BUSINESS STAFF
ee |. eee eben ray) oper ew ‘ ‘ Lace pee ee Jeff Kimbell
er eerrr ere rrr rey

Advertising Salesmen,........... John Feyrer, Keri Hinrichs,
Jay Reville, Greg Turley

eo eee eee

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The

Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.
Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 200 of

the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run. Or send them to The
Ring-tum Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

bags worn over each ‘‘fan’s”’ head.

The “unknowns” began to appear several
years ago when Roanoke, over a period of three
to five years, started at least three black players
and would often play a major portion of the
games with five black players on the floor. The
“unknown fan’’ to my knowledge only appeared

W&L community.

Students resent judgment

and the Roanoke game should speak for them-
selves. I resent the assertion that these displays
are the core of the University, and I resent the in-
timation that my time can be better spent in a
gym screaming like a madman at a group of Di-
vision III student-athletes. Finally, I find Mr.
Patterson's moral judgment on the private, peri-
pheral and superficial matters of individual stu-

Michael Parrish
Law Class of 1986

 

 

during the Roanoke game. On each bag was
drawn identifiable black features: thick lips,
broad noses, mustaches and goatees. Often in-
scribed on the bags were such statements as:
“Ed Green [the coach of the Roanoke team] is
really black.’’ W&L at that time, as now, had no
black players. The reasonable inference from all
of this along with chants of ‘food stamps’’ and
“welfare’’ was that it was somehow bad to have
too many black players.

During last week’s game with Roanoke one of
the ‘‘unknowns’’ wore a white chef’s apron that
had ‘‘The Grand Dragon”’ written on it. I don’t
have to infer what was meant by that inscription.
The term on its face is despicable.

A reference made to a leader of the Ku Klux
Klan in conjunction with the implications of the
brown-bag-wearing ‘‘unknowns”’ is offensive to
me and in bad taste. There is nothing funny
about perhaps the only, and certainly the oldest,
recognized terrorist group in the United States.
It is not unknown and certainly not funny that
this group has lynched, shot and burned black
people (often perpetrated in a single murderous
outpouring of hatred and bigotry). It is not
unknown that this ultra-radical group of terrorist
lunatics hates not only blacks, but Jews,

To the editors.

I was very disturbed when I read Mr. Patter-
son’s moral dictum on the editorial page last
week, finding the public judgment on the private
affairs of students off campus trifling and inap-
propriate for an editorial, and taking exception
to the assumption that ‘‘when we see a full house
at a Warner Center match-up, we know why this
school exists and why we take pride in it.’’ While
I believe in supporting our athletic programs and
share the enthusiasm in the increasing support, I
am sure I speak for many others when I say that
I do not find this to be the heart of W&L. The
benefits of W&L are most visible in the faculty,
honor system and campus. That is what college
is about.

But it was not until after the game against
Roanoke that this editorial began to appear
ludicrous to the point of infuriating. For it is in
that public display of self-righteous egomania in
the student body that is the core of most of the
difficulties at this otherwise excellent institution.
Chants of ‘That's alright, that’s okay, you're
gonna work for me someday,”’ ‘‘Food stamps,”’
and “If you can’t go to school, go to Roanoke,”’
besides many audible racial slurs, characterize
the student body's immaturity and poor judg-

dents inappropriate, irresponsible and incorrect.

Librarian cautions pyros

editorial on playing with fire in the library.
There is no faster way to threaten the free and
open atmosphere that all students now enjoy

we must monitor the stacks to prevent ‘“‘pyro-
serious work, we will have to take staff resources

now being used for other services, such as keep-

the library’s liberal hours lost to all because of

ae childish and thoughtless behavior of only a
ew.

Christopher Leva
Winthrop T. Phillips
Class of 1986

To the editors:
I was appalled by the actions reported in your

than to behave in ways that demand the attention
of additional library staff or security people. If

technic fantasies,” pizza parties and other juve-
nile antics harmful to library materials and to

ing the building open 24 hours, I would hate to see

Barbara J. Brown
University Librarian

 

 

?

 

 

 
> *

~

 

~

 

s

 

' winter term. Non-fraternity mem-
, bers posted a 2.766 compared with

' 2.785, compared with the men’s 2.625.

tically in many cases. Chi Psi came
in first with 2.781. The remaining
members of the top five are: Kappa
Sigma, 2.738; Phi Delta Theta, 2.698;
Sigma Phi Epsilon, 2.618; and Pi
Kappa Alpha, 2.6.

Psi, 2.566; Sigma Alpha Epsilon,
2.565; Sigma Nu, 2.554; and Sigma
Chi, 2.545 fill out the top ten.

Lambda Chi Alpha at 2.535, Phi Kap-
pa Sigma at 2.524, Zeta Beta Tau at
2.514, Phi Gamma Delta with 2.442,
Delta Tau Delta with 2.382 and Beta
Theta Pi with 2.340.

gain, rising from 15th to second, and
Zeta Beta Tau fell the farthest from
second to 14th.

Skylark offers W&L organizations a place to ‘get away’

NEWS

 

Fraternity
grades
decline

 

Pe

By HOLLY WILLIAMS
Staff Reporter

 

 

Fall term’s grade point average for
all students remained at 2.64 from
winter term last year, marked by a
slight decline by fraternities and a
slight increase by independents.

‘The average GPA of fraternity
members stands at 2.572 for the fall
term compared with the 2.607 of last

 

 

 

 

 

271. :
Women had an average GPA of

This year’s freshman class posted
a 2.562 GPA, while last year’s fresh-
men had a 2.253.

Sophomores scored 2.532 last term,
juniors 2.61 and seniors 2.913.

Fraternity rankings changed dras-

Kappa Alpha, 2.598; Phi Kappa

Next are Pi Kappa Phi with 2.542,

 

King remembered

Junior Michael Webb (center) and Associate Dean of Students for Minori-
ty Affairs Anece McCloud (far right) listen to the Gospel Way Choir at the

 

 

By Scott J. Ferrell/W&L

United Methodist Church on Randolph Street as part of a Martin Luther King

Kappa Sigma posted the biggest

By DANATHA HOFFMAN
Staff Reporter

 

and Lee —
by school officals and student leaders.

 

tied ye

Nestled at milepost 26 on the Blue Ridge Parkway,
about 45 minutes from campus, is a 365-acre compound
that includes three houses, a Christmas tree farm, a lake

and a croquet course.

Does Robin Leach know about this?

Whatis it, a tourist trap? A millionaire’s hideaway?
No, it’s Skylark, a retreat that belongs to Washington
an elegant, peaceful off-campus retreat used

Built by Mr. and Mrs. Leslie Cheek, it was originally in-

Jr. program. Sponsored by the Washington and Lee Minority Student
Association and the Black Law Student Association. Auther Darnell Stamps
gave a talk on the life and influence of the slain minority rights leader, who
was honored Monday witha federal holiday.

tended as a family retreat. For health reasons, though,
they were forced to relinquish it. In 1977, the couple
donated the land and buildings to W&L in hopes that the
‘schoot could use the facilities. The 365-acre grounds in-
clude a main house, manager's house.and a guest house,
along with a number of other smal] buildings.

Also located on the grounds is a 15-aere Christmas tree
farm that came with the property. According to W. Scott
Beebe, Skylark’s manager and W&L’s assistant superin-
tendent of buildings and grounds, approximately 25,000
trees fill the farm and bring in between $6,000 to $20,000 a
year.

Although the revenue varies from year to year, the
farm generally breaks even, Beebe said. Maintenance

 

NEWS BRIEFS
sexuality forum attendance low

 

Staff Report

 

The first meeting of an experimental, voluntary pro-
gram for freshman males on gender roles and sexuality
issues attracted only two freshmen Monday night.
University Psychologist James Worth said a scheduling
conflict with intramural basketball was a major reason
for the low turnout.

The program, which is only for freshman men, has
been rescheduled for Jan. 30 from 7 to 8 p.m. in Room
301 of the Commerce School.

Worth explained that last term freshman women at-
tended a program about birth control and problem
pregnancies. Worth and Associate Dean of Students
Anne C.P. Schroer wanted to offer a program for which
the subject matter could be modified to something more
meaningful to Washington and Lee freshman males.

“We are not going to be preaching,’’ Worth emphasiz-
ed.

A panel of four students, including seniors Michael
Black and Lee Hollis, dormitory counselor Jodi Ring-
land, and freshman Julie Sheppard will ‘‘talk about
some issues and problems that W&L freshman males
encounter here,’’ he said. Students will have the oppor-
tunity to submit written questions to the panelists.

Expected topics of discussion include “peer pressure
relating to sexual matters, confusion and ignorance be-
tween freshman men and women about what they need
and value in terms of sex and intimacy, and the issue of
being committed in relationships,’ Worth said. Other
related issues will include sexually transmitted
diseases, date rape, homosexuality and birth control.

“It is not meant to be confrontational between men
and women at W&L,”’ Worth explained. ‘‘We hope that
after going to this, W&L freshman males will feel they
understand women just a little better,”’

—Deborah Hattes

Sophomore reports crank calls

Sophomore Steve Roth has reported to Lexington
Police that he has been receiving prank phone calls
from children whose ages he estimates range from four
to 10,

According to police reports, the children call at least
three afternoons per week, swearing and laughing and
use all the tape on Roth’s answering machine. When he
answers the phone, they don’t say anything. He has re-
quested a tap for his phone so the children can be iden-
tified and their parents notified. He does not plan to pro-
secute, according to the report.

In other police action:

eJunior Robert Lutz reported that a radio-cassette
player had been taken from his BMW between 9 p.m

Wednesday and 2 a.m. ihursday. The thief entered the
car through the sun roof, which was open about three
inches. There were no witnesses and police have no sus-
pects.
eCol. Beverly Read of 305 S. Jefferson St. reported
that someone broke into his Ford Fairmont between
5:30 p.m. Monday and 7:45 Tuesday, and stole a first aid
kit and a pair of prescription glasses from the glove
compartment. There were no signs of forced entry on
the car door, which had been locked. There were no
witnesses. Read is the father of the commonwealth’s at-
torney, Beverly C. ‘“‘John’’ Read
—Sean Bugg

Prominent psychologist to speak

Howard R, Pollio, a professor of psychology at the
University of Tennessee, will conduct seminars and
present a lecture later next week in Lewis Hall

Pollio’s visit Jan. 30 and 31 is sponsored jointly by the
Phi Beta Kappa Visiting Scholar Program and the
Washington and Lee Cognitive Studies Program.

‘Taking Humor Seriously” is the title of Pollio’s lec-
ture Thursday, Jan. 30 at 4 p.m. in the Moot Courtroom.
The lecture is free and open to the public.

"85 Calyx due in 2 weeks

The final proofs of the 1984-85 Calyx are on their way
to the publisher and the book should be out in about two
to three weeks, according to editor David Sprunt

The yearbook was scheduled to be distributed at
matriculation in September

In other Calyx action, '85-86 editors Charles Nusbaum
and Dennis Francis warn that deadlines are approach
ing for student pictures

eSeniors that still want to order prints can do so dur-
ing the same hours. Prices range from $10 to $14, and all
orders must be prepaid

eFor the 65 seniors who have not their picture
taken for the yearbook, or have not handed one in, this
is the last chance. Appointments can be made by « alling
463-8583 before Jan. 31. No personally submitted black

}
had

and white glossy prints will be accepted after Feb. 7
eFor underclassmen who failed t ve their pictures

taken before Christmas, Andre Studios, located at 221 S

Main St., will conduct a makeup session next Thursday

from 1-5 p.m
eSenior Index Forms must be turned in to the
office by Jan. 31

Calyx

 

The Ring-tum Phi, January 23, 1986

SCC says it doesn’t
want ad hoc woman

 

aon
By JASON LISI
Assistant News Editor

 

The Student Control Committee
might not get the non-voting woman
member it has been expecting

SCC Chairman Townes Pressler
told the Executive Committee Mon-
day night that he had ‘‘misrepresent-
ed the views” of the other members
of his committee when he said they
were in favor of appointing a woman
ad hoc non-voting member to the
SCC.

The EC last month narrowly ap-
proved a motion to appoint a female
SCC member to give advice on con-
duct matters involving women.

SCC Vice President Tony McCann
said that the committee members
were against the proposal. McCann

 

said that the SCC reached a 10-1-1
vote against the

woman on the committee

addition of the

“They agreed that we can handle
the cases in an unbiased manner
without the woman ad hoc member,”’
Pressler said

McCann suggested having the
female student's dormitory coun
selor speak as an advocate if
dent felt uncomfortable about ap-
pearing in front of the board

“If a girl has a problem and she
cant come to the committee
don’t see that a girl on the committee
is going to change that,’’ said Mc
Cann

Lewis said, ‘‘What you're basically
telling me is... we’re having the exact
opposite that we had a month ago.’

“No,” Pressler said. “I
month ago.

the stu

we

said a
I didn’t think there was

any problem with us handling a case
with a woman.”

Lewis concluded the matter by say-
ing, “We made a vote last time that
was probably wrong for several rea-
sons: one, because I allowed in a pro-
xy vote; and two, it seems to me that
the whele story seems to have chang-
ed now.”’

After voting to appoint a woman to
the SCC, EC's authority to do so was
questioned. EC member Pat Hayden
Said Monday night that the faculty
Executive Committee voted unani-
mously to recommend to the faculty
that the EC be given the power to put
a woman member on the SCC.

The faculty will vote Feb. 3
whether to give the EC power to ap-
point such members. The EC will
wait for the faculty decision before
closing the question.

Contact plans big for spring

 

 

ES iE IEEE: CEO AES
By SYDNEY MARTHINSON
Staff Reporter

 

Contact 85, the student group responsible for bringing
speakers to campus, has yet to do so this year, because
the group has planned a four-week concentrated sym-
posium to allow more ‘‘focus”’ in the program, according
to chairmen Lee Hollis and Jim Kerr.

Kerr said the committee is ‘shooting for March’’ to
begin a series of four to six speakers to address ‘‘issues
facing our student generation.’’ He added that, by direc
ting the symposium toward specific issues, it will be ‘‘a
lot bigger deal,’’ and provide continuity and intellectual
credibility to Contact. This plan would also allow better
publicity, Kerr said.

Both Hollis and Kerr declined to name the speakers
they had contacted, because none has made a commit-
ment. According to Hollis, their aim in choosing the lec
turers is to find ‘‘someone who will be of interest to the
majority of the students and to the community as a
whole.”’

Working with a 10-member committee, Hollis and Kerr

for the rest of the retreat is financed through the general
budget.

Beebe surpervises a full-time Skylark staff of three: a
general manager, his wife, who live there, and one addi-
tional full-time employee. The men divide their time be-
tween the Christmas tree operation and daily Skylark up
keep such as planting, cutting and mowing.

The trees are organized into plantations, and the farm
is run according to recommendations from the Forestry
Department at Virginia Polytechnical Institute.

The plantation is used by the administration for ac.
tivities such as academic retreats, trustee meetings and
dinners, and alumni board meetings.

At times, University President John D. Wilson and the

have been relving on alumni, business and family con-
nections to find speakers for the upcoming event.

Hollis pointed out that the committee hoped to sponsor
a woman speaker, since one has never spoken at a Con-
tact function. ‘We'd like to have at least one,” he said.

Hollis and Kerr have also been working with jour-
nalism Professor Clark R. Mollenhoff on developing a
forum dealing with military procurement practices.

some speakers Contact has presented in the years
since the group’s inception in 1965 are convicted
Watergate criminal G. Gordon Liddy, pollster George
Gallup, 1960s activist and former Harvard professor
Timothy Leary and nationally renowned trial lawyer F.
Lee Bailey

Contact, which is supported equally by the Executive
Committee and the Interfraternity Council, has a budget
this year of about $16,000. Hollis described the IFC’s in-
volvement as an attempt “to get the fraternities involv-
ed in doing something for the good of the school.”’

Kerr added that Contact is ‘‘a public relations thing for
the fraternities. It should reflect the monetary commit-
ment that’s been made to it in the past couple of years,
and that’s what we’retryingtodo.’ .

deans head up to Skylark to “get away’’ from the school
and discuss affairs ina detached environment, according
to the president’s executive assistant, Frank A. Parsons.

Parsons said students may not use the facilities without
an organization because it is “not a recreational outlet.”’
Under certain circumstances, student groups may be
able to use Skylark, In the past, for instance, University
picnics have been held there

Parsons said there may be ways to put the facilities to
better use. It presently can accomodate 17 people, but,
Parsons said, five or six of these must be good friends,
since the rooms are small

Parsons said there’s even been talk of expansion.

Hello, Robin?

 

 

Whom would
you like to have

speak at W&L?

SSS 5 RL eon Sy aA ee eae
Interviews by
SYDNEY MARTHINSON Julian
Photographs by
HANK MAYER

 

 

 

 

Emily
ien, Conn
who wrote
joyed his book

Michael

Cappeto, Assistant
Dean of Students: ‘Well, Arch
bishop Desmond Tutu, if I had my
choice of anybody. I think, by and
large, those of us in America are
playing ostrich to racial situations
around the world and the whole
area of human rights. I would like
to see a higher level of con-
sclousness in our community.”’

 

 

TALKBACK

 

Phillips,
Atlanta: “Lee lacocca, because
he represents America and Amer
ican business. He's probably the
best businessman in America.”’

 

Bevill

rom Wolfe, the guy

freshman,

The Right Stuff

 

freshman, Mary Anne Loftin, freshman,
Winston-Salem, N.C.: ‘Alan Alda

I think he’s hysterical.”’

 

Rudy
Grange, Ga.:

Celis, sophomore, La-
“Hunter S. Thomp-
He's a writer. Tom Wolfe's

counterpart, basically, They’re

Dat
30

en

very similar people.”’

 
Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, January 23, 1986

Latture misses first ODK tapping since W.W. |

 

By PETER BOATNER
Staff Reporter

 

Washington and Lee leaders of past
and present were honored in Lee
Chapel at Monday’s Founders’ Day
Convocation and Omicron Delta Kap-
pa initiation, but one of the school’s
most prominent figures was missing.

Due to illness, Emeritus Politics
Professor Rupert N. Latture, a 1915
graduate and one of ODK’s founders,
missed his first convocation in over
70 years. The last time he was absent
was during his military service in
France during World War I.

Latture said by telephone this week
that he feels ODK ‘“‘has done very
well” and serves a ‘‘useful function”
on the campus.

ODK, founded in 1914 by three W&L
students, is a national honor society
that recognizes student leaders for
contributions to the academic, athle-
tic, social, religious and literary
areas of campus life. More than
102,000 people have been inducted in-

Jobs

Continued from Page |

 

 

due to the recovery of the economy.
“Hiring trends are very key to the
economy,” he said. And, according to
Cappeto, ‘across the board, jobs
seem to be available everywhere.”

Stephen P. Bredin, W&L’s place-
ment consultant, said the school’s
graduates have good prospects. ‘I
think we're in good shape,”’ he said.
“The product here is good.”

Bredin also said he agrees with the
surveys’ findings. ‘Basically the job
market in some areas is going to be
better,’ he said. ‘You have to know

’ what companies to look for,” he ad-

ded. ‘You've got to use a little imagi-
nation.”

He mentioned the James River and
Mead corporations as expanding
companies, and added that Procter &
Gamble has ‘the best, or one of the
best, market training programs.”

Bredin said his task is to show W&L

as a “class place” in order to lure
recruiters to Lexington. Many of the

to the nation’s ODK circles.

President John D. Wilson noted in
his keynote address that this week is
Latture’s 94th birthday.

“Rupert, we salute you on this day,
a day marked for tributes and notes
of special gratitude,”’ he said. “The
debt your university owes to you can
never be fully repaid, but we thank
you sincerely for the grace and devo-
tion of your decades of service to
Washington and Lee and we wish you
the happiest of all the birthdays you
have been given to enjoy on the ear-
th.”

Wilson salso recognized Emily
Pearse, who recently retired as Lee
Chapel’s principal docent. He said
that Pearse, who also was absent due
to illness, “has contributed as much
as anyone I know to the creation of a
living legacy from the life, the
character and the values of Robert

Founders’ Day was established by
the Board of Trustees in 1870 to
celebrate the contributions of Lee
and George Washington to the Uni-

companies, he added, find éxactly
the type of graduates they’re looking
for.

“Alcoa will be coming here,’’ he
said. ‘‘They require a steady flow of
young technical and non-technical
types — that’s what we offer.”

Bredin and Kayser said the loca-
tion of the company will determine
the availability and salaries of jobs
for college graduates. Kayser said
growth areas include the Boston
region and states such as California,
Texas and Florida.

The Michigan State report predict-
ed average starting salaries would
rise 2 percent, to $21,601, for
graduates with bachelor’s degrees.

Cappeto said that not all the
recruiters who visit W&L are from
businesses, as is popularly believed.
Some are from organizations such as
the Central Intelligence Agency and
the Peace Corps.

“We are not a placement office for
the ‘C-School,’ ’’ he emphasized.

Cappeto said the personal inter-
view is crucial. The student should
learn as much about the company
before the interview to be able to talk
intelligently with the interviewers,
Cappeto said.

versity. Monday’s ceremony fell
coincidentally on the new national
holiday honoring the Rev. Martin
Luther King. The day is a state holi-
day in Virginia in honor of Lee, King
and Stonewall Jackson.

Religion Professor David W.
Sprunt received ODK’s first faculty
award for his three decades of ser-
vice as secretary of the organization.

Senior David Lewis of Richmond,
president of the W&L ODK circle,
conducted the ‘tapping’? ceremony
for the 30 initiates. Inducted were
five juniors, 14 seniors, seven third-
year law students and four honorary
initiates:

Juniors; Joe Krastel, Phi Kappa
Psi vice president and dormitory
counselor; Shayam Menon, Ex-
ecutive Committee representative,
Kathekon, Student Recruitment
Committee and dorm counselor;
Corky Parkinson, Kathekon, Student
Activities Board, soccer and lacrosse
teams and dorm counselor ;

Steven Pockrass, cross country,
track and wrestling teams and Su-

perdance Steering Committee; and
Jon Thornton, football team quarter-
back, Ring-tum Phi reporter, Acade-
mic All-American and Glee Club.

Seniors: Larry Anker, wrestling
captain; John-Paul Bouffard,
Rhodes Scholar finalist and Glee
Club president; Alex Castelli, Phi
Gamma Delta president and football
captain; Tim Janyska, football team
and dorm counselor; Chris John;
lacrosse captain and former Sigma
Nu president.

Ken Lindeman, Southern Comfort,
ROTC and dorm counselor; Tom
Mack, head dorm counselor, baseball
captain and Student Affairs Commit-
tee chairman; Cerky Mauzy, ski
team founder, Fellowship of Chris-
tian Athletes vice president and
dorm counselor;

Townes Pressler, class president
for four years, Student Control Com-
mittee chairman and Kathekon;
Mike Stachura, sports editor of The
Ring-tum Phi and the Calyx; Sam
Svalina, Interfraternity Council rush
chairman;

Sandy Whann, Student Recruit-

ment Committee chairman, Kathe-
kon and Superdance co-chairman,
Greg Wheeler, Pi Kappa Alpha presi-
dent, Interfraternity Council vice
president and golf captain; and
Reade Williams, managing editor of
The Ring-tum Phi and The Washing-
ton and Lee Political Review and Col-
lege Republican treasurer.

Third-year law students: Lee
Doane, Notes and Comments editor
of the Washington and Lee Law Re-
view; Stokely Caldwell, Washington
and Lee Law News and Law Review;
Michael McLauglin, Burks Scholar
and American Jurisprudence
Award;

Daniel Shaver, Law Review editor-
in-chief and U.S. Army Captain;
Lynn Suter, Law Review; Barbara
Taylor, Law Review. lead articles
editor; and Donald Williams, Law
News and Law Review research
editor.

Honorary initiates: Mabel S. Bar-
ritt, a Lexington church and com-
munity volunteer; Richard A.
Denny, a 1952 W&L graduate and

 

 

 

JOHN D. WILSON

Atlanta attorney; James Louis Rowe
Jr., a 1918 graduate and retired
chemist who served as a missionary
in China; and Richard W. Smith, a
1941 graduate and retired Staunton
attorney.

Interviewing season begins for W&L’s placement office

seniors.

By DEBORAH HATTES
Staff Reporter

 

Several upcoming programs are being offered
by the Office of Career Developinent and Place-
ment to help seniors in their job searches, place-
ment consultant Stephen P. Bredin said.

Presently, the office is involved in coordinating
company recruiting of seniors. Bredin said that
about 50 to 55 companies are coming to interview

 

Two new companies will be coming in March, he
said. They are Manor Care, the fourth-largest
health care provider in the United States, and
Alcoa Aluminum Company of America.

He added that Washington and Lee has ‘‘concen-
trated much more on companies with ties to
Europe,” than Asia or Africa.

Recruiting of seniors also occurs outside the
placement office. “There are a number of faculty

This represents an early listing of recruiters. Please Dean Witter Feb. 13
check the office for additions to the schedule: Navy Supply Corps Feb. 13
Bell Atlantic Feb. 13
Trust Company of Georgia Jan, 28 Guest Quarters Feb. 26
NeNeil Consumer Products Jan, 28 Central Intelligence Agency Feb. 27
Sovran Bank Jan. 30 The Peace Corps Feb. 27
Aetna Group Division Jan. 31
Westvaco Group Session March3
Westvaco March 4
Kayser-Roth Feb. 4 NCR March 4
Barnett Bank Feb. 6 K-Mart March6
Lord & Taylor Feb. 6 Milliken March 20
Wachovia Bank Feb. 7 Northwest Mutual Life March 21
First Union Bank Feb. 10
North Carolina National Bank Feb. 11 Hertz April 2
Newport News Shipbuilding Feb. 11 Merck, Sharpe & Dothne TBA
Stouffer’s Feb. 11 FDIC TBA
First Jersey Securities Feb. 12 Alcoa TBA

beginning to call on contacts within other com.
panies to recommend that some of their students
be interviewed,” Bredin said.

Also, the placement office will offer a workshop
on summer job-hunting techniques Feb. 12 at 3
p.m. It will include the preparation of resumes
and cover letters and summer job opportunities in
the federal government. Lists of companies in-
terested in employing people for the summer will
be provided.

Dae eee

 

 

 

 

 

UR URBE RO O O R E  H

Glasses - Contacts - Repairs
We Fill All Prescriptions: ~~~

THE NEW OPTICIANS INC.

Lexington'’s ONLY Licensed Optician

- ea et A

j Manic: Hain Siylers

By Appointment 463-9588 Old Main St. Mall
: Robin« Peggy «Marie Lexington, VA 24450 i
<a OGRE OO -REP GENS 0 SE) CM AED) EDO ce a a

Friday, 4-7 P.M.

LIVE-ON STAGE
THE WLUR

—_The rey | DISC JOCKEYS

A “Spring Break’’ Welcome To
Washington and Lee
University Students

<ai> (>
>.) a

at
Venetian Court Apartments
Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. 33301
Heated Pool * Lawns * Cable TV * BBQ * Parking
Good Rates for Apts., Efficiencies,
Hotel Rooms

 

203 N. Main College Square
463-7440 In March

BEER R ERR E EERE ER BENE R ERE E RAE R AEE BEER RRR R RRR E ERE

tote tote tote te te te tet te tek te te te hk
SOO iO OOOO toto tet tot toto t te

 

Piedmont’s having a_ winter.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

sale to fit in with your Fancy || WILLSON-
SS cheats BROADCASTING
Fly a friend to Roanoke for in- sa OL FROM
credibly low rates. HOUSE mi GENERAL

Reservations needed at least — as
30 days in advance : (83 HO

See us now for details. nee “ee |

$ $ $ $ 12:00-2:30 Vig DoU a

 

 

 

Don't forget...Spring Break
just around the corner.

463-2197 41S. Main

Open Tuesday through Saturday
Lunch 11:30-2:30, Dinner 5:30-9:00
Reservations requested for dinner
Closed Monday.

ST. THOMAS
UNIVERSITY

RE
St Thomas of Villanova, 1487-1555
_—_——

SCHOOL OF LAW

on

 

30 N. Main St.
Lexington, Virginia 24450
703-463-3020

 

A Year of Comparative Study
and World Travel

 

 

 

 

St. Thomas University School of Law is a newly estab-
lished Catholic law school, and is accepting applica-
tions for admission for academic year 1986/1987,

Tne only Catholic law school in the Southeast, St.
Thomas is ideally located in suburban Miami on a 140-
acre campus. The Schoo! of Law offers a three-year, full-
time program, with one of the most highly computerized
and technologically sophisticated law libraries in
American legal education. St. Thomas also offers an
experienced faculty, and a student/ faculty ratio of 20 to
1, for a most favorable learning environment.

Presently, St. Thomas University School of Law is not
accredited by the American Bar Association: however
St. Thomas University School of Law intends to seek ABA

provisional approval as quickly as possible, which will be
after the first year of teaching. The Dean has informed
himseif fully as fo the Standards and Rules of Procedure
for the Approval of Law Schools by the ABA. The
University Administration and the Dean are determined
to devote all necessary resources and in other respects
to take all necessary steps fo present a program of legal
education that will qualify for approval by the ABA The
Schoo! of Law makes no representation to any applicant
that it will be approved by the ABA prior to the
graduation of any matriculating student
For more information write of call: Offic issi
St. Thomas University Schoo! of Law, T6400 NW Sone '
Avenue, Miami, FL 33054. (305) 623-2310.

Film, Television and Social Change:
Cambridge, London, Rome, New Delhi, Poona, Bombay,
Chiangmai, Tokyo, Beijing, Shanghai, Hongkong, Les Angeles
Film and Politics:

London, Berlin, Paris, Rome, Rio, Buenos Aires,
Lima, Mexico City.

 

Super Bowl...
Super Dance...
Come to Caper’s
for Super Style!

September 1986 — May 1987

Faculty from Harvard, Columbia, New York University,
University of California and Indiana University

Stanley Cavell, Robert Gardner, Wm. Rothman,
Charles Warren, Cristina Szanton, Katherine Morgan,
Victor Wallis, Robert Stamm, Eric Rentschler

Perm Specials continue - $25.00
10% Off Haircuts, W&L
15% Discount
10 Session Tanning Program

/

Two academic programs limited to thirty students each

  
 
 
 

For further information
call Joan Tiffany collect: 617-267-8612
The International Honors Program
19 Braddock Park
Boston, MA 02116

FINANCIAL AID AND SCHOLARSHIPS ARE AVAILABLE TO

When only the best will do ALL QUALIFIED APPLICANTS.

25 N. Main
463-2566

St. Thomas University is an equal Opportunity institution

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

John-Paul Bouffard uses a laboratory animal in an experiment

W&L tests use animals

By SIMON PEREZ
Staff Reporter

 

Just taken some great medicine to
get over that nagging cold? Well, you
should probably give thanks to a

~ laboratory animal. The cure for your

illness was probably discovered with

. the help of one.

Psychology Professor Edward Jar-
rard says that ‘‘medicine wouldn’t be

* where it is today without the use of

laboratory animals in experiments.
Discoveries are continually being
made that have a direct effect on our
lives,’’ he added. The use of labora-

* tory animals help scientists under-

stand diseases, injuries and their
treatments and birth defects, and
allows people to live happier, longer
lives.

Public concern has been voiced
about the inhumane treatment of ex-
perimental animals in the lab, Jar-
rard said. He added that people
should not be concerned about this
problem at Washington and Lee

Jarrard said “‘a veterinarian each
year inspects the lab facilities, and

 

.cports his finding to the U.S. Public
Health Service in Washington, D.C.”

Careful watch is kept over such
things as the temperature and humi-
dity in the lab. “So much care is
taken to ensure that the animals are
not treated poorly, that they pro-
bably live a more comfortable life
than we do,” Jarrard said.

Rob Williamson, a sophomore bio-
logy major, is doing an experiment
that requires the use of beating frog
hearts.

Williamson said that although he
had no problem using the heart of a

living animal, ‘experiments
shouldn’t destroy any animals with-
out necessity.”’

“You can’t get around the use of
animals in experiments,” he said.
“It’s necessary to have something to
perform the experiment on, and
since we obviously can’t use humans,
we have to use animals”

Citing ‘public ethics’’ as the ra-
tionale when deciding which animals
were used in experiments, William-
son said ‘experiments with animals
should only be done for a construc-
tive use.”

The Ring-tum Phi, January 23, 1986, Page 5

Non-stop rock for MDA weekend

 

By MATT HORRIDGE
Staff Reporter

 

“Cotton and I aren’t very good at dancing.”

That is the reason senior Mike Stachura jokingly
gives for why he and senior Cotton Puryear are
staging a 30-hour radio rock-a-thon this weekend
in conjuction with the MDA Superdance.

The idea was conceived by Bob Halloran and
Taylor Hathaway three years ago. Stachura and
Puryear decided to do the radiothon last year,
after staying up all weekend playing music during
WLUR-FM’s ‘“‘gavel-to-gavel”’ broadcast of the
1984 Mock Convention, according to Stachura.

The two seniors offered several reasons for the
30-hour broadcast, in which dedications and re-
quests will be played for a donation to the
Muscular Dystrophy Association. “First and
foremost, it is to raise money for muscular
dystrophy,” Puryear said.

Stachura added, ‘“‘Rarely do you get something
tangible for your donation.”

Last year, the radiothon raised around $250 for
MDA, according to Stachura. The two disc
jockeys, who host Friday Morning Magazine on

 

WLUR, want to bring in even more money this
Gear ‘‘We want to raise a lot of money, I mean a
lot of money,’’ said Stachura

Money is raised by making a $1 donation for a
song request and $2 for a song dedication. But,
Puryear warned, people can ‘‘donate as much as
they like.’’

He recalled that in last year’s radiothon, ‘“‘We
had people calling us up at 5:30 in the morning
making requests.”’

The WLUR rule that keeps DJs from bringing in
their own records has been lifted for this weekend
sO more requests can be filled, according to
Stachura.

Puryear said that the two will play any style of
music requested and added, ‘‘Money talks, we
listen.”’

Stachura said that he and Puryear plan to
broadcast live at the student activities pavilion
during the Superdance. The radio show will be
simulcast on Washington and Lee’s Cable Channel
9. Between 1:30 and 5:30 Saturday afternoon, the
radiothon will be heard only on Channel 9 because
of a contract requiring the station to carry the
opera on ‘Live from the Met”’ weekly.

Stachura and Puryear will start the Superdance

 

HIGHLIGHTS

Friday, January 24

4 to 7:30 p.m. - Dancer Registration
7:30 to8 p.m. - Dancer Orientation

8 to 8:15 p.m. - Opening Ceremonies
8:15 to 10 p.m. - BAND: The Sparkplugs
10:30 to 1 a.m. - BAND: The Maxx

Saturday, January 25

11:30a.m. to 1:45 p.m. - BAND; Wildgrass
3 to 4:45 p.m. - BAND: Heinsohn and Day

8 to 9:45 p.m.- BAND; Xenon

10:15 to 1a.m, - BAND: The White Animals
1 to 1:15a.m. - Closing Ceremonies

 

 

radio marathon at 5 p.m. Friday and will continue
until 2 a.m. Sunday. WLUR broadcasts at 91.5 on
the FM dial.

People wishing to make requests can call the
Station at 463-8444 and those wishing to make
dedications can call 463-8442.

“It’s a good time for a good cause, ’ Stachura
said,

 

 

Dance

0 Continued from Page 1

drinking age will have “‘little effect’
on the intent and result of the Super-
dance program.

“People who are going to the dance
as a charitable activity will continue
to come. Those who go for a beer par-
ty will go somewhere else,’’ Cappeto
said.

Whann said he felt the new ABC
regulation will have an effect on all
pavilion events.

As in past Superdances, dancers
are soliciting pledges from individ-
uals and organizations for contribu-
tions based on the number of hours
danced. A number of prizes will be
awarded to the dancers who receive
the most pledges. First prize is a
seven-day all-expense-paid trip to St.
Thomas, U.S. Virgin Islands. Other
prizes include trips to New York,
Washington, D.C., and Williamsburg.

For the first time, a 1986 Honda

 

 

 

 

10% Discount

NELSON STREET SERVICENTER

FPA EAST NELSON
LE XINGGTON

STREET
VIRGINIA 24450

O34 463-3922

ns

Ir

OVERNAULING

On All Service Work

(Gas Not Included)

 

 

.

 

THE Pats

~\

7,"

101 W. Nelson St.

Lexington, Va.

=

After Friday and Saturday dancing

recover with us for Sunday Brunch

12-3:00

Brunch Guests ordering an Entree receivea
complimentary glass of Champagne,

a Bloody Mary, Screwdriver,
Mimosa, or Palms Fruit Punch
with their order.

Eggs Benedict

The Classic, served with Hollandaise sauce.

Omelette Du Jour

A preparation of three fresh eggs & our chef’s own ingredients,
served with a toasted english muffin.

Quiche Du Jour

A delicious blend of cheese, eggs & fresh cream, blended with the
chef’s own additives.

Steak and Eggs

Our house steak, grilled to order and served with two eggs (any
style) and a toasted english muffin.

Palms’ Rarebit

Toasted english muffin, topped with sliced turkey, bacon, scram-
bled eggs & a tangy cheddar cheese.

 

Civic will be raffled off.

The traditional pie-throwing event,
featuring members of the W&L facul-
ty and student body, will be featured
as well.

Whann said the money for the pie-
throwing privilege will be pooled
beforehand this year.

“That way it isn’t necessary for the
person to be there. It’s easier this
way. A person might not be able to
come, but he can still contribute,’’
said Whann.

Special Events Chairman Sam
Svalina said the pie throw this year
will include Associate Dean of the
College Pamela Simpson, Major
John D. Smith of the Military Science
department, football coach Gary Fal-
lon, Mike Allen, Executive Editor of
The Ring-tum Phi, and Student Body
President John Lewis.

Also returning this year are the
slave auctions, which raised about
$1,500 at Hollins, Sweet Briar, Mary
Baldwin and Washington and Lee
last year.

Staff Reporter Daniel Bunch con-
tributed to this story.

 

CLASSIFIEDS

 

GENERAL NOTES

 

A print show and sale featuring
the Frank Lyons Collection of 19th
and 20th century original prints
and photographs from America,
Japan and Europe will be held in
the W&L bookstore Feb. 5.

A panel discussion for freshman
men concerning sexuality, rela-
tionships and attitudes will be
held next Thursday at 7 p.m. in
Room 327 of the Commerce
School.

Gounod’s opera ‘‘Romeo et
Julliette” will be broadcast live
from the stage of the Metropolitan
Opera on Saturday at 1:30 p.m.
over WLUR-FM, 91.5.

The Rockbridge/Lexington
Chapter of the Archaeological
Society of Virginia will host a
speech by Dr. Michael Malpass,
visiting assistant professor of an-
thropology, on ‘‘Prehistoric
Agricultural Terraces of the Colca
Valley, Peru,”’ in Northen Audi-
torium, Jan. 29at7:30p.m.

 

FOR SALE

 

Baby ferrets for, sale. 6 weeks
old, male and female. Healthy. $50
each. Call 261-2445.

Wide Screen T.V., 54’’x40”,
$400.00 or best offer. Contact: Bill
Torrence, General Headqu?
Tavern, Ext. 463-8577.

 

Limited Offer

JFREE VACATION|

OF YOUR CHOICE

4 Days
Florida onus!

The Great North American Vacation Giveaway’
includes Four Days and Three of...

® Deluxe Oceanfront View Accommodations at Ramada’ inn Surfside or

Pirates s Cove for two Adults and two Children under 18 * Split of Cham
jai = Weicome Continental Breakfast for two * Discount

sney World

Coupons for Shows. Restaurants and Attractions # 2 Walt Di

¢ Daytona SOO, Jay Ala

 

Days in
brent. Smokies On Us!

The Great North American Vacation Giveaway
includes Three Days and Two Nights of...

* Deluxe accommodations at the Great Smokies Hitton # Split of cham

arrival # Complimentary Greens Fees « Complimentary pass

pegne wen
to The Biltmore House and Gardens ® Children occupying same room as
parents stay free
ie Nestieg high in the Appian on 120 landicaped acres. the Great Smo
I

 

 

Transportation Not included

Limited Offer

Transportation Not Included :

When you purchase any new car, truck or |
any used vehicle retailing for $2,000 or more.

 

: %
“AD
@ neue

Rate

GMAC

financing
on

Pontiac: Fieros, Sunbirds, Grand Prixs, Bonnevilles,
ana tour cylinder Pontiac 6000s.

Buick: Somersets, Skylarks, four cylinder Centurys and Regals.

Cadillac: pevities and FWD Fleetwoods.
GMC * 20r 4 wheel drive 1500 series pickups and 2 wheel

drive S15 pickups.
Renault: Alliance and Encore.

Great Vacations — Great Savings now
at Lexington Motor Sales, Inc.

 

LEXINGTON MoToR SALES

Dealer License No. 562 Franchised New Car Dealer

512 East Nelson

Phone 463-2116

 

 
SPORTS
Miles, men triumph

 

By LEIF CUELAND
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee swim
ming Generals ended their month-
anda-half lapse in competition this
past weekend, The men’s team went
two and three for the weekend, losing
to James Madison (63-34) on Friday,
iud beating both Georgetown (62-51)
and Frostburg (70-41) on Saturday,
bringing their season record to 4-2

The women lost to both George-
town (52-23) and Frostburg (92-16) on
Saturday, bringing their team’s
record to 0-4. With only three swim-
mers on the women’s team, a win is
not within its reach, but the team
pi¢ked up two individual victories
Freshman Elizabeth Miles continued
to excel, winning both the 200- and
00-yard freestyle events

“Elizabeth had another fine perfor-
mance and seems to be right on
schedule. She swam three events
(she finished second in the 100-yard
frée) and showed she can handle all
of them,’ commented coach Page
Remillard. Miles currently leads the
nation in the 500-yard freestyle.

Though it is true that the sport of

 

Coeducation becoming a trend;
woman skates with Hockey Club

swimming has become amazingly
technical over the past 10 years, it
was a more old-fashioneed, less con
crete aspect of competition that earn
ed the Generals wins over George
town and Frostburg on Saturday; it
was mental toughness

Going in to Saturday's meet, the
men's team's health was faltering
Neither freshman Mathew Brady nor
freshman Jeff Berkaw were able to
compete. Senior co-captain Tim
Stanford, freshman Dave Reavy, and
freshman David Dietz were also sick,
though they did compete

As a result of the team’s illnesses,
they knew that they would be weak in
the sprints. Not wanting their op
ponents to know of their ailing health,
the team decided to go after an early
lead to make their opponents think
they had no chance.

Freshman Tom Rawls commented
on the team's strategy: **We went out
with the attitude that we were going
to win and that the other teams
(Georgetown and Frostburg) would
compete for second.”’

The strategy apparently worked
for the Generals because by the div-
ing competition, W&L led both op-
ponents by more than 20 points

Though Georgetown eventually saw
through the Generals’ move, it was
too late for the Hoyas to change gears
and too late for their best swimmers
to get pumped up for the last-minute
all-out attack

Crucial performances in W&L’'s
wounded victory include Rawls’ two
second-place finished in the 500- and
1000-yard freestyle. Chris Hope also
had strong swims, Remillard said

“Tom Rawls and Chris Hope did
real well. They came through with
performances when we could not af-
ford for them to have an off day, and
they were right there,’ Remillard
said

Next week, W&L will host powerful
Towson State on Saturday in Twom-
bly Pool at 1 p.m. With some of the
men recovering from illness and
others now getting sick, the Generals
are in a tough position at this crucial
juncture in the season. Remillard
points out that, while the team may
get lucky in that their sprinters are
just recovering as they go up against
Towson, whose strength is not in the
sprint, they will, nonetheless, have a
very tough meet.

The Ring-tum Phi, January 23, 1986

 

 

asad

   

By Steve Sadler/Tl.« Ring-tum Phi

 

By ROB MacPHERSON
Staff Reporter

 

For those of you who appreciate a little cold weather
and a lot of fun, I'd like to let you in on a little secret:
Washington and Lee has an ice hockey team.

For those of you who think a woman’s place is at most
on the sidelines, if not in the kitchen, here’s another lit-
tle secret for you: Washington and Lee has an ice
hockey team that includes a woman participaht.

Huh”

Yes, you heard right.

Monica Burke, a freshman from Yardley, Pa., is the
first female member of the W&L Hockey Club, an or-
ganization now in its fifth season. Burke, whose prior
ice hockey experience consists of two seasons on an all-
female team in high school, has nothing but good things
to say about her association with the club.

‘I wish 1 could say that there hasn't been a warm
response, but that's just not true,”’ Burke said. ‘‘We've
had one game (a win over Virginia Tech) so far and I
played just as muchas everyone else.”’

Burke added that at first she thought her role with the
club would be limited to that of a mascot, rather than as
a teammate. But she has encountered total acceptance,
which includes, interestingly enough, where she puts on
and takes off her uniform.

‘| wasn’t going to be a prima donna and ask for my
own locker room,” she said. ‘‘{Dressing with the men!
doesn’t bother me, and it doesn’t seem to bother any of
the guys.

When asked about the differences between men and
women on the ice, she said, “Girls are dirtier. They
don’t have the power and the finesse of the guys, so they
have to bea little trickier.”

Burke admits to not having quite the skills of her
teammates, a group that has toiled in relative obscurity
from its inception.

‘A lot of the University doesn't even know we exist,”
said Vin LaManna, club president.

With that lack of recognition has also come some eco-
nomic constraints. LaManna explained that a small
portion of the club's funding comes from the Executive
Committee, but that most of the expenses (transporta-
tion, equipment, ice time, etc.) come right out of the
members’ own pockets.

Things are progressing, according to LaManna, and
with the addition of Burke to the team, at least some
recognition should come the club’s way. The first game
has also helped the club’s image. W&L beat Virginia
Tech 7-6 in December to open its 1985-86 season. With _
four games slated for the rest of the year, including the
next contest Feb. 9 against Liberty University, the club
has its biggest schedule ever.

Buoyed by the bright prospects for the rest of the sea-
son, LaManna said he would like to see even more peo-
ple join the club, emphasizing its relaxed attitude.

“There is less structure and more fun,’ LaManna
said. ‘‘If we win, it’s great. If we lose, we still have a
good time.”

Such a relaxed attitude frames W&L’s only truly co-
educational team.

Jefferson Harralson (hidden) throws one up in traffic against Roanoke

Cagers top ODAC, briefly

aS
By DAVID EMRICH
Assistant Sports Editor

 

 

 

=encers slash Keydets, raise record to 2-1

 

taff Report

 

Despite having its hopes of varsity
atus dashed again earlier this mon-
1, the Washington and Lee fencing
ub regrouped and defeated the
ncers from Virginia Military, 14-13,

 

US Arn,

EAST LEX

463-3614

to raise its record to 2-1.

“We'd like to emphasize that we're
still together and still working very
hard,”’ said Mike Berg, club presi-
dent.

The close win .was largely the
result of a 9-0 performance by the
sabre squad. Berg, Andy Tartaglione

  

Open Until Midnight

 

    

  

$712

 

Frank’s Pizza

Luncheon Special 11-3

10’ Minipizza w/1 topping........... $2.00

10’ Minipizza w/3 toppings ......... $2.50

plus
Free Drink

463-7575 or 463-3133

$1] OFF

¥

ai

, :

Large Pizza !

and Jeff Blomster paced the sabre ef-
fort by winning three bouts apiece

The fencers go on the road this
weekend for a meet in Charlottesville
with Virginia. The next home fencing
action will be Feb. 15, when W&L
hosts the state championship meet,
the Virginia Cup.

Whoever first said, ‘Fame is
fleeting,’’ must have had the ‘85-'86
W&L basketball team in mind at the
time.

The Generals, in first place since
Saturday night and flying high after
conference wins last week over
Roanoke (44-42) and Bridgewater
(58-49), were brought back down to
earth on Tuesday with a 51-50 loss at
the hands of Eastern Mennonite Col-
lege,

The Generals had a chance to win
when, down by one with 19 seconds on
the clock, Jeff Harralson took a shot
that went in and out. EMC got the re-
bound and headed down court, fore-
ing W&L to foul in order to regain
possession.

Phil Landis of EMC missed the
front end of the one-and-one, but
EMC's Leonard Dow grabbed the re-
bound. The Generals then fouled him
with only 3 seconds remaining in
another attempt to regain posses-
sion.

Dow missed the front end of his
one-and-one, and W&L grabbed the
rebound, but there wasn't enough
time to get a shot off and the
Generals tumbled from first place in
the conference.

The Generals fared a little better
last Thursday in Warner Center,
when they beat archrival Roanoke
for the first time in four years. On

E>) ED DD) SE DEED DE | EEE | GE

DD ) (DD () SD) SD () SD () SD (SD () ED ( ) ED () <()

Superdance?
Super Rock!

The MDA Superdance and
WLUR-FM combine to bring you
W&L’s Biggest Party Jan. 24-26.

While the dancers are dancing,
listen to WLUR-FM for a 30-hour
All Rock-quest Weekend. Help
MD out by making a donation
every time you make a song re-
quest. 91.5 FM, Lexington’s
Listening Alternative.

esteem Ni N-NMR! A NN AER RS

——_ <2 <-> <- «ae <a <i (<cat 6 6 GRU 6 cine 6 SEU | SEEK

Valley True Value Hardware

HAROWARE STORES

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

E. Nelson Street
463-2186

 

Vion,-Sat. 8:30-6:00
Sun, 1-5

hand to witness the feat were 600-700
more or less rabid W&L fans who
were spurred on by the antics of the
infamous ‘Unknown Fans.”

“] just can't say enough about the
fans,’ commented W&L Coach
Verne Canfield. “I’ve been here 22
years and we're finally getting sup-
port.”

And, despite all this pandemonium,
W&L managed to keep its concentra-
tion and play the type of defensive
basketball that has become its
trademark.

In the opening 10 minutes of the
first half, the Generals did not allow
Roanoke a field goal, and gave up on-
ly two points from the free throw line
During the same span, the Generals
poured in 11 points, including nine by
Steve Hancock, to lead 11-2.

The Generals allowed the Maroons
to chip away slightly at the lead, but
W&L still led by 19-14 at the half.
4Yancock was the Generals’ major
c-ntributor, chipping in 13 of W&L’s
19 points.

Yet, before the second half was
four minutes old, the Generals’ five-
point advantage had turned into a
two-point deficit. Roanoke eventually
led by six with 12:30 remaining
before W&L began to come back

The defense tightened, and the
Roanoke lead began to shrink. ‘‘The
kids played great defense tonight
I'm very pleased with them,” said
Canfield. ‘‘We shook the ball loose
and only allowed one shot.”’

The Generals re-took the lead at

    

Join Us For Dinner At

Maple Hall

One of the Historic Country Inns

the 8:50 mark and the teams traded
leads until the one-minute mark. At
that point, with the scored tied at 42,
Roanoke’s leading scorer committed
a turnover, and W&L went on ol
fense

The Generals passed the ball
around and made perfect use of the
clock, running 42 seconds off the 45
second shot clock before taking a
shot. When they did, it was a strong
move inside by Jeff Harralson that
put the Generals up by two.

Roanoke missed two shots in the
last 18 seconds, and Lee Brading
grabbed the second rebound and held
on until time ran out to seal the
Generals’ first defeat of the Maroons
in four years

Saturday night, visiting W&L beat
ODAC foe Bridgewater, 58-49. The
win put the Generals atop the con
ference until Eastern Mennonite beat
them on Tuesday. Hancock was
W&L's leading scorer in the
Bridgewater contest with 17. Har-
ralson contributed 11 points while
pulling down seven rebounds

Around the Rim... The Generals
lead the ODAC in defense. allowing
only 64.2 points per game, and tree
throw shooting, making 75.8 percent
.. in the last three games they have
limited opponents to 51.0 points per
game... Harralson leads the ODAC in
field goal percentage with 60.3 per-
cent... W&L takes on Emory & Henry
tonight in the Warner Center at 7:30
Both teams are among the leaders in
the ODAC

of Lexington
4163-1666 for reservations
Open Monday, Friday and Saturday

Route 11 North_

RAAB HARBBWK

 

 

Gillie’s Ski Service
Experienceu Professional Ski Tuning
Sharpening - P-Texing - Hot Waxing
Rush Service Available - Satisfaction guaranteed

a . asp « 2

call Chris at 463-3806
Skis For Sale

180 cm. Dynastar Skis
with Step-in Salomon Bindings

good condition - must sell - best offer
163-3806

 

 

W&L Bookstore

presents the

Winter Doldrum’s Sale

Calendars
Selected Books

40% Off
1/3 to 1/2 Off

Jan. 20 to Jan, 31

 

The Josten’s Representative will be here
for Ring orders Jan. 27-28, 10-3.

 
i

)
;
y

x

 

Slim-fast?

Wrestlers say making weight is no piece of cake

 

By DAVID NAVE
Staff Reporter

 

Losing 14 pounds in seven hours sounds nearly as
dangerous as it is dramatic, but while such an oe-
currence is extreme, Washington and Lee wrestling
coach Gary Franke has seen it done.

“It” is cutting weight, or dropping so many
pounds prior to a wrestling match to be able to com-
pete at a weight division. It’s as much a part of the
sport as any move made on the mat.

“The objective i is to equal your opponent’s weight
and strength,” said Franke. Ideally, a wrestler who
wants to participate in the 142 pound division will
weigh 142 pounds. If he does not weigh 142, but his
opponent does, then he has a disadvantage going in-
to the match.

A wrestler can participate in 10 different weight
divisions ranging from the 118-pound category to
the heavyweight class. Franke said that most of his
wrestlers have to lose weight to compete in the divi-
sion they want. Depending on the match, a wrestler
has a certain amount of time to weigh in before he
competes.

For example, wrestlers could ‘weigh-in’ five
hours before their 7 p.m. match against Virginia

State yesterday. If a wrestler weighs equal to or less
than the division’s limit, then he is eligible to par-
ticipate. But if he weighs more than the division re-
quires, he can try to lose the extra weight and
weigh-in at or below the division’s requirements at
least one hour before the match

Franke said that his wrestlers have a responsibili-
ty to watch their weight. If a wrestler thinks that he
might have difficulty losing enough weight to par-
ticipate in a specific division then he should inform
Franke so he can '\se another wrestler. Only one
General has failed to weigh-in at or below his divi-
sion’s requirements this season.

“There are a lot of complications,’’ head trainer
Tom Jonés said about the proper way to lose weight.

“The big problem is dehydration.”

The Generals and Jones began weight training
last fall to avoid dehydration and other complica-
tions. Using a pinching instrument called a caliper,
Jones determined each wrestler’s body fat percen-
tage. He used the caliper to measure the fat im-
mediately under the skin at the chest, abdomen, and
thigh. The percentage of body fat is then calculated
from these measurements.

According to Jones, a person should maintain no
less than five percent of his body as fat. The body
uses this fat to supply an energy reserve, provide in-

sulation, and protect interior organs. But once a
wrestler knows his percentage of body fat, he knows
how much weight he can lose safely. For example, if
a wrestler weighs 900 pounds and has 15 percent
body fat, then he can safely lose 10 percent of his
weight or 20 pounds

Many team members use two methods to cut
weight: running and reducing calorie intake. Many
other W&L students have probably tried the same
methods, but have not achieved the same results.

Sophomore Steve Castle, who wrestled at 118
pounds last year, weighed 136 this fall. He lost 10
pounds and began this season wrestling in the 126-
pound division. Castle did not think that he was
strong enough to compete at 126 so he lost more
weight so that he could compete at 118.

Last week, Castle weighed 124 on Tuesday after-
noon and guessed that he would probably lose slight-
ly more than five pounds before the 1 p.m. weigh-in

for Wednesday's match against Duke. He said hd

would probably lose two and a half pounds at Tues
day’s practice and then lose the rest by running on
the indoor track in his sweats and reducing his
calorie intake.

“It’s difficult,” he said.

Castle made the weight and won by technical fall.

‘Grapplers bounce back with two victories

>

'

{

{

}

,

\

‘

i

 

By CHARLES T. GAY
Staff Reporter

 

Bouncing back from their tough
loss at the hands of Duke last
Wednesday, the Washington and Lee
grapplers registered back-to-back
triumphs this week, defeating David-
son on Saturday and Virginia State
last night.

The Generals’ typically balanced
attack led them to a 42-9 victory
Saturday afternoon in the Warner
Center. Sophomore Steve Castle
(118), senior -captain Brian Lifsted
(126), senior Win Phillips (167) and

freshman Mark Robertson (158)
registered falls, while senior co-
captain Larry Anker (142) and

freshman Rich Redfoot (177) added
their decisions to the W&L tally.

The Generals likewise experienced
little difficulty in whipping Virginia
State at home, 44-12. W&L won the
first eight bouts, including match
wins by Lifsted, Anker, Phillips and
Redfoot, to secure their sixth victory
in seven outings.

The Generals will compete in the
W&L Invitational on Saturday, host-
Davidson,
Hampden-Sydney, Elon and the Uni-

ing Pfeiffer, Furman,

versity of the South.

 

‘Bowl

a

Y

 

O) Continued from Page 1

season?”’ He added that the game
might appear to be more exciting if
there were not so much pre-game

hype.

But hype is as much a part of any
Super Bow! as the football itself, and
this year’s showdown is especially in-

* teresting because of the unique

characters of the two teams. The
Bears, who are making their first ap-
pearance in the Super Bowl, have

# made as many commercials and

rock videos as they havetouchdowns.
Their lineup includes a 300-pound

« lineman/running back/receiver, a

quarterback who defies his coach,
the league’s commissioner and logic,
and what most in the know have cail-
ed Prior to this weekend — the best
running back never to make it to the
+ Super Bowl, Walter Payton

» “Treally respect that Payton guy,’
, said W&L head football coach Gary
Fallon. ‘I'd really like to see him win
‘ that Super Bowl.”
, Fallon’s running back agreed.
“T’ve been pulling for Walter Payton
‘He is a great runner and a great
« athlete,’ Weaver said.
The Patriots have garnered their
* share of a following over the last few
2 weeks, too. They are the first team
ever to win three consecutive road

nite , Front Ma) i

167. Main St St
———

 

 

 

Kevin McNamara works down his Davidson opponent on Saturday

games in the playoffs on their way to
the Super Bowl. In fact, before thia
year they had never won a playoff
game. It is that underdog status that
has attracted many fans.

“It’s exciting to watch a team that
is supposed to lose but wins,”’ said
Sydney Marthinson, a junior dorm
counselor. Marthinson cheered for
the Washington Redskins during the
regular season, but has supported the
Patriots during the playoffs.

The Bears’ favored status seems to
be holding form at W&L, however.
The Ninth Annual Evans Dining Hall
Super Bow] Contest bears this trend
out. Only eight of 37 entrants have
sided with the Patriots.

Fallon said that if he were a betting
man, then he would put his money on
the Patriots. He said he believes the
Patriots can beat the spread and that
the injury-riddled McMahon might
suffer an injury that will take him out
of the game

The coach jokingly added how-
ever,’ ‘“‘He will probably have the
greatest game of his life.’

But even some Patriot fans are
picking the Bears. Berents, who ex-
pects the Bears to win on Sunday, ex-
plains the New England fna’s at-
titude: ‘‘The Patriots and the Red
Sox are the same. We don’t think that
they are going to win but we hope
that they do.”’

He added that with the Patriots,
however, ‘ he had been “proven
wrong to my satisfaction.”’

er eo
167 S. Main St., 463-3106
Stop by and open up a
charge account for all
your grocery needs. We

#63.3105

even send bills home,
if you like!
We are a supporter of the MD
Superdance. Come out and help
those who need your help.

 

Serving the W&L community
over 30 years.

 

 

 

Watching the game, W&L style

Super Bow! fans who have not already made plans to watch the
game will not have to search very long to find the party atmosphere.
The General Headquarters will have three wide screen TVs set up.
Many specials are slated on the menu before and during the champion-
ship game.

Complementing a Happy Hour that begins at 5 p.m. and continues
until the game’s end, the tavern will have specials on cheeseburgers
and on the veal cutlet dinner. Fans will also find free popcorn.

Other people have made plans around the Super Bowl. Evans Dining
Hall will serve Sunday dinner form 4:45 to 5:15 sharp so that its
employees will be able to watch most of the game. Students on the
meal plan who prefer to have a box dinner instead of eating in Evans
may sign up to have a box dinner by Friday at 1 p.m.

And for those looking for pre-game analysis of the Super Bowl,
WLUR-FM (91.5) will present a special edition of the weekly radio
show, “SportsTalk,’’ on Sunday at 4 p.m.

The Ring-tum Phi, January 23, 1986, Page 7

ee ey

Back to fun

..There was something special
about what happened in the Warner
Center Thursday evening, some-
thing that went beyond — but per-
haps occurred because of — the ath-
letic heroics that took place on the

 

TIME
OUT....

 

 

 

‘3 ; gym floor.
; a — I’m talking about a return to the
ee days when a rivalry was, above

 

everything else, fun.

The Ronaoke-W&L game has been, for most of my years at W&L, a
very ugly sort of thing. Ugly, because supporters of either side were as
quick to use a four-letter word to attack an opposing player as they
were to cheer for one of their own. Indeed, it was my freshman year
when the headline in The Phi after the Roanoke-W&L lacrosse game
went like this: ‘Management downs employees, 10-9,’’ And it was lac-
ed with a little less humor and a little more spite.

Walking into the Warner Center on Thursday night, I expected to see
more of the same. More expletive deleted’s directed at Roanoke head
coach Ed Green. More unmentionable references to the social prac-
tices of the Ronaoke cheering squad. More unmentionable references
by the Roanoke fans regarding the sexual preferences of W&L
gentlemen. In essence, commentary that had little connection with
supporting the efforts of either squad.

Thursday night, there was no bad taste in my mouth. No temptation
to shout, ‘‘Stop acting like children.’’ Now, while the behavior was not
exemplary, it was fun. The taunts that went back and forth did not
result in violence as it occasionally had in the past. Quite the contrary.
What resulted was laughter, an admission from the subjects of the jeer
that, ‘‘Hey, that was a good one.”’

This all may seem quite hokey to some of you, but the truth of the
matter is that when people cheered Thursday night it usually was for
somebody rather than against somebody. And that is a good thing.

In the end, it was a mutual appreciation of a good game. And that’s
what fan support is all about. It is good again to be as proud of W&L
fans as I am of W&L athletes...

...Back at the Colonnade, the Generals’ hoopsters are on a tear.
Seems to me I recall a certain ODAC preseason poll that put the
Generals seventh. Apparently, the Generals don’t remember the poll
in ro.

An update on the NCAA’s new 700 rule,courtesy the Dallas
Herald- Examiner: 48 of 114 Southern Methodist football players
scored less than 700 on the SAT. So much for being the Harvard of the
South...

...And finally the moment has come for me to put the kiss of death
on either the Patriots or Bears. Who will it be? Everybody and his
sister knows the Bears have every advantage imagineable coming in-
to this weekend’s contest. But I’m wondering about Bears’ quarter-
back Jim McMahon and his acupuncturist, though. But to tell the
truth, I think I’m just looking for an excuse not to pick Chicago. Can’t
find a valid one, however; Chicago 17, New England 3. I hope I’m
wrong....

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

 

John V. = a

 
  
   

j.v. °Y:
Victory was
in the ‘bag

Ay

 

 

 

 

Campus Music

formerly Campus Shop

117 W. Nelson St.
463-4544

TDK SA90 reg. 33.10 now $2.05

Maxell XLII 90 Reg. $3.78
now $2.39

 

   

Chinese and
American Cuisine

 
 

- Exotic Cocktails
ALOKA WOK Carry-out Service
409 South Main St., Lexington, Virginia 24480 Available
Leas 1 Open Tuesdaythrough Sunday

Luncheon 11:30 - 2:30
Dinner 5 - 10

Saturday Open 4 - 10
Sunday Lunch Buffet 12 - 2:30

 

 

 

 

FOR ALL YOUR PRINTING NEEDS

Oualite Quick Print, Ink.

107 NORTH MAIN STREET LEXINGTON. VA 24450

TOM RAISBECK, PROPRIETOR

January White Sale

Copies 6°

 

 

 

 

 

jek, Yi hiee~F iiss

Good Luck

Superdance
Participants!

Hope you make it!

165 South Main St. 463-9152

 

 

 

 

 

Travel Unlimited

Don’t Delay

Make Plans
For Winter Break

This Week!

21 W. Washington St.
463-7174

Services are Free

 

Sea Sa EAE a SE aid

 

 
 

“BACK PAGE

 

 

 

For my next selection...

Junior Robert Allen Vienneau performs a solo piano
recital for a packed Lee Chapel crowd Tuesday night.
who performed works by Bach and Chopin,

Vienneau

 
 

continuing — his

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

has studied with Canadian pianist Irving Heller and is
studies in
Gaylard. The recital was Vienneau’s third in three years.

Lexington with Timothy

‘Lysistrata’ cast selected for stage

 

Staff Report

 

The Washington and Lee drama
department has announced the full
cast for its fifth production of the
year, “Lysistrata.” The play is set in
Athens in 411 B.C. and concerns the
women of Greece who have barricad-
ed themselves from their husbands
(and their beds) to try to put a stop to
the Peluponnesian War.

Heading the cast as Lysistrata, the
leader of the anti-war movement, is
Associate Dean of the College Pame-
la Simpson. Her next-door neighbor
and cohort in the movement, Kleo-

nike, is played by freshman Jennifer
Wise.

In other roles are freshman Susan
Crouse as Myrrhine: senior Mark
McConough as her husband, Kines-
ias; and freshman Lisabeth Fowler
as Limpito, the leader of the Spartan
delegation.

Taking the stage as leader of the
men’s chorus is senior Dave Marsh
and the men’s chorus is composed of
senior Chris Gorman, James Lea-
sure and freshman John Boller. The
leader of the women’s chorus is
played by junior Valerie Kochey with
Rita Leasure, freshman Sandra
Boozer and freshman Delia Ford
playing the parts of the women’s
chorus. Senior Chris Carmouche, a
familiar face to theater goers, por
trays the Commissioner

   

  
 

Redken

  

Mon.-Fri.

The Sandwich Shop
Old Main Shopping Mall

Featuring Homemade Soups
DAILY
Homemade Tuna, Chicken & Egg Salad Too!
Please Call 463-2595
for your TOGO ORDER

—_——""s™
eorge’s Hairstylist

since 1963

 

Walk in or phone for appointment

      
       
 
     
  
 

   

Nexus

  
   

463-3975

  

 

(Pre-ott-so)

ticipating Pizza Hut®

 

 

Wednesday night buffet
5:30-8:30 p.m.
$3.49

Pri-4z-zO

youll pronounce it delicious.

In Italy, there’s a pie filled with delicious in-
gredients and smothered in rich, zesty sauce and
melted cheeses. You really ought to try it.

Round-trip tickets to Italy are unnecessary
and far too expensive. Just visit your par-
restaurant after 4:00 p.m.
Monday through Friday or anytime Saturday
and Sunday and order our Priazzorw Italian pie in
one of four tempting combinations of fillings.
Milano, Roma, Florentine and Napoli.

Eat In, Carry Out, Or Delivered

600 E. Nelson
Lexington

 

Other cast members are freshman
Joe Caccamo, freshman Tony De-
Martino, junior Tyler Carr and soph-
omore Stu Geisel as the four police-
men, freshman Ellen Sigler as the
Korinthian woman; freshman Mar-
tha Christian as the Boiotian woman,
and freshman Katherine Nelligan as
a Peloponnesian woman. John Boller
again is seen as a Spartan Herald and
Junior Greg Lunsford as the Spartan
Ambassador.

“Lysistrata” will be playing Feb.
7-12 at the University Theatre, with
shows at 8 each evening except for a
Sunday matinee at 3 p.m. The box of-
fice will open Feb. 3 and close Feb.
12. For more information, call the
Theatre Office at 463-8637.

 

The Ring-tum Phi, January 23, 1986

Lloyd’s gets thumbs up
after beers go bottoms up

 

By JAMIE BERGER
and CHRIS KOMOSA
Food Critics

 

Deep within the heart of the
Washington and Lee savant, the
name invokes a love/hate relation-
ship that even Freud wouldn’t like to
tackle. Since its inception in 1982,
Lloyd's has become a required stop
for the late-night partygoer or study-
monger. The W&L sophisticate, wise
in the ways of chow, will denounce
Lloyd’s in the morning and blissfully
gorge there 12 hours later. Wishing to
unlock the mysteries of this bizarre
chow phenomenon, we _ entered
Lloyd’s with stomachs empty and
wallets full.

Not wanting to leave any stone un-
turned, we decided to test the entire
lunch and dinner menu. While Walt
Devine, our Quality Control Officer,
gave our order to an amazed cashier,
we surveyed our surroundings.

The first wave of our food arrived
and we eagerly dug in. Jamie had
mixed feelings about his Big Quarter
hamburger. The meat tasted good,
but it was not very hot and the beef
was of questionable origin. Lloyd is
not skimpy on his condiments,
though, so the hamburger was quite
filling and a reasonable substitute for
anything McDonald’s might have.
(Let’s hope William Perry doesn’t
read this. )

Chris had some complaints about
his Bacon Cheeseburger. Firstly, the
bacon proved a bit too crisp. Normal-
ly this would not be a big problem;
however, we had a sneaky suspicion
that it had been that crisp for the past
10 hours. Chris also noted that Lloyd
had not yet perfected the art of melt-
ed cheese. In other words, it was
cold. We would soon find that this
trend toward lukewarm food would
continue throughout the review.

Two darkhorses on the menu were
the soup and the chili. The soup was a
mish-mash of vegetables and meats.
The customer gets lots of soup for the
money — probably more than he will

 

 

115 S$. Main Street

 

VARNER & POLE

Furniture Dealers

‘For your extra pieces of furniture’

463-2742

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Shop for
PAPPAGALLO

’% Off

Winter
Clearance Sale

Shoes, Clothing
& Accessories

23 NORTH MAIN STREET
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

463-5988

 

 

 

Typists—$500 weekly
at home. Write: P.O.
Box 975, Elizabeth,
NJ 07207

ARR I ORR ROR
Campus Rep

National College Marketing
Company seeks individual
or campus group to work
part-time assisting students
in applying for credit cards.
Flexible hours. Excellent
pay, full training, meet
students and have fun.

Call Sharon Grand
1-800-592-2121

 

 

Thank you
Mr. Zola,

for justifying our

confidence.
FF'V, A Partnership,
Brownsburg, Virginia

William Miller Cooper, IV

Wendell’s
Barber
Shop

| need your

head for

my business.

Markham S. Pyle

C. Bradford Stengel

110 S. Jefferson St.
Lexington
463-3338

Hours:
Mon.-Sat. 9am to lam
Sunday 10am to lam

be willing to eat. Unfortunately a
large percentage of the soup is
grease, so much so that our handy
Ring-tum Phi Greasometer overload-
ed and blew up. Jamie suggested that
a match be applied and we would
have an interesting flambe. This
soup may also be helpful if you run
out of Crisco. We suggest, though,
that the faint of heart not attempt
this. Like Chunky soup, we weren't
sure whether to eat it with a spoon,
fork or nuclear disposal unit

The chili, on the other hand, was
pretty good. It was thick, with a
healthy helping of meat. (Note: The
helping was healthy. We're still not
sure about the meat itself.)

Probably the biggest surprise of
the evening was the fries. They were
big and with just the right amount of
salt, but they weren’t very warm,
which is a must for good fries. We
weren't sure if this batch was a fluke
or not. The onion rings caused some
controversy. Jamie thought they
were delicious, but Chris thought
they were practically inedible.

If you plan on ordering the taco,
you better tell them to hold every-
thing except the lettuce. It was
soggy, cold and generally uninspir-
ing. Save your money.

And last we came to the chili dog.
We drew straws and it was decided
that Walter, our hapless Q.C.O.,
would try it. With a look of terror in
his eyes, Walt opened the styrofoam
box and brought forth the chili dog.
Hand trembling, he brought it
towards his mouth. ‘‘No, Walt, don’t
do it!’’ Chris yelled. Jamie bravely
volunteered to do the dirty deed.

Jamie stared at the hot dog. He
turned it around, but the other side
was no better. Taking off his glasses
so as to blur his vision, he opened his
mouth and bit into the mystery meat.
Ceremoniously, he proceeded to open
the coffin-like box and wrote
“R.L.P.” on top. It wasn’t until days
later that Jamie could recount his ex-
perience. Mathematically, it was the
equivalent of eating a null set.

After this meal we sat and thought

about our predicament. We still could
not explain the mysterious allure of
Lloyd’s food. But then it came to us.
There are two kinds of people who eat
at Lloyds: the sober and the not-so-
sober. Our mission was clear. Dis-
tasteful as it appeared, we would
have to come back later that night as
some of the not-so-sober, in order to
get a full understanding.

Although it was Sunday evening,
duty called, and we rushed to Kroger
to purchase enough beer and malt li-
quor to ensure that our buzz would
carefully re-create the state of mind
of the average W&L partier.

Sometime between 4 and 5 a.m. we
strolled into Lloyd’s with a buzz
beyond our wildest expectations.. We
ordered our food and were hypnoti-
cally drawn into the flashing, buzzing
game room. A word to the wise: be-
ware of the ‘‘Gauntlet’’ game. You
will find yourself pouring your entire
life savings into it, one quarter at a
time. Only the arrival of our food sav-
ed us from this fate.

As we began to eat, it all became
clear to us. The food was five star!
The best we had ever eaten. Walter’s
bacon cheeseburger was divine.
Jamie discovered that the Chicken
Filet ‘‘fulfilled my life.’’ The Fish-
burger tasted like it had jumped out
of the ocean and onto Lloyd’s grill
and the cheeseburger was like a filet
mignon. Most satisfying were the
fries, which were inhaled in a man-
ner that might be deemed unnatural.

Somehow, Lloyd's has perfected
the art of making food that tastes ex-
quisite after a few beers. This, com-
bined with its being open 24 hours,
makes for big late-night business.
Does this mean that you should avoid
Lloyd’s without a buzz? No. You sim-
ply need to avoid some of the less-
desirable items. Even with stomachs
and brains paying the price the day
after, we can still recommend
Lloyd’s to the W&L gentleman or
lady who has a little money to blow.

Why?

Well,
say....

sometimes you just gotta

HO-FICE

CONNECTIONS UNLIMITED

is under new Ownership

CA LE

DEAVERS ALLEY BUSINESS SERVICES

463-9455 OR 463-5119

Our typing is WORDPERFECT”

 

University Florist
Wishes The MDA

Superdance

The Best of Luck

15 W. Washington St.
Lexington, Va.

463-6080

Mon.-Sat.7
8:30-5:00

 

Sandwiches (Eat In-Take Out)
Gourmet Items of All Nations
Cocktails@® Wine®@ Beer
Subs@Imported Cheeses

Catering

 

4

en Oe ae em

a” Yee

ce «2 @ Pe 8 @>.24

*

.™ 4

cl

-— - Mh
 

 

Dancing

     
     
 

VOLUME 85, NUMBER 17

Volunteer avoids
the limelight

Page 3

 

 

Wrestling

W&L takes first
in invitational

 

Page 5

 
  
   

 

Che KRing-tum Ph

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 

 

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Your weekend weather

Lows in the 20s on Saturday,
warming to 30s on Monday

 

IAN

@ THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY

NGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VA 24450 _,

JANUARY 30, 1986

 

 

By MIKE ALLEN
Executive Editor

 

Associated Press
Christa McAuliffe’s family reacts with horror

Shuttle disaster
stuns W&L, VMI

EC secretary leaves schoo

 

By JASON LISI
Assistant News Editor

 

Executive Committee Secretary
Michael Webb resigned his post by
withdrawing from school Friday and
will return as a ‘‘second-semester
junior” in September, according to
Associate Dean of the College Pame-
la Simpson.

Webb was the first black student to
be elected to the EC in one of the “Big
Three’ positions — president, vice
president or secretary, according to
Dean of Students Lewis G. John.

Webb, a junior, said being secre-
tary became too big a job when com-
bined with his school work.

“I think I overextended myself,”
he said in a telephone interview. “I
just wasn’t getting any sleep or any-
thing.”

“7 just wasn’t functioning the way I
thought I should be functioning.”

In addition to being EC secretary,
Webb participated in the Minority
Student Association and other pro-
jects.

Webb mentioned that he had talked
with Simpson about his busy
schedule. ‘She had warned me ear-
lier in the year that I was overwork-
ed,”’ he said.

He said he is going to ‘learn how to
relax’’ at his home in Jersey City,
N.J., and possibly look for a job.

“I was really disappointed about
leaving — I kind of fell in love with

 

 

 

MICHAEL WEBB

W&L,”’ Webb said.

“There was so much that I really
wanted to do at W&L; that’s probably
why I’m sitting here — at home.”’

Webb said that being a minority
had nothing to do with his reasons for
withdrawal.

EC President John Lewis said
Monday that senior Representative
Pat Hayden would be Webb’s re-
placement, with senior class Vice
President Tony McCann stepping in
for Hayden.

“Mr. Webb had undertaken a great
deal this term and he was physically
and mentally tired,’’ Lewis said. ‘‘So

he has decided to take a term off; he
will return in the fall.”

Lewis said later he had not known
of Webb’s decision until Friday after-
noon. ‘‘I discovered it through a note
left by Michael Webb,” he said. “‘I
was surprised.”’

Lewis said he understood Webb's
action. “It’s his decision — he just
needs some time off,’’ he said, adding
that he realizes the decision was in
Webb’s best interest.

‘That’s all that matters,’’ he said.

Simpson said she talked with Webb
and his father on Thursday to make
sure that Webb considered all the op-
tions and rules concerning withdraw-
al. “I was satisfied that Mike had,”
she said. ‘‘He received all the advice
that we can offer.”’

She said she was surprised by
Webb’s decision. “I was shocked
because everybody looks up to Mike
and depends on him,”’ she said. ‘‘He’s
always so good about ideas and fol-
lowing through on things and he’s so
reliable and dependable that I was
really surprised,’’ Simpson said.

“I’m going to miss him a lot, but
it’s not like he dropped off the face of
the earth. He’ll be back in Septem-
ber,’’ she added.

“IT knew Mike because of the work
with the Minority Student Associa-
tion, and because of his position in
the student government — and also
because he was the sort of person you
really like when you get to know,”’
she said.

 

 

onnade and throughout Lexington.

recently arrived viewers.

tieth times.

coverage.

tions at all’ about heading into space.

impressed by the poem when she heard it.”’

shuttle also sported a VMI decal.

 

Washington and Lee students swarmed around University, fraterni-
ty house and barber shop televisions at lunchtime Tuesday as word of
the explosion aboard the space shuttle Challenger raced down the Col-

Knots of students chatted about what many called the ‘“‘morbid”
nature of the network coverage. Other remarks were of the ‘‘round up
the usual suspects’’ variety: ‘‘sabotage,”’ “‘terrorism’”’ and ‘‘the Rus-
sians’’ all were discussed as possible causes of the inferno.

Many students watched videotape of the replay two or three times,
then became bored and wandered away, leaving behind the more-

The three wide-screen televisions in General Headquarters were
switched to Cable News Network, and conversations abruptly ceased
as the footage of the disaster was shown for the tenth, fifteenth, twen-

The wall-size screen in the University Library’s Northen
Auditorium also displayed the afternoon’s grim, repetitious broadcast

Christa McAuliffee, the 11th-grade teacher who was one of the
craft’s seven crew members, had planned to carry with her a poem by
Journalism Professor Clark R. Mollenhoff. The poem, ‘‘Teacher,” has
been publicly read by President Reagan on more than a half-dozen oc-
casions, including to the finalists for the Teacher-in-Space program.

Mollenhoff talked by telephone with McAuliffe in July shortly after
she’d been selected for the mission, and he said she had ‘‘no reserva-

‘Her personality is such that she’s bubbly and enthusiastic, but
rather clear and precise in her enthusiasm,’’ he recalled. ‘‘She’d been

Virginia Military Institute also had a special interest in the seventh
and final lauch of Challenger: McAuliffe took along the VMI ring of
her husband, 1970 graduate Steven J. McAuliffe. Her locker aboard the

Col. Beverly M. Read, the VMI Alumni Association historian, said
he corresponded with her several times before the launch.

“She was enthusiastic about the disciplined life Steve had led at VMI
and said she also is a very disciplined person,’’ Read recalled.

In a biographical sketch of McAuliffe in the 1970 VMI yearbook, the
Bomb, the last line is: ‘‘His future: Christa.”’

On Tuesday afternoon, VMI sent a telegram of condolence to
McAuliffe, and the institute's flags flew at half staff.

 

 

Tuckered out

Last weekend's Superdance raised $34,038 for the
Muscular Dystrophy Association. This year Superdance
organizers used a wrist band system to regulate the
distribution of beer. In addition, identifications were
rechecked Saturday night. Superdance co-Chairman

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

Paul James described the measures as ‘‘very effective.’
He was also pleased with participation. ‘‘This school
came around for Superdance in a way I haven’t seen for a
while,” he said. Kappa Sigma senior Jimmy White won a
new Honda Civic in a raffle Saturday night.

EC questions SAB on freebies for members

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Entertainment Editor

 

Members of the Student Activities Board will
continue to be allowed to attend all SAB func-
tions free of charge, senior Mike Guerriero,
president of the SAB, said at Monday night’s
Executive Committee meeting.

Guerriero was defending charges raised two
weeks ago by sophomore representative Brad
Root that several SAB members were abusing
the privelege.

“I see no abuses that are flagrant,’’ Guer-

riero said. ‘It’s not a problem right now.”

The controversy arose from an incident
three weeks ago when several SAB members
reportedly walked to the front of a long line in
order to be admitted free to a SAB-sponsored
performance by Speidel, Goodrich and Lille at
the General Headquarters

“It’s not annoying to have people get in free
but it’s annoying to watch them cut in line,”
said junior representative Baltzer LeJeune.

Guerriero said the solution was to make an
announcement that SAB members not cut in
line. He resisted a proposal to designate a
separate door for SAB members.

“My mistake was letting the people in at
SGL who were cutting in line,’’ he said.

Guerriero and the SAB’s business man-
ager submitted the SAB’s budget for fall term
and records showed that the organization
stayed $7,883 under their projected budget.

According to Guerriero, Wednesday night
concerts at the GHQ run on a “‘zero gain, zero
loss’’ theory. In that sense, Guerriero main-
tained that the cover charge the SAB could
have received from every member it admitted
free was not counted as a loss.

“Every SAB member who gets in free is paid
for by the other people,’’ said Guerriero.

The number of SAB members who attend
each GHQ show is usually less than 20, accord-
ing to Guerriero.

‘“‘We’re talking about small numbers,’’ he
said.

EC Secretary Pat Hayden said, ‘‘I find it ex-
traordinary that other people pay for the enter-
tainment of SAB members. Many other people
work around campus and don’t get into any-
thing free.”’

“From you not being on the SAB, Pat, I have
a lot of trouble justifying your statement,”’
Guerriero said.

According to Guerriero, the average SAB

member works about three hours for each ma-
jor student activities pavilion concert and
about two and a half hours each time he works
at a GHQ concert. An SAB member's duties in-
clude loading bands in and out of the concert,
selling beer and beer tickets, and working at
the door. In addition, SAB members handle the
catering and publicity for the shows.

For the two weeks immediately following
Washington Holiday, Guerriero said every
SAB member is required to work a minimum
of five of the seven days in the week of prepar-
ation for Fancy Dress. This usually involves
two or three hours of work a day, Guerriero
said.

Guerriero admitted, however, that outside
help is usually enlisted to reload band equip-
ment after some SAB shows.

‘By the time 3 a.m. rolls around, we've ex-
hausted our supply of SAB members,” he said

According to Guerriero, an effort has been
made this year to monitor the amount of work
done by SAB members.

‘This year has seen a change in the SAB,”
he said. ‘‘We’re making an effort to get rid of
people who don’t work.”

Hayden asked Guerriero to inform the EC,
by name or number, of any members who are
removed.

“IT can say that between zero and five
members will be kicked off in the next two
weeks,”’ said Guerriero.

Sophomore SAB member Ty McMains said
he worked about one-and-a-half hours for
December's R.E.M. show and has yet to work
at the GHQ for a Wednesday show.

“It’s not that much work,” he said. ‘‘The
benefits far out-weigh the amount of work. It’s
definitely not strenuous.”’

Sophomore SAB member Jon Solomon said
that if one added up the amount of money an
SAB members saves by not paying for admis
sion, the ‘pay for this job would seem pretty
good.” He figured he saves $50 a year on GHQ
shows, around $32 for the larger pavilion
shows, and at least $30 for Fancy Dress. That
comes to $112 a year.

“T haven’t been called to work a Wednesday
night once,’’ he said

Junior SAB member Jeff Mandak said he
felt the work/privelege ratio is ‘‘pretty fair

He said that much of the time an SAB mem-
ber has to work is when one would rather be do
ing something else. Mandak said he worked
the entire R.E.M. show

“Like at Fancy Dress,” he said. ‘‘You might
need to pick up your date at the airport but you
might also have to put up posters.”’

Simpson said Webb’s withdrawal
will have some effect on his date of
graduation because he will be a term
behind his classmates.

“I’m certain it'll have some im-
pact,”’ Simpson said. “He’s going to
be out-of-phase in some manner.”’

Associate Dean of Students for
Minority Affairs Anece F. McCloud
said she was sorry to see Webb leave
but she is ‘‘happy that it’s only tem-
porary.”

Lewis Monday explained the suc-
cession that left Hayden in Webb’s
former position and McCann in
Hayden’s. According to the Student
Body Constitution, the senior repre-
sentative who received the most
votes in the last general election
becomes secretary — in this case
senior Michael Black, who declined
the position. Hayden, then, stepped
into Webb’s position.

According to Lewis, the empty sen-
ior representative position was first
offered to senior class President and
Student Control Committee Chair-
man Townes Pressler, who turned it
down.

“It was for the good of the SCC that
Townes stayed,’’ Lewis said.

Senior Vice President Tony Mc-
Cann was then, in Lewis’ words, ‘‘the
logical choice”’ to fill Hayden’s posi-
tion.

The EC suggested to Pressler that
he choose someone to take McCann’s
place and give that name to the EC at
next Monday’s meeting.

Entrepreneurs

to convene
this weekend

By SIMON PEREZ
Staff Reporter

 

 

Want to start your own business?

A great way to find out how would
be to attend this Saturday’s con-
ference on entrepreneurship, which
will be hosted by the Washington and
Lee chapter of the Association of Col-
legiate Entrepreneurs, and is open
free of charge to all W&L students.

Junior Marquis Smith says the
group tries to give students a ‘‘head
start on preparing for the job market
while in college.”

ACE, which began in 1983 with
seven chapters nationwide, has
“grown tremendously,’ Smith said,
and at present has 250 chapters in the
United States and even more abroad.

W&L’s chapter has undergone sim-
ilar growth. Beginning with three
students last spring, the group now
boasts 30 members.

Smith described the group’s efforts
thus far as having ‘‘decent success,”’
but he hopes recruitment will pick up
next year.

One-third of all new businesses are
started by entrepreneurs under the
age of 30, according to the ACE, and
it gives the young businessmen a
chance to get together and share
ideas as they begin their own busi-
ness adventures.

W&L’s chapter has some ambitious
goals for its first year on campus.
The group hopes to bring a series of
speakers to W&L to discuss topics
relating to successful entrepreneur-
ship; to set up a mentor program in
which students can be paired with
businessmen to get valuable exper-
ience; and to send several represen-
tatives to ACE’s national conference
in Los Angeles in February.

Saturday’s conference will have
chapter members from Georgetown
University, the University of Virgin-
ia, James Madison University,
George Washington University and
Tidewater Community College.

The purpose of Saturday’s con-
ference is “to get area schools in
Virginia to come to W&L to con-
solidate before the national con-
ference,’’ Smith said

Highlights of the day-long con-
ference will include several speakers
discussing such topics as ‘‘Charac-
teristics of the Successful Sales-
man,” and a number of films related
to a variety of business topics

One of the speakers will be jour
nalism Professor Ronald Mac
Donald. Registration is at 11 a.m
Saturday in the Commerce School

 
 

 

OPINION |
Clarification

The smooth transition of power in the Executive Commit-
tee after the resignation of the student body secretary last
week speaks well of the institution and its members. While
wewegret ito se Mike Webbiléaving for the remainder of this
yeatjgwe/ne, glad tovseevim@alible students — Pat Hayden,
former @puipay epoesemtAtive, and Tony McCann, a former
senior class vice president — taking new seats on the EC.

But although the transition may appear to be seamless and
orderly, some rough edges need to be smoothed before
another similar situation arises.

Foremost, the Student Body Constitution remains unclear
as to the proper line of authority to be followed in such
events. Article III of the Constitution, titled ‘“‘Duties of Of-
ficers,’’ notes that the ‘“‘Senior Representative who received
the most votes during the general election’’ shall become
secretary should the seat be vacated.

Fine. That works. But who should succeed the senior repre-
sentative? That particular article doesn’t say. You have to
refer to Article V, Section I, to find out.

There, you can see that the EC receives instructions on how
to fill seats emptied during the six-week spring term. But
that is not the same as a student leaving at the end of Jan-
uary. Regardless, Article V says that the class president
replaces a class representative who leaves. It goes on to say
that ‘‘in the event the president of the class also leaves [for
the spring term], the vice president shall fill the member’s
chair for the remainder of the term.”

But therein lies the problem: The clause does not address
the possibility that the president of the senior class may
refuse to fill the vacant EC seat, as Townes Pressler did last
week. And this time, there were three vice presidents, as is
the custom with the senior class — one for each of the ‘‘col-
leges.’’ Which vice president should get the tap for the EC
seat in that situation?

We would recommend several changes to the Constitution
to remedy similar situations in the future.

First, Article III, Section D, should make clearer reference
to the order of succession should the secretary’s seat be
made vacant. Perhaps even a reference to the Article V
details on succession would be helpful.

Secondly, Article V ought to clarify the order of succession
in a situation in which more than one vice president might ex-
ist. If the EC passes the current proposal to change the elec-
tion of the three senior vice presidents from election by the
college to election at large, the student who has received the
greatest number of votes obviously should receive prefer-
ence in succession.

Finally, we hope that the syntax changes might clarify the
right of a senior EC representative or the senior (or junior or
sophomore or freshman) class president to refuse whatever
post may be offered in the case of a vacancy. The current
wording, while not explicit on this point, might be enhanced
with careful editing.

Why we did it

It’s often tempting, but seldom productive, to write col-
umns explaining why the newspaper has a certain policy or
made a given decision in a specific situation. Such exercises
bespeak a self-consciousness and self-centeredness that are
unhealthy for a newspaper. For that reason, I’ve always
tried to just do my job and then shut up about it. Although
generally sound, that approach occasionally can lead to some
pretty serious misunderstandings, one of which came to a
head last week.

The Phi printed an advertisement, signed by three stu-
dents, that commented on another student. Although the
meaning of the message wasn’t clear from the ad itself, if
you’ve been reading the paper lately, it took all of about two
seconds to figure it out. Since Thursday afternoon, a couple of
dozen people have come up to me and asked, with varying de-
grees of diplomacy, ‘‘Why the---do you print that---?”’

The Phi is in close to a monopoly position as far as being an
outlet for student opinion. About the only other choices are
the Executive Committee minutes, which not many people
see, and tacking something up on the Colonnade, which be-
tween wind and idle hands isn’t very effective either. So that
gives The Phi an extraordinary responsibility: It must pro-
vide a forum for the spectrum of student views — whether we
agree or not — as long as they aren’t libelous or in bad taste.

Editors who arbitrarily decide what opinions the student
body should have access to are at least arrogant and at worse
dangerous. We’re journalists, not censors. You don’t go into
this business for money or popularity, but instead to promote
certain values. One of those is freedom of expression and con-
sequently we try to make our columns available to all respon-
sible points of view.

We still aren’t wild about that advertisement, and have a
certain amount of sympathy for the individual it addressed.
But through news judgments and editorials, we get plenty of
chances to express our views. When it comes to opinion col-
umns, letters and ads, it’s someone else’s turn.

 

-MA
* *
he Ring-tum Phi
NEWS STAFF
RTE UE 6 ois ci cce iid aeees el iieree ie
rot ee Paul Foutch
Cotton Puryear

I NE ie kiisndi iis issn Se is Reade Williams
PRR ye er Mike Stachura
News Editor ..... pevaeiy cp hee cs eee ee Jim Strader
Pee PEE chris AGO Steve Sadler
Ce BE iii iri i a aaa Matt Horridge
rE I) 5 bias ies ie ee Marshall Boswell
Pe seo ci coae eh ae Jason Lisi
De eT I ak A sie David Emrich
EDITORIAL PAGE
re es aa ie i i Nelson Patterson
Assistant Editorial Page Editor................0ccccceeeeeeeeeeees ss Marie Kothman
CORI 8 oie ote tie e Chris Bowring
BUSINESS STAFF
WOGMNONG MAMAN oo cic c cs ccs ec ce sereesccctocsasbadevesenscdscgvounes Jeff Kimbell
Advertising MARAGOR 0.65 cecsceeccececcecccscteneoeectesessevess Hank Greenberg
Advertising Salesmen. .........:0sccerccsserecesnveeeees John Feyrer. Keri Hinrichs,

Jay Reville, Greg Turley
Circulation Manager ......cccscccccccccsecesccescceencs aveeiveteuie Matt Horridge

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia, Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

 

OO A AO eee ME en

 

The Ring-tum Phi, January 30, 1986

 

(5@ VASH AMONG
THE RUINS.)

 

     
   

 

AND So | TOLD Hit
colts en aay Bice
WAS FROZEN... AND HE
SAID Te WEAR A HAT
PROM Now onl

 

 

Dedication: Pursuing ‘the dream’

 

MY VIEW

By John Pensec

 

In his broadcast after Tuesday’s
shuttle explosion, Peter Jennings
declared that we comfort each other
in our tragedy. Today, we mourn as a
nation.

While it is doubtful that we will
forget the incident, let us hope that
years from now, when we look back
on this day, we remember not only
the horrible explosion but also the
motivations of the seven astronauts.

The seven were on their way to ex-
plore space, something many dream
of doing, but few grow up to do. They
gave their lives in pursuit of a dream
they were determined to make a
reality

In that there is a lesson to be learn-
ed. Too often, people are willing to
bow to the pressures of day to day liv-
ing and give up their hopes and aspir-
ations. But to the seven, the dream of
going into space was their life.

And while there is no way of saying
for sure, we hope they never knew
what happened and that they died
happy.

Space is all that is left to be ex-
plored. We don’t know what is out
there, but it is man’s natural urge to
find out that keeps him going. Some-
day, the questions we have will be
answered. To achieve this, however,
we must depend on those who are
willing to sacrifice many of the lux-
uries of life. They will have to
volunteer their time, and maybe
even their lives, to discover the
unknown.

Those who dedicate their lives to
pursue a dream are often isolated

from their peers. They are different.
They don’t want to conform to the
norms of society, but to change it in
some way. And while at times these
dreamers may be ridiculed, it must
not be forgotten that it is because of
them that so much has been achiev-
ed.

What would air travel be like today
had Charles Lindbergh never flown
across the Atlantic Ocean? Or what
would we be today had not a few men
dreamed of being independent of
England? They dreamed and suf-
fered so that we might reap the
rewards.

We often hear that life is short.
How many times though, do we let
those words be forgotten? If we
dedicate our lives to pursuing our
dreams, not only will we be better for
it, but the community around us will
be rewarded.

The members of the space pro-

gram have given us hope. The suc-
cess of previous missions has instill-
ed in us the knowledge that we have
the capability of exploring unknown
worlds.

Not long ago, people scoffed at the
idea of putting a man on the moon,
and yet in 1969, we did just that. The
surface of Mars has even felt our
presence. None of this could have
been done if it weren’t for the
sacrifice of a few for many.

President Reagan, in his address to
the nation, said that the space pro-
gram would continue, that there will
be more volunteers and more teach-
ers in space. This is the only course of
action we can take. We have ac-
complished so much, but there is so
much yet to be done.

For those who lost their lives, and
for their families, all that we, as a
grateful nation, can say is thank you.

Insensitivity causing unnecessary change?

 

MY VIEW

By Steven Pockrass

The chocolate shake was so thick I
would have gotten a hernia if I had
tried to drink it with a straw. But I
needed a thick one — a double in a
dirty glass — to drown myself in my
sorrows.

“Hey pardner, what’s the mat-
ter?’’ asked a friend as he walked up
to my barstool.

“Just trying to numb my senses,”’ I
said.

“‘Numbin’ your senses? What are
you doing a thing like that for?”’

“Well, ever since this school went
coed, it seems like there’s been a real
lack of sensitivity on the campus
toward everybody except for the
women here. And the proposed
Women’s Forum is just about the last
straw.”

“What’s wrong with a women’s
forum?” asked my friend.

“Nothing,” I replied. ‘What's
wrong with a men’s forum? Or better

 

To the editors:

yet, a students’ forum?”’

“Nothing.”’

“Exactly,’’ I said. ‘Listen to some
of the topics that The Phi reported
will be included in this forum, and
tell me why men don’t have similar
needs. We’ve got housing and loung-
ing, health and counseling, leader-
ship, social, academic advising and
career issues, spiritual growth and
development, and community ser-
vice.”’

“T’m not arguing against coeduca-
tion,” I said. “I’ve been in favor of it
for a long time. And that’s important,
because if someone like me, a sup-
porter of coeducation, feels this way,
think about how anti-coed people
must feel.

“And the fires are being fueled. A
female freshman is quoted in The Phi
as saying that sororities will be able
to find locations ‘when the fraterni-
ties go down.’ That’s insensitive. As-
sociate Dean of Students Anne C.P.
Schroer says that W&L women tend
to be much more independent than
those at area women’s colleges. The
Phi reported that this means they
have more confidence to express

their values than students who have
been less successful academically
and socially.

‘We read in the Milwaukee Jour-
nal that ‘The bottom portion of our
classes, the bottom third or fourth,
was getting very soft,’ a quote at-
tributed to Frank Parsons, an assis-
tant to President Wilson. ‘We were
having to dig deeper and deeper into
the barrel to get a class,’ Parsons
said.

“If the university did not want the
aforementioned students, it shouldn’t
have accepted them. Shouldn’t our
emphasis, no matter what type of
students enroll, be to produce better
men and women?

“If we look at coed as an academic
panacea, then we will be no better a
university because we will be happy
with mediocrity rather than unlock-
ing students’ potential. If we think of
coed as an admissions panacea, then
we will still lack the diversity this
school should be able to attract.

“Don’t you think you're being a bit
rough on your own school?” asked

LETTERS

cers had a better view of the name bands which

Participant chastises absent MDA dancers

months, I wish to pass on this note of hope.

my friend. ‘‘All they’re doing is look-
ing out for the needs of the women.”
“Sure, that’s no problem. But
you’d think that as high up on a
pedestal as these women are being
placed — whether they want to be put
up there or not — that they wouldn’t
have any problems. Actually, they’re
just like the other 11/12ths of the
undergraduate students.”’

“T never have taken a psychology
course, but it seems pretty obvious
that men — and women — naturally
resist change. So if there are things
that really don’t need to be changed
immediately, why don’t we leave
them alone and ease through the
transition?

“Yes, the solution is very simple,”
I told my friend. ‘We must listen to
all the students’ complaints and try
to find solutions that will benefit all
the students. We must be sensitive to
the needs and charateristics of
everyone on and off this campus.

“Then I wouldn’t have to spend so
much time and money on wooden
barstools and chocolate shakes.”’

After participating in last weekend’s Muscular
Dystrophy Association Superdance, I have sev-
eral observations and opinions to express con-
cerning the behavior of many people involved.

The Superdance is billed as a ‘30-hour dance
marathon.” All of the sponsors who pledged a
certain donation per hour were billed as though
each dancer had completed all 30 of those hours.
Unfortunately, the vast majority of the register-
ed dancers did not participate for the duration of
the dance, but in fact attended only for a few
hours on Friday and Saturday nights. It seems
unfair to bill sponsors for 30 hours worth of danc-
ing when perhaps only six hours were completed.
Granted, many of the dancers missed only a few
hours early Saturday morning, but still, their
sponsors should not have had to pay for the en-
tire time. Perhaps, in Washington and Lee’s
quest for their annual record-breaking total,
honest participation takes a back seat to fraudu-
lent gain of pledged monies.

This problem leads me to wonder why these
dancers commit themselves to 30 hours of danc-
ing if they do not intend to carry through on their
promise? I realize that several fraternities re-
quire their pledges to dance, which is all well and
good, but why did many people who were not re-
quired to register to dance and then renege on
their commitment?

An answer to these questions is apparent in the
pattern of attendance at the dance. More dan-
cers were present at night, when registered dan-

 

 

were playing and free beer was available. Per-
haps these dancers were more concerned with
securing a good viewing position and free alcohol
than with raising money for MDA; this is the
conclusion that I reach. When the Steering Com-
mittee analyses the impact which beer has on the
Superdance, I hope they include not only the
receipts from beer sales, but also the amount of
money raised by those dancers who participated
only for the sake of receiving free drinks.

Despite these problems and complaints, I am
glad to have participated in this year’s Super-
dance. I commend Chairmen Sandy Whann and
Paul James for their organization and leader-
ship, and all of the committees who helped plan
this event. I also salute Cotton Puryear, Mike
Stachura, and the other staff members of WLUR
who ran the Rock-a-Thon. Most of all, I congratu-
late the other dancers who completed all 30 hours
and fulfilled their sponsors’ expectations.

Margaret Pimblett
Class of '89

Example of honor given

To the editors:

Against all the death knells of the Honor
System which have been sounded in recent

wondering where all my shirts were, since I
hardly had any laundry to be done. Then I
remembered — I hadn’t brought them home last
time I had done laundry. Furious with myself
and in a pessimistic state of mind, I walked to the
Graham-Lees laundry. And against all odds
predicted on the pages of The Phi, there were my
shirts, exactly where I had left them one week
earlier, Available to anyone who passed through,
$100.00 worth of clothing were untouched after
one week.

Sunday night I was looking in my closet,

I do not say that the Honor System is perfect.
No doubt there are liars, cheaters and thieves in
our midst, yet after my experience, I am more
inclined than ever to think that such people are
the exception and not the rule here at W&L. I
don’t advise anyone’s leaving their laundry or
calculator lying about, and I certainly hope that I
don’t forget my laundry again, but isn’t it nice to
know that such things can be done? It is true that
the Honor System is by no means perfect, but it
is just as true that it is far from being dead.

Christopher R. Carter
Class of ’87

 

 

 

"a -

“eo dn ig”

¢ ~ 8 @ >? Pf © Fy 2a Hh OM SP...€<7

*

;
ot

¥

=

—
~

B&B: [Ree e erences ees s BEN eee < 1

“+ wa.
<<} 7? ¥

x
t
»

hi

<< © > 4

@®se¢ceereseeéeedéeée €&€66e eR FE SEB
-—
‘NEWS
Trible mixes

politics and
religion well

By DEBORAH HATTES
Staff Reporter

‘Roll tape’?
Not so fast

By MIKE ALLEN
Executive Editor

 

 

 

 

A knot of students huddled around a television set in the
University Center on Tuesday afternoon, silently watch-
ing a tape showing the reaction of the family members of
the teacher aboard the space shuttle when they discover
ed she’d just been blown up.

The footage began, some static followed, and then the
screen went to black before ABC anchorman Pete Jen-
nings reappeared. ‘‘We’ve lost that tape,”’ he noted some-
what sheepishly, ‘‘and I must confess it’s not such a bad
thing to have lost it.”

Jennings is not the only person concerned about possi-
ble excesses in television coverage of the space shuttle
Challenger disaster. So is Religion Professor Louis W.
Hodges, director of Washington and Lee’s Society and the
Professions ethics program.

He says that in their crisis coverage, the networks
behave in predictable but not always desirable ways, and
that this week’s marathon coverage of the horror above
Cape Canaveral reflected both the strengths and the
flaws of the form.

Hodges, who teaches a course in the ethics of jour-
nalism, deplored the repeated showing of the isolated-
camera view of the teacher’s family during the explosion
(see photo, page 1), calling the broadcasts ‘‘an unwar-

“For over 200 years the leaders of our nation have join-
ed in prayer and our national life has been greatly enrich-
ed,” U.S. Sen. Paul S. Trible, R-Va., told an audience of
about 200 in Lejeune Hall at Virginia Military Institute
Saturday morning. Although delayed by snow, Trible, a
1971 graduate of the Washington and Lee Law School, de-
livered the keynote address at the prayer breakfast for
VMI’s fourth annual Religious Encounter Weekend.

Trible spoke on the importance of religious faith and
prayer in his own life and the lives of other national
leaders.

He said that despite having realized his life’s ambition
by age 29 — election to Congress, and getting married
and having a daughter — he had found something miss-
ing in his life. ‘‘And that something missing was an in-
tense, personal relationship with the risen Lord,” Trible
explained.

Acknowledging that the audience might find it hard to
believe, he said, “My own faith has deepened and inten-
sified since I’ve gone to Congress.”’

Trible is one of approximately 40 senators actively in-
volved in the Senate Prayer Breakfast held on Wednes-
day mornings. Describing it as ‘a marvelous experience

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

Fontanne Bostic (left) with Jack Benjamin (center) and Randy Ellis

Eight-year MDA volunteer
is force behind Superdance

 

shared by members of the Congress for over 40 years,” By STEVE SADLER — behind the Superdance. She gives direction to the com- _anted invasion of their privacy.”
he said that about 20 senators attend each breakfast. Staff Reporter mittee,’ co-chairman Sandy Whann said. “People who are in the initial stages of grief,’’ he ex-

At the conclusion of each breakfast, ‘‘We stand and we
hold hands and we ask God for His blessings and His di-
rection in our lives,” he said.

“It wouldn’t happen unless she was there. With eight

plained, ‘‘ought to be able to do that privately even
years of experience, Fontanne knows more about the

though they are in a public place, without the shock and

 

 

“‘By coming together in the name of the Lord, by focus-
ing on His life and His message, we find that there is a
unity in spite of our diversity.”’

Trible cited his relationship with Rep. Don Bonker, D-
Wash.., as a specific example of this. Although Trible is a
conservative Republican and Bonker is a liberal Demo-
crat, they have eaten breakfast and prayed together once
a week with two other members of Congress for the past
five years.

“‘We’ve come to know and love each other in spite of

our differences. And there is little we would not do for one

another,”’ Trible said.

Similar groups exist in the parliaments of nations in
Western Europe, the Americas, the Middle East, and the
Far East, according to Trible.

Officially, Fontanne S. Bostic is the business manager
of the University Print Shop.

To the Muscular Dystrophy Association Superdance,
though, she is much more. In the words of steering com-
mittee member Jack Benjamin, ‘‘She is the committee.”

Despite that hearty commendation, though, Bostic’s
name is not among the dozens of people listed in the
acknowledgements in the Superdance program.

When Benjamin included Bostic’s name in the acknow-
ledgements, she objected, saying that she was on the
committee and didn’t need further thanks.

“T don’t represent Washington and Lee in the Super-
dance,’’ Bostic said. ‘I do it for Fontanne Bostic. I am
very happy to maintain a low profile.”’

“Fontanne is without a doubt the major motivation

 

NEWS BRIEFS
Hearing rescheduled for March

8 a reports. 4 A he oe Be Bee TY,

A preliminary hearing for the freshman charged with
the rape of a former Hollins College student has been
tentatively rescheduled for March 7, according to the
Commonwealth’s Attorney’s office in Lexington.

The hearing for Burgess A. “Tommy” Thomasson,
originally set for Jan. 21, was postponed because the

. Lexington police investigation and certain laboratory
tests were incomplete, officials said.

Angela T. Morrison, victim-witness coordinator in the
Commonwealth’s Attorney’s office, said one of Thomas-
son’s attorneys, Eric. L. Sisler of Lexington, proposed
the new date and is clearing it with the court before the
hearing is officially scheduled.

-Jim Strader

Judaic lecture series begins

Rabbi David Saperstein, co-director and counsel of
the Religious Action Center, will inaugurate a new lec-
ture series on Judaic studies tonight at 7:30 in room 221

of the Commerce School.

' . The lecture, titled “Economic Justice: A Jewish Per-
spective,”’ is sponsored by the Weinstein Endowment
for Judaic Studies and the religion department and is
free and open to the public.

Professor to speak on humor

Humor is a serious business to University of Tennes-
see psychology Professor Howard R. Pollio, who will be
lecturing today and tomorrow.

At 4 p.m., Pollio speaks on the topic of “Taking
Humor Seriously.”’

‘Humor is really important,’’ Pollio said this week.
“Psychologists haven't taken it seriously enough. I’m

é

studying what it {humor } means and why people are. |.

| }at next year’s

funny. ’ ;

Examples he will use in his speech will be “humor in
other cultures and antic ceremonies such as the Mardi
Gras or carnivals in general,”’ he said.

Another topic important to Pollio is the subject of
grades. He said, ‘I don’t like them. I’m not sure they’re
very helpful. Grades are really relativistic and they’re
treated like absolute.”’

Pollio probably wouldn’t find much disagreement
with that among students, but on Friday he will be try-
ing to convince faculty members when he speaks on the
topic ‘‘Grades: A Tiger Looks At His Stripes.’’

-Daniel Bunch

Blood drive set for Tuesday

The Rockbridge area Red Cross Bloodmobile will be
in Warner Center on Tuesday for another blood drive
sponsored by Chi Psi social fraternity.

“There is a serious deficit in the blood bank this year
as a result of the ’85 flood and illnesses that kept people
away from area blood drives,” said senior Jake
Squiers, who is organizing the drive for Chi Psi.

The hours of the drive will be 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Food
and refreshments will be served to the donors.

New Ariel editors chosen

Junior Sean Butler and first-year-law student Murray
Stanton on Monday were appointed co-editors of the
Ariel, the Washington and Lee literary magazine.

Butler is from Williamsburg and Stanton is from
Rochester, N.Y. They also become members of the Uni-
versity Publications Board. Their terms run through
the end of the academic year. Ten students applied for
the position.

 

 

event than anyone on campus,” Benjamin said.

Randy Ellis, co-Chairman of Student Involvement, ex-
plained, ‘It would be really hard to find someone as
dedicated as Fontanne. She is the brains behind the
operation.”

“‘T never think of it as putting in time,’’ Bostic said. ‘‘I
like working with the guys on the committee and the sat-
isfaction of knowing that I’m helping people in need.”

Steering Committee co-Chairman Paul James agrees
with the other committe members.

“*Fontanne is the heart and soul of the Superdance,”’ he
said.

The committee members’ admiration of Bostic seems
justified.

“T don’t have a whole lot of money to give to charity,
but I do have time,”’ Bostic said.

horror of it registering on their faces.”’

Hodges also found the constant replaying of the explo-
sion tape unnesseary, noting that ‘‘the networks tend to
overdo it’ when they abandon their regular program-
ming and are faced with hours of time to fill.

He said television news organizations air pictures such
as the parents and the blowup over and over again partly
because “as a matter of actual fact, they don’t have
much other tape to show.”’

Despite his reservations, Hodges is no network-basher.
He commended them, for example, for scrapping their
commercials during the initial hours of shuttle coverage

“I’m fully sympathetic to the size and the magnitude of
the problems they have,’’ he cautioned. ‘Since I don’t
know what to recommend for solutions to their problems,
I can’t be too critical of the way they doit.”

 

TALKBACK

Would
you dance

Superdance
if beer were
not served?

 

Worth,
Interviews by

SYDNEY MARTHINSON

Photographs by
HANK MAYER

 

 

Casey Krivor, sophomore, Sun
Valley, Idaho: ‘‘Yeah, I'd do it. I
like it more as a pledge duty.”

  

Leeann Flood, freshman, Ft.
Texas:

Because I was on a committee this
year, I know how everyone’s get-
ting so scared about not coming
next year because there won’t be
beer. But I think the principle is
more than just having fun.”’

Parkhill Mays, junior, Lake-
land, Fla.: “I didn’t participate
this year. I contribute money, but
I don’t dance in things like that.
Lack of interest, I reckon.”’

 

 

at

 

 

Jay Gorlowski, sophomore, St.
Mary’s, Pa.: “One, I didn’t par-
ticipate in the Superdance be-
cause I don’t dance. It wouldn’t
matter to me if it were dry or not.
I normally park cars or work se-
curity.”

“Oh, yeah.

 

Steve Sklenar, freshman, Pasa-
dena, Md.: “‘I’d be willing to par-
ticipate because of the cause, but I
think it would hurt the atmos-
phere of the event.”’

 

 

  

17 S. Main St.

&
d
e with this coupon

   

(763) 463-2323
ide Ae a ae ale ee A A OME NE Re SO Ea es

15% off all Valentine
Merchandise (except candy)

 

107 NORTH MAIN STREET

 

FOR ALL YOUR PRINTING NEEDS

ualite Quick Print, Ink.

LEXINGTON, VA 24450

TOM RAISBECK, PROPRIETOR

Copies 6°

 

 

Sandwiches (Eat In-Take Out)
Gourmet Items of All Nations
Cocktails@ Wine@ Beer
Subs@Imported Cheeses
Catering

110 S. Jefferson St.
Le

43-3088.

Hours:

Mon.-Sat. 9am to lam
Sunday 10am to lam

 

The Sandwich Shop
Old Main Shopping Mall

Thank you Frank Stinson

Featuring Homemade Soups

DAILY

Homemade Tuna, Chicken & Egg Salad Too!

Please Call 463-2595

for your TOGO ORDER

 

Excellent summer counseling opportunities for men and women who are interested
in serving boys and girls ages 7-16, guiding them in their physical, mental and
spiritual development. Only those persons who will dedicate their wholehearted ef-
forts to help each individual child develop his or her potential should apply. One
must have ability to teach in one or more of our specialized activities. College
students, teachers, and coaches should apply CAMP THUNDERBIRD, located 17

miles southeast of Charlotte, N.C., isan ACA accredited camp member, specializ-
ing in water sports (sailing, water skiing, swimming and canoeing), yet an added
emphasis is placed on the land sports (general athletics, tennis, golf, archery,
riflery and backpacking). Horseback riding, white-water canoeing and tripping are
extras in our excellent program. For further information write or call G. William
Climer, Jr., Director, Camp Thunderbird, Route 7, Box 50, Clover, S.C., 29710
(803-831-2121).

 

-
Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, January 30, 1986

 

Food sales increase 22% in GHQ

 

By MATT HORRIDGE
Staff Reporter

 

Food Services Director Gerald Darrell says the
General Headquarters tavern is showing a mark-
ed improvement in sales this year.

With the increase of Virginia’s drinking age
to 21, Darrell had been worried that it might mean
the end of the GHQ, which primarily was a beer
tavern for W&L students.

But the GHQ expanded its dinner menu and
began accepting dining hall point cards in Octo-
ber. Through Nov. 30, the tavern had $17,400 in
sales, up from $14,200 through the same date in
1984, according to Darrell. This is a 22 percent in-
crease in food sales.

There has also been an increase in the sale of
point cards, according to Darrell. He said that for
the first term of this year, 704 point cards were
sold, compared with 525 during the same time the
year before.

The popularity of the tavern is distributed
among contract patrons and point-card holders,
Darrell said. About 7,000 contract meals have
been served in the GHQ thus far, and $13,000 has
been spent in ‘‘points.”’

Darrell said that not only are more people
spending money in the tavern, but ‘“‘people are
spending more money.”’ That, he says, is attribut-
able to the fact that people like what is being serv-
ed.

IFC wants
longer Rush

“The students have made it clear that they like
the tavern,” Darrell said.

GHQ Manager Bill Torrence has been keeping
an informal chart of how many dinners are sold in
the tavern each night. He said there has been a
steadily increasing number of people eating in the
GHQ since it started its full dinner menu.

There has been some criticism this year about
the tavern’s slow service.

“We're struggling with that right now,” Darrell
said of the complaint.

Darrell said the shortage of space in the kitchen
and the lack of a large cooking oven prevent the
staff from getting food to its patrons faster.

The fact that waiters sometimes get blamed for
the delays bothers Darrell. He said the workers in
the GHQ do the best they can with the space con-
straints.

In the original plans of the tavern, there was no
kitchen, according to Darrell. “It was a broom
closet. You can’t work in that tiny space.

“We've got to do some renovating,’’ he said.
Ideally, he would like to ‘‘double the size of the kit-
chen.”

Darrell said that next month he is going to Uni-
versity Treasurer E. Stewart Epley with plans for
improving the tavern. He said he would like to eli-
minate the bar and bring the kitchen out to where
the divider between the bar and the restaurant is
located.

Because fewer students will be able to drink in
the future, Darrell said, the large bar would be

replaced by a ‘“‘sub-bar”’ with a single tap. Darrell
Said the tavern would continue to stock bottled
beer.

He also would like to add an institutional-sized
oven to the kitchen. Right now, most of the food is
prepared on a grill, a hot plate and in frying vats.
Torrence said that with a large oven, more items
could be added to the tavern’s menu.

Ovens and renovations, of course, require
money. Darrell said the oven he would like to pur-
chase costs around $5,000. He would not speculate
on how much money will be required for the im-
provements but defended the expenditure by say-
ing that he feels the GHQ would eventually be able
toreimburse the University.

Darrell said similar plans have been proposed in
the past but the administration was hesitant to ap-
propriate funds for the then-faltering establish-
ment.

This year, Darrell predicts, the results will be
different. He hopes the figures up to Nov. 30 will
convince the administration that the investment is
worthwhile.

Darrell said that sometime in the future, the
game room may be eliminated to make room for
more seating. He emphasized, however, that no
more seating can be accommodated without en-
larging the cooking facilities.

Darrell said that he is quite pleased with the
GHQ’s performance this year but thinks the im-
provements could make it even better.

 

CLASSIFIEDS

 

 

By PETER BOATNER
Staff Reporter

The Interfraternity Council has
recommended to the Student Affairs
Committee that fraternity Rush be
extended from two to three weeks
and that it not be deferred until
winter term, according to IFC Presi-
dent Jamie Hayne.

The final decision on what form
Rush will take next year is up to the
SAC, which plans to conduct its own
study of a deferred Rush and will
make its decision near the end of this
term.

The study by the SAC will consist of
a survey next week of all W&L stu-
dents to determine their opinions
about Rush, and will include contact-
ing schools similar in size and form
to W&L in order to learn from their
experiences with different kinds of
Rush, according to Associate Dean of
Students Dan N. Murphy, a member
of the SAC.

   
     
     
  
    
  
    

  

  

 

GENERAL NOTES

 

Raymond Shonholtz will present
a lecture on Thursday Feb. 6 at
4:15 p.m. in the Law School Moot
Courtroom, on the availability
and value of mediation on the
community level. The lecture is
being sponsored by _ the
Washington and Lee Tucker Law
Forum.

“Judgment At Nuremburg”’ will
be shown Wednesday and Thurs-
day Jan. 29 and 30 in Room 327 of
the Commerce School at 7 p.m.
The film is part of the Politics
Filmfest.

“The Overcoat’’ will be shown
Friday, Feb. 7 in Room 327 of the
Commerce School. The film is
part of the Russian Film Series
and is in Russian with English
subtitles.

Alan Alexander, lecturer in
politics at Britain’s University of
Reading, will speak on “Crises in
Cabinet Government”’ at 4 p.m. in
221 Commerce School, and on
“Change in British Parties” at
7:30 p.m. in 327 Commerce School
— both on Tuesday, Feb. 4. He has

‘held numerous posts in Britain’s

national and local government
and has lectured on the British
scene in several countries. He has
authored or co-authored four
books and scores of articles in
both scholarly journals and the
press.

AUX ETUDIANTS DE FRAN-
CAIS: VENEZ TOUS AU GHQ
POUR UNE HEURE D’APERI-
TIF. MERCREDI DE 4H. A5H.

Emory Edwards, W&L Class of
1984, will be speaking at the Even-
song service, Sunday Feb. 2 at 5
p.m. at R.E. Lee Memorial Chur-
ch.

Senior picture orders are now in
and can be picked up in the
Calyx office during regular office
hours of 10-12 a.m. M.W.F. and 3-5
p.m. Mon. - Fri. Seniors. still
wishing to order prints from their
proofs should stop by the office
during these hours. All orders
must be prepaid.

 

HELP WANTED

 

 

 

Typists — $500 weekly at home.
Write: P.O. Box 975, Elizabeth,
NJ 07207.

 

 

x

cordially invites
Seniors
to the Alumni Hall
on Wednesday, February 5th
at 7:00 PM.

 

Meet our executives and enjoy refreshments.

Tell us about your career goals and hear about the
exciting Executive Development Program at Lord & Taylor,
America’s leading fashion specialty store.

Even if you have not previously thought of retailing

as a career, you may want to know about

the many interesting opportunities at Lord & Taylor.

If you have proven abilities and a record

of achievement, and look forward to the challenge

of managing a profitable business in just three years’ time,
Lord & Taylor looks forward to meeting you.

Maple Hall

One of the Historic Country Inns

of Lexington
463-4666 for reservations

Open Monday, Friday and Saturday
Route 11 North

 

 

 

 

Guit

 

NELSON STREET SERVICENTER

10% Discount On All Service Work

424 EAST NELSON STREET
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

703 463-3922

—

AVERNAULING
(Gas Not Included)

 

 

Winter Rush ’86

Tuesday Feb. 4 — Rush Date 1
7:00 - 8:00 PM

 

Thursday Feb. 6 — Rush Date 2
7:00 - 8:00 PM

 

Friday Feb. 7 —
BOSTON TEA PARTY

9:00 -?

 

Wednesday Feb. 12 —
Midnight Madness Party
(after the pit)

 

     
   
   

All interested freshman and sophomores call:

Rush Chairman Jim Renfro (463-5279)
Rush Chairman Chris Lion (463-3678)
Lambda Chi Alpha ...(463-2600)

mr

Washington & Lee

University

Mid Winters Weekend

The Waller Family

&

The Sponge Tones

Friday, Feb. 7
8:30 p.m.

 

Sponsored By

Student Activities Board

&

The Junior Class

 

Free Admission To Juniors

$4.00 General Admission

Proper College 1.D. Required

 

££ Rati?

*

~

4

€

-

i ell

oe

*>* @hrh O HEC KBE KESE SES S +

»
‘

tl

—
‘SPORTS:

Grapplers take first
in W&L Invitational

r<« PF? F ¢ Vw = Cer «

“f

2 7 ©? 9 9

a,

7° @ €

 

 

By CHARLES T. GAY
Staff Reporter

 

Another superb team performance
highlighted the Washington and Lee
wrestlers’ most recent triumph: a
first-place finish at Saturday’s W&L
College Invitational.

Elon provided the greatest chal-
lenge to the Generals. But W&L’s
performance in the championship
rounds (nine of 10 General wrestlers
placed) was enough for the victory.
W&L garnered 102 points, followed
by Elon with 91 1/4 and Pfeiffer with
40.

W&L head coach Gary Franke
praised the efforts of senior 167-
pounder Win Phillips, who was nam-
ed the Invitational’s ‘‘Outstanding
Wrestler.”’ Phillips recorded three
technical falls on his way to the title.

But Franke was pleased with more
than just one of his wrestlers. “It was
a fine all-around team effort,” he
said.

Three other W&L grapplers took
top honors in Saturday’s meet. Senior
co-captain Brian Lifsted won the 126-
pound weight class, freshman Mark
Robertson claimed the title at 158
pounds and classmate Rich Redfoot
was first in the 177-pound division.

 

 

 

 

 

WIN PHILLIPS

Five grapplers earned either
— or third-place points on the

y.
The Generals face LaSalle on Sat-
urday in the Warner Center. Franke
said the Explorers ‘could be a
challenge.”’

Athletes with 3.5-plus GPAs
recognized by department

 

By SAM FOLEY
Staff Reporter

Roll because we wanted to recognize the extraordinary

efforts of some fine individuals. We also wanted to il-

 

The Washington and Lee athletic department has
established an Academic-Athletic Honor Roll that recog-
nizes those student-athletes who achieve a grade point

average of 3.5 or better.

According to Sports Information Director Mark D.
Mandel, 44 students made the new honor roll for their ef-
forts during the fall term, and eight of them had an

average of 4.0 or better.

Mandel said that the idea for the honor roll really got
started during a wrestling meet when he and Athletic Di-
rector William D. McHenry were talking about how well
many of the student-athletes were performing in the

classroom.

“We decided to institute the Academic-Athletic Honor

lustrate that success in the classroom and in sports can

coexist,’’ McHenry said.

Of W&L’s 15 varsity teams, 14 had GPA’s of 2.6 or high-
er, with the women’s tennis team leading with a 2.96,
followed by the track and field team at 2.74. The football

team placed 12 athletes on the honor roll, the most from

any one team.

“T am very proud of those numbers. They show that
W&L athletes are students first and that there is a cor-
relation between athletic success and academic achieve-

ment. I think that indicates a discipline that is required

for proficiency in both areas,’”’ McHenry said.

James Barker, a varsity football player who made the
honor roll, was very enthusiastic about it. ‘The athletes
have compiled an impressive record. It shows what we

have always said about W&L athletes: They are students

first.”

Swimmers douse Towson State, 65-47

 

By LEIF UELAND
Staff Reporter

 

In similar fashion to last week’s
victories over Georgetown and Frost-
burg, the Washington and Lee men’s

Deg ae, gee eee

Valentine's Day
Specials

\ AT
e = 6 e
University Florist
15 W. Washington St., Lexington
463-6080 or 463-1559 nights

A A A ES

¢

SRL AA RAN HO AER: EN AS A A A A A A A) A) A AL) A ALD A AL A > RE (>

“Designs made with a special touch’’

Let us deliver a little love to
someone special

COUPO

1 Dozen Roses..........

V2 Dozen Roses.........
Offer expires 2-8-86

eee e twee ress eeeeeeees

ee

1 Dozen Sweetheart Roses..............

V2 Dozen Sweetheart Roses
Offer Expires 2-8-86

|
|
Ae ce eee ee ee ee ee ee ae ee ee eee oe oe ee ee

Present this coupon on or before Feb. 8, 1986,
And receive these special deals on
Valentine’s Day!

10% off any
store purchases

(Excluding FTD wire orders and use of coupons)

OTHER SPECIALS

To be given away at 12 noon,
Valentine’s Day

WIN! 1 Dozen Roses!-
for your Special Valentine

Register each time you place an order, by phone or
in person.

VOVIWOVVY

WIN! 2 Dozen Roses!-
by playing our guessing game

Guess how many hearts in jar. You win!
aR) RIN) creas) RR RRR SE ER SR RR IR te eR

swim team once again gained an ear-
ly lead which proved insurmountable
as the Generals beat Towson State
last Saturday, 65-47. The win brought
the men’s season record to 5-2.
W&L’s women’s team did not com-
pete.

al

 

shine ie Neon

ee

sissies ie tnasamomscbeoewiieac ce MMe commer ee

»

    
     
       
 
   

The Generals shot out quickly with
a win in the 400-yard medley relay
and did not slow down until after the
fifth event, the 200-yard individual
medley, where they had a 36-7 lead.

While the match, on paper, looked
to be a lot closer, head coach Page
Remillard attributes the meet’s lop-
sidedness more to the efforts of Tow-

son State than to W&L. “They didn’t _.

perform as predicted. I’m sure that
their coach was upset with their per-
formance. I think we swam okay.
Our times were generally about a
half second off what they should be,’’
commented Remillard

This weekend both the men’s and
the women’s teams will travel to
Shepherd on Friday and Gettysburg
on Saturday.

 
 

VISA

 

The Ring-tum Phi, January 30, 1986

Getting sick

....I’m really getting sick of this.
I've had it with NCAA Division I. I
am now convinced that 1) an athletic
scholarship is a contradiction in
terms, 2) play-for-pay college athle-
tic programs, in general, have no
concern for the education of their
athletes, and 3) the elimination of
athletic scholarships would be a
beneficial and necessary — step
for the NCAA.

The latest bad news comes from Georgia, where an instructor in a
“developmental studies’ department is bringing suit against her
superiors after she was dismissed for, more or less, believing that an
institution of higher learning is also an institution of higher learning
for its athletes. For those of you not paying attention, ‘‘developmental
studies’’ is a euphemiusm for a program designed to help illiterate,
grant-in-aid athletes stay in school until their eligibility runs out.

The garbage that is being aired in Atlanta includes such distasteful
morsels as your traditional favoring of the athlete over any reasonable
academic standards (changing failing grades so athletes are allowed
to participate, and so on), strange, if not inexplicable, guidelines for
the developmental studies program, and these sad words (that’s as in,
“It’s a crying shame that there exists an attitude like this in the
university’s administrators”) from the attorney for the directors of
the department of developmental studies: ‘We may not make a
university student out of [an athlete]. But if we can teach him to read
and write, maybe he can work at the post office rather than as a gar-
bage man when he gets through with his athletic career.’’

I think the rest of the collegiate world ought to take a look at what
happened to a small Virginia men’s college in the early 1950s. That
school, showing wisdom that the NCAA needs to get (and fast), realiz-
ed that athletic scholarships were more troubie than they were worth.
Of course, that’s assuming academic enhancement is the reason one
continues his education beyond high school. Assumedly, one knows
how to read and write and need not spend four years in a supposed in-
stitution of higher learning shooting baskets and raising your market
value from that of a garbage man toa postal worker.

I think it is a safe claim that the dollar weighs much more heavily on
the minds of those running Division I programs today than it did with
the W&L Board of Trustees in 1954. What W&L realized then, as it con-
tinues to affirm today, is that if we disregard the notion of higher
learning (and “‘higher learning” should never include such ludicrous
programs as ‘‘developmental studies’) and forget the responsibilities
of a university as a place where the ideas of tomorrow are nurtured,
even for a moment, even for a select few who can fill it up from 20 and
bring countless dollars into the school (to be spent, no doubt, on good-
will trips to China for the basketball team), we are inviting the demise
of the academic foundation that anything calling itself a college should
strive to uphold.

Ironically, it seems athletic scholarships encourage athletes to hone
their jump shots, not their minds. When an athlete gets his
scholarhips, I am afraid it is seen as a license to play basketball or
whatever, not as an opportunity to get an education. If we eliminate
athletic scholarships, if we adhere to some adequate degree of
academic standards for all college students (and chuck that silly 700
rule and every developmental studies program out the window), and if
we begin to place academics (that’s as in Plato, Darwin and Burke as
opposed to Sally, Dick and Jane) above our infatuation with games,
only then can there be truly higher learning in all institutions of higher
learning.

If this means less opportunity for functional illiterates to take up
desks in universities, so be it. I wonder that if college was something
you had to earn your way into — imagine that — rather than simply
something that was offered to you free of charge (that’s in dollars and

 

 

TIME
Biss

 

 

By Mike
Stachura

 

 

 

academic sense), if it then might not have all the internal strife it’s

having now.

But then, I’m sure the NCAA knows what it’s doing....

....some Colonnade notes: Take a gander at those grapplers if you
get a chance. They’ve lost only once (to Division I Duke), and nobody
else has been close all season long. Let’s appreciate quality, when the
opportunity presents itself....Speaking of appreciating quality, that
Athletic-Academic Honor Roll is a pleasant sight to see, especially in
light of Georgia’s (and who knows how many other institutions’)
developmental studies program. No postal workers in this crowd,
that’s for sure...

 

 

 
 

luin-
Special rates for

Fancy Dress Rentals

Try to place your orders before
Winter Break, if possible.
Complete selection of After-Six formal wear,
cummerbunds and accessories in stock

Winter Sale Continues

With More Mark-Downs

   

CHOICE STUDENT ACCOUNT

 

Mon.-Sat., 10 a.m.-9 p.m.
‘SSE SSE 2) RA ee Se Be ee

463-2177

Sun., 12 p.m.-5 p.m.

 
   

enn a eae ——————————  _______

Bring this coupon fora

One Year Membership

for only 99 cents

Movie Rentals
$2.00 each
3 for $5.00

with this coupon

Video Cassette Player $5.00/Day

VIDEO CENTER OF LEXINGTON
Lexington, Buena Vista Shopping Park

 

Hoopsters
go winless
in last four

By DAVID EMRICH
Assistant Sports Editor

 

 

From the lofty heights of leading
the Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence, to the mediocre depths of play-
ing .500 basketball, Washington and
Lee has covered the spectrum.

Two weeks ago, the Generals own-.
ed first place in the conference. After
Tuesday’s 78-58 loss to Hampden-
Sydney, W&L has dropped into a
three-way tie for fourth place in the
conference with a 4-4 ODAC record
(8-8 overall).

Tuesday’s loss was W&L's fourth in
a row (and its third consecutive in
the ODAC). :

Forced to play without the team’s
leading scorer, Steve Hancock (in-
jury to right shoulder), and starting
center Harmon Harden (flu), the
Generals were never in the game. *
W&L committed 18 turnovers and’
never got closer than nine points at
any point in the contest.

Hancock’s status has improved, ;
according to W&L head trainer Tom
Jones, and he is expected to play.
tonight at Emory and Henry. Jones,
said Hancock suffered a mild separa-
tion of his right (non-shooting)
shoulder, but has responded well to
treatment. Harden, who was in the
infirmary on Tuesday and checked
out on Wednesday, will probably not
be strong enough to play tonight,
Jones said.

The loss in Farmville comes on the
heels of two losses in two days last
week. Thursday, the Generals lost a
conference game to Emory and Hen-
ry (now the ODAC leader) by a single
point.

Despite the loss, W&L head coach
Verne Canfield was happy with his
team’s performance. ‘‘We played
well enough to win, and we really
should have,” he said. :

But the Generals hurt themselves
down the stretch by missing some
key free throws.

“The guys were a little tight,”’ ex-
plained Canfield. ‘‘They shouldn’t
feel bad. That sort of thing evens
itself out in the end.”’

The Wasps took advantage of
W&L’s tightness by scoring four -
points in the final 30 seconds to take -.
the win, 66-65. o

“This is our second one-point loss :
in a row (last Tuesday’s 51-50 loss to »
Eastern Mennonite),’’ Canfield said. -
“It’s all very draining.”’

The emotional effects might have
been showing the following night,
when the Generals were outplayed by
Mary Washington, 80-69.

Tonight, the Generals travel to ©
Emory and Henry.

W&L checks Tech

Staff Report

 

 

The Washington and Lee Hockey °

Club raised its record to 2-0 with a6-3 -

win over Virginia Tech Sunday night
in Vinton.
Senior G. T. Corrigan scored three :
times in the final period to lead the -
W&L skaters to the victory. Corrigan -°
finished the game with four goals. x
“We seemed to put things together -:
(Sunday ] night,”’ Vin LaManna, club --
president said. “It was a tough game, -°
but we were up to it.”’ “
The club’s next action will be Sun- *:
day against Roanoke College.

 

Lexington Hardware
463-2242

 

 

 

 

 

 
  
 

*
——
a ndage
—_—
JSawelri by Hana

Artist in Cahoot’s Gallery

Old Main St. Mall
Main at Henry St.
Mon.-Fri, 10-5 Sat. 10-2

 

Wendell’s
Barber
Shop

| need your
head for

my business.

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“<BACK PAGE

Open season begins
for Fancy Dress bids

 

 

Pus
By PAUL DAVEY
Social Critic

 

\s the winter term gets underway,
we are no doubt on the brink of enter-

ing ‘The Season.’’ You may be won-
dering: ‘Which season? Winter
track, lacrosse, the job-hunting

season, or what?”

‘The Season” is none of these. It is,
rather, that season which, to many
W&L students and even more so to
certain members of the student
bodies of our sister schools, is more
important than any other. Lest you
need post-Washington Holiday
schedule to realize what I am talking
about, you no doubt now realize that
the season is, of course, the Fancy
Dress season

At the present time, many expect
that Fancy Dress will fall on March
7. This being the case, we are left
with 36 days in the season.

The reason that the time before
Fancy Dress is such an interesting
one can be understood, at least in
part, in mathematical terms. Ac-
cording to ‘“‘The College Handbook”’
for 1984-85, there were 845 full-time
students at Hollins College, 820 at
Mary Baldwin College, 750 at Ran-
dolph-Macon Woman's College, 699
at Sweet Briar College.

Thus, assuming the numbers have
not changed significantly there are
about 3,114 girls going to school full
time within 45 minutes of Lexington.
There are about 1350 undergraduates
at W&L, of which approximately 100
are female. Thus, for each W&L
male, there are about 2.5 females
who would love to receive the coveted
bid.

Seen from the objective point of
view, who could argue with a young
lady wanting to attend Fancy Dress.
Who would not like a date for the

weekend with one of the South’s
finest gentlemen? Add to that, 2 to 3
nights of nice lodging, three nights of
bands, and parties, a T-shirt, and
most of all, the ability to tell one’s
friends, relatives, recent acquain-
tances and suminer house neighbors
that, “Of course, I-I-I’ve been to Fan
cy Dress.”

The season operates as follows:
During the next 36 days, we will
begin to see here at W&L many girls
who we have not seen for many mon
ths. This is to be expected. Anyone
with half a mind knows one cannot be
asked to a party if she is not in the
presence of the askers. With the in-
flux of new girls, some of whom may
not have set foot on Rockbridge soil
since March of last year, one might
begin to think that Rugby Road
had been demolished and _ that
Farmville had been encircled by a
Berlin-type wall. As far as the influx
goes, it will be fairly slow at first and
begin to really expand toward the
end of this month. Remember, there
are but three weeks before Washing-
ton Holiday and everyone, except for
those who like to roll the dice with a
previously-harvested crop, has
already gotten an FD. date.

Now that the girls are here during
January and February, they seem a
good deal friendlier sometimes, than
they did before Christmas. No longer
is the middle-of-the-road W&L guy
given a cursory yet courteous “hi”
while the girl of the road rushes off to
lay a big hug on the fraternity ‘face
man”’ who is known to have a home-
town girlfriend.

Appearances matter too, and the
fact that Fancy Dress Season is dur-
ing the Winter seems to be a relief to
some bid demanders. It seems to me
that many more of those big, shape-
less, ‘total cover’’ sweaters come
out during the Fancy Dress Season

Valley True Value Hardware

HARD

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

E. Nelson Street
463-2186

     

U.S. LIN.

EAST LEX

463-3614

Mon.-Sat. 8:30-6:00
Sun. 1-5

 

Open Until Midnight

 

 

formerly Campus Shop

 

  

Cream - ‘‘Wheels of Fire”’

The Who - ‘‘Who’s Next”

TDK SA90Reg. $3.10 NOW $2.05
MAxell XLII 90 Reg. $3.23 NOW $2.39

Led Zeppelin - “Physical Graffiti’

The Kinks - ‘One For The Road”

Bob Dylan - ‘‘Blood On The Tracks”’

Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young - ‘4 Way Street”’
Neil Young - ‘Crazy Horse ¢ Live Rust”’

The Doors - ‘‘Alive She Cried’’

List $9.98—Just $7.98
List $5.98—Just $3.98
List $13.98—Just $10.98
List $15.98—Just 10.98
List $8.98—Just $6.98
List $15.98—Just $12.98

List $13.98—Just $10.98

 

117 W. Nelson St.

 

PIZZA SERVED HERE, TOGO, |
OR DELIVERED

than in the earlier, yet cold, months.
You know which ones I am talking
about (and some of you probably own
them.). I just don’t see how those big
sweaters can be comfortable. They
go down to an 1/8 of an inch or so
above the knee, greatly constricting
movement, and must weigh 15 or 20
pounds. I guess they have their
benefits, or girls wouldn’t wear
them, but I have a feeling some guys
don’t bid on totally covered merchan-
dise. Another appearance factor that
is interesting is the ‘January tan.” I
guess chicks get them in northern
Vermont over Christmas

In general, now that the W&L cam-
pus resembles a commodity trading
floor, the date selection process
works fairly well. It must, since
everyone proclaims to have had ‘‘the
best time ever” at F.D. on the Mon-
day after. Apparently, tor those who
came to Fancy Dress, it was a season
worth road trips to Lexington, ‘‘stu-
dying’ at W&L, the foregoing of
UVa, and a little work from the dusty
Jane Fonda album.

At the close of the season on March
7, no doubt most people will have had
an enjoyable evening. As in many ac-
tivities, the intrigue of the build up
may be more interesting than the
event itself, but I’m not sure of that.

In the end, those who come will
have fun and for those who don't,
there is always next year, a state
school fraternity party, Farmville
society, or the repeating of the old
standby, ‘‘I don’t care. I really didn’t
want to go anyway.”

In any case, it is hoped that every-
one has the best season possible and
that in light of all the intrigue and
energy involved in the season, that no
one forgets that Fancy Dress, al-
though it may be the finest social
event in collegiate America, is still
just a party.

The Ring-tum Phi, January 30, 1986

  

Whistle while you work

The acoustic guitar-playing duo Heinsohn and Day per-
forms ina show at the Subway last Thursday night right
off the heels of a successful Southern tour that took them

Roger Day graduated in 1984.

Feature films spark ’86 Filmfest

 

By TIM McMAHON
Movie Critic

pressive and includes everything trom documentaries vu
modern Stone-Age tribes found in the Phillipines to
“Gone With the Wind.”’

 

Since it was developed, film has been an important
medium because through motion pictures, directors and
writers can impress mass audiences with ideas that
otherwise would not reach the public with the same im-

pact.

Washington and Lee politics Professor Craig McCaugh-
rin not only has recognized this fact, he has decided to

utilize film as a teaching tool.

“It is important to use a medium people could link up
with,’ McCaughrin said. ‘‘And in this point of the 20th

century, it’s cinema.”’

When he arrived here in the fall of 1981, McCaughrin
was already familiar with the use of film as an aide from
his days at Wayne State University in Michigan, and
when Professor William Buchanan, then head of the poli-
tics department, asked him if he would be interested in
using film with his classes, the Politics Filmfest was con-

ceived.

The Filmfest, conducted each term, is designed to in-
corporate theories expressed in classes and texts with
those present in popular and classic films. The list of
films shown since the program’s inception in 1982 is im-

Waterboys dive into mystic

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Entertainment Editor

 

      
  
 
       
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
   

 

° Try our fresh baked Pan
Pizza, Thin ‘N Crispy?
Pizza and Priazzo™ Ital-
ian Pie.

* Personal Pan Pizza for
lunch. Available from 11:00
am-4:00 pm (Mon.-Sat.).

e Plus...Pasta, Salad Bar,
Sandwiches, Beverages.

e Served to your table, or
delivered to your home, or
call ahead and we’ll have
your order hot and ready to
go.

e Each Wednesday night,

   
 

1985 Pizza Hut, Inc

 

5:30 until 8:30 p.m., all the
salad, pizza, Spaghetti, and
garlic bread you can eat for
only *3.49. Children under 6
years-99%

 

 

Pree

“Hut.

600 E. Nelson St.
Lexington
463-7000

 

 

The Waterboys want nothing less
than to evoke the fury of Mother
Nature herself. Last year, when
head-Waterboy Mike Scott sang, ‘I
have heard the Big Music and I'll
never be the same,”’ he was talking
about the music he was playing as
much as he was talking about the
spiritual call he was heeding. ‘‘This
is the Sea’’ is an ambitious, thematic
record that attempts to study the gulf
between mortality and the soul, be-
tween man and spirit. On ‘The Whole
Of The Moon,” Scott’s voice spirals
upward in a sort of ecstatic hysteria
as he pits his own mortal shortcom-
ings a gainst the wondrous power of
the soul. “I saw the rain dirty
valley/ You saw Brigadoon/I saw the
crescent/You saw the whole of the
moon?”

This gulf is no easy one to fill. Scott

realizes that, but he has a couple of
ideas on how to close it a bit. On “The
Pan Within,” he takes the listener on
a frantic journey of the body. As the
music swells, so does Scott's desire.
“The wind is delicious/sweet and
wild with the promise of pleasure...”
he urges. “All we gotta do is sur-
renier ‘‘

Other wacks examine more down
to earth topics. The touching “Old
England” attacks the current U.K.
heroin problem and “By My Ene-
my,’ a frantic Dylan-inspired rock-
er, is about paranoia and revenge.

In the end, Scott finds a balance.
The closing title track sums up the
battling forces that have been plagu-
ing the whole record. Layer after lay-
er of sound is added until the track
comes crashing down with a resoun-
ding roar. “Once you were tether-
ed/Now you are free.’’ shouts Scott
over the thunderous mus‘c. ‘That
was the river/This is the sea.”

Missing from Pavilion — Black cashmere over-
coat. Ely Tailors, Broadway, N.Y. If picked ‘‘by acci-
dent”’ please call Paul 463-9579.

This Friday at G.H.Q.

January 31st

4-7 P.M. —WLUR disc jockeys
broadcasting live from our

stage.

9 P.M. — 1 A.M. — Gutsy
rhythm and blues with
“Tough Luck’’ featuring

Lips Lackowitz.

GENERAL

BHO

a

 

 

 

 

& ’ ~ gy
‘BA DQUARTE™

Saturday, February Ist
G.H.Q. and the A.C.E. present
"The Suspects”

 

Still, its major purpose is to teach by exposing classes
to differing viewpoints on political theories. In fact, Mc-
Caughrin tries to design the Filmfest with more than one
class in mind.

“While there is an attempt to make it applicable to the
course with the largest enrollment, which is usually Poli-
tics 101, I try to keep an eye on other courses that might
be applicable,’’ McCaughrin said.

In the past, as many as three or four courses have
utilized the Filmfest at once, and its appeal has spilled
over into other departments as well. Since the Media Cen-
ter at the University Library was created in 1982, the
history, Russian and Romance languages departments
have also begun film festivals and film showings, and the
journalism department offers courses studying both past
and contemporary films. :

With the success the Filmfest has had, McCaughrin
still wonders what the future of the program will be, es-
pecially next fall, when he will have a semester-long sab-
batical.

He feels strongly, however, that the Politics Filmfest
should continue — so strongly, in fact — that he jokingly
suggests: ‘‘Maybe I’ll come back next fall just to show
the movies.”’

ONCAMPUS

Thursday, January 30
10 a.m. — SEMINAR: ‘‘Seven, Plus or Minus Two, Myths About
Metaphor.’’ Professor Howard R. Pollio, University of Tennessee, Phi
Beta Kappa Visiting Scholar. Room 318, Tucker Hall.
4p.m. — PHI BETA KAPPA LECTURE: ‘‘Taking Humor Seriously,”
Professor Howard R. Pollio. Moot Courtroom, Lewis Hall.
5 p.m, — CHEMISTRY SEMINAR: ‘‘The Mauler From Maryville.”
Byron T. Eppley ’86. Room 401, Howe Hall. (Tea at 4:30 in Room 402.)
7 p.m. — POLITICS FILM: ‘Judgment at Nuremburg.”’ Room 327,
Commerce School.
7:30 p.m. — LECTURE: “‘Economic Justice: A Jewish Perspective.”
Rabbi David Saperstein, Religious Action Center. Room 221, Com-
merce School. Public invited.

Friday, January 31
11 a.m. — SEMINAR: “What Would A Psychology of Human Ex-
perience Look Like?’’ Professor Howard R. Pollio, Phi Beta Kappa
Visiting Scholar. Room 7, Newcomb Hall.
9 p.m. — BAND: ‘Tough Luck’’ Sponsored by the General Head-
quarters. Cover charge $2.

Saturday, February 1
9 p.m. — BAND: ‘The Suspects.”’ Sponsored by Association of Col-
legiate Entrepreneurs. Cover charge $2. GHQ.

Tuesday, February 4
11 a.m. — RED CROSS BLOODMOBILE: Sponsored by the Chi Psi
Fraternity. At the Warner Center until 5 p.m.
4 p.m. — COMPUTER SCIENCE COLLOQUIUM: ‘What Operations
Researchers Do.”’ Professor Car] M. Harris, George Mason Universi-
ty. Room 25, Robinson Hall. (Refreshments at 3:30 in Room 21).
Public invited.
4 p.m. — CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT WORK-
SHOP: Job Hunting Techniques. University Center.
8 p.m. — CONCERT: Southern Comfort, the University Chorus. Lee
Chapel. Public invited.

Wednesday, February 5

4 p.m. — CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT WORK-
SHOP: Resume Writing. University Center.

4:30 p.m. — GLASGOW ENDOWMENT LECTURE SERIES: Poetry
Reading by Michael Harper, Northen Auditorium. University Library.
9 p.m. — WEDNESDAY NIGHT AT GHQ: Featuring ‘Wild
Kingdom.” Sponsored by the Student Activities Board. Cover charge
$2.50

 

Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi,

 

~~ < + » & &

 

 

 

Sat

fpalfne= Lf hit F tives
Add life toa

dreary winter
day — stop by!

    

165 South Main St. 463-9152

 

 

 

 

 

     
    
    

 
 

¥
=

to Atlanta, The group is made up of two Washington and :
Lee alumni. Eric Heinsohn (left) graduated in 1982, and *

¥

le,

2

“

ere e¢e@@¢e& & eA * SH OS

~

*

*.

« «< &¢ €s& $ @

# @¢€
 

 

       
   

VOLUME 85, NUMBER 18

Champion
Miles leads nation
in 500-yard free

Page 7

 

 

Chaplain

 

VMI’s Caudill

counsels cadets
Page 4

 
  
   

 

THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VA 24450 _4

 

 

 

Your Mid-Winter Weekend weather

Chance of rain Saturday;
Overcast skies Sunday

 

Che King-tum Phi

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

ee of
By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

The Commissioner (senior Chris Carmouche) squares off with Lysistrata
(Associate Dean of the College Pamela Simpson) in a scene from the Greek
comedy ‘‘Lysistrata.’’ The Washington and Lee Theatre production is
directed by Al Gordon, who describes the play as similar to a ‘‘Saturday
Night Live’’ skit in the way it spoofs contemporary issues. The show runs
from tomorrow night until Feb. 12 at the Troubador Theatre. Curtain time is
8 p.m., and a 3 p.m. matinee is schedule for Sunday. For reservations, call

463-8637.

By JASON LISI
Assistant News Editor

 

 

The Student Control Committee
will not get the non-voting woman
member it expected, the Executive
Committee voted Monday.

The EC voted 8-3-1 not to create
such a position. This vote came just
hours after the faculty gave it the
permission to decide the issue. The
faculty also had almost overwhelm-
ingly recommended approval of the
female appointment in a 90-8 infor-
mal vote, according to EC President
John Lewis.

The EC had voted to create a posi-
tion for a female ad hoc non-voting
member to the SCC Dec. 9, but ac-
cepted no applications because it

Minorities

By JASON LISI
Assistant News Editor

 

 

Representatives of the Minority
Student Association on Monday peti-
tioned the Executive Committee to
place a non-voting minority member
on the Student Control Committee.

The EC voted 7-3-2 to delay a vote
on the proposal until next week to
gather more information and views
on the subject.

Leading off a nearly two-hour
debate, senior and MSA member
William Rhinehart read a petition
containing over 30 signatures that
called for the creation of a position
for a minority to advise the commit-
tee in cases involving minority
students as victims or defendants.

Three MSA members attended the
meeting, along with two other mino-

wasn’t sure it had the power to make
such an appointment.

After that original vote, SCC Chair-
man Townes Pressler appeared in
front of the EC saying he had ‘‘misre-
presented the views”’ of the commit-
tee members when he said they were
in favor of a female ad hoc position
being created. The SCC later voted
10-1-1 that it was against the appoint-
ment of an ad hoc woman.

Lewis said he felt the SCC vote and
further discussion between the EC
members and the advocates of the
position were the reasons for the
earlier decision being overturned.

Here is how the EC came to the
final vote:

Freshman representative Matt
Bryant first made a motion to re-
scind the earlier vote. This vote was

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

passed 9-3.

Senior representative Michael
Black then moved that a vote be
taken to appoint a woman ad hoc non-
voting member to the SCC. He later
withdrew this motion.

As Black withdrew his motion,
Vice President Andrew Caruthers
motioned to create the position, as
Black had. This motion was defeated,
3-8-1.

First-year law representative Bill
Senft said the reversal of the earlier
vote would put the committee in a
bad light.

“T think the student body expects
you to stand by your vote,”’ he said.

But sophomore representative Pat
Schaefer said a position such as this
would not help the unity of the cam-
pus. “‘It’s a divisive thing,”’ he said.

FEBRUARY 6, 1986

EC votes down SCC woman

FreshmanValerie Pierson, who at-
tended Monday’s vote, later had
angry words about the EC’s decision.

“It really makes me mad,” she
said.

She said the delays and the rescind-
ed vote has had ill effects on the stu-
dent’s perception of the EC, especial-
ly female students who were in favor
of the ad hoc position.

“They've lost a lot of faith in the
EC,” she said. “I guess like me
they’re disappointed that they just
won’t listen.”

“People are amazed at the incon-
sistency of the EC,” she added. ‘I’ve
seen a side of them I haven’t seen
before.”’

Pierson said she was in favor of the
position to ‘‘lend a better perception
of fairness’ to the SCC.

ask for ad hoc representative

rity students and Associate Dean of
Students for Minority Affairs Anece
F. McCloud.

An ad hoc minority member, the
group said, would be “more sensi-
tive’ to the feelings and viewpoints
of minority students appearing in
front of the SCC.

“We have to institute a mechanism
to ensure that everybody is treated
fairly,” junior Everett Hamilton
said.

Hamilton said a case in which a
misunderstanding could occur is the
different connotations of the Con-
federate flag. Hamilton said he has
been told by white students that the
flag is a sign of rebellion, but he
pointed out that to blacks it repre-
sents a ‘‘symbol of hatred.”

“Tf I came to my room and some-
one had a Confederate flag on my
room door, it would freak me out,”’ he

W&L studying curriculum expansion

 

 

By JIMSTRADER
News Editor

 

As part of an ongoing process of re-
examining Washington and Lee’s
curriculum, administrators are stu-
dying faculty committee reports de-
signed to locate fields of study that
warrant further University funding
and development.

The administration, according to
Dean of the College John W. Elrod,
began this most recent curriculum
review last spring with an examina-
tion of East Asian studies, cognitive
psychology and public policy, a pro-
gram that would be handled in the
Commerce School.

In January, four separate commit-
tees were formed to examine W&L’s
curriculum in the areas of Russian
studies, computer-enhanced foreign
language study, the fine arts and the
so-called ‘‘Capstone’’ programs of
advanced learning.

Each of those four committees sub-
mitted a report to Elrod this week
after the completion of the month-
long studies.

Elrod said that because the
school’s resources for curriculum
development are limited, it will not
be possible to implement all the pro-
grams being studied. He added that
the programs are all on equal footing
as far as continued consideration is
concerned,

University President John D.
Wilson equated the process of devel-

oping the curriculum with what he
called the ‘‘kerosene theory.”’

“If you see a spark,” he said, ‘‘you
throw kerosene on it and see if it'll
catch.”

Wilson added that there must be __

INSIDE

*The Virginia Horse Center, which was expected to be an economic
boon to Rockbridge County, didn’t receive funding in the state budget
for this year, but its proponents are still hopeful, page 4

*Something new”’

¢Thank you for using AT&T,” say Lexington operators. But do you

have a choice? page 3

are the watchwords for the first Mid-Winter
Weekend, which kicks off tomorrow evening in the pavilion, page 8

sufficient ‘‘kerosene,’’ or resources,
to ignite a spark of interest in any
particular area.

One of the topics Elrod asked a
committee to examine last month
was the prospect of building a Rus-
sian studies program at W&L. The
chairman of that committee, History
Professor Lamar J.R. Cecil Jr., said
the group surveyed existing courses
at W&L to determine how such a pro-
gram would fit in here.

The study focused on the Russian
programs at 10 schools comparable
to Washington and Lee in size and
facilities. Cecil said the schools in-
cluded Tufts University, Bowdoin
College, Brown University, Ran-
dolph-Macon College in Ashland,
University of Richmond and Hollins
College.

In its report, the group listed
several areas in which it found W&L
to be lacking in its approach to the
study of Russia. Most important
among these is the study of the Rus-
sian language beyond the second
year, Cecil said. The courses current-
ly offered here stress grammar but
neglect literature, he added.

Other areas of study where W&L
would need some improvement if a
comprehensive Russian studies pro-
gram were to be implemented in-
clude: geography, Marxism as a
political ideology, the Russian Or-
thodox religion, Soviet economics,
and a systematic study of Russian
art, theater and music.

The report was not a detailed
recommendation, Cecil stressed. In
fact, the only recommendation of
curriculum change made in the
report was the addition of further
language work.

 

 

Although Cecil said he expected
issues such as funding, faculty hiring
and catalog adjustments might pose
problems he was enthusiastic about
the possibility of starting a Russian
studies program at W&L.

“T think it’s something we ought to
have,” he said. “I’m very much in
favor of it.”

The place of Russian studies in
university programs has shifted over
the years, Cecil said. In the Cold War
period, some historians allowed gov-
ernment policy to dictate their teach-
ing to some degree. In later years,
this point of view faded, only to resur-
face to some extent in the 1970s.

Cecil said he would be surprised if
Russian studies return fully to the
point at which they were in the Cold
War. He said historians and acade-
mics in general are not as likely to be
influenced by government policy as
they once were.

Russian studies programs have en-
joyed resurgence in some schools in
recent years, Cecil said. One exam-
ple is Columbia University, which
established a program after receiv-
ing a $10 million grant from Averell
Harriman former U.S. ambassador
to Russia.

Albert C. Gordon, professor of fine
arts, chaired the committee that
studied the curriculum in that de-
partment. He said there were several
areas in which stildy of the arts could
be enhanced.

In the art department, Gordon
said, the group recommended the ad-
dition of one or two staff members,
particularly someone to serve as
director of the duPont gallery.

The University has plans for a new
theater building, and this is first on
the list of improvements in the

theater department. Gordon said his
committee recommended an_in-
crease in theater staff and facilities,
including a costume shop.

In music study, Gordon said the
committee recommended strength-
ening the existing program.

Student interest is one of the major
criteria used in deciding which areas
to investigage, Wilson said, adding
that other criteria include the
availability of grant money from cer-
tain foundations, deficiencies that
may exist in current W&L programs,
and the creation of new fields of
knowledge, such as computer
science.

(See Expansion, Page 5

 

By JIMSTRADER
News Editor

 

Computer-assisted instruction
is an emerging facet of foreign
language study at Washington and
Lee that promises to put .the
school on what one administrator
calls the ‘‘cutting edge of the field.

The Romance language depart-
ment, under the direction of As-
sociate Professor Russell C.
Knudson and Foreign Language
Instructor Kathy Jo Koberstein,
started a program last year that
makes use of computers in sev-
eral French classes.

Knudson heads a committee to

 

said. ‘“‘That would seriously affect
me,’’ he said. ‘‘Whereas with a white
student, they could not really under-
stand that.”’

‘“‘A minority in an ad-hoc position
could maybe sensitize that group to
that fact,’’ Hamilton concluded.

“These are things as ethnic minori-
ties we can sort of empathize with
more,” he explained.

Senior Representative Tony Mc-
Cann, who was a member of the SCC
until he filled an opening on the EC
created when Secretary Michael
Webb resigned, said there is ample
time to express the idea of cultural
misunderstandings during the SCC’s
hearing session. McCann said the
SCC members take this testimony in-
to account with the case is decided.

“T think they can make a good deci-
sion,”’ he said. ‘I’m not sure they
cannot see what you’re trying to get

 

 

Computers: New part of the program

JOHN W. ELROD

 

evaluate continued development
of these programs at W&L.

The first responsibility, Knud-
son said, was to define the
strengths and weaknesses of com-
puters in the language program at
WA&L. From his work with compu-
ters in his French 160 class, Knud-
son said he was pleased with the
results.

“It worked out very well, better
then we expected,” he said. ‘‘The
reaction of the students was good
and their grades were very high.”’

Interest from students and
other faculty members and a
grant from the University has en-

(See Language, Page 5

 

 

Trustees to study money matters

 

By JIM STRADER
News Editor

out the year will be defined. Those expenses include pos-
sible new faculty and staff appointments and adjust-

 

Limits on financial aid allotments and a tuition in-
crease will be among the topics discussed at this week-
end’s Board of Trustees meeting, according to University

President John D. Wilson.

Financial matters will dominate most of the discus-
sions at the Board’s sessions, including a preliminary
budget report of the year, Wilson said. Tuition and the
financial aid program are two areas Wilson said must be

firmed up this weekend

In addition, Wilson said, patterns for expenses through-

ments regarding present staff.

Other topics Wilson said the Board will consider in-

clude construction of the new dormitory and 32 Universi-
ty Place, the future home of the admissions office

A committee that has studied Washington and Lee’s in-
vestments in South Africa is scheduled to report to the
board and may make recommendations, Wilson said

Student Body President John B. Lewis is scheduled to
address the Board’s Campus Life Committee on Friday
and to meet with the full board on Saturday. He said he
plans to speak on ‘‘every facet of student life,’’ placing
emphasis on the Honor System

 

across.”

Hamilton said the ad-hoc position
was most vital to give insight during
the deliberation of the case, when the
minority is not present and cultural
misunderstandings could occur.
“There are different types of small
group dynamics that take place,” he
said.

The petition outlined three reasons
that the minority position should be
created:

eThe minority would make the SCC
more representative of the racial
make-up of the school.

*Because of the way the members
of the committee are selected, there
is little chance that a minority would
be elected to one of the positions ‘“‘in
the foreseeable future.’’ The SCC is
composed of the presidents and vice

(See Minorities, Page 5

Program
delays
retirement

By HOLLY WILLIAMS
Staff Reporter

 

 

Washington and Lee recently an-
nounced a retirement program that
will allow senior faculty members to
remain in the classroom on a part-
time basis past the normal retire-
ment age of 65.

Those faculty members who agree
to enter the program are shifted toa
half-time teaching load, drawing
three-quarters of their salary during
the first year of the program. In sub-
sequent years they are paid one-half
of their original salary.

The program provides for the hir-
ing of a junior faculty member to
complete the senior professor's
course load.

Dean of the College John W. Elrod
explained two advantages of the pro-
gram.

“The senior faculty is one of our
most valued resources,’’ he said. He
added that the program is intended to
“encourage senior people to stay
on.

Elrod said the program’s purpose
is to allow professors who might not
choose to continue to teach under the
normal course load to remain in the
classroom up to the age of 70.

English Professor Sidney M. B.
Coulling noted that W&L’s faculty is
relatively small and that ‘‘within the
next ten years, 40 of us will retire.
The fear is this will cause discon-
tinuity.”’

The other advantage Elrod noted is
that the new program would allow in-
dividual department heads to give
new faculty members a reduced load
and allow them more time to prepare
their courses.

Another aim of the program is that
the senior faculty member would
become the junior member’s mentor.
Elrod said this arrangement would
give the new teacher ‘‘the opportuni-
ty to learn from someone experienc-
ed and wise in teaching.”’

Coulling said it is important for
new faculty members to ‘‘understand
how we do things at W&L.”’

The entry date for participation in
the program is when the professor
turns 66 years of age
7

yrigh

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phi, February 6, 1986

 

Barriers

Remember how in second grade, if you didn’t get picked
for a kickball game, it didn’t do much for your social stand-
ing to have the playground teacher come over and put you on-
toa team anyway?

Accompanied by Anece F.. McCloud, the associate dean of
students for minority affairs, a group of students on Monday
asked the Executive Committee to appoint a non-voting min-
ority representative to the Student Control Committee.

This is a classic case of the proposed solution making an
undesirable situation even worse than it already is. Although
well-intentioned, this administrator is handing minorities the
gun to shoot themselves in the foot.

For starters, the idea of a group of black students going to
Great White Father Behind the Horseshoe and begging for
a handout is offensive and outmoded. This is the Couthe but
this is also the 1980s, and one would hope society has progres-
sed somewhat beyond that approach to problems.

Additionally, we find offensive and appalling the absolute
lack of manners displayed at times by participants in the
meeting. When we took note of the unprofessional behavior of
a faculty member at the EC debate on the ad hoc female
member for the SCC, we hoped that would be the exception to
the rule. Such threats were certainly out of place. But Mon-
day, while the conduct may have been overall more civilized,
the frequent interruptions by members of the audience and
the persistent corrections by an administrator of the EC
president’s handling of motions seemed out of place.

We also worry that the issue has become clouded and less-
focused by the freely thrown charges of racism. For us, there
is no doubt that racism exists on this campus, just as it does
on other campuses and in society in general. Because we are
a smaller “‘community,”’ its presence, at times, can be all the
more evident and inexcusable. We find incredible the sugges-
tion by one EC member that he failed to see racism here.
Many minority students cannot enjoy the same colle-
giate experience — or for that matter, the same life after col-
lege — that the typical white male will enjoy. That does not
mean the status quo need remain, however.

At the same time, we fail to see how the racism issue is
even partially corrected, or even addressed, simply by the
placement of a minority student on the SCC. Several ques-
tions arise on this particular matter. Since the EC decided
Monday evening not to place a female ad hoc member on the
SCC — a reversal of its earlier vote — we question why a
minority representative need be there instead. Need a Catho-
lic be afraid of appearing before an all-Protestant SCC? What
about a Jewish student? And were the SCC to be composed
solely of fraternity members, should there also be an ad hoc
member for the sizable independent population?

We also note the charge of complacency that many believe
could result from appointment of such a minority member.
When token representation can always be guaranteed, what
incentive is there for a minority to seek an elected seat? Mike
Webb was elected to his position because he campaigned
hard and sought the secretary’s job with diligence. He over-
came the racial epithets that were thrown in his direction. He
also beat a law student (and several other challengers) who
happened to be white. Some may believe his election a fluke,
but it serves as an example of how racial barriers to elected
offices on this campus can be overcome.

Equally disturbing to us is the case of students who do not
bring cases before the SCC because they believe the SCC will
do nothing about them. That danger can be overcome with
improved communications between the SCC and the student
body. While no one likes to have their dirty laundry hung out,
reporting (in generalities) the SCC’s actions would reinforce
a belief that justice can be accomplished.

Another problem that easily could be corrected is the
perception of fairness. When former SCC member and new
EC member Tony McCann told Everett Hamilton that he
could better appreciate actions Hamilton might take against
people teasing him with the Confederate flag, it became evi-
dent that much of the perceived unfairness and perceived
callousness is exactly that — perceived. The SCC is not a
group of racists waiting to have some minority come before
them only to dismiss the charges as cultural gibberish. And
with the Student Affairs Committee as a recourse for appeal,
should a minority feel that he or she was treated unfairly, we
fail to see how the perception of unfairness persists. No one
should feel comfortable going before the SCC, especially if
that person is guilty. We are afraid that the convenience of
using “‘perceived’’ as a coat of many colors hides the real
issues — namely a lack of knowledge and ineffective com-
munication.

We don’t believe that a minority member would necessari-
ly be in the student body’s best interests, nor necessarily in
the best interests of the minority members in the student
body. The problem of ‘‘perceived’’ @iirness can be overcome
with better communication and sensitivity. Racism, while we
doubt its existence within the disciplinary structure, is in-
deed a reality at Washington and Lee. Unfortunately, there
are no easy solutions for it.

The kid who was jeered and ostracized when the teacher
held his hand and forced him into the kickball game learned
the hard way.

Let’s hope our fellow W&L students don’t have to suffer the
same fate.

Che Ring-tum Phi

NEWS STAFF
VOI ois ik i i Mike Allen
PG siete esi Paul Foutch
; Cotton Puryear
WOU oo 65 oooh is ike did nad 0k Shek Reade Williams
MOND IIE 55h os ash cc oehciesnsbnidauss he Mike Stachura
WE iia hick she he akc a Jim Strader
ON iy a heii Steve Sadler
MiMi ca Ler hibiceincs bh OL Matt Horridge

Entertainment Editor Marshall Boswell

 

PRE AWE MRE pc VE isis ies cabvinsvas Jason Lisi
Pe i i i ie David Emrich
EDITORIAL PAGE

PHP UI I ooo rscesiresicieteccetitieneeensccouicn Nelson Patterson
ANNDUAOS EAOTIA! Pie BAN. gik ow cicie se cccssidicdodccccotccccs Marie Kothman
NR ree pe ey Chris Bowring
BUSINESS STAFF

ec Jeff Kimbell
BIE inc cross chic ceeccekusciiivscccercceneas es Hank Greenberg
ciel s i ciitas hibiebinds John Feyrer, Keri Hinrichs,

Jay Reville, Greg Turley

CON 6 i MARA Aa Matt Horridge

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.

 

RES ee EA a NE EST ME GRY SSIES PC Ea

a)
y | Went COM
BA winoRint noe

\

 

 

 

 

Poor communication
creates difficulties

 

By MARIE KOTHMAN
Assistant Editorial Page Editor

 

Washington and Lee is suffering a
failure in communication. As an en-
tering freshman, I expected to stum-
ble around campus a bit, not really
sure of what was going on. But there
seem to be a number of cases in
which situations could have been
made less difficult if only there had
been a little more information com-
ing from the faculty and administra-
tion to the students.

Case in point: During orientation
week, freshmen followed a printed
agenda. The last item listed was a
“class meeting”’ that was to be in Lee
Chapel on the Wednesday of the first
week of classes. The agenda didn’t
offer an explanation, but the rumor
floating around the dorm was that it
had “something to do with honor.”’
Figuring it would take about 20 min-
utes, students turned out in shorts
and T-shirts, carrying armloads of
books. The “class meeting” turned
out to be a two-hour debate on the
Honor System, featuring alumni and
members of the Executive Commit-
tee.

Time rolled around to register for
winter classes. Many freshmen nar-
rowly missed the deadline, not know-
ing they had to talk to their advisers
on a certain day. Many didn’t realize
that they needed to sign up at sep-
arate departments for courses such
as art, history or biology. And how
often I’ve heard, ‘‘So when do we get
our grades?”’

The lack of communication is not
limited only to the administration.
One of the major complaints of those
against an ad hoc female member to
the SCC at the Dec. 9 EC meeting was
that the students didn’t know the pro-
posal had been brought before the
committee until the day of the meet-
ing. The proposal had been tabled
from a previous meeting in order to
get an idea of student opinion. How

Encouraging interest in fine arts

 

to detail some of the local programs
and institutions that bring the arts to
Lexington.

The W&L music department spon-
sors concerts by the Glee Club and
the Univesity Chorus, as well as

MY VIEW

By Tom Maguire

 

recitals by talented individual stu-

The main advantage of being an dents. The concerts present a wide

‘supplements liberal education

to ballet to opera can be had from the
RCTS. Thanks to a large contribution
from W&L, we students are admitted
to RCTS concerts free. Alas, the next
offering, the world-famous Joffrey
Ballet, is scheduled for Feb. 16, when
we are on break. Still, RCTS perfor-
mances are definitely worth looking
out for.

could anyone expect to get a good
idea of opinion if the very students
the proposal was designed to help
—the women — didn’t know about it?

Recently, applicants to become
dorm counselors were told they could
pick up application forms from the
office of the Dean of Students start-
ing a certain day, but a deadline to
apply was not posted. Many appli-
cants picked up an application on
Wednesday morning and were told it
was due at noon. They were then told
there would be two interviews, each
held a week apart. After the first in-
terview, the committee changed its
mind about having second inter-
views, but didn’t bother to tell ap-
plicants.

True, all these examples seem tri-
vial as we see shuttle explosions, hi-
jackings and natural disasters. But
each of these experiences could have
been simpler if only there had been a
little better communication.

It all comes down to the fact we
need better ways of communicating.
If every student were to walk into
Dean of Students Lewis G. John’s of-
fice whenever there was a problem
and say, ‘“‘What’s the deal?” the dean
would never have time to do anything
else.

Freshmen, while lacking exper-
ience, have two advantages, News
travels faster in dorms than any-
where else, so usually it eventually
“gets around.”’ But it often gets a
generous helping of rumor mixed in
also. No one is ever really sure of
what’s fact and what’s hearsay. So

what do you do? Ask your dormitory -

counselor. But he often doesn’t know
either.

Dormitory counselors and fraterni-
ty representatives should have some-

one they can meet with in the faculty ©

or administration to get the real
story. That way students would have

someone they can go toto get the real .

story. This system would dispel

much confusion and silence the often- .

heard remark, “‘No one in this school
ever knows what’s going on.”’

SKelley

~~ he * eS Gh he

opinion columnist (and the advan-
tage is heightened if the writer has a
tolerant editor) is that occasionally
one can indulge oneself in a discus-
sion of a pet peeve. That is what this
particular column will do.

A question that I frequently ask
myself is: ‘‘Why are my fellow stu-
dents here at W&L so utterly lacking
in interest for the the arts?” For a
small town, Lexington is blessed with
an abundance of fine cultural events.
Concerts, plays, ballets and even
movies combine to create an atmos-
phere of culture that one could nor-
mally expect to find only in a much
larger city. Surprisingly, few
students take advantage of these
events. Let me take a moment, then,

variety of music from W.A. Mozart to
P.D.Q. Bach. All these concerts take
place in Lee Chapel and are free of
charge.

The W&L Concert Guild brings na-
tionally renowned professional
groups to Lee Chapel. Recent visitors
have included the Juilliard String
Quartet, the finest such group
around, and the vocal ensemble
Quink, which is on its way up in the
musical world. These concerts are
also free to W&L students. The next
performance in this series is schedul-
ed for Thursday, March 6, when the
Audobon String Quartet will appear.

Still more fine artistic events are
provided by the Rockbridge Concert
Theatre Series. Anything from jazz

These are just the highlights of an
impressive range of cultural oppor-
tunites open to all of us at no charge.
Can you think of any reason why you
shouldn’t attend at least some of
these events? After all, one can hard-
ly claim to have had a liberal arts
education if one’s ‘‘cultural night
out’’ consists of listening toa WLUR
disc jockey play Wagner’s “‘Ride of
the Valkyries”’ on the Third Ear rock
show.

I realize that hard-core Philistines
will not be swayed by my plea. How- .
ever, I have the satisfaction of know-
ing that future non-attendance by
W&L students at various artistic
events will be caused by apathy, not
ignorance.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

LETTERS

Lewis explains motives behind EC decision

To the editors:

The Executive Committee is the only commit-
tee of its kind in the United States. It is the only
one where the officers of the Student Body are
the officers of the Honor Committee. At all other
colleges they are separate entities. We therefore
stay very busy and very much in touch with stu-
dent opinion, or we are all necessarily involved
in many campus activities,

The vote on Monday which rescinded our ear-
lier opinion on placing a female ad hoc member
on the Student Control Committee was the pro-
duct of better knowledge of student opinion.

Among our many jobs is to make the transition
to coeducation as smooth as possible. We chose
to revote for several reasons.

First, we technically did not have the power to
make the first vote. Secondly, when we did make
that vote, I allowed a proxy vote after a very
heated debate and in a very difficult moment. It
was my call, and as president, I considered it the
best move at that moment. Robert’s Rules of
Order, which the EC uses as its guide, does not
allow the proxy in such cases, however.

Thirdly, student opinion was overwhelmingly
against the move, and we thought that to make
the transition go as smoothly as possible, resent-
ment should not be created among students
through such a move. Additionally, proponents
of the idea had approached the members of the
committee and said that they had changed their
minds on the matter and were no longer for such
a move. Even Professor Jean Dunbar, an early
proponent of the idea, had said during a discus-
sion after the first vote that she was very
Satisfied with the way the SCC had handled a
case involving a woman, a case with which she

as a SAC member was very familiar. Finally, the
SCC had voted 10-1-1 against having a woman ad-
hoc member. To promote harmony on this im-
portant college committee, we decided not to
restructure the SCC against its own will.

Some women had noted at the original meeting
that they did not want one woman representing
the views of all women at W&L. They felt a
danger in having one voice as the authority on
women’s issues. For these reasons and many
others, we chose to reconsider our earlier vote.
We felt that the vote accurately reflected the sen-
timents of the large majority of W&L students.
Since our primary responsibility is to reflect and
act upon student opinion, we chose to act as we
did.

We realize that we will never please all of the
people all of the time because that is the nature
of elected positions. We would therefore appre-
ciate a degree of maturity and understanding
from those who do not believe that we have acted
correctly.

John B. Lewis
Student Body President

Article said in ‘bad taste’

To the editors:

The Ring-tum Phi is not usually on our reading
list, but the Jan. 30 issue proved to be an excep-
tion, The several past issues we have had the op-
portunity to have been excellent publications,
but your article last week by Paul Davey on the
“Fancy Dress season.”’ fell far short of even the

most relaxed journalistic standards.

In particular, references to the students of sur-
roundings women’s institutions as “chicks,”
“merchandise,” and ‘‘commodities” are very in-
sulting. The attitude of the writer indicates that
every woman at every nearby women:s college
has nothing more on her mind than coercing
“one of the South’s finest gentlemen” into giving
her a ‘‘coveted bid”’ to ‘‘the finest social event in
collegiate America.” This is hardly the case!
For several students, some who have attended
Fancy Dress and others who have not, Fancy
oa is low . 3 priority list. More important

e respect of such i
students as Mr. Davey, ee

In closing, we must admit that although Mr.
Davey’s attitude was immediately offensive,
€ven more upsetting was the fact that The Ring-
tum Phi Saw fit to print an article so blatantly
chauvinistic. In the same issue in which the ques-
tionable article was printed, there was another
ae written as an editorial, This editorial ex-
plained the paper's policy on printing student
Opinion, stating, “It must provide a forum for the
Spectrum of student views — whether we agree
. - = as along as they aren’t libelous or in bad
=. We certainly agree with this policy. For

iS reason, we wholeheartedly object to the
printing of the article on Fancy Dress season,

which was in exception
imately 3,114 wana ally bad taste to approx-

Alexandra M. Bernard
Laura Gaye Hand
Anne M. Merriman,
Class of 1986

Sweet Briar College

 

isi

 

 

<n & ££ OC Xe eM. 6G

me

a

x i &

me

*

ob

 

 
4
4
y
a

ay

7

NEWS

The Ring-tum Phi, February 6, 1986

 

AT&T still
Lexington’s
only choice

By TIM RICHARDSON
Staff Reporter

 

Frequent users of long distance in
Lexington who wish for a cheaper
alternative to AT&T can put those
hopes on hold for at least another
year, according to a Centel
spokesman. /

A spokesman at the Central
Telephone Company’s Charlottes-
ville office, said the firm has receiv-
ed no offers to service the area from
any other long distance company.

“We have received no offers
because these companies are in-
terested in larger metro areas,’’ he
said. The Lexington area does not
have enough potential subscribers to
justify the expense of installing the
necessary equipment, he explained.

The closest city with a choice long
distance companies is Charlottes-
ville, he said, and it is possible that in
the near future some company will
branch out from there.

“It’s very unlikely for the next
year or so,’’ he noted.

Reaction by frequent long distance
users in town to the possibility of an
alternative to AT&T was mixed.

Douglas Roper of the brokerage
firm of Scott & Stringfellow, Inc.,
said, “I’d be happy to see anything
that would bring down rates.”

Frank White, owner of Huffman-
White Florist, said that he would con-
tinue to use AT&T even if another
company became available.

“T would stick with AT&T because
of the service,’ he said, adding that
the shop’s $500 to $900 monthly bill
could be kept down if calls are made
more efficiently.

 

 

Fill ’er up

 

 

By DANIEL BUNCH
Staff Reporter

 

“Grades are much too important in
determining a person’s life,’ Univer-
sity of Tennessee Psychology Profes-
sor Howard R. Pollio told a group of
about 15 professors Friday in Tucker
Hall. *

Pollio’s lecture was titled
“Grades: A Tiger Looks at His
Stripes.”’ He said the original title
was ‘‘A Tiger Looks At His Mark-
ings,’’ but that the pun was too ob-
vious.

In the 90-minute presentation,
Pollio offered criticisms of the con-
ventional grading system and ideas
for a new one.

He said grading systems often
reflect the societies they come from.
“The more differentiated the grading
system, the more that society is in-
terested in differentiating people....
In the sixties, grading systems were
simplified. In Reagan’s America,
there is a greater interest in grad-
ing.”

A major focus of Pollio’s criticism
was his view that different grades
represent different standards of
measurement but are presented as
an absolute.

“Grades are the result of decidedly
different instructors in decidedly dif-
ferent disciplines,’ he said.

He was particularly critical of the
grade point average. ‘“‘We shouldn’t
average things that aren’t average-
able, he said. The GPA is ridiculous.

 

By Hank Mayer/The Ring-tum Ph

Sophomore John Gorlowski gives blood in Warner
Center Tuesday as part of the 1986 Blood Drive. Organi-
zer Jake Squiers said the drive, sponsored by Chi Psi
fraternity, achieved its goal of 150 donations. The ROTC

department won the award for most donations, and Chi
Psi won for greatest percentage of participation. In addi-
tion, Ted LeClereq’s freshman hall will receive $30 of
Domino’s Pizza for the best participation.

It’s a payoff we make to parents.”
Pollio also questioned how accur-

ately grades can predict students,

future success. ‘‘We are a selection

Scholar praises Lee ‘legend’

 

By The Associated Press

 

WILMINGTON, Ohio — The
legends that turned Confederate
leader Robert E. Lee into a post-Civil
War hero also helped unify the nation
that Lee fought to divide, according
toa Wilmington College historian.

“As a legend, Lee did much to
bring the country he fought to
destroy back together,” historian
Vinton Prince said.

The aching nation used Lee as an
acceptable symbol for its suffering
and a means of healing its wounds
after the war, according to Prince.

“In choosing Lee, Americans se-
lected a genuinely great man who
was not threatening to the North...at
least not any longer,’’ Prince said.
“To the South, Lee was an example
of its best characteristics and
motives, to the North, Lee was a
valiant opponent, but one who had
been defeated.”’

Lee has become perhaps the only
figure from the Civil War to ap-
proach Abraham Lincoln in
historical stature. Prince said.

“For that matter, Lee became a
hero to all Americans when Lincoln’s
name was still a dirty word in Dixie,”

 

ROBERT E, LEE

he said.

Prince said the transformation
from rebel leader to admired Ameri-
can resulted from Lee’s character
and accomplishments, the efforts of
publicists, and the needs of a nation
trying to recover from Civil War.

Lee was an outstanding general
and a man of admirable qualities

who was respected by his soldiers

and, admired by opponents, Prince .

said,

“Self-sacrificing, devout and deep-
ly concerned for his men, he was
well-suited for ‘secular sainthood,’
even if he has been considerably
overrated as a military genius,”’
Prince said. “The Lee of popular
myth is exaggerated, but those who
created the myth had a great deal to
work with,”’

“He had, however, set an example
for his fellow Confederates by ac-
cepting defeat gracefully and work-
ing for national reconciliation,”’ he
said.

A group of Virginians worked hard
to make Lee a Civil War hero and to
depict Virginia as the most impor-
tant theater of war, which it wasn’t,
Prince said.

“By about 1880 they had succeeded
and the myth of the ‘Lost Cause’ was
rapidly spreading to the North as
well,’’ Prince said. ‘‘In this myth, the
South was wrong but noble, an honor-
able, valiant and determined enemy
fighting for a principle and finally
failing before superior resources.

“The austere and noble Lee fit in
nicely with this view of the war.”’

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

Inaugural speech

Rabbi David Saperstein makes a point last Thursday night in a speech in
the Commerce school on the Jewish views of economic justice. The lecture
inaugurated a new series on Judaic studies sponsored by the Weinstein En-
dowment for Judaic Studies and the religion department. Saperstein, co-
director and counsel of the Religious Action Center, looked at taxation and
social welfare as based in the tenets of Judaism.

 

 

= Grades

Speaker says all B’s
aren't created equal

agency for society, whether it’s a
business firm, graduate school or law
school.’’

“As a predictive device they
[grades] are not very good at all....
They only predict the first year of
graduate school. Grades are tradable
for a good first job.”’

One professor present commented
that the academic records of some of
the members of the Washington and
Lee Board of Trustees do not suggest
that they would have been successful
later in life.

Differences in family background
also contribute to differences in
grades, Pollio said. He said two
children of equal ability could both
get B’s but get different reactions at
home that could affect their future
motivation toward attaining higher
grades.

“Not all B’s are created equal,”’ he
contended.

Pollio’s plan for a new system in-
cludes doing away with grades alto-
gether. He wants to ‘have college
professors certify students as know-
ing the body of knowledge.”’

He said that this certificate would
show that the student knows the fun-
damentals of a course and could then
advance to higher courses in that
field.

He distinguished that from a
pass/fail system. ‘‘Don’t set it at a
certain percentage,”’ he urged. In-
stead, professors should decide what
is necessary in a course and require
that students know it, he said.

The faculty members present
agreed there are problems with the
grading system but said they were
uncertain about how toimprove it.

Second
sex forum

canceled

 

By SIMON PEREZ
Staff Reporter

 

The second session of the Universi-
ty sponsored forum ‘‘Male Sexuality:
Roles and Identity’ was cancelled
for the second time because of a lack
of participation by the male students
in the freshman class, according to
Associate Dean of Students, Anne
Schroer.

The lack of participation was not
because the males in the freshman
class knew everything there is to
know about sex, rather, they are
“completely uninformed,’’ Schroer
said.

She added that it’s very difficult for
a young person to attend such a meet-
ing because it shows that he or she
does not know everything about sex.

It’s unlikely the forum will be of-
fered again this year, Schroer said,
but similar topics will be discussed in
dorm programs in the future.

 

 

Staff Reports

 

A Miami man was indicted Monday on charges of con-
spiracy to distribute cocaine in connection with the case
of former student Gene Girard.

This week’s grand jury action was the second indict-
ment for Scott K. Wheaton, who was indicted last fall on
cocaine distribution charges related to the same inci-

dent.
Commonwealth’s Attorney Beverly C. ‘‘John’’ Read

said extradition proceedings are underway to have
Wheaton brought to Rockbridge County to stand trial.
He explained that Virginia law allows indictments to be
handed down on separate counts and that the state’s in-
vestigation can proceed on both charges until the trial.

The latest indictment says that on or about Feb. 26,
1985, Wheaton, who has been identified in trial tran-
scripts as Girard’s high school football coach, con-
spired with Girard to distribute cocaine in Rockbridge
County.

Girard was arrested March 1 at the East Lexington
grocery store when he went there to pick up a Federal
Express package that later was found to contain about
an ounce of cocaine. Girard was convicted on posses-
sion charges in August and was given a five-year
suspended sentence, of which he served about six mon-
ths in the Rockbridge County Jail.

Girard, who registered for classes this term, was
suspended by the Student Control Committee Jan. 9 for
the remainder of the academic year.

At Girard’s trial last summer, evidence was present
ed which established that Wheaton was the recipient of
a $1,453 Western Union money order Girard had sent to
Florida several days prior to the delivery of the
package,

 

 

 

NEWS BRIEFS
Miami man is indicted in connection with Girard case

Read said Wheaton also was indicted in Chesapeake
on distribution charges but successfully fought extradi-
tion attempts. A co-defendant in that case was sentenc-
ed to 30 years in jail.

—Jim Strader

Film Society to present ‘Danton’

“Danton,”’ the controversial 1983 film by director An-
drzej Wajda, is the next presentation of the Washington
and Lee Film society.

Showings will be at 8 p.m. Friday and Saturday in
Classroom A in Lewis Hall. The showings are free and
open to the public

As a result of his sympathy with Solidarity and other
forms of the Polish opposition, director Wajda’s recent
works, such as ‘‘Man of Marble” and ‘‘Man of Iron,”’
have been been heavily political in content. He began
production of the historical drama ‘‘Danton”’ shortly
after imposition of martial iaw in Poland in December
1981. The film is partly a reconstruction of the onset of
the Terror following the French revolution, and partly a
metaphor for political conditions in contemporary
Poland.

This joint Polish/French production has received
critical praise, while creating heated controversy over
its depiction of Danton (played by Gerard Depardieu)
and Robespierre. Some critics and scholars — most of
them French — have objected to the ‘‘manipulation’”’ of
French history to accommodate a vision of contempor
ary politics in Poland

The film is in French, with English subtitles

UC will meet to discuss future

The University Council will hold a special meeting at
4:30 next Thursday afternoon in the Executive Commit

tee Room in the University Center to discuss the Uni-
versity Council’s future.

The meeting is open to all members of the student
body and the faculty.

Scholar-in-residence named

Christopher Osakwe, di-
rector of the Eason-Wein-
mann Center for Compara-
tive Law at Tulane Univer-
sity, has been named
scholar-in-residence at
Washington and Lee's
Frances Lewis Law Center
for the winter semester.

While in residence,
Osakwe will be working on
a book tentatively titled
“Lex Sovietica: Principia,
Metodologia et Institu-
tiones.’’ In the book.
Osakwe provides a histori-
cal, philosophical and
methodological analysis of
modern Soviet law

Osakwe studied at the Moscow State University
School of Law from 1962 to 1970, receiving his LL.B.
with first class honors, LL.M. and Ph.D. degrees, He
received his J‘S.D. degree from the University of II-
linois College of Law in 1974

 

OSAKWE

\ widely-traveled scholar, Osakwe has served as vi
siting professor at the University of Michigan and the
University of Pennsylvania law schools and as a visit-
ing fellow at St. Anthony's College, Oxford University

 

He was a teaching assistant at the University College of
Law and an assistant professor of law at the University
of Notre Dame School of Law before joining the faculty
at Tulane in 1972. Osakwe leads delegations of Ameri-
can lawyers two times a year to the Soviet Union for
professional meetings with their Soviet colleagues.

Two awarded Pinney Prize

Seniors Larry Anker and John-Paul Bouffard have
been named co-recipients of the annual Edward L. Pin-
ney Prize, which is awarded by a vote by the students,
faculty and administrators on the University Council.

Anker, a physics, math and chemistry major, is a
member of Omicron Delta Kappa and Phi Beta Kappa
and is co-captain of the wrestling team.

Bouffard, a psychology major, also belongs to Omi-
cron Delta Kappa and Phi Beta Kappa, and is a mem-
ber of the Glee Club and Southern Comfort.

Awarded for the first time in 1982, the Pinney Prize
was established by the faculty in memory of the late
politics professor who came to Washington and Lee in
1963 and died in 1980

Dining hall extends breakfast

Evans Dining Hall has announced that it will extend
its breakfast hours until 9:05 every weekday morning to
accommodate students just getting out of A-hour.

“People just aren't getting a chance to eat,” said din-
ing hall manager David Alderson. ‘This gives everyone
a chance to get through.”’ :

In other news, dinner at the dining hall will be from
5:30 to 6 tomorrow night because of the Trustees ban-
quet

 
Page 4, .=2 ‘ing-tum Phi, February 6, 19°‘

 

 

 

 

 

By W. Patrick Hinley/W&L

‘,.. they just fade away’

Sergeant Major Ronald Harris, chief instructor in the
ROTC program, speaks with Dean of the College John W.
Elrod. Harris recently retired from the U.S. Army after
more than 27 years of active duty. Before coming to
Washington and Lee in 1979, Harris served as an ROTC

instructor in the Army’s transportation school at Fort
Eustis, and as a first sergeant and command sergeant
major with the Ist Battalion (Mech) of the 8th Infantry at
Fort Carson, Colo. He was an adviser during two tours in
Vietnam.

 

Plans for Horse Center are
trotting away in Rockbridge

 

By DEBORAH HATTES
Staff Reporter

 

Washington and Lee and other area
colleges may be able to start a polo
club at the Virginia Horse Center,
which when built will be located
three miles north of Lexington, ac-
cording to one of the facility’s
backers.

The horse center, though, recently
suffered a blow when former Gov.
Charles S. Robb failed to include
funding for it in his proposed 1986-87
budget.

“It must be recognized that the
state government has a tremendous
financial burden and obligation,”
said real estate agent G. Otis Mead.
“There are many absolutely essen-
tial things the state must address
itself to.”

Mead, a Lexington resident, is a
board member both of the Virginia
Horse Center Foundation, a private
foundation that raises and receives
funds from the private sector, and
the board of directors of the Virginia
Horse Center, which is responsible
for owning, planning, building and
operating the facility.

Mead said that “‘the Virginia Horse

Center will be a comprehensive
state-owned facility to serve the
equine competition, education, mar-
keting and recreation interests of all
Virginians, horse enthusiasts and
participants from adjoining states,
and on occasion, the center will at-
tract international competitions.”

A joint subcommittee of the Vir-
ginia legislature, which studied the
issue of the horse center for four
years, concluded that ‘‘such a facility
should be a joint venture between the
public and private sectors,” accord-
ing to Mead.

“The private sector, in my opinion,
has responded magnificently to the
challenge,’ he said ‘“‘And the state
government has also responded in a
very positive way.”

“If the state is in such financial
straits that it is not feasible to under-
take this new economic program,”
he added, ‘‘then I think there is justi-
fication for the private sector to
reach deeper than they’ve reached
before, in the best interest of the
cultural, recreational, and economic
well-being of the Commonwealth.”

During the first four years of
operation, the Virginia Horse Center
is expected to have a total economic
impact of $60 million, and to generate

approximately $20 million in new
revenues, primarily in the travel ser. '
vice industries, according to Mead,

Already contributions for the
Virginia Horse Center from non-state
sources include almost $1.2 million jn
funds paid and pledged, and a site of
378 acres, free to the state of '
Virginia, he said.

Planning for the center is welj
under way, Mead said, adding that he
expects an architectural and engi. «
neering firm to be hired within the
next 30 days. In addition, the commit.
tee will start interviewing candidates
for the position of general manager
in the next few days.

He said that if everything goes »
well, the center should be completed
as early as the late fall of 1987,

Finally, Mead said, the horse cen-
ter should have a positive impact on
W&L and other local schools. For ex-
ample, students who had “enjoyed ©
horsemanship prior to coming to
W&L at competitive or pleasure
levels” could continue their interest,

He said that “‘by having a greater
focus on the horse industry, there will ,
be more numerous opportunities for
students on their own extracurricu-
lar time to ride and maybe have their ,
own horse here, stabled in private’ ~
facilities off-campus.” 4

™”

«

a

«

a

a

VMI chaplain is cadets’ ‘Mom and Dad away from home’:

 

By JOHN T. WILTSE
Special to The Phi

 

‘‘He is my mom and dad away from home... he will do
anything for you,” said Cadet Sgt. Greg Ellis. ‘‘He is like
God’s gift to the Corps of Cadets.”’

That “gift” is Col. Charles C. Caudill, the John M.
Camps Chaplain to the Corps of Cadets at Virginia Mili-
tary Institute.

Words such as ‘father’ and ‘“‘friend’’ are used to
describe Caudill, who for the past seven years has been
an inspiration for thousands of area youths as well as the
force behind an ever-expanding religious program at the
146-year-old school.

Jackson Memorial Hall, the cadet chapel, has become
a focus for Caudill’s ministry.

Hymns fill the chapel every Sunday morning as well as
at special services during the holidays. It is not only
cadets who occupy the pews — residents of Lexington and
students from the area schools also come to experience
the family atmosphere of Caudill’s Sunday services.

Holly Hunnicutt, a freshman at Mary Baldwin College,
travels to Lexington with her roommate every Sunday
morning.

“What attracts me is how he talks about the little
things you can do for Christ and others around you on a
day-to-day basis,’’ said Hunnicutt.

Everyone leaves one of Caudill’s services with at least
one thing — a hug. He calls the churchgoers his ‘‘loves,”’
and the hugs are always given with a large smile and an
encouraging word. No one walks out of Jackson Memor-
ial Halla stranger.

Numerous religious organizations have been formed
since Caudill arrived at VMI. Both cadets and staff now
participate in the Fellowship of Christian Athletes, the
Officer's Christian Fellowship, the Baptist Student
Union, Chapel Choir, weekly prayer breakfasts, and in-
dividual Bible studies within the barracks. Seven years
ago, there was only a small group who would meet in the
basement of the engineering building.

‘“‘What excites me is that now I don’t have to be at all

ing charge of religious activities,’’ said Beyer, a second
classman from Milwaukee.

Caudill, a native of North Carolina, worked with young
people for most of his 23 years as a chaplain in the U.S.
Air Force.

He was commissioned in the Air Force in 1956, the
same year he received a Master of Divinity degree from
Duke University and was ordained an elder in the United
Methodist Church.

Serving at bases in the United States, Greece and Ger-
many, Caudill ran the largest Sunday school in the Air
Force with over 150 teachers, and directed various youth
camps and conferences.

While stationed in Europe, he was a member of an in-
ternational drug council and was involved with forming
“therapeutic communities’’ to aid Air Force dependents.
Caudill explained that these crisis centers provided ex-
perts in the fields of medicine, law, religion and counsel-
ing to help the youths with whatever problems they fac-
ed

Caudill also served as the senior chaplain at the largest
base in Europe and at Pactical Air Command Headquart-
ers at Langley Air Force Base prior to his retirement in
1979.

At Langley, he trained Army, Navy, Air Force and
Marine chaplains for combat service. He also established
procedures to deploy chaplains worldwide during a time
of crisis.

The Air Force on numerous occasions recognized Cau-
dill for his service to others. His military decorations in-
clude the Vietnam Service Medal and two Legions of
Merit for his work in forming the youth crisis centers in
Europe and his establishment of deployment procedures
at Langley.

Caudill’s long military service now is being recognized
ina different sort of way.

“T think what appeals to us as cadets is that he has
served in the military — he can relate his experiences to
us,” said Cadet Lt. David C. Brackett, vice president of
the Religious Council. ‘‘That is a part of his character we
can all respect.”

Caudill said he came to VMI because he wanted to get
back to dealing with youth ‘‘before they were unwilling to
admit that they needed somebody.”

 

 

Y

a

 

 

 

By David Sprunt

Corps of Cadets Chaplain Col. Charles C. Caudill in his office at VMI i

+

 

 

 

    

 

 

 

It does not take long for new cadets, or “rats,”’ to
discover ‘‘Chaplain,”’ as Caudill is known to the cadets
and students at the area schools.

“If VMI gets you down or you have problems at home,
Chaplain is the person you go to see,” said Mike Karns, a
fourth classman from Severna Park, Md. ‘‘You know it is
private — that what is said is not going anywhere.”’

“‘We do have a confidential counseling service at VMI
but people go see Chaplain instead,” said Ellis, a second
classman from Alexandria, ‘‘We go to Chaplain because
he is our friend.”’

The warmth of the man can be felt upon entering his
outer office — the family room atmosphere of room 304 in

 

was excitement in Caudill’s voice when he explained that
the cadets had organized a “‘toy per cadet” program to
ensure that the children of flood victims in neighboring
Buena Vista had something to open Christmas Day.

When he is not counseling, Caudill is answering letters
from alumni, many of whom he marries during the sum-
mer months, or preparing for Sunday worship and the
many evening talks he gives during the week. His day is
hardly over at 5 p.m. After taps, it is not unusual to see

Caudill walking into the barracks to visit “rats” in their
rooms.

On the weekends, he can be found traveling with the
football or baseball teams or at a neighboring college to

 

 

 

 

the meetings of the organizations.... The guys are doing it “You may be whatever you resolve with God’s help,” —_ ge ott Shipp Hall is in direct contrast to the sharp, coldar- Speak. pare «
on their own and growing by themselves,” said Caudill. reads a paperweight on the edge of his desk. __ Chitecture of the VMI Post. “That is how people get to know me,” said Caudill. “We |‘
The religious council at VMI consists of cadet represen- During the Vietnam War, Caudill spent three years in phe four Bibles lying on the coffee table and the extra Called it the ‘ministry of presence’ in the Air Force.I | 4
tatives from all the religious organizations and is the | Hawaii as the senior Air Force chaplain at an evacuation ; must let the guy k ho i ian
; : ; : : boxes of Kleenex tucked away in the corner remind a guy know who is drunk that I love him as_
group that works closely with Caudill to plan and imple- _center. It was there that Caudill had many young airmen _vicitor of the serious purpose of the office. A nearby door Muchas I love the guy in the pew.” 2S
ment activities at the school. die in his arms. is labeled “Devotional Room,” — the one place oan : «| 4
Cadet Pvt. William D. Beyer, secretary of the: “One young man who was dying asked me to give him _ pus where cadets can go and not be disturbed “The thing that makes Chaplain special is that he
Religious Council, also sees the expansion of the religious God,” Caudill said. ‘I thought it was sad that he was ask- . always makes himself available,” said B. Scott Tilley, a ¥
life at VMI asa source of strength for Caudill. ing so late. I would like for those at VMI to at least con- _ Toys, from a battleship to basketballs are piled up on —_ 1985 graduate of Washington and Lee. “He can relate to . | ,
“What motivates Chaplain is when he sees cadets tak- _ front the question before they meet death.” the conference table in the middle of the office. There _ students and has a heart for students.”
a
) REE) eects NO ED RN ER | ARR | RE: a CRA ri aa P )
: Typists—s500 weekly | ) , , SERVIDTAR. |. | -
oN at home. Write: P.O. { 4 23S. Main ‘
eh ar Box 975, Elizabeth, i Lexington, Va. 24450
fy . ae 4 8y Appointment 463-9588 Old Main St, Mall xington Hardware ¢
/ NJ 07207 Robin« Peggy «Marie “a Lexington, VA 24450 le 463-2242 e
- e ° ee |) AR RB ) 8 ase ° ;
buffer bite Florist & a) s

A “Spring Break’’ Welcome To
Washington and Lee
University Students

“aes

The Sandwich Shop
Old Main Shopping Mall

Featuring Homemade Soups
‘ DAILY
Homemade Tuna, Chicken & Egg Salad Too!
Please Call 163-2508 “i

for your TOGO ORDER

Thank You, Frank Stinson

Show someone you care
+ at
on Valentine ’s Day Venetian Court Apartments
Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. 33301
Heated Pool * Lawns * Cable TV * BBQ * Parking
Good Rates for Apts., Efficiencies,
Hotel Rooms

Phone (305) 525-2223

Send a special
floral bouquet.

 

 

165 South Main St. 463-9152

 

 

? Incredible Valentines
© and related items

>Hot new jewelry - just in!

R.L. Hess & Bro.

121 S. Main St.
Lexington, Va.

 

 

 

Aloe

Chinese and
American Cuisine

 

D

Give from the heart

Y Exotic Cocktail OL * ,
ALOHA WOK baie Sn G Lipsmacking chocolates 7 oy own
409 South Main St., Lexington, Virginia 24450 Available Y Sensational Crabtree & ovingly designed by Krementz

   

703-463-9342 in 14Kt. gold overlay.

To give with love.

Open Tuesday through Sunday
Luncheon 11:30 - 2:30
Dinner 5 - 10
Saturday Open 4 - 10
Sunday Lunch Buffet 12 - 2:30

Ss ae PCR Se Fe. Feces tS SBC PESO ERS Me SFE SES 4 FSI:

E Evelyn soaps
i ODGE

a
>

@

See

 

 

 

 

 

 

Pie z—>=

}

 

 

 
 

 

Minorities

Continued from Page 1

‘esidents of each of the four classes
id a representative from each of the
wee law classes.

eA minority can give special in-
ght to the perception of a problem
ivolving another minority in a way
iat a non-minority could not,

“Cultural orientation has a bearing
na person ’s reactions in any given
ituation,’’ the petition read.

EC President John Lewis said he
poke with former Secretary Webb,
he first black to be elected to one of

he “Big Three”’ positions, and heard
Webb's opposition to the appoint-
ment. He quoted Webb as calling the
position the * “most divisive issue that
could arise.’

Schaefer agreed, noting that such a
position would “pull apart” minori-
ties and other students. He added
there first-year-law representative
Bill Senft asked the petitioning
students if their request for this posi-
tion was caused by the awareness of
a racial problem at the school or to
create a “‘perception of fairness” by
having a minority hear the cases.

Rhinehart said both were impor-
tant but “‘the perception of fairness is
probably of greater importance.”

“We still have problems at this
school that have to do with race,”
Rhinehart said.

Junior Keith Pillow, a member of
the International House. agreed with

Language

 

 

 

 

Anece McCloud (left) and MSA members listen to the debate

the presence of racial problems at
W&L. “There is genuine fear among
the Asian students,”’ charged Pillow.
“They don’t come out and socialize
because they don’t feel welcome by
the majority of the white communi-

“They also are afraid of pursuing
proper political channels when
they’re needed simply because there

are no minority members or there
are very few,’ he added. ‘‘Mike
Webb was an exception.”

Lewis asked if the quality of being
a minority would enable the person to
understand misunderstandings in all
cultures.

“Were an Oriental appointed, for
instance, do you believe that just
because he was minority he would be

In addtion to the basic language work, testing is also
done by computer, Knudson said.
That process, he explained, is much more effective on

 

O Continued from Page 1

the computer than it is in the classroom, because an im-

mediate score is given and the student is shown his
mistakes at the same time.

couraged Knudson and Koberstein to continue with the

‘writing of a textbook for computer-assisted French. The
two wrote the software programs used in the French

course last year.

| Ina new and emerging field such as this one, Knudson
‘said the potential for growth and leadership in the

' discipline is great.

“What kind of position would this put Washington and
Lee in?” he asked rhetorically about the possibility of
: becoming a leader in the computer language field.

“We would be pioneering a new movement that would
‘be a model other universities could look to — it’s a very

exciting thing,’’ Knudson said.

That bypasses the time spent waiting for a teacher to
grade a test as well as the generalities that Knudson said

mark classroom discussions of tests.

Knudson said he had been worried about using com-
puters which he called ‘impersonal’ to teach ‘‘the most

personal thing a person has—his language.”’

He said he was glad to find that, with the proper
material and instruction, computer-assisted learning can
become even more personal than he thought it could.

The use of computers in language training, as studied
by Knudson’s committee, could play a major role in

boosting W&L’s position as a school known for its
language study program.

Knudson said he has added computer usage to parts of

the intermediate French instruction and is considering
re-writing a textbook he and Romance Languages
Associate Professor Alfred G. Fralin Jr. wrote to make it
compatible with the computer program.

“Tt seems clear that the computer will play an impor-
tant role in foreign language instruction,’ Dean of the
College John W. Elrod said. “‘If it does, Washington and

Lee will be on the cutting edge of study.”’

 

 

115 S. Main Street

 

VARNER & POLE

Furniture Dealers

“'For your extra pieces of furniture’

463-2742

 

 

 

+: and 7/ Reg.‘
4 Caper’s tanning Fancy / {7 Haircuts 10% off
$5°° per session Dr ess for W&L always
or 15% discount Perms, Color Glazes,
‘Hfor 10 session signup Cosmetics

#

ti

Thurs. Eve. by appt.

 

  
   
   
 

Tues.-Fri., 9-5

Sat., 9-2

 

 

463-3146

Roses are Red

Violets are Blue
\ Caper’s has a golden

tan just for you!
Look your best for valentines

  

When only the best will do
25 N. Main
-2

  

Specials

  
 
  

Wendell’s
Barber
Shop

| need your

head for

my business.

 

 

   
 
 
 
 
  

 

Read
The
Classifieds

 

 

 

 

 

 

8-10
Sun. -Sat.

ne

$129

 

By Matt Horridge/The Ring-tum Phi

able to explain cultural differences
{in a black person’s] situation?”’
Lewis asked.

“He is more likely to understand,”’
said Rhinehart.

“It’s not that all minorities are the
same, but with a minority face, I’d
feel a bit more comfortable,” Pillow
said.

Expansion

O) Continued from Page 1

 

 

Above all, Wilson said, the energy
and imagination of the faculty is es-
sential in continuing to develop the
University’s courses of study.

The process of making changes to
the curriculum is slow-moving but
thorough, according to both Elrod
ard Wilson.

Elrod said the next step in the pro-
cess with the current studies is to
review the preliminary reports and
from that point decide what to do.

Wilson added that a program’s po-
tential impact on the University and
the funding available for its im-
plementation are vital in its evalua-
tion.

The Ring-tum Phi, February 6, 1986, Page 5

 

 

GENERAL NOTES

 

The Virginia Society for
Hospital Public Relations and
Marketing is offering two scholar-
ships (for $1,000 and $500) to rising
seniors or juniors studying jour-
nalism, English or a related field.
Applicants must be full-time stu-
dents at a Virginia college or uni-
versity. For more information,
write or call: Debra L. Dodson,
Director of Community Relations,
142 South Main St., Danville, VA
24541. (804) 799-2399.

—— << SS SF eS SS SE Ge Gee Gee et aes Gee eee Go eee

Marie Borroff, William Lamp-
son Professor of English at Yale
University, will deliver a lecture,
titled “Sound Effects in the
Poetry of Robert Frost,” tonight
at 8 p.m. in Room 327 of the Com-
merce School.

The lecture is sponsored by the
W&L Lectures Committee and the
Department of English and is
open to the public.

SS ce ee ee See SS SE Gee eee ce nee mee

Any student who wishes to apply
for on-campus housing for the
next academic year must do so by
Friday, Feb. 14.

Applications are available in
the University Housing Office
located in the west wing of
Graham-Lees Dormitory. The
deadline applies both to students
currently in University housing
and to those who wish to make ap-
plication for the first time.

Specific housing assignments
for 1986-87 in Baker Dormitory,
Lee House, Woods Creek Apart-
ments, and other University resi-
dences will be made as soon as
possible after the application
deadline.

 

CLASSIFIEDS

George Gershwin’s ‘‘Porgy and
Bess”’ will be broadcast live from
the stage of the Metropolitan
Opera on Saturday at 1:30 p.m.
over WLUR-FM, 91.5.

Mozart’s opera ‘‘Idomeneo’’
will be broadcast live from the
stage of the Metropolitan Opera
Saturday, Feb. 15, at 2 p.m. over
WLUR-FM, 91.5,

The 1986 W&L Blood Drive was
successful in achieving its quota
of 150 units. I would like to thank
several individuals, especially
Chris Martin, Mrs. Atthowe and
Carol Calkins. Also, Mrs. DeVogt
and the W&L Women’s Club are
appreciated for preparing sand-
wiches.

The W&L ROTC department
once again received the award for
the greatest number of ynits.
Chi Psi fraternity will receive its
reward for being the organization
with the greatest percentage of
participation. Ted LeClercq and
his freshman hall will receive $30
of Domino’s Pizza for being the
hall with the greatest donation.
Phi Gamma Delta and Beta Theta
Pi are thanked for their impres-
sive turnouts.

Thank you, W&L, for making
the Blood Drive successful.

—Jake Squiers

 

LOST & FOUND

 

A bicycle was found at the Stu-
dent Activities Pavilion during
last weekend’s Superdance. To
claim it, call 463-8499.

 

Q. Do standard servings of beer, wine, and liquor all con-
tain about the same amount of alcohol?

A. Yes. A twelve ounce can of beer, a five ounce glass of

table wine and one and a half ounces of 80 proof liquor all
contain approximately the same amount of alcohol.
These are standard servings of standard aicoholic
beverages.

 

 

Date:

Feb. 10, 11, 12

Juniors, Seniors & Grads...

GIVE YOURSELF
SOME CREDIT!

 

 

 

- Just bring a copy of
your school I.D.
- No cosigner required

APPLY NOW ON CAMPUS!

 

 

Time:
Place:

Town House Tomato Soup
a.ttwti(‘(‘“C <;‘l wo
Molson Golden

Fresh Deli Pizzas

11:30 to 4 p.m.
In The Co-op

CITIBAKS

Citibank (South Dakota), N A. Member FDIC

 

 

 

 
 

SPORTS

The Ring-tum Phi, February 6, 1986

 

Cagers return to .500m™

 

By DAVID EMRICH
Assistant Sports Editor

 

Last week caused mixed feelings
for the Washington and Lee basket-
ball squad.

It began on a down note when the
Generals’ losing streak reached five
games, then improved with a two-
game winning streak, but ended on
another low note when the Generals
lost to Mary Washington last night to
fall back to .500 at 10-10.

On top of all that, the cagers face
an uphill battle just to get the home-
court advantage in the first round of
the upcoming Old Dominion Athletic
Conference tournament.

“There is no rest for the weary,”’
said W&L head coach Verne Can-
field. ‘“‘We will play those games
[W&L’s three remaining conference
games, all three of which the
Generals have to win, if they are to
have a chance at the home-court ad-
vantage] as best we can and hope for
the best.”’

Last night, the Generals’ two-game
winning streak was halted in
Fredericksburg when Mary Wash-
ington stopped W&L 69-63.

The Generals were handicapped
when their leading scorer on the
season, Steve Hancock, fouled out
with only four points. Freshman Lee
Brading tried once again to pick up
the slack for the Generals. Brading
tossed in 17 points and pulled down 11
rebounds.

But the major factor in the loss was
at the free throw line, where the
Generals, who are shooting 75.3 per-
cent from the line as a team, attemp-
ted only seven free throws, making
three. The Blue Tide, on the other
hand, got 21 points from the charity
stripe.

The news from the Warner Center
earlier in the week was much better.

 

On Saturday, in the Warner Center,
the Generals relieved themselves of
a tremendous burden by beating
Lynchburg, 58-56. The win halsted a
five-game losing streak that had
dropped W&L from first to fifth place
in the conference.

“What a tremendous relief,” W&L
head coach Verne Canfield said after
the game. ‘‘The kids were trying so
hard, and they kept right on working
[during the losing streak]. I was very
proud of that.”

The Generals played excellent
team defense in the first half, holding
the Hornets to only 25 points. This
allowed W&L to take a seven-point
lead, 32-25, as the the teams headed
into the locker rooms.

When the second half began, how-
ever the Hornets, who entered the
contest only a half game behind con-
ference leaders Emory and Henry,
started to work their way back into
the game. They tied the game with
10:57 remaining, and even opened up
leads of as much as six points.

But the efforts of Brading, who
scored 10 of his 17 points after the in-
termission, and Hancock, who tallied
12 of his 18 in the second half, got the
Generals back into the game.

And when Hancock cooly canned
four free throws in the final minute of
play to ice the victory, a huge weight
was lifted from the mired Generals.

W&L won again on Tuesday, this
time struggling to beat visiting
Bridgewater, 58-54. The Eagles, who
are winless in the ODAC, jumped on
top early and led during most of the
first half, holding a six-point lead at
the halfway point of the period. The
Generals managed to cut the lead to
just a basket by the intermission,
despite a less than stellar perfor-
mance.

The defense was being upstaged in-
side, especially by the Eagles’ sopho-
more forward Chris Cockrell.
Cockrell, who entered the contest
averaging just under four points a
game, managed to bust the W&L

,’ “as r
“4 ™®
" 7 :

a

defense tor 14 tirst-hait points, 12 otf
those coming from inside the paint
and the remaining pair on a couple of
free throws.

“We, shall we say, ‘discussed’ our
performance at half time,’’ remark-
ed Canfield.

The discussion seemed to work
well. The defense tightened and
Cockrell was held scoreless the en-
tire second half.

W&L tied the game at the 6:08
mark when Brading took a baseline
jumper and scored his first basket of
the contest. He finished with eight
points on the evening.

The teams traded leads until, with
a minute remaining, Brading again
made himself known. He stole the
ball and went the distance unassisted
to put W&L up by two.

Then, with 11 seconds showing, and
the Generals still up by two, Brading
was fouled by Bridgewater’s Stacy
Lee and sent to the line with a one-
and-one opportunity. The freshman
hit both ends to give the Generals
another 58-54 victory.

A week ago, the Generals lost to
conference leader Emory & Henry,
79-73, putting their losing streak at
five. Brading returned from his two-
game absence because of the flu to
lead the Generals with 20 points.

With the ODAC playoffs set to get
underway Feb. 18, the Generals find
themselves in a rather difficult posi-
tion. In order to have any chance ot
securing a home-court advantage in
that opening round, the Generals
must win all three remaining con-
ference games, two of which are on
the road against first-division op-
ponents. The Generals face Roanoke
in Roanoke on Saturday and travel to
Tennessee next Friday to play Mary-
ville.

In between those games, the
Generals go up against Eastern Men-
nonite on Tuesday and Emory Uni-
versity on Wednesday. Both games
are in the Warner Center.

 

 

Larry Anker (white shoes) takes down an opponent in early-season action

 

By CHARLES T. GAY
Staff Reporter

 

Marked by excellent all around
team efforts, Washington and Lee’s
wrestling team notched a pair of easy
victories this past week, trouncing
LaSalle, 43-12, on Saturday and Long-
wood, 42-12, last night.

The wins raise the grapplers’
season record to 6-1.

W&L’s cause against Longwood
was helped by a series of forfeits.

 

Southern
Inn

Welcome
Students
Serving breakfast, lunch
and dinner for over
50 years
Main Street, Lexington
463-3612

 

 

However, those Generals who did
step out onto the mat performed well.
Freshman 118-pounder Steve Cas-
tle and classmate Rich Redfoot (177)
along with junior Jeff Mazza (134)
were the recipients of forfeit wins.
Senior co-captains Brian Lifsted
(126) and Larry Anker (142) paced
the Generals with a couple of falls on
the evening, while senior Win Phil-
lips (167) and sophomore Kevin Mc-
Namara picked up wins as well.

W&L struggled at the upper weight
divisions. Freshman George Loupas-

 

 

Sat., Feb. 8

inGHQ
Wildgrass

$2°° Cover

$1° w/W&L Parking Ticket

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PIZZA SERVED HERE, TO GO,
OR DELIVERED

 

¢ Try our fresh baked Pan
Pizza, Thin ‘N Crispy*
Pizza and Priazzo™ Ital-
ian Pie.

¢ Personal Pan Pizza for
lunch. Available from 11:00
am-4:00 pm (Mon.-Sat.).

* Plus...Pasta, Salad Bar,
Sandwiches, Beverages.

¢ Served to your table, or
delivered to your home, or
call ahead and we'll have
your order hot and ready to
go.

* Each Wednesday night,

    

Na

1985 Pizza Hut, inc

 

5:30 until 8:30 p.m., all the
salad, pizza, spaghetti, and
garlic bread you can eat for
only *3.49. Children under 6
years-99

 

 

Pra

 

600 E. Nelson St.
Lexington
463-7000

 

Hut.

 

   
  
  

Wrestlers floor two more, now at 6-1

si (190) and sophomore heavyweight
Dan Fales both went down to defeat.
W&L’s grapplers, inspired by yet
another excellent team effort, man-
handled LaSalle last Saturday, 43-12.

The Generals were aided in their
quest for victory by a slew of LaSalle
forfeits. Castle (118), co-captain
Lifsted (126), and standout Phillips
(167) were all awarded wins by vir-
tue of forfeit.

Still, most of those who wrestled
performed well. Co-captain Anker
(142) and Tim Walker (150) both won

U.S. 11N.

EAST LEX

463-3614

File Photo by Steve Sadler

by fall, and McNamara (158), Red-
foot (177), and Loupassi (190) were
also triumphant for W&L.

Coach Gary Franke was again im-
pressed with his entire squad’s per-
formance. “Right now,’’ he said,
“we're getting great team efforts.
We’ve risen to each challenge well.”

The Generals conclude their dual
season with an away contest on Sat-
urday against Washington and Jef-
ferson. The Eastern Regionals are
slated for next weekend in Trenton,
NJ.

  

Open Until Midnight

 

Since 1963

rge’s Hairstylist
now has
x Great New Talent x

 

tl tl tt tt i iil

      

We Welcome Mary Burgdorf

George's \~ Elegance in the Old Tradition

  
  

136 Varner Lane

Phone: 463-3975

 

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tun Phi

 

 

Soccer wins indoor title; hockey loses

Staff Report

 

Washington and Lee soccer teams
took first- and second-place honors in
an eight-team round-robin indoor
soccer tournament held on Sunday in
the Student Activities Pavilion.

In the title match, W&L I, captain-
ed by junior Peter Van Son, out-
scored junior Jimmy Tucker’s W&L
II squad, 8-1. The championship con-
test was a rematch of the tourna-
ment’s opening contest, a 3-2 W&L I
victory that morning.

In other club action this week, the
W&L Hockey Club suffered its first
loss of the season with a 3-2 setback
at the hands of Virginia Tech Monday
night in Vinton.

The club fell behind 3-0 but cut the
margin to 3-2 when Rich Hurley and
Vin LaManna scored. The team was
minus the services of leading goal
scorers G.T. Corrigan and Tony Mc-
Cann and starting goalie Bill Zola.

The skaters return to the ice on
Sunday night at 9:30 in Vinton
against Liberty University.

 

  
  
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

——$— F——__ JF |
roNG.. An
i EMER

eal OU bo | a

LMT ITT WL. TTT |
t- }

 

 

salad, fresh vegetable, potato or

Welcome the New Year at the Willson-Walker
House with our weekly Wednesday dinner,

Prime and Wine Special

8 oz. prime beef rib and glass of house white or red wine. House

2 dinners for $19.86

rice included,

 

 

Open Tuesday through Saturday
Lunch 11:30-2:30, Dinner 5:30-9:00
Sunday Champagne Brunch 1 2:00-2:30
Reservations requested for dinner
Closed Monday

30 N. Main St.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

703-463-3020 3
LANE Se NT LE SEIT NE ETTORE TITER

 

cod:

  

ees)

“oq
+
~~

ERGO

REC SASS
2

bake’
a

OBE
a

"Gee
<

a

ee

OM EL RRR MMH Tt:
< =

- =

~~

 

 

 
 

Female phenom

Freshman Miles setting pace for nation, future

By DAVID NAVE
Staff Reporter

Freshman Elizabeth Miles, the nation’s number one
500-yard freestyler, is going to be the foundation for
Washington and Lee’s competitive women’s swimming
program, says swim team co-captain David Lewis.

Assistant Athletic Director Cinda Rankin said, “I
definitely think that she will be the cornerstone of our
women’s Swimming program.”

Comments like these are the results of the waves that
Miles has created during her first year at W&L.

Miles, a Louisville, Ky. native, currently leads all
NCAA Division III women in the 500-yard freestyle with a
time of 5:17. The time also qualifies Miles to swim at the
NCAA Division II National Championships on March
13-15 in Canton, Ohio. Miles has also qualified to swim in
the 1,650-yard freestyle.

She also hopes to qualify for the nationals in the mile
and 200-yard freestyle. Miles only needs to trim one sec-

_ ond off her current time to make the 1:59 cut for the 200.

Although she began her competitive swimming at her
local country club when she was four, Miles says she
didn’t begin swimming seriously until she was 11. She
came to W&L to continue her swimming because she

' wanted the academic tradition in addition to the athletic

. opportunities. ‘It is like getting two for the price of one,”

_ she said.

‘Swimming occupies much of her daily schedule. The
team practices twice a day, Monday through Friday,
once at 6:30 in the morning and then again from 3:30 to

* 6:30 in the afternoon, and on Saturday mornings from

9:30 to 12, Swimmers also sacrifice a large part of their

Thanksgiving and Christmas Holidays.

But Miles does not mind devoting so much time to

swimming because of the benefits she receives. She said
swimming teaches her to budget her ume and keep her
priorities straight. She also said she enjoys the W&L
swim program and said head coach Page Remillard does
a really good job keeping her ‘‘psyched up.”’

Miles has adjusted well to W&L, and added that the on-
ly time she feels like a minority is in the classroom,
where a majority of the students are men. She said the
athletic department has helped women become involved
with the University. “It has brought us into the school
and brings us closer to the guys,”’ Miles said.

She elaborated on the new women’s athletic program:
‘From what I have heard, girls are really excited about
getting into athletics.’’ When asked whether she would
have come to W&L if the school did not have a women’s
swimming program. Miles answered, “It probably would
have made me think twice, but I probably would have
come here in the long run anyway.’ She said the school’s
academic reputation and her father’s diploma from W&L
gave her extra incentive to enroll here.

While recruiting Miles last year, Remillard said, he of-
fered her a first-class program that would allow her to
test her skills. Remillard added that his prize recruit will
help attract future prospects.

But Miles will not lure swimmers to the university sole-
ly because of her athletic ability. ‘‘She will be a plus in
recruiting because she is a talented athlete who is very
happy with her teammates and her training environ-
ment,” he said.

‘People who are not really happy do not swim fast
times,” Remillard said.

Miles hopes to accomplish much at W&L. She under-
stands that she plays a significant role in helping estab-
lish the women’s swimming program, but she also hopes
to play field hockey during swimming’s off-season.

“T want to do the best I can and have fun at it,”’ Miles

 

 

 

 

ELIZABETH MILES

M€en) & Miiles) show stars at Mary Wash. meet

 

_ By LEIF UELAND
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee men’s
swim team reasserted itself Wednes-
day night with a 66-8 trouncing of
Mary Washington, while on the
distaff side of the pool, freshman
phenom Elizabeth Miles continued to
star by making the qualifying time
for 1,650-yard freestyle.

The men’s win comes off a pair of
tough defeats, an upset loss on the
Shepherd College set the stage for the
upset that awaited W&L Friday even-
ing. The Generals went into the meet
numbers on the squad, suffered their

seventh loss without a victory.

The men’s win comes off a pair of
tough defeats, an upset loss on the
road to Shepherd on Friday and a
last-event loss to Gettysburg on
Saturday.

The dimly lit four-lane pool of
Shepher College set the stage for the
upset that awaited W&L Friday even-
ing. The Generals went into the meet
believing that their opponents could
not pose a significant threat.

From the moment when the gun
sounded for the first event, the med-
ley relay, it was evident that some-
thing had been miscalculated.

Though the Generals were quick to
react and adapt to their opponents,

they could not put out the fiery en-
thusiasm that had been ignited in
their opponents.

Although head coach Page Remil-
lard was critical of his own judge-
ment in the meet, noting that, “‘it was
not one of my better coaching perfor-
mances,”’ he had praise for the swim-
mers, ‘I thought the athletes rallied
to the situation. We just couldn’t put
them down,” he said.

Saturday, against Gettysburg, the
Generals had a better understanding
of their opponents. The team knew it
was facing a young team with a first-
year coach, a team that would be
looking to make its mark on a more
established team, like the Generals.

“On Saturday we knew what we
were up against. It was a shootout

from the start,’’ commented Remil-
lard.

While Gettysburg was successful in
showing that it is a team to be reck-
oned with, winning the meet 52-43,
the Generals say they feel little
regret for their effort. Remillard,
prior to the meet, had called upon
certain swimmers to deliver faster
times. His call was answered with
such performances as David Reavy’s
2:18 time in the 200-yard breaststroke
and Moose Herring’s 4:54 in the 500-
yard freestyle.

Friday the Generals host William
and Mary, which has traditionally
gone all out against the Generals.
The Tribe even shaved down for last
year’s confrontation.

 

The Ring-tum Phi, February 6, 1986, Page 7

 

Binding, indeed

....It’s a special time of year. The
smell of corporate lawyers’ starched
shirts combined with the hint of un-
deserved, exorbitant sums of money
reminds one that, yes, it is once
again baseball’s arbitration season.

This three-week session of “How
much Can I Make This Guy Think
I'm Worth” is not to be confused
with the sports summer season. This
season is important. It also includes more games. (That’s of the mind
variety.)

Actually, it would be silly to lend a pessimistic tone to this whole
treatise to arbitration. Hell, let Dwight Gooden try to get as much
money as he thinks he’s worth. He’s a legitimate factor in the future of
the New York Mets organization. Same with Wade Boggs, Bret
Saberhagen, and a few others. These gents are worth their weight in
gold — and then some — and ought to be paid for it.

But what about Charles Hudson, Ken Phelps or Ed Jurak? Believe it
or not, these three pretenders think that their combined worth is
around $880,000. Come again? Let’s take a look at some numbers.

Charles Hudson, a pitcher of little note for the Philadelphia Phillies,
was 8-13 last season, had 122 strikeouts and wandered through the
season with a 3.78 earned run average (Asking price: $330,000).

Ken Phelps is a sometime first baseman for the Seattle Mariners
who played in 61 games and batted .207, a virtual blue-chip piece of
stock (Asking price: $265,000).

And the hero of our story is Ed Jurak. Ed really overextended
himself in 1985 and feels his contract should be raised from $125,000 to
$200,000. His stats? A .231 batting average in 26 games and a grand
total of 13 at bats. I can think of no other profession where you can
work 16 percent of the time and still demand a raise.

Now how much revenue for the team does an Ed Jurak generate?
Not $200,000 worth, it’s safe to say. So, what’s the problem? Well, how
is it that we get the Ed Juraks of the baseball world thinking they
deserve as much money as the President of the United States? If you
work the dollar figures out, it seems ol’ Ed thinks he’s worth a fifth of
what Dwight Gooden’s worth. A fifth indeed. A hundred Ed Juraks
wouldn’t add up to one Dwight Gooden.

But that doesn’t really enter into the picture, thanks to arbitration.
Under the rules of this game, a player like Jurak who hasn’t been able
to settle a contract with the club can settle a contract, by taking his
case to binding arbitration, if he’s had two years in the big leagues. In
binding arbitration, both the owner and the player, plus their respec-
tive legal representatives, submit a figure. The mediator picks either
the player’s asking price or the owner’s selling price.

There’s something wrong with a system that allows, indeed en-
courages, Maxway-type players to demand Gucci-type respect. The
Juraks of the world are expendable. Unfortunately, the big bucks
demands of the Goodens of the world warps the major league pay
scale, in which owners are forced into offering amounts they don’t
want to offer.

Solution: Revoke binding arbitration. It’s a pointless process. If the
Ed Juraks of the world can’t work out an arrangement with their
bosses, let them sit out and see how they like life on welfare — that
way we won’t end up having cut-rate ball players asking for $67,000 a
hit...

....Back around the Colonnade, someone want to tell me how good
the General cagers are? Certainly, the potential is there for some in-
teresting outcomes in the next few weeks. Key contests will be Satur-
day in Roanoke and Tuesday against Eastern Mennonite. Both are
must wins if W&L is to get the home court advantage in the first round
of the ODAC tournament...Grapplers are continuing to roll, indeed.
Now, let’s hope for some deserved post-season success...

 

TIME
i

 

 

By Mike
Stachura

 

 

 

 

 

 

Pager ee er
Valentine’s Day
Specials

Campus Musié
formerly Campus Shop

SALE

    
        
       
   
     
       
     
   
 

~m
m
=
m
wm
_
m
za
RS

 

  

SALE SALE

  

 

 

 

 

f ‘i. sf TDK SA 90 Reg. $3.29 ea. Now '2"*ea,  3-pack only 64?
ue ? AT Maxell XL 11 90 Reg. $3.99 ea. Now$2*ea, 2-pack only *5
v & @ e
) University Florist 10% Off Every Album,
< Tape & Compact Disk
' 15 W. Washington St., Lexington .
463-6080 or 463-1559 nights In the Store

| Ledeen "Dorigne mage with « special Seven” arent string Guitar-Like New-Used Price $350

 

 

PS-YOUR CAMPUS Panasonic

Care Stereo-Reg. $249.00 Now *150

S ALE
117 W. Nelson St.

 

Let us deliver a little love to
someone special

COUPO

Di iiviciinic: $35°

We A iia es coves ce scsnes $1750
Offer expires 2-8-86

Study around the world, visiting Japan, Korea,
Taiwan, Hong Kong, Sri Lanka, India, Egypt,
Turkey, Greece and Spain. Our 100 day voyages sail
in January and September offering 12-15 transferable
hours of credit from more than 50 voyage-related
courses.

' The S.S. UNIVERSE is a 500 passenger American-
built ocean liner, registered in Liberia. Semester at Sea
admits students without regard to color, race or creed.

For details call toll-free (800) 854-0195

b or write:

SALE
463-4544

  
  
 

 

  
  

GEN ERA,

BH®

> S
®anguaRTe™

i at ee

Semester at Sea $ 00
| seiabhnte tak Pednbaenn aaneethin 1 Dozen Sweetheart Roses.............. cs
University of Pittsburgh, 2E Forbes Quadrangle V2 Dozen Sweetheart Roses............ 11

' Pittsburgh, PA 15260 Presents

Offer Expires 2-8-86

Present this coupon on or before Feb. 8, 1986,

‘--
1
I

 

* ‘ae :
EE A AR AL A A LE << A) A A) SD (>  () AD ) ED () SEED () ED) ED ED) ED) ED GED GD <a

v4 Semester At Sea representative to visit Washington and Lee:
' Wednesday, February 12, 1986

information Table: 10:00-3:00, University Center lobby
Film Presentation: 7:00 p.m., Room 109, University Center

Bob Margolin
and his battd

Rock, Blues, Rockabilly, in the
style of B.B. King

Friday, Feb. 7,9 P.M.-1 A.M.

82° Cover

 

 

 

Valley True Value Hardware

HAROWARE STORES

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

Mon.-Sat. 8:30-6:00

E. Nelson Street Sun. 1-5

463-2186

x aac ac ace ac ac aK HMMM Ow I IS

Join Us For Dinner At

Maple Hall

One of the Historic Country Inns
of Lexington

463-4666 for reservations

\
Saturday, Feb. 8
Enjoy

“Wildgrass”’

Our Grass is Blue

9P.M.-1 A.M.

$2 Cover

And receive these special deals on
10% off any
store purchases
OTHER SPECIALS
To be given away at 12 noon, ¥
WIN! 1 Dozen Roses!-
for your Special Valentine
in person.
VOVIVVOY
lay Friday and Saturday by playing our guessing ga me
ai vo ll North Guess how many hearts in jar. You win!

Valentine’s Day!
(Excluding FTD wire orders and use of coupons)
Valentine’s Day
Register each time you place an order, by phone or
WIN! 12 Dozen Roses!-
Cae SEINE MOIS Se ee eee

2 SS A A | A A A A A A A) A A AT AT A A AT) ) ERD (> ED () ED () ED () NED) END (> END (> ERED (> CREED () CED ¢

 
 

“BACK PAGE

The Ring-tum Phi, February 6, 1986

 

 

Southern Comfort performs in Lee Chapel Tuesday night

Southern Comfort has fun

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Entertainment Editor

 

‘Although we're musically quite
good, we're not concerned with being
musically correct; rather, we're
more concerned with making sure
thé audiences have a good time.”

Senior Bruin Richardson was talk-
ing about Southern Comfort,
Washington and Lee’s all-male vocal
group. Richardson, the group’s unof-
ficial leader, mouthpiece and guru,
insists the tuxedoes he and his fellow
singers sport are strictly a front.

‘Basically, the main thing is that it
is a hell of a lot of fun,” he said.

Southern Comfort is made up of 16
W&L students chosen by audition
from the Glee Club. The group is
Strictly extracurricular and_self-
supportive and is also, according to
Richardson, the “least bureaucratic
organization on campus.”

“I’m kind of the leader, but I don’t
have a title,’ he explained. ‘‘The
leader needs to have some certain
musical skills and it just so happens
that I’m the one.”’

Southern Comfort has been around,

P :
Lexington
Shoe Hospital

3 W. Nelson St.

Take a good look at your
shoes — if they need
repair, come see me.

— Expert Shoe Rebuilding —

 

more or less, since 1973. That was the
year that Dr. Gordon Spice, associate
professor of music and Glee Club
director, decided to start a barber
shop quartet composed of selected
members of the Glee Club. An origi-
nal member named Tom Snydam
came up with the group’s name
which, not entirely by coincidence,
was quite similar to the name of a
rather powerful southern drink.

The size of the group grew to 12
members with four alternates (two
for the tenors and one each for the
baritone and bass sections).

Dr. Spice no longer directs the
group but still acts as adviser.

Richardson said the main guideline
used to choose the music is whether
or not the piece is entertaining. Three
or four members might come across
a piece of music and sing through it.
If it seems to work, they present the
new piece to the rest of ‘‘the least
bureaucratic organization on cam-
pus’’ and it is arranged and choreo
graphed.

Richardson said the group prac-
tices at least an hour a week, but
before a performance, the members
try to get in about four hours of

110 S. Jefferson St.
Lexington
463-3338

Hours:

Mon.-Sat. 9am to lam

Sunday 10am to lam

 

rehearsal.

At Tuesday’s annual Winter Con-
cert in Lee Chapel, the group per-
formed for a high-spirited hour. Its
repertoire included ‘‘My_ Girl,”
“You've Lost That Lovin’ Feeling,”’
‘‘Mountain Dew,’’ ‘‘Ride My
Chariot,”’ and a new Elvis Presley
medley.

“I’ve seen other groups similar to
us from the University of Virginia
and only one-third of their set was
entertaining,’’ said Richardson.

That does not mean, however, that
Southern Comfort is a bunch of ama-
teurs. On the contrary, the group’s
schedule is evidence not only of its
professionalism but also its populari-
ty.

For starters, it will tour Texas,
Alabama and Louisana beginning a
week from today. The tour, arranged
by the Alumni Association, will in-
clude stops in Birmingham, Ala-
bama; Dallas and New Orleans.
Richardson said that most of the
shows will take place at chapter din-
ners and country clubs.

Later this spring, Southern Com-
fort will pull into the Greenbrier for
an Easter Weekend performance.

 

SAB starts Winter Weekend

 

By JOHN KALITKA
Staff Reporter

 

Washington and Lee’s first ‘‘Mid-
Winter Weekend” kicks off tomorrow
evening in the Student Activities
Pavilion.

Michael Guerriero, executive
director of the Student Activities
Board calls the event “something
new.”

“‘We’ve never done anything like
this before,”’ he said.

The Friday night concert features
two bands well-known in the Lexing-
ton area: the Spongetones and the
Waller Family. Guerriero said he

plans to spend $7,000 to $7,500 for the
concert to see how two small ‘‘frater-
nity-sized’’ bands will be accepted at
an SAB event.

‘Whether the SAB loses a lot of
money on this depends upon whether
people come or not,”’ he said. Frater-
nities will not be permitted to have
parties during the concert in an effort
to encourage attendance.

Future SAB plans include:

Fancy Dress: Although Guerriero
declined to comment on either bands
or themes, he did say that there
would be an emphasis on color and
light and a number of ‘‘exotic spec-
ialty acts” at the ball.

The Count Basie Orchestra will be

playing at this year’s Fancy Dress
Ball, according to W&L, the
Washington and Lee alumni maga- ’
zine. The Basie Orchestra played at ,
Fancy Dress last year, as well.

March Concert: The Violent Fem- '
mes are expected to play the week-
end following Fancy Dress Guerriero
said.

Spring Weekend: Bands such as
the Kinks, the Commodores, and »
John Cafferty and the Beaver Brown .
Band, are being considered for a Fri-
day or Saturday night date. In addi- *
tion, a smaller band will play an ,
afternoon concert, possibly on the
Colonnade. :

\

The Clash is bad but BAD is good:

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Entertainment Editor

 

The Clash’s new album is called
“Cut the Crap,” and frankly, I
couldn’t have said it better myself.

Actually, this is only half the Clash
— specifically, Joe Strummer’s half.
And, evidently, this is not the group’s
better half.

 

Strummer kicked out fellow song-
writer/guitarist Mick Jones because
Jones seemed to be steering the un-
compromising Leftist Clash toward
bourgeoisie rock stardom. Now that
angry Joe has the reigns, however, it
is nakedly apparent that Jones did
more steering than most people
realized.

In the first place, the new members
are completely faceless. Not one of
them (and there are three new

Sandwiches (Eat In-Take Out)
Gourmet Items of All Nations
Cocktails® Wine®@Beer
Subs@Imported Cheeses

Catering

 

 

  

1/6 et.
1/4 et
W/2e
1 et

 

  

J et (ay fa
Savings You Can See...Quality You Can Trust!

 
 
 
   

 

Sensational Buy
ae 7 Diamond Cluster Rings
ww

WIDE SELECTION OF FASHION CLUSTERS
AND SOLITAIRE DIAMONDS

FRIDAY, SATURD

WNT

AM _/\ Sams

VWlentines
February ae

 

&

  
 
 
    
 

   
 

 

 

 

  
        
        
    
   
          

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

P Extra Specie! Valves tit — |, .28F.
, i otal Weight
"oe [ 14KT. Gold
Diamond
7° Earrings
; 4 Reg. ‘34
p 16" Se aioe 14K Now‘ 16.97
in
15°’ des nl
Reg. 30
18" tine 14K f Now'14,97
Chain
1 7°
Speciol valves on f Great Savings On
ins q
“aa 4 v 14K Gold Chains
yy Beads and
Diamonds

 

 

ron 39"?

10K and 14K yellow or White Gold
tw Reg. 259.00 Sale *129°
tw Reg. 339.00 Sale 189°
tw Reg. 599.00 Sole 379°

 

50%
OFF!

        
   
      

 

 

 

 

tw Reg. 899.00 Sale 599"

50% on

Feb. 7, 8,

Layaway For 90 Days

AY & SUNDAY
Special 14K Gold & Diamond

TRUNK SHOW!

A manufacturer's representative will be in our Jewelry Depariment Friday
thru Sunday with a special trunk showing of glittering 14K gold chains and
bracelets and dazzling values on diamond rings, pendants and earrings

        
       
     
   

 

 

 

463-7101

 

Your Personal Check Welcome Here, too

East Nelson Street

 

‘BLACK ONYX, SONGT ba prey
q , 14 KT. Gold
OPALS, TOPAZ, GENUINE 50 % OFF Sarcinas
STONE RINGS ¥
FOR MEN AND WOMEN A 50% orr
Special Orders, $5.00 Handling Charges
s

___ Behind McDonald's

 

 

 

 

The Shop for
PAPPAGALLO

Y Off

Winter
Clearance Sale

Shoes, Clothing
& Accessories

23 NORTH MAIN STREET
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

463-5988

 

 

 

 

 

Vuarnet
$45
Wayfarer
$40

Ray-Ban
$45-$50

College
Wholesales
463-9229

members) makes himself noticed.
They only appear to shout the ‘‘rous-
ing’’ choruses that serve as slogans
on at least half the songs.

Secondly, this record says nothing.
On the ‘Dictator,’ Strummer
assumes the character of a Third
World tyrant shouting over an erratic
drum machine and _ synthesized
horns. But the most powerful thing
Strummer has to say is, ‘““Yes I am
the dictator/I satisfy the U.S. team.”
My goodness, Joe.

On ‘Movers and Shakers,” he
celebrates gas station attendents,
break dancers, punks, and coffee
drinkers. (Just joking about that last
one.)

For those Clash fanatics, however,
who insist on seeing for themselves,
the track to record if you find a copy
of the record (and you can have
mine, by the way) is ‘This is
England.” Its slow, dub/punk feel
gives Strummer an opportunity to
shout like a madman. It almost br-
ings back the old days. The track to
avoid is “We Are The Clash.”’ This
one is simply Antmusic for Clash-
people.

Now for the good news. Mick Jones
did not take his walking papers to the
unemployment line. The fruit of his
post-Clash labors, Big Audio
Dynamite (BAD), outstrips the Clash
by miles.

Their debut album, ‘‘This Is Big
Audio Dynamite,’’ is a continuation

‘

of the dub and funk experiments ,
Jones was toying with during the

Clash’s “Sandinista!’”’ period. The «
record is crisp, exciting and in-
telligent. Its eight songs address the

rise of Japan (‘‘Sony’’), the decline of *
cinema (‘“E=mce’’’), the aparthied ,

problem (‘‘A Party’), heavy metal
satanism (‘‘Sudden Impact”), and
the AIDS epidemic (‘‘Stone

Thames’’).

 

As focused and ‘‘on the mark” as
Jones’ politics are (and they are
focused and on the mark about 90
percent of the time), it is the music
that makes this record so entertain-
ing. The album’s highlight, ‘“The Bot-
tom Line,” is BAD at its best: brac-
ing, dance floor politics to sweat
about.

So it’s all over. The Clash is finish-
ed. Kaput. Also rans.

Buy the BAD album,

 

Leanne eee eee {

ONCAMPUS

Thursday, February 6
3 p.m. — CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT WORK-
SHOP: Identifying Career Alternatives. University Center.

7:30 p.m. — JUDAIC STUDIES FILM: “The Dybbuk.” Room 203,

Reid Hall.

8 p.m. — LECTURE: ‘“‘Sound Effects in the Poetry of Robert Frost.”
Marie Borroff, William Lampson Professor of English at Yale Univer-

sity. Room 327, Commerce School.

Friday, February 7
7 p.m. — RUSSIAN FILM FESTIVAL: “The Overcoat.’’ Room 327,

Commerce School.

8 p.m. — PLAY: “‘Lysistrata.’’ Directed by Al Gordon. University
Theatre. (For reservations call theatre office, 463-8637. )
8 p.m. — FILM SOCIETY FILM: ‘‘DANTON.” French with English

subtitles. Classroom A, Lewis Hall.

School.

School.

$2.50.

 

9 p.m. — BAND: “Bob Margolin”’ in the GHQ. Cover charge, $2.

Saturday, February 8

8 p.m. — FILM SOCIETY FILM: “‘Danton.”’ Classroom A, Lewis Hall.
8 p.m.— PLAY: “‘Lysistrata.”’ University Theatre.

Sunday, February 9
3 p.m.— PLAY: “‘Lysistrata.’’ University Theatre.

Monday, February 10
8 p.m. — PLAY: “‘Lysistrata.’’ University Theatre.
9 p.m. — BAND: “WILD GRASS” in GHQ. Cover charge, $2.

Tuesday, February 11.
7&9— JOURNALISM FILM: “‘La Strada.” Room 203, Reid Hall.
7 p.m. — POLITICS FILM: “The Best Man.” Room 327, Commerce

8 p.m. — PLAY: “‘Lysistrata.’’ University Theatre.

Wednesday, February 12
7 p.m. — POLITICS FILM: ‘‘The Best Man.”’ Room 327, Commerce

8p.m.— PLAY: “‘Lysistrata.’’ University Theatre.
9 p.m. — WEDNESDAY NIGHT IN GHQ: featuring “Liquid
Pleasure.’ Sponsored by the Student Activities Board. Cover charge

 

 

© amypoanieemnapionenytemypenngiemyiicconyticss ©
él got my Fulbright
scholarship by

helping Costa Rican
children discover the

toothbrush.)
a Haifa, Israel
Work. Share. Save lives.

If you can meet the challenge, your summer in Latin America can
bring a lifetime of rewards.

Like leadership skills. And a career edge you can’t get anywhere else.
lo be an Amigos volunteer, write: Amigos de las Americas, 5618

Star Lane, Houston, Texas 77057.

Or call: 1-800-231-7796. In Texas,

call: 1-800-392-4580,

@ aefenfeyeemyeyeeyenyiens ©

 

 

 

’
‘

 

=
ah ia

\
h
 

 

Lewis a milk

 

 

VOLUME 85, NUMBER 19°

and cookies guy?
Page 3

 

 

 

Beer

IFC president

 

 

against late Rush
Page 3 |

Che King-tum Phi

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 
  
   

 

Hee €

FEB J

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Your break weather

Florida: Sun
Vail: Snow

 

FEBRUARY 13, 1986

 

 

  

Board says divestment isn’t
the answer for apartheid

 

By MIKE ALLEN
Executive Editor

By W. Patrick Hinely /W&L
EC President John Lewis (third from right) with trustees in Northen Auditorium

Trustees vote not to divest:
felon readmission studied

Girard case sparks debate
on rules for readmittance

 

By JIM STRADER
Editor

 

An ancient adage warns the impetuous against cutting
off their noses to spite their faces.

That was the reasoning the Board of Trustees used this
weekend in deciding not to dispose of Washington and
Lee’s investments in companies doing business in South
Africa.

The board said in an eight-page statement that
although apartheid is reprehensible, monetary muscle is
neither an appropriate nor necessarily an effective way
to promote social change in the riot-ridden Republic of
South Africa.

“The consensus in America and on the Board are that
the South African policy of apartheid is unconscionable
and intolerable,’’ the statement said. ‘“‘However, the con-
sequences of divestment both on corporate behavior and
upon South African policy are impossible to foresee.’’ For
that reason, the Board on Saturday reaffirmed its 1983
policy rejecting divestment.

“The role of an educational institution is to foster a
dialogue ... and not take a doctrinaire position on any
issue,’’ explained trustee C. Royce Hough III of Jackson-
ville, Fla. ‘“‘We should not use an investment portfolio as
a weapon to achieve ends other than the health or well-
being of the school.”’

OSee Divest, Page 4

Strader named
Phi co-editor

Senior Jim Strader was named co-
editor of The Ring-tum Phi this week,
filling a vacancy created by the
resignation of senior Cotton Puryear.

Strader, a senior from Mount
Lebanon, Pa., had been the paper’s
news editor and is a member of the
Kappa Alpha social fraternity. His
professional experience includes
work with radio stations KDKA in
Pittsburgh and WREL in Lexington.

Puryear said in a letter that he was
resigning ‘‘with great sorrow’’ but
that recently he had “found it nearly
impossible to do justice to my com-
mitments to The Phi and to my other
commitments outside The Phi.”’

Strader was appointed Sunday by
the University Publications Board
and becomes a member of that body.

INSIDE

The Board of Trustees played
‘Name that House” last weekend,
christening the planned residence
hall and renaming the MSA house
on Lee Avenue, page 4

The Generals’ basketball team
crushed Emory University last

 

The Board of Trustees last weekend discussed a possi-
ble change in University policy that would automatically
deny readmission to convicted felons, University Presi-
dent John D. Wilson said.

The issue came to light following the readmission this
winter of Gene Girard, who last summer was found guilty
of cocaine possession. During the first week of the term,
the Student Control Committee suspended Girard for the
remainder of the academic year.

Wilson said the trustees discussed whether Girard
should have appeared before the SCC at all, or instead
should have been automatically denied readmission.

“The final question is whether or not the board could or
should contemplate a policy that would deal with certain
kinds of the most serious character failures in a categori-
cal way,”’ Wilson explained.

‘“‘An alumnus has written the board and said, ‘A con-
victed felon should forfeit his right to attend Washington
and Lee. This oughtn’t be something that has to be ad-
judicated.’ ”

The matter was referred to the board’s Executive Com-
mittee, which will study the question at a special meeting
— likely in March — and report to the full board at its;
next meeting on May 24. The eight-member committee is

(See Board, Page 4

Dippin’

Despite tobacco health warnings, students go smokeless

 

 

 

night, page 5

 

 

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

Senior Michael Marr discards tobacco juices into a cup

for cocaine

 

By JIM STRADER
Editor

 

A Washington and Lee junior con-
victed of cocaine possession began
serving six months in the Rockbridge
County jail last night. He was sen-
tenced Monday to five years in jail
with all but half a year suspended.

Andrew Russell Putnam, an ad-
ministration major from Wyoming,
Ohio, was arrested March 31 with 30
milligrams of cocaine. He was con-
victed in Rockbridge County Circuit
Court on Sept. 18, after being indicted
by a grand jury Sept. 3.

At 4:40 p.m. yesterday, 20 minutes
before Putnam’s sentence officially
was to begin, a woman drove him up
to the jail. He went in with textbooks
under his arm.

Putnam’s attorney, Laurence A.
Mann of Lexington, filed a motion
asking that Putnam be permitted to
leave jail during the day to attend
classes.

A final decision on that motion has
not been made, according to Circuit
Court clerk D. Bruce Patterson, but,
Patterson added, Putnam was
granted permission to leave jail to
take tests today and tomorrow.

In the pre-sentence recommenda-
tion filed at the Rockbridge County
Courthouse, Commonwealth’s Attor-
ney Beverly C. ‘‘John’” Read asked
that Putnam be given a sentence of 10
years in jail, the maximum that
Virginia allows for the offense.

Read listed among his reasons for
requesting that sentence the fact that
while Putnam has been a student at
W&L, a special grand jury was con-
vened to handle drug investigations,
numerous W&L students had been
charged with drug offenses, and
several have been convicted and
sentenced.

 

@ Junior gets six months
possession

 

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

Andrew Putnam enters the Rockbridge County Jail yesterday

“Enough is enough for our com-
munity!’’ the recommendation
states, adding that one of the pur
poses of punishment is to deter others
from committing similar offenses
Previous cases in Lexington had no
effect on Putnam, Read said, despite
their number while he has been at
W&L.

Also listed in the report as reasons
for imposing the maximum sentence
are Putnam’s refusal to cooperate

with law enforcement officials in
their drug investigations, his admis-
sion to using drugs ‘“‘socially”’ for an
extended period of time, and a crimi-
nal record that includes a May 29
conviction in Lexington District
Court for petty larceny, for which he
received a five-day suspended jail
sentence, and various traffic misde-
meanors.
Reached Tuesday evening, Put-

nam had no comment on his case.

EC votes not to appoint minority

 

By JASON LISI
News Editor

 

The Executive Committee on Mon-
day defeated a motion to appoint a
non-voting minority member to the
Student Control Committee.

The vote followed nearly an hour of
discussion with representatives of
the Minority Student Association and
other students. Last week the EC
moved to delay the vote a week in
order to gather student opinion.

The motion was defeated 8-4 with

 

By SIMON PEREZ
Staff Reporter

junior representatives Baltzer Le-
Jeune and Michael Black; third-year
law representative Joel Johnston and
second-year law representative Bill
Thompson voting for the position
Freshman representative Matt
Bryant did not attend the meeting

Supporters of the ad hoc non-voting
minority member feel the position is
necessary to provide a more ‘‘sen-
sitive’’ viewpoint to the 13-member
board in cases involving minority
students as the defendant or victim

Senior Bill Rhinehart, an MSA

 

 

Smokeless tobacco has been surrounded by many un-
answered questions, but recently some answers have

been found.

Recent studies have begun to show dangers of the use
of smokeless tobacco. Among them are receding gums,
loosened teeth, higher blood pressure, and tough white
patches called leukoplakia forming on the tongue and

cheeks,

Arden Christen, chairman of the preventative den-
tistry department at Indiana University, says the use of
smokeless tobacco can cause visible damage ‘‘in as lit-

tle as three to four months.”’

Although the link between cancer and the use of
smokeless tobacco is not quite as clear as with cigaret
tes, doctors estimate that between 3 percent and 6 per-
cent of leukoplakia become malignant.

Despite the fact these dangers are becoming more
publicized, the amount of snuff sold in the United States

is up 60 percent since 1978.

 

 

There are three categories of smokeless tobacco:

chewing tobacco, which is placed between the cheek

and gum; dry snuff, which is usually inhaled through

the nose; and moist snuff, which is placed between the

cheek and gum.

Jackie Henderson, supervisor of the purchasing of
merchandise at the W&L Bookstore, says that normally
five to six cans of snuff are bought each day, but the
numbers increase during exam periods

Most people use smokeless tobacco because it allows
them to get the benefits of nicotine without having to
light up a cigarette. Studies have shown that the nico

tine leyc

Jon Missert, a sophomore, says that he “dips”
because it tastes good, helps him stay awake, and helps
him relax

Missert said that although the use of smokeless tobac-
co might be offensive to some people, it’s better than
smoking because the fumes from cigarettes do ‘da

mage to others a

 

 

 

Just a pinch between the cheek and gums ...

ia the Dloou iphic
tobacco than in the blood of smokers

ell

“

representative who attended the
meeting, said later he was upset with
the vote. ‘I’m disappointed that the
EC did not see the problems we're
having at the University at this
time,”’ he said

Rhinehart added that the effect of
this decision will figure in next year’s
EC elections. ‘“‘With minorities and
women, we'll see some retribution at
the polls,’’ he said.

He added that minorities will try
again next year to get their represen-
tative. ‘‘We’re not going to let this
thing die,”’ he said.

By Steve Sadiler/The Ring-tum Phi

4 wie users of smokeless

 

 

aneeenenteeeen tte
 

 

 

OPINION
Agreed

The decision by the Board of Trustees this weekend not to
sell the University’s investments in companies doing busi-
ness with South Africa was the most realistic move the school
could take. It deserves applause, especially in view of all the
recent pandering to special interest groups across the coun-
try, particularly in higher education.

We do not condone the policy of apartheid. To the contrary,
any system that legitimizes a policy as cruel as discrimina-
tion on the basis of the color of one’s skin — the trustees call it
“unconscionable and intolerable’? — demands immediate
attention and correction. But divestment is not the means to
that desired end.

Divestment proponents hope that a financial withdrawal
from South Africa would quicken an economic collapse of the
most prosperous country on the African continent. In turn,
the turmoil would speed social reforms in South Africa, es-
pecially in view of Afrikaaner reluctance to change their
minority rule under normal circumstances. The divestment
proponents presume, therefore, that a corporate presence in
South Africa is destructive, since it strengthens the economy
of the resource-rich republic that is ruled by a minority.

But to believe that withdrawing $13.5 million — the total
value of Washington and Lee’s investments there — from
American firms that do business in South Africa can have
any effect on the restructuring of that society is pure illusion.
We might as well hope that stopping trade with the Soviet
Union would make that mighty beacon of human injustice to
all people decide to reform its errant ways. No greater
daydream exists.

We agree with the opinion of one trustee who noted that
«the role of an educational institution is to foster a
dialogue...and not to take a doctrinaire position on any
issue.”

Divestment is not a sound economic policy, and we’re glad
the trustees had the courage to steer clear of the many mud-
dling issues thrown in their way.

 

were ‘“‘completely uninformed,”
about the availability of a
University-sponsored forum on
‘*Male Sexuality: Roles and Iden-
tity.”

A statement by Associate Dean

of Students Anne C.P. Schroer in
last week’s Ring-tum Phi was
printed in an inaccurate context.
Schroer said that freshman males

 

 

     
   
 

  
 

  
     
 

  

T CAN FEEL MY
OWN TREMENDOUS
ABALITIES.

MY MIND IS ALERT.
RACING AHEAD SOLVING
PROBLEMS.

Cc

 

\*

 

Something’s fishy in Washington Hall -

 

By NELSON PATTERSON
Editorial Page Editor

         

ae

 

There are some things no one likes
to write. Alumni find it upsetting to
read that “their” university has
changed so much. Many current
students claim that changes being in-
stituted are changing the University
too much. And no one — especially
faculty and administration — likes to
get criticized.

That may be why I am reluctant to
write about problems and controver-
sies that have evolved around Presi-
dent John D. Wilson, the Board of
Trustees and the rest of the Universi-
ty. It is difficult, if not impossible, to
please everyone all the time, and for
President Wilson to serve as a con-
duit for communication between the
trustees, faculty and the rest of the
community is a heavy burden to
bear.

But it is a burden Wilson has
chosen as the leader of this institu-
tion, and there certainly exists
reason to question whether he has
been bearing that burden well.

Consider the controversy over the
Student Control Committee and the

* Drug Policy Review Committee.

Last spring, the new guidelines for
the SCC were completed too late for
the Board to study them at their May
meeting. The board, to show ap-
preciation for the work completed by
the committee and to give itself more
time to study the fine points involved
in the thick document, “‘received,’
the new guidelines for study.

By the October meeting, many
questions had arisen over the com-
mittee’s decisions on major and
minor offenses, punishments deli-
neated in the proposal and the appeal

The Ring-tum Phi, February 13, 1986

History of Ferdinand Marcos cont'd.

Then in 1986 when the New
York Times said my entire
War Pecord was made up, and
pretty amateurishly at that,

Weve scx

Te BUPRRLO NR

process that would be followed under
the new guidelines. Students had
complained about the proposal to
consider ethnic, racial and sexual
slurs ‘‘major’’ offenses, carrying a
possible penalty of expulsion. The
board decided to reconsider the docu-
ment and asked Wilson to recon-
vene the committee and to have them
consider several points of their
recommendation.

In the week following the trustee
meeting, Dean of Students Lewis G.
John told The Phi that the Campus
Life Committee of the Board of
Trustees had decided to take “‘no ac-
tion’’ on the proposal itself. John
maintained that only the faculty
could make changes in the rules, and
no request had been made by the
board for such a change. Wilson did
not try to correct that assessment of
the situation.

But in the weeks following The
Phi’s publication of that article, sev-
eral trustees questioned the interpre-
tation of the meeting and the board’s
charge to the students and faculty as
it had been reported in The Phi, ac-
cording to Dean of Students Lewis G.
John, just as they had raised ques-
tions about the policy during the Oc-
tober meeting. The consensus of the
Campus Life Committee and the
board had actually been for yet
another committee to meet and
review certain sections of the new
disciplinary code. Wilson, who ad-
mitted to some “reluctance to re-
establish the committee,”’ finally
wrote a letter to the chairman of the
Drug Policy committee on January
22, 1986, asking him to reconsider
several specific sections of the pro-
posal because of student and board
complaints. The committee met for
the first time (one administrator

| came here to the attic, back
to the typewriter that made me

a hero, and discovered this
document you are reading right now. €

yn Q
Ca) Oa

Ar

pw

calls it “‘coincidence”) for the first
time the day the trustees arrived for
their meeting last week. They made
it in just the nick of time.

Wilson’s reluctance to trample on
the toes of the faculty and to ask
them to reconsider the proposal is
natural. It is difficult to try to please
both the faculty and the trustees,
especially in those rare circum-
stances when the two are opposed.
When they had discussed the first
document last spring, the debate had
been heated. Most people had
thought that the document’s own lan-
guage calling for a three-year trial
period for the new rules would be suf-
ficient to preclude a quick recon-
sideration of any section of the
policy. But communication wires
were crossed, and no one seemed to
know quite what the board really
wanted accomplished, that is, until
Wilson clarified their position in late
January.

Another similar case exists over
the Student Activities Pavilion issue.
Students have used the facility only
six times this year for parties. Amid
claims that it is too large, too sterile
and too expensive for the fraternities
to have to “‘pay twice” for beer, the
pavilion has sat empty, a $650,000
monument to the erstwhile party
needs of this campus.

It would seem the administration
and the trustees and the students
would reconsider and try to resolve
the many obstacles presented in use
of the pavilion. Even President
Wilson agrees that a solution ought to
be found, but said in an interview
that when he hears the complaints
students raise about the pavilion pro-
blems, he ‘‘pooh-poohs’”” many of
them.

“It seems to me that [the question

“and This one for honesty,
and this one for honor, a

What 2 I deserve even more
medals for war heroism 2”
No, no, | protested, “] have
nough already.” “ Well, okay,

just this one for integrity,” 1 said

Ss
ade Re es
nate WSS) 7

4s Ay -
SOG 2)

\

  
  

  

\u

ry

nd Past

over the fraternity members having
to pay for their beer twice] is really a

moot point with the ABC laws chang- ~
ing,” Wilson said recently. “We pro- »
bably won’t be able to get a license _

next year anyway.”’ That seems of

little consolation to the students pay- «
- ing $25 every year for a metal shack |

in the middle of a pine forest.

But asking an alumnus who spec- «

jalizes in interior decorating of large
buildings to solve the space dilemma
and recommend some sort of parti-
tion seems a good move nearly two
years too late. And when students re-
main reluctant to use the pavilion
because they find the University ad-
ministrator in charge of the facility
difficult — if not antagonistic — to
work with, something more than than
wishing — as does Wilson — that
“reasonable people’ will ‘‘sit down
and work things out’’ seems neces-
sary. Fifteen months have passed
since the pavilion opened, and rea-
sonable people haven’t met yet to
solve these problems.

Meanwhile, students and fraterni-
ties continue to use Zollman’s Pavi-

lion and to drive back to Lexington ~

drunk. Two accidents © involving
students returning from a_ party
Saturday left one freshman with a
broken arm and several others
shaken up. “Reasonable people”

haven’t met yet, President Wilson. I *

doubt they will unless they are prodd-
ed to by forces from “‘higher up.”’
Strong leadership will mean a
strong school, and on the issues of the
SCC rules and the pavilion, leader-
ship has been lacking. Communica-

tion has been flawed. Anger has ‘

flared, creating resentment and giv-
ing way to conspiracy theories about

‘Wilson’s”““real” intentions. Surely

there is room for improvement.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(+ AM EXWILARATED.
EXCITED BY INFINITE
POSSIBILITIES.
TRULY,

 

     
     
  

f

 

 

 

  
     
   

NoT To MENTION
TALENTED. 'MAGINATIVE.
CONFIDENT.

YOWER AL PRESS S1VE.

-™
f

 

!

mB ONV65 THe Burearv NRL!

   

 

  

1D aa

 

 

{ 4np powerfu. 1M)
IN CONTROL. NOT
DEPENDENT ON ANYBODY

OR ANYTHING.

NEWS STAFF

Managing Editor .......
Sports Editor..........
News Editor...........

EDITORIAL PAGE

BUSINESS STAFF

is otherwise independent.

definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

   
  
   
    
  
 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

BERCNCS THING oo cc cic cdccedvevcscdccees
BE foi iate oie wc choke ree teteeieee.

ada eacceced staves sssscuts cee eee
SC LEAG Vic bie eece Paul Foutch

Cresiverecyrisherceesiac Reade Williams
pe cseeuueueekiweaesaniaes Mike Stachura
shevis Like Mi ieress bis Jason Lisi
cap as Go up OwevUehees es ceae dl Steve Sadler
perch ieee a Matt Horridge
uv vavewa yee honh eine 0.5 Ne
peeueceececbeteeresantiae David Emrich

Photography Editor. ..........6scceeeeeees
Chief Copy Editor .....:scceeceseccevveves
Entertainment Editor, ................5055
Assistant Sports Editor .............00e00s

Editorial Page Editor ..........-..:-eseees
Assistant Editerial Page Editor............
Cartooniat. oc ccsccccccccevcscsssvcccveres

  

Ledaaeees Tene dibs bear erielal Jeff Kimbell
LA ia Hank Greenberg
SV ebeeekivebas John Feyrer, Keri Hinrichs,

Business Manager ........sseercereeeeeees
Advertising Manager .........0sseseeeeees
Advertising Salesmen, ...........0seeeeees
Circulation Manager ..........ccseceeeeeeeeeeereeseeeeeeereeaneees Matt Horridge

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 200 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m, Tuesday of the week they are to be run. Or send them to The
Ring-tum Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450. This newspaper observes current court

 
  
 

EXCEPTING, PERHAPS,
THESE LIPTLE LINES OF
WHITE POWDER.

 

Jim Strader

... Marie Kothman
Unbisiayer vet es Chris Bowring

Jay Reville, Greg Turley,

 

 

Readers voice disagreements with Phi, EC

To the editors:

On Feb. 6 we read the editorial ‘Barriers’ and
we were thoroughly disgusted. We found offen-
sive remarks made about the meeting in which
the ethnic Minority Ad Hoc Committee met with
the Executive Committee. In that editorial The
Phi stated that “the idea of a group of black
students going to Great White Father behind the
Horseshoe and begging for a handout is offensive
and outmoded.” We find this statement com-
pletely erroneous and tasteless. Furthermore, it
basically shows the editors’ ignorance concern-
ing problems that ethnic minorities face on this
campus. We, the ethnic minorities, were not a
group of “blacks” as was stated by The Phi in its
editorial, and if the editors had bothered to read
the article on the front page, they would have
realized that fact. We were a group of blacks,
browns, and yellows who believe that the Univer-
sity could better be served by an ad hoc minority
member as a safety precaution against misun-
derstandings arising from cultural differences.
Moreover, probably the most offensive remarks
had to do with the ‘‘Great White Father” and the
“begging for a handout,” statements which, in
our opinion, were completely out of line and
showed insensitivity toward the plight of ethnic
minority students. If The Phi really believes
“racism exists on campus” and is “inexcus-
able,” how could it print remarks that display a
tint of racism?

Many whites frequently experience the need to
make negative comments about blacks and other
minorities. The persons of color presenting the
petition for an ethnic minority ad hoc committee
member did so in a well-organized, civilized
manner. In and of itself, this approach did not
warrant criticism. Therefore, the editorial
writers sought another means of sensationalism
by emphasizing the opposite stereotype of blacks
— that of our being child-like and subservient.

On top of that the accusation made against As-
sociate Dean of Students Anece F. McCloud
showed a deep lack of respect for an administra-
tor. She in no way made “persistent corrections
... of the EC President’s handling of motions.”
Those were made by other members of the au-
dience and she, throughout never spoke without
acknowledgment from the president. In our
estimation, by attributing such rudeness to her,
the editorial writers sought to strengthen their
assertion that the minority students were being
treated like, and were consequently acting like,
children.

The main problem we have had with The Phi
and certain EC members is the fact that many
have gone out of their way to find something
negative in anything we've said or done. They
have made suggestions that if we had a represen-
tative, incentive to seek the seat via elections
would be lacking. This is preposterous. If you
have the choice of being able to vote or not being
able to do so, which would you choose? More-
over, the EC would appoint this member on a

yearly basis. Therefore, we would assume they’

would pick this representative after elections.

Finally, the editorial twisted our statement
about the “‘perception of fairness’’ into in-
sinuating that we stated the SCC is a group of
racists. In fact, we never stated this, and if
anything we wanted the non-voting representa-
tive to help the SCC for informational purposes,
as an adviser, to communicate cultural nuances
that SCC members might not be able to see or
understand. Within the past year there were two
cases in which this representative could have
made a dramatic impact on the SCC’s decision.
The outcome of those trials are part of our belief
in the perception of fairness being very impor-
tant.

The aforementioned trials sent a clear mes-
sage to us that this representative would be in
the best interest of the University. However, just
prior to our writing this letter the minority ad
hoc representative was voted down by the EC.
This is only a minor setback! We are in the right
and now the ball is in the EC’s court. They must
now come up with the solutions to the minority
problem. It is very easy to dismiss a proposal
and find reasons to back up that decision, but it is
hard to put together a proposal that will solve the
problem.

William Rhinehart
Class of 1986

Terri Ann Moore
Law Class of 1988
Mike Watson
Class of 1989

Students uphold rebel flag

To the editors:

We take exception to Everett Hamilton’s
remarks on the Confederate flag as a ‘‘symbol of
hate.”’ Arguing about this since freshman year
has done us no good, Everett, but calm reason
merits another try.

For some, the flag may be the banner of rebel-
lion and hatred for the North and blacks. For
others it is not. History reminds us that “the
Southern states could not be said to be waging a
war of rebellion. For the constitution which
bound the states together distinctly acknowledg-
ed that for all purposes, except for such matters
as the customs and the post office and external
relations, the States were separate sovereign-
ties’ (L.Q.C. Lamar, a speech in Atlanta, Ga.,
April 14, 1864). A principle of self-determination
was at stake, and for that many Confederates
fought.

Slavery was a hateful institution, yet to
denigrate a rich Southern heritage for that alone
is myopic in the extreme. As a Southerner, Ever-
ett, take justified pride in a region that produced
Travis, Lamar, Washington and Lee. The flag
that flew over their states symbolized unique cul-
tural traditions, democratic government and
much more than the subjugation of a race.

Slave auctions and cotton bales are not wie on-
ly hallmarks of the Confederacy, yet its shame is
obviously more important to some than its pride.
All of us have been more charitable to Old Glory
than the Stars and Bars, even though true social
justice has not been acheived on either side ot the
Potomac. Flags do not communicate ideas, their
bearers do. Quarrel with the American racist no
matter what he displays. The Confederate flag is
flown by many a reasonable man who would re-
sent association with the plantation overseer.

In short, Everett, your Lynyrd Skynyrd con-
ception of the South may not accurately reflect
all students’ racial beliefs — some still take
pride in the South for higher reasons. General
Lee did.

Bruce Rothenberger
Jonathan Miles
Class of 1987

Library thefts increase

To the editors:

During January there was an unusual number
of reported thefts from carrels in the University
Library. Several students have asked me what
can be done. The first thing a person can do is be
sure to report any missing item to the staff mem-
ber at the Circulation Desk. Those reports are all
referred to campus security.

The library is open to the general public. If
anyone notices suspicious behavior in the stacks,
use the stack phone to call the Circulation Desk.
The staff member there will notify campus se-
curity.

If students help us in these ways, I believe we
can make the library less vulnerable to thefts.

Barbara Brown
University Librarian

Bicentennial coming up

To the editors:

With the advent of the bicentennial of the
United States Constitution fast approaching in
1987, I believe Washington and Lee should ex-
amine ways in which we could celebrate this his-
toric event. Student ideas are vital to any such
process, and it is with this in mind that I call
upon the student body of W&L to indicate what it
would be interested in doing toward this end. As
George Washington was president of the Contin-
ental Congress that wrote the document, I think
W&L has a special part to play. It wouldn’t do for
a committee appointed by the faculty to be the
inspiration for a commemoration of the Constitu-
tion. To be successful, the students should sug-
gest things to do. After all, it would be those
same students who would benefit from any cele-
bration. I’m sure that the student body would be
more inclined to support a project if they knew
they were to play an integral part in executing it.

Peter Bennorth
Class of 1987

¥

¥

‘

s

>

-

=

 

<

 

 
NEWS

The Ring-tum Phi, February 13, 1986

 

W&L seeks
two grants

 

By JIM STRADER
Editor

In an effort to continue develop-
ment of the Washington and Lee cur-
riculum, administrators are prepar-
ing proposals designed to obtain ma-
jor grants in two areas of study, ac-
cording to Dean of the College John
W. Elrod.

The grants being sought are from
the Pew Foundation of Philadelphia
and would be used to strengthen the
foreign language program and re-
equip the science laboratories,
according to Elrod.

The decision to apply for the two
available grants follows a study of
several areas of the curriculum that
was undertaken in various stages
since last spring. Four committees,
including the one studying the
foreign languages, presented reports
to Elrod last week.

The others were committees study-
ing the establishment of a Russian
studies program, further develop-
ment of the ‘‘Capstone’’ program of
advanced learning, and enhance-
ment of the fine arts.

Elrod said it was not feasible to
continue with all of the programs at
this time, but added that none of the
studies has been discontinued.

W&L was among 30 liberal arts col-
leges invited by the Pew Foundation
to apply for the grant Elrod said
would be used for the language pro-
gram.

Included in this technology, Elrod
said, is the integration of computers
in language instruction through the
addition to the lab of microcompu-
ters and various software programs.

“The Romance language depart-
ment had already begun computer-
assisted instruction on a small scale,
using programs developed by Profes-
sors Russell C. Knudson and Kathy
Jo Koberstein.

Knudson chaired the committee
that evaluated the development of
these programs at W&L and has been
asked to continue studying the issue
with Professors H. Laurent Boetsch
and Robert B. Youngblood.

Youngblood said the competition
for the grant is among schools of
W&L’s stature that range from New
England to North Carolina. Of the 30
schools applying, Youngblood said 15
will receive grants.

“We’re in very good company,”
Youngblood said. ‘‘We think we have
a very good chance.”

Among the changes he hopes can
be brought about if the grant is
awarded, Youngblood listed the use
of computers for certain rote chores
of language training, like vocabulary
drills

A program of special interest to
Youngblood is the use of computers
for writing term papers. He said this
would assist students in his literature
seminars at the advanced level.

The other grant proposal the
University is submitting, also to the
Pew Foundation, is to fund the the
purchase of science equipment that
has become out-of-date over the
years, Elrod said.

Elrod explained that science
laboratory equipment was neglected
at W&L when it was financially nec-
essary to choose between improving
equipment and adding members to
the faculty.

The, study of the science depart-
ment problems began last summer,
Elrod said, and is continuing under
the direction of geology Professor
Edgar W. Spencer.

Spencer said the grant would allow
W&L to take a leading position in the
sciences among schools of its size.
“We’re hoping to have facilities at
Washington and Lee that you
wouldn’t find at most liberal arts
schools,” Spencer said. °

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

David Lewis (left) talks with freshman Paul Eyerly in Graham-Lees Dormitory

David Lewis: milk, not beer

By SYDNEY MARTHINSON
Staff Reporter

 

Dormitory counselor David D. Lewis says he’s ‘‘never
had a sip of alcohol’’ and has never smoked in his life.

A typical student? Hardly. But that doesn’t bother
Lewis, a senior from Richmond.

“In high school, I kind of got the rap that I was the only
guy who drank milk instead of beer, and I thought it was
cool to be different,’’ he said last week.

Many people around campus agree that he is different.
Athletic Director William D. McHenry, for example, de-
scribed Lewis as ‘‘one of the neatest kids I’ve ever known
at W&L.” i

Lewis says he chose Washington and Lee because he
recognized that a small school would have more opportu-
nities for involvement — opportunities he seems to have
made the most of. He is an assistant head dormitory
counselor, president of W&L’s chapter of Omicron Delta
Kappa, president of the Fellowship of Christian Athletes,
a captain of the varsity swimming and the varsity water
polo teams and a member of Kappa Sigma social frater-
nity.

A biology major, Lewis places consistently on the
dean’s list and was inducted into Alpha Epsilon Delta, a
pre-medicai honor society.

Of all his activities, Lewis said FCA is his favorite,
“because it’s different from everything else.” But he
worries that students stereotype those who participate in

FCA. ‘‘Here, some people go, ‘Oh, FCA — what are you —
religious?’ and it’s really not like that.’

Yet Lewis does not hesitate to say how important his
faith is to him, contending that it affects everything he
does. ‘I’m always asking, ‘Am I doing what is right for
me?’ ”hesaid.

Corky Mauzy, a senior who works with Lewis as vice
president of FCA and is also a dorm counselor said:
“‘He’s always in a good mood... He’s a cheerful person
and that tends to rub off on people.”’

“‘He’s real easy to work with — maybe too easy,
because he tends to take over and do it,” he added.

Lewis admitted he sometimes has a difficult time
delegating responsibilities. ‘‘I kind of like to do
everything myself because | like to do it right,”’ he said.

The high standards Lewis sets for himself are not
always popular with others. Richard Grace, a freshman
on his hail, said that, “right now, a lot of freshmen and
myself might not agree with his strict rules, but, later on,
I guess we'll realize that he’s just doing his job.”’

Lewis said he is secure with the way he handles his
responsibilities. He said he’s ‘‘very much an optimist,”’
and that a “total positive attitude makes all the dif-
ference.”’

He is now in the process of applying to various medical
schools.

“T don’t hope that my future is going to go right,” he

said. “‘I know if I keep going and doing the things I’m do-
ing, everything will fall into place.”’

SAC to study idea of deferred Rush

 

By PETER BOATNER
Staff Reporter

 

Would deferring fraternity Rush
until after Christmas break be bene-
ficial for Washington and Lee frater-
nities and for the University as a
whole? There are pros and cons on
both sides of the question, and a
study underway by the Student Af-
fairs Committee is trying to sort
them out.

The study will consist of a survey of
all W&L students and will include in-
formation from schools similar to
W&L about their experiences with
different forms of Rush.

Some people on campus already
have their minds made up, though.

Law Professor Andrew McThenia,
for instance, thinks a deferred Rush
would ‘‘benefit the ideal of frater-
nities’ by giving the houses more
time to pick the right kind of people
for their house.

McThenia, a W&L alumnus, said
that as a member of the coeducation
Steering Committee last year he re-
commended that the committee push
for a deferred Rush.

IFC President Jaimie Hayne, on

the other hand, fears that deferred
Rush would create 12 weeks of infor-
mal Rush during the fall semester,
draining the houses financially and
creating tension between them.

“Fraternities here are unique in
their friendliness and we don’t want
to destroy that,” said Hayne.

The IFC has recommended against
deferring Rush in a report to the
SAC.

McThenia disagrees. ‘‘A substan-
tial number of people don’t want to
belong to the fraternity system, and
some — i.e., women — can’t belong,”
McThenia said.

“Those who don’t participate in
Rush are treated as second-class
citizens.”” He called that a ‘‘very
strong message, and the wrong one,”
to be sending freshmen early in the
year.

Delayed Rush would give freshmen
a chance to build a sense of com-
munity before dividing between fra-
ternity members and independents,
according to McThenia.

The SAC’s survey, and its recom-
mendation on a deferred Rush pro-
gram, should be done sometime near
the end of the term.

Several Virginia schools have suc-
cessful delayed Rush programs.

pden-Sydney College has for-
mal Rush during November, with
bids given out in January. After two
weeks of ‘‘no contact” between fra-
ternities and freshmen at the begin-
ning of the term, informal contact is
allowed until Rush begins.

“Upperclass fraternity members
like the system because they like
more time to look at freshmen,’’ said
Jamie Curry, IFC president in Farm-
ville. ‘Everyone is confortable with
the system.”

Drew Lewis, dean of students at
Hampden-Sydney, is also pleased
with the system. Its big advantage,
he said, is that it ‘has helped us
tremendously develop a residence
life program.” Freshman participate
in school activities, such as intra-
mural sports as a class rather than
as pledges.

“It’s made it easier for freshmen
not in fraternities not to feel left out,”’
Lewis said.

Rush at Hampden-Sydney was
moved to January about 10 years
ago, Lewis said, and there was initial
hostility from the fraternities. They
feared higher financial costs and
fewer pledges.

Neither of these came about, ac-
cording to Lewis. Fraternity mem-

bership has stayed between 50-and 60
percent. Also, fewer pledges drop out
because of grade problems, he said.

William and Mary College, with 34
percent of its men in 11 fraternities,
has formal Rush in the first week of
the second semester. In addition,
each house is allowed six non-al-
coholic parties, called “‘smokers,”’ in
the first semester, to which all men
are invited. Formal Rush is not dry.

William and Mary IFC President
Ed Grisson says their system gives
freshmen a chance to pick the house
they want to Rush, and had been used
for about 10 years. ‘‘The system will
not change in the future,’ Grisson
said.

The University of Virginia Greek
system, on the other hand, comes
under continual pressure to move its
Rush to the second semester, accord-
ing to Will Callaway, U.Va.’s IFC
president.

U.Va., which has 38 fraternities
and 32 percent of the undergraduate
men belonging to them, has a four-
week Rush that begins the third week
of school, According to Callaway, the
reasons for keeping Rush in the fall
are mainly financial, with the houses
needing the input of pledge dues.

Also, says Callaway, “it takes at

 

 

 

 

JAIMIE HAYNE

least one year to inauguarate
pledges, and we want to give them
the chance to get to know the fourth-
year men.”’

U.Va.’s associate dean for frater-
nities, Terry Appolonia, says the
faculty’s reasons for wanting a defer-
red Rush deal mainly with ‘alcohol
and academic interference.”

The faculty, he says, sees deferred
Rush asa way to give first-year men
a chance to build an academic foun-
dation and avoid heavy drinking ear-
ly in the year. This year formal Rush
was dry for the first time in U.Va.
history.

 

STU may
expand

to utilities

By DANIEL BUNCH
Staff Reporter

 

 

The Student Telephone Union is
now considering expanding its guar-
antees of students’ phone bills to in
clude utilities, according to STU
Chairman Tom O’Brien.

If there is sufficient interest, STU
will add a program for student custo-
mers of Virginia Electric and Power
Co. for the 1986-87 academic year.

O’Brien said Vepeo currently
charges a $150 deposit for full elec-
tricity dwellings and $75 for dwel-
lings that get some of their power
from gas. Under the STU plan, stu:
dents who pay a $10 membership fee
will have their deposits waived and
have a limited liability of $200
— meaning STU will cover up to $200
of a student’s delinquent bill without
the student having his electricity
turned off.

O’Brien said he will distribute a
questionnaire in the spring to deter-
mine interest in the program. He said
he will go ahead with the program if
about 500 students express interest.
O’Brien expects that that many stu-
dents will want to join.

“A lot of girl sophomores will be
living outside of University housing
next year,” he said.

O’Brien said there is a successful
utility assistance program at James
Madison University and he thinks
one can work at Washington and Lee
even though it is a much smaller
school.

Last year, STU tried a deposit pro-
gram for cable television that was
unsuccessful. O’Brien said students
opted to just pay the small amount of
the cable deposit.

Phi Beta Kappa
selects 22

By PAUL FOUTCH
Editor

 

 

Twenty-one undergraduates and
one 1985 graduate have been elected
into Washington and Lee’s chapter of
Phi Beta Kappa.

Psychology Professor David G.
Elmes, W&L’s chapter president,
said the Executive Committee of the
chapter, made up of the faculty of-
ficers, examined the transcripts of
potential members before opening
the vote up to the general member-
ship, which includes students chosen
last year and faculty members.

The 17 seniors selected are: Chris

Alevizatos, Larry Anker, Erich
Anspach, Hugh Black, Barry
Funkhouser, Pat Hayden, Lester

Johnson, David Kelly, Trey Kinder,
Steve Losquadro, Mike McAlevey,
Frank McQuillen, Ron Moody,
Nelson Patterson, Gerald Shepherd,
Bart Smith and Chris Wilson.

The juniors are James Barker,
Thomas Boyd, Gilbert Ladd and Jeff
Mandak.

The 1985 graduate selected is
Banks Chamberlain. Elmes said that
Chamberlain last year must have
had excellent winter and spring
terms.

 

NEWS BRIEFS

Freshman injured in highway accident with tractor-trailer

 

 

Staff Reports

 

A freshman was injured Sunday evening in an auto
accident when her car was rear-ended by a tractor-
trailer on Interstate 81 at Natural Bridge.

Mary Anne Loftin, 18, of Winston-Salem, N.C. was ad-
mitted to Stonewall Jackson Memorial Hospital in fair
condition following the 6 p.m. accident in which her 1981

- Volkswagen Rabbit was spun around and rolled over in
the median strip of the highway.

According to State Police Sgt. John O'Neil, the driver
of the truck was charged with reckless driving.

Loftin was brought to the hospital by Trooper J.L.
Hines who classified her injuries on his official report
as “class 2’’ on a four-point scale, which indicates
bleeding wounds or visual signs of injury.

O’ Neil said that class 1 is the most serious ‘‘and that’s
when you’re dead.”

A hospital spokeswoman was not able to comment on
Loftin’s injuries or current status, but freshman
Elizabeth S. Miles, who lives next door to Loftin in
Gilliam Dormitory, said Loftin was expected to be
released today.

Visiting students report thefts

Last week’s General Headquarters band was “wild
Kingdom” — just a little too wild for two visiting

women s college students.

Francesca DiRico, a Sweet Briar College sophomore
told Lexington police her purse was stolen from in front
of GHQ at about 11:30 p.m. The $200 purse contained an
airline ticket, American Express and Citgo credit cards
and $100 cash.

Equally unfortunate was Kimberly Baker, a Mary
Baldwin College freshman who left her purse under the
front seat of her locked Chevette, which was parked in
front of the Delta Tau Delta fraternity house.

She told police that when she returned from GHQ, she
discovered someone had broken into her car and stolen
a $55 wallet containing $20 in cash.

Also this week, a student reported damage to his car.

Sophomore Carl McKay’s Chevrolet Blazer suffered
an estimated $2,000 in damage when the windshield and
a side window were knocked out while it was parked in
the campus parking lot known as ‘‘the Corral.”

Lexington Police Chief L.O. Sutton said there are no
leads or suspects in any of the cases.

Applications down for next year

The admissions office has received 2,375 applications
as of Feb. 11, for the 1986-87 school year, down 215 from
the same date last year.

“‘We’re a little behind last year,” said Mrs. Julia M.
Kozak, assistant director of admissions.

“We're still getting a few in every day,’’ added
Kozak. She said that they would still be accepting ap-
plications for a short time.

The applications received have not been entered into
the computer system, so a breakdown of the applica-
tions will not be available until after Washington Holi-
day.

—Sean Bugg

Registration follows break

Registration for spring term will be the first week
after break. Seniors are to register with their advisers
on Monday, juniors on Tuesday, sophomores on Wed-
nesday and freshmen on Thursday. A late registration
fee will be assessed against all students who have not
registered by Friday at 4:30 p.m,

Dorm counselors named

Dormitory Counselors for next year have been
chosen. Junior Jeff Mandak will be head dorm
counselor. Juniors Joe Krastel, Sydney Marthinson,
Jodi Ringland, Bobby Wilson and Paul Youngman will
be assistant head counselors

Reappointed dorm counselors are second-year law
student Dandrea Miller and juniors Terri Amernick,
Greg Barrow, Donna DeBonte, Mat Laws, Shayam

Menon, Corky Parkinson and Chris Talley.

Other appointments are second-year law student
James Humphreys; first-year law students Rebecca
Buehler and Terri Ann Moore; Juniors Tim McMahon,
Steven Pockrass, Brandt Surgner, and Eric Turner;
sophomores Mark Chiappara, Craig Garneau, John
Gorlowski, Jeff Harwood and Joseph Nuckols; and
freshmen Marion Herring and Valerie Pierson.

The alternate counselors are David Hellberg,
Michael Longshore, Mark Moore and Robert Ryan; and
freshmen Jennifer Bray, Marie Kothman and Julia
Sheppard.

Professor nominated for award

Journalism Professor Ronald H. MacDonald was re-
cently nominated for an award by the National Associa-
tion of Television Program Executives at the NATPE’s
annual convention in New Orleans.

MacDonald was one of three producers from across
the nation nominated in the category of short subjects
The award went to WBIR-TV in Knoxville.

MacDonald was nominated for a documentary he pro-
duced titled ‘‘Scenic Overlooks.’’ The documentary was
an in-depth portrait ofpoints of interest along the Blue
Ridge Parkway. The documentary was -produced by
WDBJ-TV in Roanoke in conjunction with the 50th an-
niversary of the parkway.

MacDonald joined the Washington and Lee faculty in
1969 after a long career in broadcast journalism :

 

 
Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, February 13, 1986

Divest

( Continued from Page I

Hough chaired the three-member
committee the board formed in May

isin A ny
Name that house :

Hall to be named

van, a Baptist minister from Phila-
delphia. The one non-subscribing
firm ‘‘maintains in South Africa only
a small office of sales represen-
tatives from the United States,” the
statement said.

The Board decision was opposed by

 

 

 

in response to a petition signed by a
group of 342 students, faculty and
staff members that called itself the
Washington and Lee Campaign
Against Apartheid.

The trustees’ statement said that
on Dec. 31, 18 percent — $13.5 million
— of the University’s $74 million port-
folio was invested in American cor-
porations with interests in South
Africa.

Of the 27 companies, all but one
have agreed to abide by the Sullivan
Principles, a set of racially pro-
gressive employment practices
designed by the Rev. Leon H. Sulli-

a ee ee eee re em eee NCEE LNENN mee

In other action, the board voted to
raise tuition for next year by 7 per-

Board

O Continued from Page 1

chaired by Wilson and also includes
Rector James M. Ballengee and the
chairmen of the board’s six other
committees.

Wilson said Student Body Presi-
dent John B. Lewis was asked about
the Girard case at Friday’s Campus
Life Committee meeting. Lewis also
sat in on the full session of the board
Saturday.

Lewis reported at Monday’s Stu-
dent Body Executive Committee
meeting that many trustees had ask-
ed ‘“‘basically what the hell was going
on’’ with the Honor System, and ad-
ded without elaboration that he had
done his best to tell them.

 

W&L’s only South African student,

junior Mierwhaan Manan of Cape

Town, who said the South African
government uses ‘‘American money
to exploit blacks.”’

Since April, students across the na-

tion have organized rallies, marches
and sit-ins to protest college _ in-
vestments in South Africa-related
firms. During a University of Virgin-
ia Board of Visitors meeting last
month, for example, students built
shanties at the foot of the Rotunda to
symbolize the South African slums.
One lean-to carried the slogan
“Death or Divestment.”’

cent to $7,600 from this year’s $7,100.
Inflation for the last year has been
between 3 and 4 percent.

In addition, the board was updated
on the search for a replacement for
retiring Commerce School Dean Ed-
ward C. Atwood Jr.

Wilson said the original list of 120
candidates for the position has been
narrowed to between 10 and 15 final-
ists. The list includes both members
of the W&L faculty and outside ap-
plicants, according to Wilson.

The board also approved a change
to its by-laws shortening the term for
a trustee to five from six years, ‘‘giv-
ing more people an opportunity to
serve on the board,’’ Wilson said. The
change does not affect the tenure of
current trustees.

 

 

GENERAL NOTES

 

Alpha Phi Omega, a national
service fraternity and the nation’s
largest Greek organization, will
be holding an organizational
meeting in Room 109 of the Wash-
ington and Lee Student Center on
Wednesday, Feb. 26, at 7 p.m.

The deadline for applications
for a six-week summer school pro-
gram at Oxford University in
England is March 1. The program

 

CLASSIFIEDS

is run by a group of universities in
Virginia, of which Washington
and Lee is one. Information and
applications are available in Dean
Simpson’s office, Washington
Hall.

Any student wishing to spend
one semester or an entire year at
The School of African and Orien-
tal Studies of the University of
London, England, please see Pro-
fessor Roger Jeans or Professor
Porter in the department of his-
tory before the April vacation.

 

 

Valley True Value Hardware

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

E. Nelson Street
463-2186

  

 

 
  
  

  
  

  

Mon.-Sat. 8:30-6:00
Sun, 1-5

 

soon as possible.

Complete selection of After-Six formal wear,
cummerbunds and accessories in stock

Winter Sale Continues

With More Mark-Downs

CHOICE

 

 

Rent your Black Shawl Tuxedo

from the Tux Corner
at University Cleaners

$35.00 Complete plus shoes

Order before Monday, March 1, 1986

n-Bennis
Special rates for
_ Fancy Dress Rentals

Try to place your orders as

 

for ex-president

The residence hall under con-
struction on Nelson and Washing-
ton Streets will be named for Dr.
Francis P. Gaines, president of
Washington and Lee from 1930 to
1959. The Board of Trustees ap-
proved the naming of the hall for
Gaines during its recent winter
meeting.

“Dr. Gaines guided the Univer-
sity through periods of growth and
prosperity, and times of war and
controversy,’’ said President
John D. Wilson. “‘It is fitting and
appropriate that the trustees have
chosen to honor Dr. Gaines by giv-
ing his name to this major new
building.’

Gaines, who died on the last day
of 1963 at his home in Lexington
at the age of 71, became president
while the country was in the grips
of the Great Depression. At a time
when many colleges and universi-
ties were fighting to survive, W&L

 

 

 

 

An artist’s conception of the planned Gaines Residence Hall

continued to grow under Gaines’
hand.

A native of South Carolina,
Gaines received degrees from
Richmond College (now Universi-
ty), the University of Chicago,
Duke University and Columbia

 

 

  

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

 

The Chavis House, where MSA members live

University. He taught English at
Mississippi State and served as
president of Wake Forest College
before becoming president of
W&L at age 38.

Gaines Residence Hall, schedul-
ed for occupancy in September

House renamed for first black student

The Board of Trustees voted
last weekend to rename the house
at 10 Lee Ave. in Lexington after
John Chavis, the first black to at-
tend W&L. The house, which is
owned by the University, current-
ly houses members of the Minori-
ty Student Association and serves
as the MSA Cultural Center.

A widely respected teacher and
minister in the Presbyterian
Church, Chavis attended Liberty
Hall Academy in 1795 after study-

_ Students for minority affairs.

Marcellus Wright Cox and Smith Architects

1987, will house 249 students. A
corner gate house, a principal ar-
chitectural feature of the $8.1
million building, will provide a
large multi-purpose lounge area
to be used for lectures, meetings
and musical programs.

ing at Princeton College in New
Jersey. He later moved to North
Carolina, where he opened sever-
al schools and continued preach-
ing and writing until his death in
1838.

“‘We are very pleased with the
trustees’ decision to name the
house after Mr. Chavis,” said
Anece McCloud, associate dean of

The house will now be known as
the ‘‘Chavis House.”’

 

 

 

SERVIGTAR.

23S. Main
Lexington, Va. 24450

Lexington Herdware
463-2242

 

an
—=

Typists—$500 weekly
at home. Write: P.O.
Box 975, Elizabeth,
NJ 07207

 

 

 

   

~ Wendell’s
Barber
Shop

| need your
head for
my business.

  
 

 

STUDENT ACCOUNT

      
 
     

= S. Jefferson St.
43538.
Hours:

Mon.-Sat. 9am to lam
Sunday 10am to iam

Sandwiches (Eat In-Take Out)
Gourmet Items of All Nations
Cocktails® Wine@Beer
Subs@Imported Cheeses

Catering

“ve suit the occasion”

gregory's

formal wear

See Our University Representative
About Our Low Prices and Free Delivery

Mr. Weston Newton

    
 
      

 
    
      
    
   
    
  
  

 
  
 
 
 

 
  

 
  
 
   
 
 

174 Graham-—Lees
463-9472

    
 
7

SPORTS
Cagers win two;
|ODAC race close

 

® By DAVIDEMRICH

« Assistant Sports Editor

 

4

, After stumbling over the weekend
against archrival Roanoke, the
* Washington and Lee basketball

|. Generals finished the week fast with

———_

wins over Old Dominion Athletic Con-
" ference foe Eastern Mennonite and
non-conference opponent Emory.
The week’s events all point to
" tomorrow night's contest in Mary-
\ ville, where the Generals will go look-
_ ing for a seeded berth in the con-
ference tournament. A win against
* Maryville, who fell to W&L 67-62 on
, Jan, 14, would raise the Generals’
conference mark to 8-6, virtually en-
* suring a finish among the con-
, ference’s top four teams for W&L.
The top four teams in the ODAC are
* awarded the home-court advantage
, for the first round of the conference
tournament, which is set to begin on
* Tuesday.

‘At the present time, according to
, ODAC and W&L Sports Information

Director Mark Mandel, all the teams

' — with the exceptions of conference-
, leader Emory and Henry and cellar-
= dweller Bridgewater — are so close

* that it is impossible to tell which

, teams will finish in the top four.

Emory and Henry
: Roanoke

a Lynchburg

Washington and Lee
: Eastern Mennonite
Maryville
Hampden-Sydney
Bridgewater

~

~~

~

Emory and Henry.

 

_ In the event of a tie in the stand-
ings, the teams that are tied are
awarded points based on the strength
of the opponent — for. their con-
ference wins. The teams are then

ranked by the amount of points they
have.

Back on the hardwood, the
Generals avenged an early season
61-58 loss to Emory in a resounding
manner, thumping the Eagles, 73-37,
in the Warner Center last night.

Tuesday, the Generals were forced
to go into overtime to defeat the
Royals of Eastern Mennonite after
being ahead by as many as 10 points
in the first half. The Generals got the
points when they needed them in the
must-win situation, defeating the
Royals 83-81 in the Warner Center.

W&L got the overtime win when
Steve Sklenar took a bounce pass
from Fred Bissinger, wheeled into
the lane and softly dropped in the
gamewinner.

Last Saturday, the Generals drop-
ped a tough conference road game to

Roanoke, 59-56. W&L led most of the .

way and held the lead at halftime by
virtue of a nine-and-a-half minute
Maroon dry spell.

Jeff Harralson was the leading
scorer for W&L with 17.

| ODAC STANDINGS

9-3
7-5
7-6
7-6
7-7
6-6
6-7
1-11

Thursday : Roanoke at Lynchburg.

Friday: Washington and Lee at Maryville,
Bridgewater at Emory and Henry.

Saturday: Bridgewater at Maryville, Roanoke at

 

 

 

‘ By LEIF UELAND
, Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee men’s

+ Swim team finished off their dual-
meet season Saturday with a decisive

" vietory over William and Mary,

+ 70-36. The team ends the season with

, at record and now begins prepara-
tions for the Tri-State Championships

that will be held at W&L on February
20-22.

As has been characteristic of the
* Generals’ victories, the team struck
quickly, gaining an early lead from
which their opponents could not reco-
* ver. '

*

«

* “Once again, we got off to a quick
start. They were a team who didn’t
think they could beat us and we never
* opened the door for them,” com-
. mented head coach Page Remillard.

Remillard pointed out that the
meet was an important indicator for
the team as they approach the Cham-
. pionships.
“The challenge was to try to get

back to those times that they had
before Christmas...and we were able
to do that almost to the man. And that
is where you want to be right before
the big events,’’ Remillard said.

Key performers this past week in-
clude senior Chris Hope who Remil-
lard said is advancing by great
strides. Remillard also praised both
captains, senior David Lewis, whose
times are already down to those
when shaved and tapered and Tim
Stanford, whose battle with the flu
now appears to be completely over,
allowing for what should be an
outstanding showing by Stanford in
the Tri-State Championships.

While the long period of extensive
training is now only a memory for the
swimmers, an equally crucial aspect
of their season, the taper, is now
underway. During the taper, the

‘ swimmers train at shorter distances,

though with greater intensity.

As training during the taper is
similar to a race, the swimmers now
have a greater awareness of where
they are in their training. Because
swimmers now know immediately if

their training is on schedule or not,
the taper can be a frustrating ordeal
for tde swimmer.

“‘The taper is as much mental as it
is physical,” stated Remillard.

Though the Generals appear to be
currently hitting their stride, they
will be up against stiff competition in
the meet. Fairmont State, who won
the title last year over W&L by 150
points, again looks to be the favorite
and the Generals are in no way en-
sured the second-place finish they
took last year.

“I think they [Fairmont State] are
going to have to miss their taper. And
we will have to hit ours. It really
comes down to what percentage of
your team hits their taper,’’ Remil-
lard said.

In response to queries as to the
possiblity of additional qualifiers, for
national championships, Remillard
said that the team has learned not to
look too far ahead as they did against
Shepherd. But he added, ‘‘We hope to
have additional qualifiers and there
certainly is the possibility, the rest is
up to the swimmers.”

 

Ea

 

By Paul Foutch/The Ring-tum Phi

Steve Sklenar goes up in traffic against Roanoke

‘Swimmers drown Tribe, prepare for Tri-States

 

MOOSE HERRING

.Grapplers split tri-meet, head to regional with optimism

‘

 

* By CHARLES T. GAY
» Staff Reporter

 

Washington and Lee’s wrestling

" squad ended its dual season by split-

* ting a pair of matches at Washington

_ and Jefferson last Saturday. The

split closes the W&L season mark at

* 9-2. The Generals punished Gannon,

. 35-13, but dropped a heartbreaker to
the hosts, W&J, 20-19.

The Generals experienced little dif-

» ficulty in besting Gannon. Co-cap-

tains Brian Lifsted and Larry Anker

‘
.
+

aaa

+ @By Appointment 463-9588
‘ i Robins Peggy «Marie

RS) RE ARS) RD OE) ES AEE) RC ARE RUE ORR

ee er

Marie's Hain Sylers

Only Hairstylist to accept the Colonnade Card

(142), Mark Robertson (158), Win
Phillips (167), Rich Redfoot (177) and
Dan Fales (heavyweight) all emerg-
ed from their bouts victorious.
Phillips won by fall and Steve Castle
got things going with a forfeit win at
118 pounds.

The only usual starter who had
trouble was George Loupassi, who
lost but redeemed himself against
the host Presidents.

W&L’s performance against W&J
was just shy of the mark. The
Generals lost despite taking five of

0)<—-Poert

Old Main St. Mall
Lexington, VA 21450

 

Mw

: 28 S. Main Street

Tilson Real Estate

: 703/463-3191
®

P.O. Box 1156

 

‘ Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

= Students under 21
' Must Have

prior Insurance
Approval

RFD7, Box 149,

 

 

Rt. 60 East

103-463-1670

Emergency
103-377-6331

Brian and Doris
Fredricksen

Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

the 10 bouts with the Presidents.
Anker, Robertson, Redfoot and Lou-
passi won by decision and Castle won
by default.

The W&L grapplers now head to
the Eastern regional, set for this
weekend at Trenton State in New
Jersey. Head Coach Gary Franke
was cautiously optimistic about the
Generals’ chances at the regionals.

“‘We’re looking forward to going up
there and qualifying some Gen-
erals,’”’ said the Generals’ mentor
whose W&L teams have piled up a
44-8-1 record over the last four

     
 

U.S. 1IN.

EAST LEX

463-3614

seasons.

He admitted however, “that it’s
hard to say just how we’ll do,’’ he
said. “I hope we’re prepared enough
over the season — mentally, as well
as physically.”

Franke also indicated that Anker,
who has wrestled all season at 142
pounds, will cut weight to 134 for the
regional to give the senior a better
chance at qualifying for national
championships

But Franke also added: ‘‘We have
an outstanding opportunity to qualify
all around.”

  

Open Until Midnight

tt tt i el

 

 

George’s Hairstylist

x Great New Talent x
We Welcome
Mary Burgdorf

George's — Elegance in the Old Tradition

Since 1963

>)

now has

 

136 Varner Lane

 

The Ring-tum Phi, February 13, 1986

All-star hype

...1 think we need more post-
season or in-season all-star (well,
more or less all-star) games.
They’re so much fun (yeah, right),
**** and what with the success of the
NBA and NHL mid-season classics
‘ (and let us not forget their progeny,
By Mike such as the Slam Dunk contest and
Stachura the NBA Old-Timers Classic) the

way things are going, the all-star
se is going to be the father of more spin-offs than ‘‘All in the Fami-
y.”

Let me see: The possibilities for alternative, mixed-bag, mean-
ingless, mega-buck contests just begin to flow now that they’ve let has-
beens ... oh, excuse me, greats of the game ... into all-star
games/shows.

Oh sure, they're fun, these meaningless games. But that was when
there were only four games (one for baseball, one for basketball, one
for football and one for hockey). But things have gotten out of hand.
That NBA old-timers game Saturday night was a mite silly. And there
were more than a few times I wondered if the old birds were going to
have heart attacks. But other than that trivial concern, the games
themselves are plain ugly. I mean, if I wanted to remember the good
old days of Hondo Havlicek, I’ll call CBS, ask them for some tapes and
rent a VCR. Watching Havlicek — in his late 40s — run up and down
the court is like, well, watching somebody in his late 40s run up and
down the court,

Very little can be done to improve my image of these legends of the
game. But when I see them gathered as s bunch of balding, paunchy,
old men, I’m thinking, ‘‘Hell, I could dribble circles around that old
geezer...Oh, that’s Bob Cousy ... You mean that old guy was a star at
one time?”

Even though it may have been a good idea at one time, as a one-time
event, it ought to have dawned on the clowns who promote these cir-
cuses that it just isn’t going to be all that exciting. Look what they did
at the first one of these ‘I Remember When’ games, baseball’s
Crackerjack Classic. They played it on a football field and slid in the
fences so we suckers in the adoring public could ooh and ahh when
Hammerin’ Hank Aaron displayed that old form.

Yet, the fun with these All-Star shows doesn’t stop there. We have to
have a Slam Dunk contest, too. And a Home Run contest. How about
an All-Star sneaker contest? Can you see it? Magic Johnson, Michael
Jordan and the entire Boston Celtics team being judged by an expert
panel including Gloria Vanderbilt, Halston and, oh, why not, Jack
Nicholson.

On top of these in-season or post-season jokes, we also have your out-
of-season clashes of the titans or near-titans. Come again? Oh, yeah.
Haven’t you heard of the Pizza Hut All-Star Softball Game? That’s
where baseball’s best play softball in Florida in February. Excite-
ment to no end, I’ll bet.

Understand me, I’ve got no gripe with the charities these games
benefit. But somehow, I don’t think all the money brought in from
these games benefits charities. If the NBA or NFL is so concerned
about improving its public image, why not ask the players to take a
percentage out of their salaries as contributions to a children’s clinic.
The point is we don’t need these games. They’re silly, 99 percent of the
time boring, and always more trouble than they’re worth (and I
haven’t even mentioned the possibility for career-threatening in-
juries).

 

TIME
OUT

 

 

 

 

 

Seems to me these are all team games we’re talking about here. The
__ all-star concept detracts from that. Let’s see if we can remember to
_ talk about players and teams rather than all-stars...

.... Trekking through the slush and muck along the Colonnade, some
quick thoughts. Hoops: If they’re on, they’re better than anyone in the
conference. Wrestling and swimming: Good luck at upcoming
championships taking place over break. Track: Watch for another in-
door ODAC title...

.... Imagine a U.S. Davis Cup team without John McEnroe, Jimmy
Connors or a McEnroe-Peter Fleming doubles team. That’s what
we’ve got for the March 7-9 tie with Ecuador. So much for having
someone you can depend on....

....Larry Holmes says he and Michael Spinks are going to do it all
over again in April. I always knew he would find a way to bow out
gracefully...

...Let me suggest these squads as NCAA action begins to heat up:
Carolina’s the state. Duke, N.C. State and of course the Tar Heels will
be there in the ACC and beyond. Georgia Tech has nearly completed
its folding act. Others of interest: Notre Dame (Syracuse win was first
over a top 10 team for a Digger squad this late in the season since 1981,
a final four year), UNLV, St. John’s and Bradley...

 

 

 

PIZZA SERVED HERE, TO GO,
OR DELIVERED

 

© Try our fresh baked Pan
Pizza, Thin ’N Crispy®
Pizza and Priazzo™ Ital-
ian Pie, Served after 4 p.m.
Mon.-Fri. and any time
Sat. & Sun.

* Personal Pan Pizza for
lunch. Available from 11:00
am-4:00 pm (Mon.-Sat.).
¢ Plus...Pasta, Salad Bar,
Sandwiches, Beverages.

¢ Served to your table, or
delivered to your home, or
call ahead and we’ll have
your order hot and ready to
go.

¢ Each Wednesday night,
5:30 until 8:30 p.m., all the

   
 

© 1985 Pizza Hut, Inc.

 

 

 

 

salad, pizza, spaghetti, and

garlic bread you can eat for 600 E. Nelson St.
only *3.49. Children under 6 Lexington
years-99 Hut. 463-7000

 

 

University Florist

Wishes
All Students A
Happy Valentines Day
And
An Enjoyable Mid-Winter
Break

463-6080 15 W. Washington

VASP PLE

Patadatgha slgint gt

es

.

Soot PS.

oF bd PPC oa eee

ee wa ee ee eee ee ee OT eS eo

«4 SSS
 

 

 

 

“BACK PAGE

The Ring-tum Phi, February 13, 1986

 

‘Lysistrata’ cast members negotiate for the end of the war

Sex comedy is a hit

 

By JOHN PENSEC
Theater Critic

 

Sex and drinking conjure up im-
ages more of fraternity parties than
of ancient Greece. This could change
after the University Theatre produc-
ed “Lysistrata” this past week.

Aristophanes’ comedy about the
Peloponnesian War opened last Fri-
day, closed Wednesday and enter-
tained audiences the entire time. It
starred Associate Dean of the College
Pamela H. Simpson in the title role.

Under Lysistrata’s direction, the
women of Athens and Sparta decide
to withhold sexual favors from the
men until peace is declared. Because
of this, ‘‘Lysistrata”’ is intended to be
sexually explicit and may not have
appealed to everyone.

It must be remembered however,
that Aristophanes meant “‘Lysistra-
ta’ to be crude. Audiences have
found the play offensive since it was
first performed. But by being so, it
draws attention to the problems of
war in an unusual way.

Character portrayal was wonder-
ful. Lexington is not the most liberal-
minded city around, but under the
direction of Al Gordon, the play

165 South Main St.

 

faffnorEL bite Florist
We Just Want To Say
Happy Valentine’s Day

To All You Sweethearts
Out There.

seemed to understand and work with
this potential problem.

Senior Mark McDonough portray-
ed perhaps the most memorable of
the male characters. He played Myr-
rhine’s husband and was terrific as
he pleaded with Myrrhine to sleep
with him.

Simpson brought Lysistrata to life,
and she obviously enjoyed doing it.
However, it must be realized that
many people went to see the play
because she was in it. One of W&L’s
deans in a sex comedy? What would
Lee have said about it?

I am sure he would have enjoyed, if
not agreed with; the scene between
Simpson and the Athenian Commis-
sioner of Public Safety, played by
senior Chris Carmouche. It was a
fight to the finish with the women on
one side and the men on the other.
The relish with which both perform-
ers yelled at each other made it a
true battle between the sexes.

There was a good relationship be-
tween the audience and the actors.
The actors obviously enjoyed their
parts and were relaxed in their per-
formances, and this had its effect on
the audience.

For those who found the play
crude, the second act should have

463-9152

 

 

VIDEOCENTER

OF
LEXINGTON

xx Special

Movie Rentals
3 for

1 year membership
Player Rental

or

$2.00
$5.00

99
$5.00 a day

 

463-2177
Lexington, B.V. Shopping Center

Mon.-Sat. 10-9 p.m.

Sun. 12-5 p.m.

Offer Expires Feb. 28

 

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

been the play’s saving grace. While
no less raunchy, it did include the the
chorus speaking directly to the au-
dience. The chorus discussed the pro-
blems of war that span centuries and
are not restricted to one era. While
good points were made, it was unfor-
tunate that no invitation was issued
to the audience to participate in what
could have been a volatile confronta-
tion.

The play is set in ancient Greece,
but was definitely updated, unless a
chapter of NOW existed in Athens at
the time. Actors costumed as Afghan
rebels, misplaced flower children
and Jane Fonda imitators gave the
play a sense of the present. It also ad-
ded a sense of hilarity, as did a Ram-
bo poster and a sign declaring
“Bears Beat Patriots.”

The message of the play, that war
destroys not only countries but also
families, is one that spans the cen-
turies and should have been taken in-
to account while viewing the perfor-
mance. The play is funny, and it is
serious. In this aspect it is a mirror of
life.

Everyone involved should be com-
mended. Cornedy is hardwork, and
the success of ‘Lysistrata’ shows
them to be workaholics.

Work. Share. Save lives.

bring a lifetime of rewards.

call: 1-800-392-4580.

Call
463-7174

‘Chow Hounds’ sub-merge

 

By JAMIE BERGER
and CHRIS KOMOSA
Food Critics

 

If there is one thing constant in this
world, it’s the sub. What could be
more satisfying to the Washington
and Lee dilettante than a cold beer
and a hot sandwich that would bring
Dagwood Bumstead to tears? In our
one year mission to seek out strange
new food, we descended on the Sub-
way and the Old Main Sandwich
Shoppe to find the best subs in Lex-
ington.

With our ever-watchful Cold Cut
Comptroller, Walt Devine, we disco-
vered the secret entrance to the Sub-
way (with a little help from their
sign) and walked in.

It didn’t take too long for our
orders to arrive. Chris began with his
“New Yorker” specialty sub, which
contained salami, pastrami, hot
ham, American and _ provolone
cheese. The sandwich was good and
large, with a healthy serving of each
item. Chris, though, was a bit disap-
pointed. Although the sandwich was
good, it just didn’t live up to expecta-
tions such a name invoked.

Jamie’s “‘Italia’”’ was a spicy sand-
wich with ham, salami, hot ham and
provolone. His other sandwich was a

Husker Du:

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Entertainment Editor

 

I suppose I should begin this review
by stating my bias: Husker Du is one
of my favorite groups. Personally, I
think they should be as big as Wham!
or Van Halen, but that, of course, is
just my own opinion. In any event,
“Flip Your Wig’’ is a great album.

Husker Du’s joyful roar is a won-
derful thing indeed. It is like a well-
played football game in that the
violence and sheer energy is channel-
led into a brilliant, well-crafted di-
rection.- Likewise, the Husker’s har-
ness their almighty hardcore thrash
into the service at some absolutely
jaw-dropping hooks. For instance,

Maple Hall

One of the Historic Country Inns

of Lexington

463-4666 for reservations
Open Monday, Friday and Saturday

Route 11 North

él got my Fulbright
scholarship by
helping Costa Rican
children discover the
toothbrush.

 

Craig Leon
Haifa, Israel

If you can meet the challenge, your summer in Latin America can

Like leadership skills. And a career edge you can't get anywhere else.

To be an Amigos volunteer, write: Amigos de las Americas, 5618
Star Lane, Houston, Texas 77057.

Or call: 1-800-231-7796, In Texas,

fu,

UNLIMITED

Spring Break
Will Be Here Soon

Make Your Plans Early
30-day — Advance Low Fares
Still In Effect
Don't Delay

21 W. Washington St.

 

     

corned beef and cheese which Jamie
surprisingly proclaimed the better of
the two. The corned beef was ex-
cellent and the melted Swiss made
for a good combination.

Walter’s ‘Imported Ham and
Cheese’”’ was good, but maybe a bit
too bland. 2

On the whole, we were disappoint-
ed in the Subway. The sandwiches
were good, but that was about it.
Ironically, the problem may be that
the Subway attempts to pile too much
and too many meats and cheese onto
one sandwich. This juggernaut effect
may be great for the more ravenous,
but sophisticated subbers may be
turned off. Fortunately, the
reasonable prices and a good game of
foozball § made up for some of our
disappointment.

The Old Main Sandwich Shoppe
was also a surprise, but this time a
much better one. We fought our way
through the crowd of what must have
been three or four people and made
our way through the teeming Old
Main Street Mall to find The Old
Main Sandwich Shoppe.

The shop is small so we ordered
and sat out at a table in the mall. The
menu was surprisingly large, with a
number of submarines and club
sandwiches, as well as side orders,
soups and desserts. Jamie ordered
the Spicy Sausage Sub and chili,

while Chris decided to go with his
heritage and order the Polish Ham
Sub and a bowl of corn chowder.

We only waited a minute or two
before the chili and chowder arrived.
The chili was hot and very, very
thick, with enough beef and beans to
keep the hungriest chow hound hap-
py.

These good appetizers prepared us
for the even better sandwiches,

Jamie’s sausage sub consisted of; '

kielbasa sausage, Italian pizza sauce
and melted provolone cheese on a
French roll. The sandwich was big,
and the taste was excellent. Subtle
and spicy, the Spicy Sausage Sub far
outdid the Subway’s Italia.

Chris found his sub to be equally
good. Consisting of ham, imported
Tilsit cheese, lettuce, tomato, onions,
and a hot sauce, the first bite made
Chris jump out of his seat and per-
form 4 rousing polka.

Basically, the choice between the
Subway and the Old Main Sandwich
Shoppe depends on your mood. If you
are looking for a lot of food and a lot
of beer for a reasonable price, in less
than dainty atmosphere, then the
Subway is your place. But, if you’re

y

looking for a superior-tasting sand- ,

wich, then seek out The Old Main
Sandwich Shoppe. Either way, they
make: a ‘ine alternative to the fast
food scene.

Bigger than Wham!?

listen to the way ‘“‘Divide and Con-
quer”’ threatens to fly off the handle
and get lost in its own sardonic rage.
But it never does. Instead, it plows
ahead at breakneck speed, all hooks
and enraged vocals, never slowing
down for those not fast enough to
catch up.

“Flip Your Wig” is the first Husker
Du album that finally delivers what
these Minneapolis bohemians have
been promising at. Producing
themselves for the first time, the
Huskers have wrapped this record in
a sleek gloss that cuts through the
sandpaper edge that characterized
their earlier work. ‘‘Loud and Fast”
is no longer the rule. It is only the
springboard for a record that will
get them signed to a major label.

EYE eee

ONCAMPUS

Thursday, February 13
3:30 p.m. — MATHEMATICS COLLOQUIUM: ‘“‘Quaternions anc
Topological Sleight of Hand: A Mathematical Case of Jekyll & Hyde.’
Vernon Eagle, visiting assistant professor of mathematics. Room 6,

Robinson Hall.

327, Commerce School.

 

5 p.m. — CHEMISTRY SEMINAR: Howe 401. Tea at 4:30 in Howe 402.

Friday, February 14
Washington Holiday begins.

Monday, February 24
Undergraduate classes resume.

Tuesday, February 25
7 p.m. — CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT WORK-
SHOP: Job Hunting Techniques. University Center.
7 & 9 p.m. — JOURNALISM FILM: “Dr. Strangelove.”” Room 203,

Reid Hall.

Wednesday, February 26
7 p.m. — PANEL DISCUSSION: ‘‘The Third World: A Window on
Development,” Jihan Raheen, director of programs for the United Na- ’
tions; Jack Hutchins, director for communications and transportation k

for Inter-American Development Bank; Margaret Holmes, regional
manager, Peace Corps. Sponsored by the Office of Placement. Room °

The title cut hints that the boys are
fully aware of their impending fame.
“Sunday Section gave us a men-
tion/Grandma’s freaking out over
the attention,”’ sings drummer Hart.
Similarly, guitarist Bob Mould — a
“‘hardcore-Edge”’ if there ever was
one — recognizes the new crowd of
people who have been hovering

around his band. The kids are still .,

there with their fists in the air, but so
are the record-company moguls.
“Walking around with your head in
the clouds,”’ he growls on the album’s
single, ‘‘Makes No Sense At All.”

This is the record that is going to
break the doors wide open but will
they be as big as Van Halen? Well,
God knows they deserve it.

 

 

Campus Music

formerly Campus Shop

 

117 W. Washington St.

TDK SA 90 Reg. $3.29 ea. Now $2.24 ea. 3 pk. only $6.42
Maxell XL 1190 Reg. $3.99 ea. Now $2.60 ga

  

     

. 2-pk. only $5.

  

 

Tee

WILLSON-

HOUSE

Restaurant

 

WALKER

Treat That Special

Someone To
Valentine’s Day Dinner

Featuring a strolling violinist
Open Tuesday through Saturday ’

Lunch 1 1:30-2:30,
Sunday Champagne Brunch 12:00-2:30
Reservations requested for dinner
Closed Monday

30.N. Main St.
Lexington, Virginia 24450
703-463-3020

 

CES
oo

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

* !

Dinner 5:30-9:00 Y

 

 

 

 

 

AAT: ATOR: teem H..n5 ry AARNE nH

 

a, mac

 
 

 

 

 

 

mettre, aie
- ir -

  
  

‘Supplement to.

THE RING-TUM PHI

‘February 27, 1986

 

gt a

 
 
   

 

 

 

 

 
?

i

Page 2, Fancy Dress Supplement, February 27, 1986 \

Mandatory ‘stuff’

 

By PAUL DAVEY
Social Critic

 

Six months from now, you may
be sitting around your home and
all of a sudden begin thinking
about the great time you had at
Fancy Dress. Why, in early
September, might you begin
thinking about an event in the
seemingly distant past? The
answer is that the Student Ac-
tivities Board, at a price, has
many items that tend to spur
your mind to recall that eventful
night in Lexington (I mean, Rio).

What I am talking about here is
Fancy Dress_ paraphernalia.
Shirts, cups, posters, bulletins,
and perhaps other new items
bearing the official Fancy Dress
logo will be on sale next week
along with the F.D. tickets. Each
year, it seems, the total bill at the
end of the line is about twice as
high as the ticket price. Why do
people buy all of this stuff?

First of all, you must buy a T-
shirt for yourself and your date.
That is mandatory. This year,
the shirts are short-sleeved—a
change for the better, in my opin-
ion. I don’t like long sleeved T-
shirts in the first place and it
seems that many people like to
cut off the sleeves anyway for
visits to the weight room, so why
start with long sleeves in the first
place? After the two mandator-
ies are bought, people seem to
like to buy extras. Some people
just can’t decide between the hot
pink and the turquoise, so they
get both. And then perhaps shirts
are bought for those out-of-town
friends who, late in the evening
during a Christmas party said,
“Sure, I'll come up for Fancy
Dress, you can count on it,’’ but
have since reneged. Brothers
and sisters are sometimes gifted
with the shirts, perhaps to con-
vince them to come to
Washington and Lee someday or
perhaps to taunt them for going

 

 

Join Us
For Dinner At

Maple Kall

One of the
Historic Country Inns
of Lexington

463-4666

for reservations

Open Monday, Friday
and Saturday

Route 11 North

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A NIGHT iN

   

 

 

 

This year’s T-shirt design

toa big, impersonal! school where
school-wide parties are impossi-
ble.

After the T-shirt stop in line,
which should be less expensive
than last year because the SAB
cut $1 off the price of each shirt,
you get to the posters. They are
usually well-designed and buying
one each year and hanging them
side by side in your apartment
does make a “decorative state-
ment” of some sort, I imagine.
They are fun to have, just so long
as you don’t get them creased up
before you get them home and
make them worthless.

Next, you hit the grain cup
department. If there is any pro-
duct on the college campuses of
America that is in utter over-
abundance, it is the grain cup.
Who do you know who does not
have stacks and stacks of these
things sitting around their room
or kitchen? And if you think
about it, you can only use one cup
at a time, disregarding parties,
so you should only need three
—one in use, one in cleaning, and

one in the cabinet. But I guess
that is a simplistic approach to
the grain cup issue. It seems that
the reason people have so many
of these big plastic cups is that
each evokes a certain memory or
place that they don’t wish to
forget. In your kitchen should be
a few cups from your hometown,
a few from the surrounding girls,
Foxfield, a couple with your
fraternity insignia on them, and
most importantly, at least one
from each year’s Fancy Dress.
So do not pass up this valuable
stop in the line.

It seems that after looking at
the situation at F.D. parapher-
nalia, there can be but one con-
clusion: Buy, buy, buy. Why not?
The stuff is fun and will last for a
long time, if not lost or lifted by a
temporary resident of Amherst
County who was not by her own
choice unable to attend the ac-
tual party. And each time you put
on the shirt or take a drink from
the F.D. cup, you will be filled
with fond memories of that great
night in Rio.

Make Money Working!

The SAB needs people
to work at F.D.

If interested,
call Carol Calkins at 463-8590

 

 

Andre Studio 500 Level

 

Count Basie Orchestra

 

 

 

400 Level
Warner
Center

 

2
Beer
Beer
ee

 

 

 

 

—

 

 

 

Tit Lt

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ayeuoyduiss wnig
[293S ayo[TeYyD YIM Auoojeg

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

g | |
§ | .
fa i {| Too
ig gt! = i a
: w
zs 400 Level &
y @ be
g§|2 Doremus i e
Ss|3 Gym z
= 2 & y 4
zs 2 t o
5 3 a s
i 5
& @

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Map of Warner Center and Doremus Gymnasium

 

 

 

   

 

 

nite Front Mary. ;

167 S. Main St., 463-3106

   

   
   

ww

Come by and see us for all
your Fancy Dress supplies.

Check next week’s ad for
specials on beer, wine,
champagne, etc.

 

 

 

“th

fmm hae esi
Make the big

weekend
even better

We'll add a touch

of class

 

 

165S. Main

463-9152

 

 

 

 
- + « 7 . *

> ,

 

For a vintage FD...

 

By PETER HUNT
and SARAHSTEVES
Wine Critics

 

Fancy Dress is just around the
corner and it is yet again time to
consider what wines and cham-
pagnes will impress the date.
Faced with the awesome task of
matking this choice, we spent
Sunday evening at Spanky’s
—Lexington’s local cave du vin
determining the most economi-
cal and palatably rewarding
drinking experience for Fancy
Dress 1986. Let us walk you
through the weekend in a liquid
diet ranging from an inexpensive
dry white to a $60 bottle of
French champagne.

To celebrate the start of the
weekend, begin with a $5.99 bot-
tle of Freixenet, a Spanish spark-
ling wine. The froth generated by
a sparkling wine creates a happy
feeling and deliciously tingles the
palate, making this sparkling
wine ideal as an aperitif. Freix-
enet is an excellent buy because
Spanish sparkling wines are still
relatively new on the market and
American importers have kept
the price low to promote the
wines. Freixenet has an earthy
taste and is suitable for all occa-
sions — ranging from that ro-
mantic moment shared between
you and your hometown honey to

that after-the-ball party.

An inexpensive white wine
equally good for all occasions is a
1984 Virginia Riesling by Bar-
boursville Vineyards. Although it
claims to be a medium dry white,
we found it to be a moderately
sweet wine with a very young
palate and a fruity nose. It is
popular because of its charm and
drinkability — it is easy on the
palate and pocket. ($6.79 per bot-
tle.) The Virginia Riesling is an
anytime wine. It is a wonderful
way to while away a day with
some cheese and crackers or
even a light pate. One good
aspect of this wine for Fancy
Dress is that it has a lower-than-
most alcohol content. One can
drink a whole lot more and avoid
a potential headache.

The following three wines were
picked as good complements to
that special meal during the
weekend. Whether you are dining
at one of the local eateries, cook-
ing in the country, or traveling to
a resort in West Virginia, one of
these wines should most assured-
ly find a spot on your table. For
those of you with a preference for
fish or poultry, we suggest a 1984
semi-dry white table wine by
Robert Mondavi. It’s a simple,
straightforward ‘wine with a
more forceful flavor and a touch
more body than the Riesling. If
you choose this wine, try to

match it with an entree not
engulfed in a rich sauce — it will
overpower the taste buds and the
full value of the Mondavi will be
missed. The key to this wine is
not only its $9.69 price tag, but its
1.5 liter bottle.

For those hearty red meat
lovers or for those who have sav-
ed their game from hunting sea-
son for just such an occasion, an
exciting red wine is a 1983 Zin-
fandel by Sutter Home. With a
$6.59 price tag, it is a spicy wine
with an evenly peppery taste. It
has an exotic feel to it. Zinfandels
can be drunk young or left to age.
To really complement this wine,
drink it with wild boar or even a
tough fish, perhaps salmon.

Another catchy red wine, made
for meat and cheese and all but
the most delicate of fish, is the
1977 Merlot by Firestone Vine-
yards. It is a little more expen-
sive at $8.29 a bottle, but has a
very distinctive taste for a med-
ium-bottled red. It is a wine of
great drinkability and has a
luscious taste. It should be drunk
at room temperature, but if Fan-
cy Dress weekend turns out to be
warm enough, you might want to
cool it just a little. Firestone
makes an excellent wine, but the
only vineyard is_ relatively
young. Since it takes about seven
years for a vine to produce a
good grape, we feel that this

Fancy Dress Supplement, February 27, 1986, Page 3

   

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

The right wine can impress a date

vineyard should be coming of age
in the near future. Even so, this
1979 Merlot is very satisfying to
even the most inebriated of
palates.

Finally, we get to our last two
selections. For the big drinkers,
we suggest a 1983 Cabernet Savi-
gnon by Fetzer. With a nominal
price tag of $28.59 for three liters,
it is a medium-bodied, finely
balanced but fully varied
flavored red wine. It has a
forceful flavor with a sharp nose
and can be drunk either with a
meal or simply to lose some in-
hibition.

For the beautiful people out to
make a memorable weekend, or
just simply looking for a new
candlestick holder, we suggest a
1978 bottle of fine Perrier-Jouet
with a price tag of $53.69. The

Save On Your Rental
And

Rent Your Tux From

College “own Shop

At Discount Prices

also receive *2.50 coupon for your corsage

also

 

Full Line Of Tux’s And All

Formal Accessories i, Stock

Wide Variety Of Bow Ties And Cummerbunds

111 West Nelson Street

bottle is easily distinguished
from its peers by the highly
noticeable pink and_ green
flowers painted on the label.

' Beyond this superficial beauty is

an excellent light champagne
with a distinctive bouquet. Here
lies the key to a sparkling wine
and a champagne. The bouquet
of a champagne is noticeably
more aromatic and pleasing to
the senses, as is the persisting
taste on the palate.

Thus ends our brief introduc-
tion to some of your better bets
for Fancy Dress, chosen from
Lexington’s available wines. In-
dulge yourself and we are sure
you will enjoy each and every
one. But remember, a wine is
like a woman; to be compliment-
ed, appreciated, pampered —and
never abused.

463-2731

 

vi
' Page’, Fancy Oréss Supplement, February 27, 1986
The Basie Orchestra
featured at FD Ball

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Entertainment Editor

 

The World Famous Count
Basie Orchestra will bring its
renowned brand of jazz to the
Fancy Dress Ball for the second
year in a row.

Led by director Thad Jones,
the Basie Orchestra may be
without its namesake but it cer-
tainly is not without its stature.
Jazz great Henry Mancini once
said of Basie and his orchestra,
“No one or no band has con-
tributed more to American
music than Count Basie.”’

William Basie, an only child,
was born Aug. 21, 1904, in Red
Bank, N.J.

Thomas ‘Fats’ Waller in-
fluenced Basie’s early style

which he honed in the Harlem
clubs of New York City in the
1920s. In later years Basie toured
the famous T.0.B.A. ‘“‘wheel,”’
the major vaudeville circuit for
black entertainers. One evening
while stranded in Kansas City,
the Count signed up with the
Walter Page Blue Devils and
soon thereafter joined the Bennie
Moten Orchestra.

When Bennie died in 1935,
Basie took over.

When talent scout John Ham-
mond heard Basie’s band, he en-
couraged Basie to add to the
band. He took them to New York
in 1935 and the Count Basie Or-
chestra began its career as one of
jazz’s all-time great outfits.

When Basie died on April 26,
1984, his obituary read: ‘Your
melodies will linger in our hearts
forever.”’

 

 

 

Basie Orchestra Director Thad Jones

Fun Times Are Just Ahead!

Breakfast set
for after ball

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Entertainment Editor

 

There will be a_ post-ball
breakfast at the Alumni House
Friday night from 1:15-2:00 a.m.
Tickets are $10 per couple and
space is limited to 25 couples.

The breakfast was the brain-
child of Alumni Director Dick
Sessoms and was organized by
freshman Valerie Pierson.

Pierson said the breakfast was
organized without the coopera-
tion of the Independent Union
because “they haven’t been able
to organize anything in the past.”

Senior Chuck Diffenderfer,
chairman of the Independent
Union, said nothing was organiz-
ed for Fancy Dress because of
“Jack of support last year.”

Tickets for the breakfast are
by reservation only. For infor-
mation, call Carol Calkins no
later than Wednesday at 463-8590.

 

 

March 7th is
Fancy Dress |

So plan ahead and let
Hodge Podge help!

Special orders for all your party needs.
Cheese, Perrier, imported beer and your
other favorite beverages.

HE Pats

101 W. Nelson St. eave hrc heater pee eager acca
Lexington, Va. i ee Te ee ee ee
| Tradition

The Palms will remain Supports Another...

open til 2a.m. serving a late—

nite brunch Friday nite of

Aluin-Bennis

Fancy Dress Weekend.

Celebrates Fancy Dress with
new spring arrivals including
“Jams”

Steak & Eggs
Palm’s Rarebit

Gourmet Burgers
Croissants

Palm's Salad | Still taking orders for tuxedo sales
Homemade Soups] jf and rentals

Since 1963 i
_ Choice _ Student Charge

 
~ w

 

Real ‘Carnaval’ endures
in Rio for hundred years

 

By JOHN KALITKA
Staff Reporter

 

Of the great popular entertain-
ment available in Rio de Janeiro,
only one tradition has endured
for more than 100 years and can
still demand widespread recogni-
tion as one of the finest and most
elaborate celebrations in the
world.

Earlier this month, Rio cele-
brated its 136th “Carnaval.”
For Rio, “Carnaval’’ begins on
the Saturday preceding Ash Wed-
nesday and continues for four
days and nights of parades, balls,
and frenzied celebration. The
climax of Rio’s ‘Carnaval’
season is the contest among the
city’s various samba schools
which parade down the Avenida
Getulio Vargas in elaborate
costume and ethnic dress. For
Rio’s elite, the revelry concludes
with a spectacular Ash Wednes-

day ball in the city’s Municipal

Theatre.

“Carnaval,” as it is observed
by the traditional Roman Catho-
lic calendar, is a period of
celebration and festivity im-
mediately preceding the Lenten
Season — a religious observance

during which Catholics, at one
time, abstained from eating
meat for some 40 days. The word
“Carnaval” itself can be traced
to the Medieval Latin phrase
carnemlevare OY  carnelvarium,
which literally means “to put
aside meat.”

Although some of the sponta-
neity of earlier ‘‘Carnaval’’ cele-
brations has been lost (some
claim the samba school parade
has taken on a quasi-official
designation and_ therefore
become less impulsive), Rio’s
streets remain packed with enor-
mous and exuberant crowds that
rival any similar celebration.
Preparations for the annual
event begin weeks in advance.
Even the poorest from Rio’s
favelas join in the merrymaking.

“Carnaval’’ is celebrated
throughout the world in Roman
Cathloic countries, although the
first day of the “Carnaval”
season varies with local custom.
In Munich and Bavaria, for ex-
ample, ‘Carnaval,” or Fasch-
ing, begins on the Fesat of the
Epiphany (Jan. 6), while Cologne
and the Rhineland area of Ger-
many begin thear festivities on
Nov. 11 shortly after 11 a.m.
(11th month, day, hour and min-

  

   

¥.

 

 

  
 

   
  
  
 
 
 
    
 

 

  
 
 

GENERA,

CHO

PanguarT®™

with Supreme Sauce
or

(All entrees also include)

French Onion Soup

Salad Bar

Hot Rolls with Butter
Beverages

Chocolate Mousse

ute). In New Orleans, the ‘‘Car-
naval” season climaxes with the
Mardi Gras season beginning 10
days before Shrove Tuesday (the
Tuesday before Ash Wednes-
day).

Although the origin of ‘Car-
naval” is uncertain, it is believed
to have its roots in ancient
Roman and Greek agricultural
festivals which celebrated the
resurrection of nature with the
coming of spring. And while sur-
viving ‘‘Carnaval’’ customs have
succumbed to local folk tradi-
tions and exhibit great variety,
certain features of the ancient
Roman and Greek festival
themes have endured:

eAbundant display of costume,
masquerading, dancing and song
(available at the Warner Center
next Friday night).

*Rich food, drink and celebra-
tion (partially available at War-
ner Center next week).

Celebrations and rituals com-
memorating the fertility of man
and nature (you provide).

eTemporary suspension
and/or inversion of social rank
and established mores. (Remem-
ber, be kind to visiting Virginia
Military Institute or or Hamp-
den-Sydney College students. )

Fancy Dress '86

A CANDELIGHT DINNER

by reservation only

Friday Evening, March 7th

Boneless Breast of Chicken on Virginia Ham

Fried Shrimp with Cocktail Sauce

Baked Potato with Sour Cream
Oriental Mixed Vegetables

* each meal served with a complimentary mocktail
Strawberry or Peach Daiquiri

 

 

 

 

 

Fancy Dress Calendar

Thursday, March 6

9 p.m. — CONCERT: Featuring Let’s Active and the dB’s, at

the Student Activities Pavilion. Tickets $6.

Friday, March 7

8:30 p.m. — 79th FANCY DRESS BALL: “Carnaval!”: A
Night in Rio,” featuring The World Famous Count Basie Or-
chestra, the Skip Castro Band and Junior Walker and the All
Stars. At the Warner Center and Doremus Gymnasium. Black
tie. Tickets $35.

9 p.m. — FIREWORKS DISPLAY: Outside the Warner
Center.

1:15 to 2 a.m. — POST-BALL BREAKFAST: At the Alumni
House. Tickets are $10 per couple. Limited to 25 couples. By
reservation only: Call Carol Calkins at 463-8590 by Wednesday.
Menu includes assorted juices, fresh fruit, scrambled eggs,
country sausage, blueberry muffins, hot coffee and hot tea.

Saturday, March 8

11 a.m. — RUGBY GAME: W&L versus Virginia Military
Institute at home.

1:30 p.m. — BASEBALL GAME: W&L versus West Virginia
Tech at home.

1:30 p.m. — LACROSSE GAME: W&L versus Virginia
Tech. at home.

Sunday, March 9

1:30 p.m, — BASEBALL GAME: W&L versus West Virginia
Tech at home.

 

‘Fancy Dress Supplement; Fébruary 37, 1986, Pages”

 

 

  

To Make Reservations
Call Ext. 8599 Mon.-Fri.
Between 8:30 - 4:00
Or stop by Evans Dining Hall

Make reservations early.

This is the same dinner that was served on the balcony
in Evans Hall last year and was an early sell-out.

 
  

PRICES
20 meal plan $4.00
Date of 20 meal plan member 6.00
Point Card holder 7.5 pts.
Date of Point Card holder 6.5 pts.
All others Welcome $9.00/person

  
 

é

°

 
- * + * < » ¢€ .

Page 6, Fancy Dress Supplement, February 27, 1986

On the cover...

Student Body President John Lewis escorts Sweet Briar Col
lege junior Polly Paton at Maple Hall north of Lexington
Photograph by Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

University Florist

Designs made with a special
touch just for you!

Add an extra special
touch to Fancy Dress
Weekend with any
corsage or

boutonniere

10% off

15 W. Washington St.
“3Lexington, Va. Mon.-Sat.

8:30-5:00&7

 

When renting your
Fancy Dress tux
from

Aluin-Bennis

102 W. aor St.

College Taye Shop

111 W. Nelson St.
You'll receive a
‘2.50 Coupon
for your — purchase
from

i fercon

florist to The Homestead .
103 N. Jefferson St oa
Lexington, Va. 24450 463-9841 ae

eS

 

 

 

Let’s Active and dB’s to
get FD weekend rockin’

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Entertainment Editor

 

 

When Let’s Active hits the stage next Thursday
night at the student activities pavilion, a great
many people are probably going to ask them-
selves, ‘‘What’s a ‘Let’s Active?’ ”

A good question, that. For starters, take a look at
the name. ‘‘Webster’s New World Dictionary”
defines ‘‘let’’ as a verb meaning ‘‘to allow; per-
mit.’’ “Active” is an adjective meaning ‘‘acting;
working.” Does that help?

I didn’t think so, Try this: Let’s Active was form-
ed in 1981 by pop genius and wonderboy Mitch
Easter. Easter has been behind the controls pro-
ducing some of the best pop albums of the last five
years (R.E.M., Pylon and Love Tractor) and Let’s
Active is his own baby.

They are from South Carolina, if that helps.

Here is some more nifty information. According
to the group’s biography, Mitch plays ‘“‘an ‘elec-
tronic’ guitar through a vacuum-tube amplifier
covered in mysterious dials and lights.’’ Sound
pretty far out? You bet. There is a bass player as
well named Faye Hunter who shares the singing
with Mitch. And they have a drummer and another
guitarist as well.

Their first release was an EP called ‘‘Afoot”

which, according to their biography, sold ‘‘in ex-
cess of 11 billion copies.” Or something close to
that, I guess. Their debut album, ‘“‘Cypress’”’ has

(again, this is according to their bio) “grooves,

black plastic, a cardboard jacket and a neato pic-

ture inner sleeve.’’ Yipes!

Perhaps this will help. Let’s Active is one of

America’s brightest new bands. ‘‘Cypress,’’ for

those who have had the pleasure of hearing it, is a

record to rejoice over. It is a sort of cross between

R.E.M.’s “Murmur” and the Beatles’ ‘‘White

Album.”’ Mitch Easter’s songs are hook-filled ear-

candy which stick in the listener’s head like a

memorable kiss. And he’s a brilliant guitarist. As | uerriero said he has heard “good reports”
the biography says, “Kinda free kinda wow.” You about Thursday night’s billing from both the Uni-

t. versity of Virginia and Hampden-Sydney College.
Opening up for Let’s Active will be North Caro- | ‘Weare trying to offer the best quality act which
lina’s dB’s (as in “‘deciBels,’). The dB’s are proba- W¢ think will offer a quality time,” he said.
bly Let’s Active’s biggest competition for Next Big Tickets for the show are $6.

Junior Walker to close out ball

Junior Walker of Junior Walk-
er and the All Stars was one of
the Motown label’s first artists.
His hit records include ‘Shot-
gun,’’ “Do the Boomerang,”
“Shake and Fingerpop,” ‘Road
Runner,” “How Sweet It Is,”
“Pucker Up Buttercup,” “What
Does It Take?” and ‘These
Eyes.”

“I’m always playing,”’ he says.
Junior Walker was born Autry
Dewalt, and came originally
from Indiana. He has spent most
of his life in Indiana and
Michigan, and now lives on a
farm near Battle Creek, Mich.
He remembers big, hard-work-
ing Sunday afternoon jam ses-
sions in South Bend, Ind. and
says that’s where he first decided
he wanted to be a musician

 

 

 

 

Mitch Easter (right) and Let’s Active

Thing, incidentally. Their first two records,
“Stands for deciBels’’ and ‘‘Repercussions,’’ were
critic favorites and were simultaneously ignored
by American listeners. After the departure of
head-dB Chris Stamey, however, the dB’s landed a
major label deal. Guitarist Peter Holsapple took
over the writing chores and served up the best
batch yet of dB classics.

SAB chairman Mike Guerriero said that the SAB
usually runs into ‘trouble signing a band for the
Thursday night concert because the SAB has one
night a year to work with.”

“It’s damn near impossible to get a band booked
for that one night,” he explained.

 

 

 

Junior Walker, minus his All Stars

it’s the one he still plays, and the
one on which the Walker sound
has grown.

In the early

he cut some R&B rockers such as
“Good Rockin,’’’ ‘‘Willie’s
Blues,” ‘““‘Brainwasher,” ‘Twist

: 1960s, Walker Lackawanna,” ;

himself. One star of these ses- played in bars and jazz clubs in _ that became his = hit Ces
sions gave up playing and moved both Michigan and Indiana. A Mood.” His first side for
to Chicago; he gave Junior his friend heard him playing on a Motown’s la vas“

be Cieago: be pave Junior bi ying Motown’s label was ‘Monkey

street corner and took him to Jump.” Th
a ‘ en came ‘
Detroit’s Harvey Records, where _ hit e the first true

bought him another saxophone; “Shotgun.”
SAB expects to clear
_ profit with ticket sales

 

By PETER BOATNER
Staff Reporter

 

Fancy Dress is expected to
cost about $64,000 this year, but
the Student Activities Board
hopes to earn a profit of about
$1,000 from the sale of tickets, t-
shirts, cups and posters, accord-
ing to the SAB’s Rob Tolleson,
chairman of the Fancy Dress
committee.

This total is about the same as
last year’s FD budget of $65,000
but the SAB is ‘‘making every ef-
fort to stay in budget”’ and avoid
a repeat of last year’s deficit,
SAB Executive Director Mike
Guerriero said this week. To help
avoid tbe deficit, ticket prices
have been raised for the first
time in several years from $30 to
$35 per couple.

Thursday night’s concert in the
student activities pavilion, fea-
turing the band Let’s Active, will
cost another $14,000 but probably
will not bring in more than
$12,000 from beer sales and the $6
per person ticket price, Tolleson
said. The SAB will make up the
difference through the small pro-
fit from FD or from the regular
SAB budget.

About 41 percent of the FD
budget, $26,000, will pay for the
five bands and five specialty acts
scheduled to perform Fri-
day night. Uther major costs tor
the night include the bill for T-
shirts and other memorabilia,

 

Lighting
Drinks, beer, food

Security

Florist

OOS

Memorabilia

 

Printing

Where the money goes...

    
  
 

Entertainment

Decorations

By John Kalitka/The Ring-tum Phi

 

 

about $51,500, or about 79 percent
of the total revenues. Income
from the sale of FD memorabilia
will bring in $15,000, or 19 per-
cent, and the remainder will
come from the sale of ads in the

Dress theme was chosen in De-
cember, and that he and the 15
others on the FD committee have
been working continuously since
Christmas break. Everyone on

Fancy Dress Sypalement, February 22, 1986.Page.7 . .

 

 

L. toR.: bass, guitar, keyboard, drum

Skip Castro to meld
Classics, originals

After seven and a half years
together, Skip Castro has forged
a strong reputation on the college
and club circuit from Atlanta to
Boston by combining a blistering
live show with a potent reper-
toire that melds classic rock ‘n’
roll with a blossoming collection
of catchy original songs. The
quartet is composed of guitarist
Bo Randall, pianist Dan Beirne,
bass player Charlie Pastorfield,
and drummer Rico Antonelli and
takes its name from manager
Corky Schoonover, who once us-
ed Skip Castro as a stage name.
The group originated at a weekly
jam session at the University of
Virginia where Randall and
Pastorfield went to school. The
songwriting is handled by Beirne
and Pastorfield who between
them have penned nearly three
quarters of the songs on the

tists such as the Kinks, Chuck
Berry, James Brown, Marshall
Crenshaw, Kenny Loggins,
George Thorogood, Southside
Johnny, NRBQ, Delbert McClin-
ton and the Atlanta Rhythm Sec-
tion. Furthermore, as a member
of the NACA (National Associa-
tion of Campus Activities), Skip
Castro has been nominated for
the entertainer of the year award
the last two years, and in 1983
their videotape of ‘‘Boogie at
Midnight”’ earned a spot on
MTV’s “Basement Tapes” com-
petition. Also in 1983, the band’s
New Year’s Eve show at the Wax
Museum in Washington, D.C.
was listed in Billboard maga-
zine’s top ten national grosses. In
January, Skip Castro was
selected to perform on stage for
President Reagan at the Youth
Inaugural Ball, seen live on na-

decorations, security and food the SAB has been lending a hand __ group’s three albums. tionwide television. Billboard
and drink. playbill distributed at the ball. for the last two weeks, said In the past two years, the band called Skip Castro a ‘‘band that
The sale of tickets will bring in Tolleson said that the Fancy Tolleson. has performed withrenownedar- seems destined to make it.”’

Caper’s

Fancy Dress is on the way...

Call Capers and make your
appointment today...

Haircuts from $8.00 ($1.00 off for W&L)
Perms from $35.00 (long hair slightly higher)
Cut, shampoo, and blow dry $13.50
Upswept/ special occasion ‘‘do’s’’ 15.00

“‘Fancy Dress”

 

Rent your Black Shawl Tuxedo

NEW - Evening makeup - glittering for your eyelids,
shoulders, makeup fixative base keeps your
makeup fresh all day...all evening, too!

Eyeshadows, lipsticks, bronzers

European glazes to add super shine to your hair.

Caper’s
25 N. Main
463-2566

VISA

from the Tux Corner

at University Cleaners

Tues.-Fri.

9-5

Thurs. evening by appt.
Sat. 9-2

$35.00 Complete plus shoes

Order before Monday, March 1, 1986

MasterCard

 
scare aasmpmansremmmnanmmmanuccececemamnnmnmmennnmueaninsnnatsssunonumerwenee i en

ieee tamale aa el

WRENNER REPRE IemeRenerer mttaer

* oe.---™

C Gage & Fancy Oress Supplement, February 27, OMG © 5 Mokke 8th ly ey 2 tes

79th Annual
Fancy Dress Ball

March 7, 1986

   

Memorabilia Sales.

 

os... $35 /couple
Dee. oe $8 2
a, ed ee ee $2
oe: rs 3/1
dB’s and Let’s Active Tickets................. $6 person =
Corsages sold by Fuller Flowers =

 

 

 

On Sale In The University Center
Room 108
Monday, March 3
Friday, March 7
10:00-12:00 - 1-5 p.m. : ia

ATLL

 

 

Thursday, March 6 : =
8:30 GB's
= Student Pavilion Let’s Active
= Fri. March 7 Fancy Dress Ball

8:30 =
Warner Center :

Proper ID Required

‘ill I Ul | i HI MELEE HTT HHH AEE ir

 
 

 

 

VOLUME 85, NUMBER 21

Boatwright

 

Letters shown

 
   
 

in library

  

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 

220%
aN 4

 

 

Sports-write

Deford talks

 

 

football here

   
   
 

 

 

Your Fancy Dress weather

 

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Friday: Windy, cold
Saturday: Very cold

 

Che KRing-tum Phi

MARCH 6, 1986

 

 

 

 

Small bands get
mixed response

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Entertainment Editor

 

The booking of two little-known
bands, Let’s Active and the dB’s, by
the Student Activities Board for
tonight’s Fancy Dress concert has
met with mixed responses from the
student body.

While many students will probably
go to the show, in any event, there
are some who see the concert as an
SAB flop.

Freshman John Liegters said,
“The SAB could have gotten better
bands, If they got R.E.M., they could
have gotten someone better this
time.”

Sophomore Frank Watson felt the
same. I’m not a really ‘top 40’ type
person, but I think they should get
‘top 40’ bands because most of the
school is like that,’ Watson said.

Sophomore Charlie Lyle said he
wasn’t too excited about tonight’s
show at first, but feels it will be a
good time.

“T just find it kind of funny that
both bands played at Hampden-Syd-
ney a couple of months ago,” said
Lyle.

SAB Chairman Mike Guerriero de-
fended the choice of performers, say-
ing the task of finding an available
band is made more difficult by the
strictness of the SAB’s schedule.

‘With only one night a year to work
with, it’s damn near impossible to get
a band booked for that one night,”’ he
said.

He said the SAB had the choice of
getting a more expensive band or op-
ting for a less expensive act now and
subsequently providing a better band
in the spring.

Also, Guerriero said the $6 ticket
price takes into account that Fancy
Dress is “expensive already.”

“Let's Active and the dB’s are new
and up and coming. We are trying to
offer the best quality act which we
think will offer a quality time,” he
said.

Sophomore Chris Hagar said he is
going to attend tonight’s concert even
though he has never heard either
group.

“T heard the dB’s are supposed to
be pretty good. They seem more my
style of music. I would rather have a
small band more my style than a big
one I don’t care about,”’ he said.

Junior Steve Morris expressed
similar sentiments.

“T’ve never heard of either band,
but I still think it’ll be a good time.
We usually get pretty good entertain-
ment for the size of the school. They
{the SAB] usually make a good
choice.”

Junior Chip Davis said, ‘I’m sure
the SAB did a good job. I’m going
Thursday because I'll be lubing up
for the weekend.”’

Va. Bar accuses Read
of sexual misconduct

 

By JIMSTRADER
Editor

 

A complaint filed by the Virginia
State Bar yesterday in Rockbridge
County Circuit Court charges that
Commonwealth's Attorney Beverly
C. ‘John’ Read is guilty of sexual
misconduct in that he ‘‘made sexual
advances and/or initiated sexual
contact with one or more of his
female clients’? between 1977 and
1984.

The complaint says Read made the
advances ‘during the course of his
professional attorney/client relation-
ship with his clients,’’ and without
their consent or invitation.

“Such conduct,” the complaint
continues, ‘‘constitutes misconduct
in violation of disciplinary rules’’ of
the Virginia Code of Professional
Responsibility.

If found guilty, Read could be
reprimanded, disbarred or have his
law license suspended.

Read, a graduate of Virginia
Military Institute and the Washing-
ton and Lee Law School, has been
licensed to practice law since 1971
and has been Commonwealth’s Attor-
ney for Lexington and Rockbridge
County since 1976.

The case, not yet scheduled, will be
heard before a three-judge court in
Rockbridge County. Read has asked
that the hearing be held in open

 

By MIKE ALLEN
aaccuuve Editor

 

Candidates for student body presi-
dent said this week that increasing
tensions between students and ad-
ministrators will be one of the
primary issues confronting next
year’s student government.

Elections for the “Big Three” stu-
dent body offices — Executive Com-
mittee president, vice president and
secretary — will be held Monday
from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Runoffs will be
Thursday, and balloting for class EC
representatives will take place in two
weeks.

About 30 students attended a Tues-
day afternoon ‘Big Three’’ question

By MIKE ALLEN
Executive Editor

 

and answer session in the Commerce
School. The 90-minute forum was
sponsored by the Executive Commit-
tee and moderated by Student Body
President John Lewis, who asked
each candidate four initial questions
and then relayed anonymous written
queries from the audience.

All three of the candidates current-
ly serve on the EC:

eVice President Andrew Caru-
thers, a junior from Shreveport, La.,
was elected class representative to
the EC for his first two years.

“T’ve seen just about everything an
Executive Committee member can
see by being on the EC three years,”’
Caruthers said. ‘The next step is to
capitalize on all the fortes and foibles
of the last three student body presi-

honor violation.”

 

‘Big Three’ vote is Monday

dents I’ve served.”’

eJunior Shayam Menon of Ranson
Town, W.Va., has been a class repre-
sentative the last two years.

Menon said he’s prepared to handle
ail the president’s responsibilities,
including having to ‘catch a few
knives in the back, or whatever.”’

eSecond-year law representative
William Thompson of Boca Raton,
Fla.. was a Washington and Lee
undergraduate.

“T’m 24 years old and I feel like a
fossil,” Thompson said, adding that
W&L has “‘really gone through such
an amount of change it’s really kind
of amazing, and I feel lucky to have
been part of the stages.”’

The candidates said greater com-
munication is needed between the

Candidates refuse road-sign answer

but that ‘‘as I see it now, it would not be considered an

Abbott noted that a student body jury this year ac-

 

quitted a student of a charge of stealing in connectior

In general, is stealing a road sign likely to be an honor
violation?

You’re not sure? Well, the three candidates for stu-
dent body president don’t seem to know either, or if they
do, it’s a secret.

At an election forum held Tuesday, each of the can-
didates — all of whom now serve on the Executive Com-
mittee — twice declined to answer that question.

“Don’t think that we haven’t been gauging student
opinion,” said Vice President Andrew Caruthers.

“Each case must be taken on its merits,” said junior
representative Shayam Menon.

“T will decline comment,’’ said second-year law re-
presentative Bill Thompson.

Both of the candidates for vice president said sign-
stealing likely would not be an honor offense.

Junior Paul Abbott, running against classmate
Brandt Surgner, said that ‘‘the EC reflects what the stu-
dent body believes, and that will become our policy,”

with the larceny of a tub of wine. ‘‘You could kind of
associate that witha sign,”’ he said.

Surgner added that ‘‘in most instances, the act of tak-
ing a road sign ... would be more of a prank”’ than an
honor violation.

The two candidates for secretary took the opposite
view.

Junior Roby Mize said that ‘‘technically I would say
that’s an honor violation, but you can’t make a blanket
statement.”

Sophomore Rick Robins said that ‘‘theft of a road sign
is an honor violation — I don’t think there’s any doubt
about it.”

He added that a fraternity prank “probably wouldn’t
be considered an honor violation,’ but that the EC
“could let the fraternities know that in the future,
scavenger hunts need not include the theft of a road
sign, and after that it would be considered an honor
violation.”

student body and the University ad-
ministration, with Thompson conten-
ding that ‘‘the main tradition I see
threatened on this campus is student
self-government.”’

School officials and students, he
said, “don’t talk to each other
enough; so we don’t understand each
other.”’ If the tension is not lessened,
he added, ‘‘the institution might be
endangered.”’

Menon added that the president
needs ‘‘to stick up for students’ rights
everywhere — in the dorms and on
Student Control — and not let them
slip away.”

Caruthers pointed out that the
president serves as a ‘‘spokesman or

(See Forum, page 4

 

~W2&L Votes ’86

The Candidates

Vice President: Secretary
Paul Cnet’ Abbott Roby Mze

 

Inside...

Today’s Ring-tum Phi includes
a “W&L Votes '86’’ supplement.
Inside, you'll find:

~Editorial evaluating the
presidential hopefuls

Profiles of each of the seven
candidates

Senior Class President
Townes Pressler’s advice on
voting

~ Why you won’t see those bed-
sheets around cy pus anymore

~ Rules and‘ egulations for can-
didates

~ Duties of ‘‘Big Three”’ officers

 

 

 

Goshen-
going

gone?

 

By SIMON PEREZ
Staff Reporter

 

What next? No Goshen
escapades during spring term?

That’s the way it looks for W&L
students, at least for this spring.

Highway Department assistant
resident engineer John Hall said
State Route 39, the only road to
Goshen, will not be passable until
early July because of last fall’s
catastrophic flood.

In November, highway engineer
Leo Ferris said the road would be
fixed in anywhere from 90 days to
six months.

The flooding caused two mud-
slides along a 11-mile stretch,
Ferris said, and the Highway
Department will build retaining

walls to protect the road.

Hall said this week that the pro-
blem is a very unusual one. A sec-
tion of the road approximately 60
feet deep and 20 feet wide was
washed away, and must be filled
up. Hall projected the total cost of

repairs at over $1 million.

Most of the route’s traffic is be-
ing detoured to U.S. Interstate 64.

 

 

 

 

 

BEVERLY C. ‘JOHN’ READ

court. He could have requested a
closed hearing on the matter.

Read was unavailable for com-
ment this morning on the complaint.

 

Catalog raises honor issue

 

By JIM STRADER
Editor

 

One professor calls it ‘‘an abomination.’’ Another says
it is ‘‘disturbing’’ and ‘prima facie evidence of
plagiarism.”’ The student body president characterizes it
as “‘an honor violation waiting to happen.”

On its cover, the paperback book received at Washing-
ton and Lee fraternity houses in the last week bills itself
as a ‘catalog of collegiate research” and lists titles of
more than 14,000 term papers for sale, ranging from
“Computers & Macro-Marketing” to “U.S. Mining of
Nicaraguan Ports’’ to ‘‘Faulkner’s Treatment of Time
and Language.”

“Telephone orders accepted,’’ the catalog promises.
“Orders are sent in unmarked envelopes.... The footnote
and bibliography pages are free...’’ And service is avail-
able by Federal Express.

The catalogs reached Lexington last week as part of a
nationwide mass-mailing to fraternity and sorority
houses conducted by Research Assistance, a Los Angeles
company.

Art Stekel, reached by telephone at the company’s of-
fices, said the mailing was the first that Research Assis-
tance had conducted. Previously, he said, the company
had relied on advertisements in magazines and college
newspapers.

Several W&L faculty members said they weren’t sur-
prised by the appearance of the catalogs in Lexington.
Both English Professor Severn P.C. Duvall and Politics
Professor Milton Colvin were aware of the existence of
what Colvin called ‘‘paper mills,’’ but both expressed
disappointment at the fact that these books were being
sent to W&L students.

“‘T’m appalled,’’ Colvin said. ‘‘I can’t believe somebody
would be that arrogant.”

“I’m sorry about it,” said Duvall, who added that such
catalogs do not create a crisis, but disturb him nonethe-
less.

“We didn’t need them,”’ Duvall said. “If a student
wants to cheat, he’s going to cheat. This just makes it
easier.”’

Student Body President John Lewis expressed disbelief
that a company would send this sort of catalogs to a
school such as W&L which is so well-known for its Honor
System.

“T think that’s insane,”’ Lewis said.

He added that it was equally ridiculous to expect W&L
students to order the catalogs, since ‘‘it’s somebody
else’s work that you'd be turning in as your own.”

Colvin agreed. “In my opinion, it would be a clear
violation of the Honor System to present that paper as
one’s own work,”’ he said.

While Research Assistance’s catalog maintains that
‘all research materials are sold for research purposes
only,” Stekel admitted that some who utilize the service
may plagiarize the papers.

“I’m realistic,’ Stekel said. ‘I know that it does hap-
pen.”’ He added that he thinks only about 50 percent of his
customers plagiarize the material.

Asked what methods the company employs to safe-
guard its papers, Stekel said only that the company con-
trols the distribution of papers.

‘“‘We never sell the same paper to two students at the
same school,”’ Stekel said. He said customers are inform-
ed when they receive a paper that they possess the only
copy of the work on their campus.

Both Duvall and Colvin, who have been teaching at
W&L since the early 1960s, said they have had occasion to
deal with plagiarism in their time here.

Although neither has a foolproof way of detecting

_jSee Catalog, page 4

|Committee to provide free buses

to fraternities following concert

 

By MATT HORRIDGE

Staff Reporter (91.5).

 

about drunken driving on WLUR-FM

the committee’s recognition of the
fact that there will be drinking at the
pavilion and that some may have a

 

eee eerie renee even

The Alcohol and Health Awareness
Committee has sponsored several
events this week to make students
aware of the dangers of drinking and
driving in conjunction with Fancy
Dress weekend, according to com-
mittee Special Events Coordinator
Carol Calkins.

She said the committee has rented
the film ‘‘Prevention,’’ which was
made by self-described reformed
alcoholic Father Joseph C. Martin
and has been shown during physical

“education classes this week. Also, the

committee has had several messages

Finally, the committee has rented
two vans to serve as free shuttle
buses for ‘“‘those who have had too
much to drink”’ at the concert tonight
in the Student Activities Pavilion,
Calkins said.

Instead of driving himself home
and possibly causing an accident,
Calkins said, a drunk student ‘‘has an
alternate way to get home.”’

She emphasized, however, that the
committee is not condoning exces-
sive drinking by renting the two
vans. Calkins said the decision to
rent the vans was based mainly on

few too many.
There will be several stops on the
shuttle’s route:

Stop1- Zeta Beta Tau and Kappa
Alpha
Stop 2— Sigma Alpha Epsilon

Stop 3 — Sigma Nu and Phi Delta
Theta

Stop 4 — Washington Street side of

Graham-Lees Dormitory

Stop 5 Student
Pavilion

Activities

Ihe shuttle will start at 9 piu. at
ZBT and will cover the route every
half an hour until 10:30 p.m. Rides
from the pavilion will begin after the
concert ends
 

 

OPINION
Bad sign

“The student generation needs to know what is going to be
deemed by the Executive Committee as dishonorable.”

 

— Andrew Caruthers at an Honor System symposium spon-
sored by Omicron Delta Kappa on May 20, 1985

We were appalled at Tuesday’s election forum that not a
single candidate for student body president was willing to
respond to the very straightforward question of whether, in
general, swiping a road sign is stealing.

The question was asked twice, but the answers both times
were vague non-responses. By cloaking their comments in
self-righteous philosophical cliches, the candidates copped
out of a question that is essential for their constituency to
evaluate them: What does honor mean to them?

A couple of the candidates said they look at each case on its
own merits. All right, what criteria do they think should be
used when looking at cases? Nobody would say.

Another said the committee has been gauging student body
opinion. OK, what have they found out? Nobody would say.

The general tone of the responses was: “‘It’s none of your
business.”’

And we’re supposed to vote for one of these clowns?

Do we have no better candidates for the highest student of-
fice? Would the best thing these candidates have to say in
front of the Board of Trustees be:“‘I am not sure what
students think on this matter. I will have to tell you after I
talk with them.”

“Stealing a road sign” has in recent years come to sym-
bolize the gray area of the Honor System between ‘“‘boys will
be boys’ and “thieves will be expelled.’ To comment on
whether you consider such an act dishonorable is not codify-
ing the system: it is merely expressing your view of honor
— something about which a voter reasonably could be ex-
pected to be curious.

Remember what they told you in grade school about how
you have to stand for something, or you’’!I fall for anything?
The latter seems to be the approach these EC members take
to the Honor System. They claim to be guided by no fun-
damental principles — that they are responsible merely to
the vagaries of student opinion. You’ve heard of situation
ethics: This is situation honor; morality by headcount.

One candidate offered the startling assertion that ‘‘if the
students decide tomorrow that cheating isn’t an honor viola-
tion,’’ cheating then would be permissible. How does the EC
even now know whether cheating is an honor violation? Has it
polled the student bédy recently on the matter? A person with
any integrity would disassociate himself immediately from
something that purports to be an honor system but condones
such behavior.

An even more curious point that kept being repeated on
Tuesday was that if the EC were making mistakes, that
they’d be corrected on appeal at a student body honor hear-
ing. That assumes that the only direction in which the EC
could stray from the student body’s wishes is in the direction
of conviction; acquittals obviously are never seen by
students at large. Nevertheless, one of the candidates per-
sisted in maintaining that ‘‘most of the important decisions
are not being made by the Executive Committee; they’re
made by the student body.”’ So why elect a student leader? A
computer could much more accurately gauge numerical stu-
dent opinion. Not everyone can have a gelatinous spine. How
fortunate for the student body.

What these candidates think about honor is our business.
To suggest that the specifics of the system can be discussed
only behind closed doors is insulting and outrageous. Im-
agine the outcry if a candidate for president of the United
States were asked under what general circumstances he
would authorize the use of nuclear weapons and his response

was: ‘I’m not going to tell. I would want to gauge my consti-
tuent opinion first.’’

Not all the “Big Three’ candidates suffered paralysis of
the principles, however.

The two vice presidential candidates said they didn’t feel
this student generation considers such a theft to be an honor
offense. That seems like a reasonable assessment, given how
widespread the sign-snatching practice is.

The secretarial candidates leaned the other way. That’s
fine, too — at least they had a point of view they were willing
to express. And one of them even offered a constructive, in-
telligent way to illuminate this Honor System gray area.

The candidates for president, however, are content with
being followers instead of leaders.

Che Ring-tum Phi

 

NEWS STAFF
si uIVG ONO, co ccccsscsicneedivncsecescnecesceanetetsessarcs mare
ee a Oe re Peo err ee RV OTEEE Pe CE MAE Teal) hk Paul Foutch
Jim Strader
Managing Editor Reade Williams
Sports Editor .........--scseeceeeee creer scence eeeeeeeneneenneneeees Mike Stachura
PEGG TUNG. vice cccc ec ccccctcrercccecrccenseceesecssopenceeoesereenes Jason Lisi
Photography Editor..........sssscceceeeeeeeereneeeneeeeeeeereneenens Steve Sadler
Chief Copy Editor ............cccceeeecrseneeeseceneseeeeeeenneeees Matt Horridge
Bntertainment BAG... 2. c ccc ceccncccescccccvccccceceeeeccveoecs Marshall Boswell
Assistant Sports Editor ...........ssecereeeecseeencerenneeeeeenenes David Emrich
EDITORIAL PAGE
Editorial Page Editor .........:sseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeenenereenereeees Nelson Patterson
Assistant Editorial Page Editor. ........:0:0sesecceeeeeeeeereenenees Marie Kothman
ee ee Chris Bowring
BUSINESS STAFF
Business Manager ...........--scceeeceeeeeereeeeeeneneeeeeseeeeenees Jeff Kimbell
Advertising Manager .............cseeereeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeeeeeenenes Hank Greenberg

  

Advertising Salesmen ...........:eeeceeeeeeeeerers Caroline Boone, John Feyrer,
Keri Hinrichs, Jay Reville, Greg Turley,
Circulation Manager ...........ccceeceeeeeeeecnenaeneeteesenoneanes Matt Horridge

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 200 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run, Or send them to The
Ring-tum Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450, This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

   

The Ring-tum Phi, March 6, 1986

| WAS GIVEN
DRUGS AND OFFERED
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
TO JOIN THE CLA.

SAOLLOLETILEE A:

J - Pe

wa

add

eis UII

 

Ze

Lussier

SA
S
S

Vi
v

eg x \

ddddddddidée

4 Y
] cr
_\

Wp yy
Wy

/Y yy

U

 

EY = YY Pal

y bye

Yy
TZ

Y Y
Yj Zi

4
Y

 

 

 

 

MY VIEW

By Tom Maguire

 

 

 

 

According to the calendar, spring
doesn’t begin for another two weeks.
We all know, however, that spring
really, officially, begins when the
newspapers say “pitchers and catch-
ers report to spring training today.”
After a long winter, these are the
most beautiful words in the English

language.

Of course, this year’s spring train-
ing has been marred by news from
the baseball commissioner’s office
that several major leaguers have
been suspended for one year because
of cocaine abuse, admitted by them
during the “baseball drug trials”
held in Pittsburgh this summer.
These players, however, can avoid
the suspension. They only need to
donate up to 10 percent of their
salaries to drug rehabilation pro-
grams in their teams’ cities, perform

100 hours of anti-drug community
service, and agree to submit to ran-
dom drug tests to make sure they
stay off drugs for the rest of their
careers.

I think that’s a small price to pay in
return for the privilege of receiving
hundreds of thousands of dollar a
year to play ball, and most fans
(judging from press reports) seem to
agree. Most of the guilty players
have seen the wisdom of Commis-
sioner Peter Ueberroth’s decision
and have agreed to follow his ruling
without arbitration or court fights. At
least one player, though, acting out of
selfishness and a disdain for the fans
who pay a salary that borders on the
fantastic, has chosen to fight Ueber-
roth’s decision. I speak of Keith Her-
nandez of the New York Mets.

Hernandez is probably the most
despicable of all the players affected
by the ruling. After a trade sent him
from the Cardinals to the Mets (a
trade that outraged many Cardinal
fans who appreciated Hernandez),
the St. Louis management let the
word out that Hernandez had been

Bumpersticker slogan

 

By MARIE KOTHMAN
Assistant Editorial Page Editor

 

Writing this column gives me the
opportunity to express my opinion
regularly. Far be it from me to in-
hibit someone’s right to express
themselves. But there are at least
two sides to every dispute.

Ever since the first coeducational
class matriculated last fall, there has
been a flurry of bumperstickers and
T-shirts that voice point-counterpoint
in varying degrees of offensiveness.
One of the first slogans was ‘Screw
tradition: Date a W&L girl.”’ (Let it
be said that many of the ‘‘W&L girls”
and their parents did not appreciate
this backhanded support.) After this
came the inevitable “Screw W&L
girls: Date a tradition.’’ Then came
“Women at W&L: the beginning of an
error. ’85-’'86, the road trip con-
tinues.”’

Okay, fine. I can take a joke. And
that is the attitude many of the W&L
women have taken, to keep a sense of
humor about the whole debate. I
wasn’t offended by these remarks.
After all, the creators of these
slogans were just expressing their
opinion. It is their choice whether to
date a woman who attends one of the
surrounding women’s colleges rather
than a woman who attends W&L, just
as it is the choice of many W&L
women to date men who attend col-
leges other than W&L. It’s their right
to choose.

Perhaps the biggest problem
created by these early anti-coedu-
cation messages is that they tended
to make adversaries of women who
attend the women’s colleges and
those who attend W&L. I wonder if
such an animosity exists between the
different women’s. colleges
themselves. I bet there is nothing
Hollins women would rather see less
at Cotillion than Muffy from Sweet
Briar or Mary Baldwin modeling the
latest de LaRenta.

Perhaps the rivalry between W&L
women and those who attend
women’s colleges was only _in-
evitable, but surely insults in the
form of bumper stickers and T-shirts

didn’t help. Resorting to name call-
ing and finger-pointing doesn’t bring
about the resolution to this petty and
trivial rivalry. I think it’s really very
ridiculous that the 3,000 women who
attend the women’s colleges could
feel threatened by the 100 women
who are undergrads at W&L.

I'd rather there be a better feeling
of co-existence between the schools.
Yes, at first I was a little angered by
the women visiting on the weekends
who tied up the restrooms and helped
themselves to my stuff without ask-

To the editors:

generate student support for

wrestler, It is unfortunate Mr.
this.

 

Our first reaction upon reading Michael Par-
rish’s letter of Jan. 26 was complete disbelief. We
have been the unofficial leaders of the Unknown
Fans for three years and ‘‘bagheads”’ for four
years. Mr. Parrish’s letter seemed so outlandish
tous, and so far from the truth, that we believed
all who read it would also realize this. A member
of the athletic department even advised us not to
reply toit. Unfortunately, some people obviously
believed what Mr. Parrish mistakenly observed.

The sole purpose of the Unknown Fans is to

Lee basketball. We have never made any racial
references about the Roanoke basketball team.
While we do heckle the players and officials, it is
all in good fun, and is part of college basketball.
The incident Mr. Parrish described, in which a
member of the bagheads had ‘
gon”’ written across his cape was totally inaccur-
ate. What was written was the ‘‘Grand Wizard,”
the nickname for a manager of a professional

While we can not state the intentions of the
Unknown Fans from its inception, Robert Stau-
gaitis’ letter of last week has enlightened us on
this subject. For the four years prior to our ar-
rival in Lexington, the intentions of the “‘bag-
gers’’ were the same as they are now: to stir up

traded because of a serious cocaine
problem. Hernandez vehemently
denied the allegation, and threatened
to sue the Cardinals unless they
apologized. The Cardinals, embar-
rassed, were forced to take back
what they had said.

Up until the very day of his
testimony in last summer’s trials,
Hernandez denied ever using co-
caine. Once he entered the court-
room, though, he sang a different
tune. Testifying with immunity from

' prosecution, Hernandez admitted
that he had used cocaine for several
years, that his addiction was serious
enough to contribute to the break-up
of his marriage, and that he had stop-
ped using it only just before the 1985
season began.

One would think that Hernandez
would have been mortified by this ad-
mission. After all, he admitted that
he was a drug addict and a liar. Ap-
parently, though, Hernandez has no
shame at all. He insists that Ueber-
roth’s sentence is unduly harsh. I
think Hernandez is lucky he wasn’t
thrown out of baseball forever.

Hernandez’s behavior irks baseball fan

According to The Washington Post,
Hernandez will make $1.8 million this
year. After his 10 percent fine is
taken out of that salary, I am sure
fans across the country will be hold-
ing ‘“‘Let’s pay the rent for Keith”
parties to help the poor guy make
ends meet.

Of course, the important thing
about this incident, as far as the fans
are concerned, is that it be put quick-
ly behind us. I want to read about
who is going to be in the Cubs’ start-
ing lineup, not about what is going up
Keith Hernandez’s nose.

When I think baseball, I see grass,
ivy on the walls, and shirt-sleeved
crowds ‘‘oohing” over a great catch.
I hear the roar of 40,000 people
shouting in common joy as a ball
soars free of the player’s’ control and
traces a huge parabola across the
sky and drops into eager hands in the
upper deck.

Hernandez has heard the roar of
the crowd, but recently that sound
has been muffled by a snort of co-
caine and a laugh of derision. Her-
nandez is laughing at us.

called offensive, petty

ing. But I hope I would never be so
petty as to deny someone the use of a
restroom or shower.

Recently a bumper sticker that
reflects the “‘sour-grapes”’ attitude of
some of the women from other col-
leges has been seen around that I do
find offending. ‘‘There’s is nothing
I'd rather see less than W&L girls at
Fancy Dress’’ is the message that
was created by some Washington and
Lee students with the aid of a few
Hollins College girlfriends.

TTER

 

‘Unknown Fans’ clarify purpose

the Maroons!

To the editors:

Washington and

‘The Grand Dra-

Parrish misread

 

support for the Generals and help them defeat

Vandalism disturbs Pressler

This year there have been an unusually high
number of incidents of vandalism reported to the
Student Control Committee. Much of the vanda-
lism is taking place at surrounding women’s col-
leges and has ranged from broken windows to
hundreds of dollars of damage to dormitories.

Washington and Lee prides itself on the “gen-
tlemen’ that it produces. When one vandal is
recognized as a W&L student it mars the image
of the entire Washington and Lee student body. If
you don’t feel that you can visit a woman’s col-

lege without breaking thin it wi
be ininasaitle for g gs, or feel that it will

please don’t go.

We all enjoy the privilege of being <
the facilities at our ane mie uae kane

don’t abuse them.

Student Control Committee Chairman

As I said before, I was not offended
by any of the previous slogans, but
this one bothers me. While it echoes
‘the roadtrip continues” sentiment,
it also suggests that W&L women
have no business at FD at all, much
less with an escort who attends
another school. My immediate reac-
tion was, ‘‘Hey, I pay tuition too,”
and therefore have just as much
right to attend FD as any male stu-
dent, and an even greater right to at-
tend than those women who attend
other schools.

Chris Komosa
Jamie Berger
Class of 1986

you to act as a gentleman,

schools. Use them,

Townes Pressler

 

 

 
>.

 

*
é

NEWS

¥

+

™

Making
:statements

These are two of the Fancy
* Dress ‘86 souvenirs seen around
; campus this week. Freshman
; Dudley Lee and junior Johnny
* Hudson are selling the boxer
j shorts for $9 each. The two en-
; trepreneurs have had 200 pairs
‘ produced and have sold 130, 40 of
«them to Washington and Lee
; female students, “The girls are

se Me

ot the major target area,” Lee said.
;

 

  

:

x

By Steve Sad Phe Ring-tum Pl

 

Mme

ve

é

*

 

 

Than Ww

wore S NOthing I'd rather see

 

1ess
“eC]

2

 

 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, March 6, 1986

 

-|Sophomore charged

in BB gun incident

 

By MATT HORRIDGE
Staff Reporter

 

Sophomore J.P. Baehr, charged
with the unlawful wounding of fresh-
man John Roe early Thursday morn-
ing, admits he fired a BB pistol
toward a group of Phi Kappa Psi
fraternity members but didn’t think
the gun was powerful enough to
cause aninjury.

According to members of Sigma
Alpha Epsilon, they were having a
party last Wednesday night when two
snowballs, apparently thrown by Phi
Psi members, broke two windows in
the SAE house.

A snowball fight then broke out be-
tween members of both houses. Roe,
a Phi Psi freshman, was among those
involved in the snowball fight.

According to the police report, Roe
said he turned his head when he

thought he heard his name called and
was shot in the eye by a BB at ap-
proximately | a.m.

Baehr, a member of SAE, was ar-
rested and originally charged with
assault and battery. The charges
were later increased to unlawful
wounding.

Baehr said he fired a BB pistol out
a second-floor window of the SAE
house but did not think he hit Roe.

Baehr said the pistol he shot was
not “very powerful at all’’ and that
he doubted the BB could travel far
enough to hit Roe where he was
standing.

Roe was taken to Stonewall Jack-
son Memorial Hospital, where he was
treated and released that night. The
police report said there was damage
to the retina of Roe’s right eye.

Baehr said he heard conflicting
reports of what injuries Roe sustain-
ed. ‘‘I would like to know what exact-

ly it did to his eye,” Baehr said Tues-
day.

Baehr said his main concern is
Roe’s health. ‘I’m just hoping the
guy’s eye is all right,” he said.

Baehr’s attempts to talk to and
apologize to Roe have been ignored,
he said, adding that Roe ‘‘said he was
advised not to talk tome.”

Baehr said Sgt. R.W. Hall, the ar-
resting officer, told him the unlawful
wounding charge — a felony — car-
ries a one to five-year jail sentence
and up to $5,000 in fines.

Baehr said the charges against him.
may be more severe than Roe
realizes. ‘‘I’m going to try to get him
to drop the charges,” Baehr said.

Baehr’s preliminary hearing is set
for March 25 in Lexington General
District Court.

Contacted by phone, Roe said, “I
can’t really talk about” the shooting.

.

, By JOHN KALITKA
Staff Reporter

 

 

+ Following an almost six-month delay,
, distribution of the 1984-85 Calyx began last
week. The Class of 1985 should be receiving
* their copies by mail directly from the pub-
, lisher ‘‘within two to four weeks,” according
to the book’s editor-in-chief, David Sprunt.
Calyx distribution continued on campus
+ this week and student opinion on the annual
publication was mixed.
“IT wasn’t really thrilled with the ‘road trip
» partv ’ ” said senior Greg Stites of Jackson-

r

ville, Fla., referring to a Polaroid photo
essay of a road trip. He added that he was
upset that his name was misspelled but
thought the annual, taken as a whole, was
“quite interesting and weil put together.”

Robert J. Tomaso ’85, who works as an ad-
missions counselor, is happy to have his
copy. “I think David did a very good job,
despite the fact that it took so long to get out.
I think David didn’t get as much help as
many other people who’ve worked on the
Calyx,’ Tomaso said.

“T really like the way he incorporated the
news of the time in the carly sections, I think

when you’re looking at the yearbook 30 years
from now, you might look back and say,
‘Now I really have a feel for what 1984-85 was
all about,’ ”’ Tomaso said.

Sophomore Todd Barton of Dunwoody, Ga.

disagreed, “It seemed kind of empty,” he
said.
“For the time we had to wait for it, I think
it was way below standards. Compared to
my high school yearbook, I don’t think it was
worth the wait,”’ Barton said.

The total publishing cost of the Calyx had
been estimated at approximately $41,000.
The Calyx, put out by the W&L Publications
Board, cost each W&L student roughly $8.50

from his student activities fee, according to
staff estimates. That’s $20.80 less than the
annual’s $29.30 estimated cost.

“Many students don’t realize they’re en-
titled [to an annual],’’ said Sprunt. Even if
an upperclassman hasn’t paid the $10 por-
trait fee, he can still pick up his 1984-85 Calyx
as provided for by the Student Body Constitu-
tion.

Portrait fees paid to the Calyx during
matriculation are not intended as a payment
for the annual, said Sprunt. The fees are
necessary to cover the expense of hiring
photographers, although a small portion
“taken off the top” goes toward funding the

1985 Calyx: Yes, Virginia, there really is a W&L yearbook

publication of the annual, said Sprunt. He
declined to say just how much of the fee went
to the Calyx.

Most of the funding for the yearbook comes
from student activities fees, advertisements,
donations and fraternity support, Sprunt ex-
plained.

Each fraternity pays an annual fee of $200
to appear in the Calyx — a fee Sprunt termed
a “mandatory contribution.”

“If it weren’t for fraternities, we couldn’t
have the book,” said Sprunt.

For their fee, each fraternity received two
pages in the annual, including a group pic-
ture as well as space for text.

+

,By BERT PARKS
Staff Reporter

 

+ Corruption in college athletic pro-
grams is the most critical issue fac-
ing the sports world, writer and
‘novelist Frank Deford told a Lee
«Chapel audience last night.
Deford, a senior writer for Sports
"Illustrated, kicked off the Contact ’86
electure series titled
Values in America.”’
“ Opening his talk, Deford related
-his first encounter with Washington
and Lee by recalling an article he
"wrote about the University of Vir-
‘ginia, after which he received
several letters containing ‘“Washing-
‘ton and Lee is THE University of
+WVirginia” bumper stickers.
Continuing in a humorous and
‘anecdotal manner — a style that also
characterizes his writing — Deford
traced the path of football through
‘the changes in American society.

++ “Football was never a sport, but a

rite,” Deford said. ‘‘Maybe it was a
game for two or three years, but it
quickly became serious entertain-
ment.”

The sport’s importance to the
teams became immediately evident.
In 1870, the Princeton faculty cancel-
ed its third-ever scheduled football
game because they felt the game was
being over-emphasized.

Harvard coaches at the time were

“Changing -

 

“Don’t over-emphasize
athletics, Deford urges

Lightner and Watt

lectures changed

A change in the dates of the
Contact ’86 lecture series will
bring Candy Lightner, founder of
Mothers Against Drunk Driving,
to Lee Chapel Tuesday night at
7:30.

Lightner was originally sched-
uled for March 18 and James G.
Watt, former Secretary of the In-
terior, was scheduled for Tues-
day, but the dates have been
switched because of contractual
conflicts. Watt will now speak at
7:30 p.m. March 18 in Lee Chapel.

Lightner is the second speaker
in the Contact ’86 lecture series
titled “Changing Values in
America.”’

 

 

 

already telling their players before
Harvard-Princeton games that ‘“‘this
is the most important thing you'll do
in your life.” A few years later,
Deford added, The New York Times
listed the two greatest evils of the
time as .lynchings and football.
Despite a rising death toll in amateur
football that reached 44 in 1903, the
violent head-bashing continued.

But, Deford said, the problem with
football in America is not the over-

 

Sports Illustrated’s Frank Deford speaks in Lee Chapel

emphasizing of the game itself, but
that it has become subject to
discrimination both for and against
itself.

“We can never de-emphasize
sports — they’re too glamorous, ex-
citing, sexy,’’ Deford said.

The biggest problem in football to-
day, Deford feels, is the corruption in
collegiate athletic programs, such as
drug use, excessive benefits given to
star athletes and illegal recruiting

practices.

The pressures causing such cor-
ruption begin with college presidents
who are responsible for raising funds
and for improving the reputation of
their schools, Deford explained. That
pressure is often transferred to the
coaches who must win games to keep
their jobs, and who sometimes get
ambiguous signals from college ad-
ministrations about recruiting prac-
tices.

 

NEWS BRIEFS

Summer job workshops
scheduled for March 18

 

By DEBORAH HATTES
Staff Reporter

 

The Office of Career Development
and Placement will offer the second
in a series of two summer jobs work-
shops for juniors, sophomores, and
freshmen on March 18 in the Univer-
sity Center.

The first panel, of the workshop is
scheduled for 2 p.m. and will discuss
the “nitty-gritty” details of ‘‘devel-
oping a resume, cover letters, using
contacts, and alumni contacts,”
Placement Consultant Stephen
Bredin said.

Following the general information
session six panel presentations will
be held. Each panel will include three
or four seniors who have had sum-
mer jobs in a certain area, and a fac-
ulty member in that field will act as
moderator. Bredin said the students
will explain what they did last sum-
mer and how they got those jobs.

The panel discussions on jobs with
the federal, state and local govern-
ment, journalism and the media,
medicine biology and chemistry,
overseas or foreign language jobs,
sales and marketing positions, and
various counseling or ‘“‘supportive”’
jobs are scheduled for 3 p.m. and
againat4p.m.

The information included in the
first hour is a recap of the first sum-
mer jobs workshop held in February.

“We had a fair turnout,’ Bredin

 

SAB is subject of $369 suit for payment of bill from 1983

Wilson Field.

said, but added that they had “‘picked
a bad night.”

Bredin explained that the work-
shop will emphasize two major
points: There. is a “tremendous
variety of jobs out there for the varie-
ty of jobs out there for the person who
starts early” and ‘‘some of those
summer jobs are really a prerequi-
site to employment with that com-
pany.”

He cited the Coca-Cola Co. and
most New York City invesment
houses as examples of companies
that hire only college graduates who
worked there the previous summer.

Also, Bredin said he hopes the
workshop will give students an
“enlarged understanding of the
world outside and an increased
awareness of Washington and Lee as
a source of very capable people.”

Finally, Bredin said, “I would be
hopeful that it will be an annual af-
fair and that it will grow.”

In another project related to sum-
mer jobs, the Placement office has
“asked seniors to tell us what they
did last year,” Bredin said. These
will be put together in a file to enable
other students to get ideas for sum-
mer jobs and apply to the same com-
panies.

He added that they hope to expand
this file with report forms from all
students next fall.

 

cn NAN
-

Staff Reports

 

The Student Activities Board has been ordered to ap-
pear in court to reconcile a bill dispute that dates back
* to the 1983 Fancy Dress Ball.

. The SAB was served with a notice last month to ap-

pear in Roanoke General District Court tomorrow to
* resolve a $369.92 dispute with Stage Sound Inc. The ap-
« pearance has been changed to March 25 at the request
of the SAB.

The SAB no longer is using the services of Stage
» Sound, according to SAB treasurer George Boras. The
board is trying to move the case to Lexington, he said.

The company originally had chosen to ignore the bill,
’ which the SAB had refused to pay. The bill was a charge
for sound work in Warner Center.

SAB Chairman Mike Guerriero and Boras reported
* the notice to the Executive Committee Monday night.

» Inother ECaction:

Representatives of the Pavilion Improvement Com-
* mittee decided against alterations to the Student Ac-
. tivities Pavilion after meeting with Associate Dean of
Students Michael A. Cappeto.

Due to the likelihood that W&L will not be granted a li-
» quor license next year — thereby making parties with
alcohol in the pavilion illegal — fraternities probably
will not want to hold parties there, sophomore represen-
« tative Pat Schaefer said.

“Personally, I don’t think that the fraternities will
ever want to use this place if they are not going to be
+ able to serve any beer out there,” Schaefer said, So, he

 

 

added, it doesn’t make any sense to spend money mak-
ing the building more attractive to the fraternities if
they are not going to use it.

—Jason Lisi

Wa&L fashions featured

In recent months, Washington and Lee and Lexington
have been the subjects of magazine and newspaper ar-
ticles across the United States, Now interest in the
University and the city has extended across the ocean.

Men’s Club, a Japanese men’s fashion magazine, fea-
tures W&L and Lexington in a 30-page spread in its
March edition. The articles include many full-color
photographs and illustrations of students, Lexington-
ians and scenes from the campus and the city.

Masaku Hirasawa, editor of Men’s Club, spent three
days in Lexington in October with photographer Aki
Ohno and illustrator Hiroshi Watatani. The Japanese
vistors toured the campus and the city, meeting Lex-
ingtonians and getting a feel for the area.

The section of the article on W&L pertains mainly to
student fashions, although Hirasawa mentions the his-
tory of the University, its beautiful buildings, and some
of W&L’s famous graduates. The story says student
dress at W&L is “‘preppier than the Ivy League,”’ and
many of the students ‘‘look a lot like Troy Donahue.”

Editor is Visiting Fellow

Guenther Gillessen, senior editor, Frankfurter
Allegemeine Zeitung, will be a Woodrow Wilson Visiting

Fellow at Washington and Lee this week.

Gillessen’s visit is made possible by a grant from The
German Marshall Fund of the United States, as part of
a major new effort to increase understanding between
prominent Europeans and young Americans. The Ger-
man Marshall Fund was established in 1972 by a gift
from the Federal Republic of Germany to commemo-
rate American postwar assistance under the Marshall
Plan.

New collections librarian named

Erin E. Foley, archives professor and visiting lec-
turer at the University of Illinois at Chicago, has been
named special collections librarian and assistant pro-
fessor at Washington and Lee.

Foley will assume her duties April 1. She succeeds
Richard Oram, who resigned to accept a position at the
University of Toledo.

Foley received her bachelor’s degree in archaeology
from Yale University and her master’s degree from the
School of Library and Information Studies at the Uni-
versity of Wisconsin-Madison, where she specialized in
archives and computer applications in archives and
libraries.

Cancer Run set for April 27

The Rockbridge Cancer Run ’86, ‘A Run with George
Cunningham,” will be Sunday, April 27 at 1:30 p.m. at

The third annual event will again be paying tribute to
Lexington’s George Cunningham, who — despite a bat-
tle with cancer — is one of the area’s most dedicated
runners.

The runs include a one-mile fun run/walk, and five-
and 10-kilometer road races. The 5K course will be
changed this year because of flood damage to the Ches-
sie Trail, and should prove to be a challenging course
for all levels of runners.

Runners who raise $10 in pledges will receive a t-
shirt. Arby’s and the University Florist have each
donated $200 to help defray the cost of the shirts.

Awards will be given for the top male and female run-
ners in the 5K and 10K races. Awards will also be given
for the top three men and women in each of the 11 age
groups. Certificates will be awarded to all participants.

In last year’s race, over 100 runners raised $1,700 for
the American Cancer Society. As an added incentive to
this year’s run, awards will be given to the runners rais-
ing the most money in each of three divisions: W&L stu-
dents, VMI cadets and individual runners. Door prizes
donated by local businesses will also be a part of this
year’s event.

The entry fee for the 5K and 10K races is $5; there is
no charge for the fun run. Entries must be postmarked
by April 22. Runners can also register on race day from
noon to 1 p.m. ; a late fee of $6 will be charged on the day
of the race. All entry fees are tax-deductible.

To obtain entry forms, maps of the course, or further
information, contact Patti Ryan-Mandel at 463-9432 or
Jim Dittrick at 463-3797.

LEER SE SLR ANE SEEN PERE A SONY RISEN AP REDON RC one vee aaweee

 

 
Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, March 6, 1986

 

 

 

 

 

 

No party

Windows in the back of the Sigma Chi fraternity house
are broken out after three people smashed five windows,
five tables and 30 chairs in an incident last Thursday.
Lexington Police Chief L.O. Sutton said this week that
former student David M. Fagerness of Atlanta has ad-

 

 

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

mitted to causing the damage and “offered to make
restitution.”’ Sutton said the fraternity has decided not to
press charges against Fagerness, a former member of
the house and of the Class of 1988. Sutton said he didn’t
know the names of the other people involved.

Travel abroad can ‘liberate’
Students during spring term

 

By SIMON PEREZ
Staff Reporter

 

“Travel is liberating.”’

That’s how history Professor
Roger B. Jeans recommends the
trips abroad offered by W&L.

Jeans, who specializes in East
Asian history, said the student can
reap many benefits from traveling
abroad.

W&L offers many opportunities for
students to travel to other countries
during the spring term, and most
programs allow students to earn six
credits in the six weeks abroad.

Usually, students live with a family
in the country they are visiting and
are free to do anything that will aid
them in learning about the country’s

culture.

Spanish Professor Adoracion Cam-
pis will take 18 students to Madrid to
study at Estudio Nacional Sampere,
a private school there. She said
students will take classes in the mor-
nings and have afternoons free to ex-
plore Madrid.

“Progress depends on the student
being aggressive and extroverted,”’
Campis said.

She added that students have to
“try to put themselves into situations
where they have to speak Spanish.”’

Students traveling to Germany will
study at the University of Bayreuth.
German Professor Robert B. Young-
blood said the purpose of the trip is
for the students to “learn as much
German in as little time as possible.”’

“Since Eurone is 1500 years old as

Wé&L grad to present
Phi Beta Kappa lecture

“The Hitler Quandary’”’ will be the
subject of the keynote address by
Yale University History Professor
Henry Ashby Turner Jr. at the Phi
Beta Kappa convocation next Thurs-
day at noon in Lee Chapel.

Turner, a 1954 Washington and Lee
graduate, is the leading spokesman
for one side in a debate raging in the
history profession over the use of
historical sources in a book about
Adolf Hitler’s rise to power in Ger-
many.

The controversy, which has erupt-
ed from the academic world into the
pages of Time magazine and The
Chronicle of Higher Education, has
led the American Historical Associa-
tion to consider adopting a code of
ethics for the first time in its century
of existence.

- Turner charges David Abraham, a
Princeton University associate pro-
fessor of history, with ‘‘the
systematically tendentious miscon-

strual of evidence” in a 1981 book

claiming that German big business
played a significant role in the rise of
Nazism.

In November of 1983, Abraham
submitted a list of corrections to
Princeton University Press, which
published the book, ‘The Collapse of
the Weimar Republic: Political
Economy and Crisis.”’

Turner, though, told The Chronicle
that ‘correction of errors in Abra-
ham’s book destroy his thesis.”’

“There is nothing left,’’ he said.
“This is not petty larceny; it is the
Rrink’s robbery of German history.”’

Robbery or not, Abraham’s thesis
is the opposite of that of Turner’s
“German Big Business and the Rise
of Hitler,’’ which found that Hitler
and his part, ‘received relatively lit-
tle support’’ from major commerical
interests, but instead were fortified
by grassroot partisans.

The book, which is dedicated to
William A. Jenks, who taught history
at W&L for four decades, was de-

 

compared to America’s 200, students
will learn to appreciate the much
longer view of history that Euro-
peans have compared to Ameri-
cans,’’ he added.

Youngblood also said that the trip
to East Berlin would serve as a ‘“‘win-
dow to allow students to see modern
communism.”’

The trip to France, headed by
French Professor Edward B. Hamer,
will have 12 students.

Three teachers will be hired to
teach students about topics including
contemporary French drama _art
and architecture.

Hamer said the students will be
“very much on their own’’ so that
they may ‘“‘discover a new civiliza-
tion and progress in the language.”

\

HENRY A. TURNER JR.

scribed by The New York Times as
‘the most comprehensive account to
date of the personal contacts and
financial relationships between big-
business executives and the Hitler
Movement.”

The talk and reception which fol-
lows are open to the public and free of
charge.

Prof to discuss British press

 

By JOHN PENSEC
Staff Reporter

 

Journalism Professor Clark R.
Mollenhoff will deliver a lecture on
the British press Monday evening at
7:30 in Northen Auditorium.

The speech, entitled “‘The British
Press: Laudable to Ludicrous, Lewd
and Lascivious, But Not Free,”’ deals
with Mollenhoff’s experiences while
an exchange Fellow at University
College, Oxford. Mollenhoff spent
five months in Great Britain in the
fail of 1980 and recently returned
from another extended stay.

 

Mollenhoff’s background on the
British media comes not only from
daily exposure to newspapers and
broadcasts, but also from talking
with British politicians, journalists
and academics. His Journalism 324
class, Mass Media and Government,
discussed issues in the British media
earlier this term.

The lecture will concentrate on
abuses of power by the British gov-
ernment, particularly in its discour-
agement of investigative reporting.
Under the British Official Secrets
Act, all information not specifically
released by the government is con-

sidered classified. This includes not
only things such as military secrets,
but also can be extended to cover
what was eaten at afternoon tea on a
specific day.

England has no legislation com-
parable to the Freedom of Informa-
tion Act that we have in the United
States. It is considered a crime both
to release information and to receive
it.

Under such a system, in-depth re-
porting by the news media is difficult
to conduct. According to Mollenhoff,
the system limits the effectiveness of
investigative reporters.

 

 

 

‘GENERAL NOTES

 

_The W&L Snack Bar will be closed
“tonight, March 6. A_ Snack
"Bar official declined to specify a
reason.

At noon next Thursday, Dr.
Henry A. Turner Jr. will deliver
the annual Phi Beta Kappa ad-
‘dress in Lee Chapel.

In order that faculty and

CLASSIFIEDS

students may be free to hear this
address, the following schedule of
classes will be observed:

A-D No Change

Assembly: 12:00

E - 1:30-2:10

The National College Internship
Service, specializing in internship

  

development for college students,
is now accepting applications for
summer 1986 internships.

Please call or write National
College Internship Service, 374
New York Ave., Huntington, N.Y.
11743 (516) 673-0440, for applica-
tion material

PERSONALS

SUDA:
ILOVE YOU

 

 

DAVID

 

 

 

 

Forum

Continued from Page 1

 

orator for the student body”’ in
meetings with administrators, and
noted the importance of the presi-
dent’s presentations to the board of
trustees, which can ‘“‘move very
quickly on things.”’

Each of the candidates addressed
honor-related issues.

Menon said students should expand
the concept of honor beyond its nar-
row ‘“‘lying, cheating and stealing
aspects’ to the broader sense of
honor associated with ‘‘the code of
the gentleman, gentlewoman, gentle-
person, whatever you call it.”’

Caruthers said the EC is “not the
police force’’ or “‘holier than thou,”’
but instead merely responds to honor
cases brought to it.

“If the students decide tomorrow
that cheating isn’t an honor violation
and it’s widespread, we have to en-
force what the students want us to,”’
Caruthers said. ‘‘We can’t put our-
selves on a pedestal as far as what
will be and what won’t be.”’

Thompson noted the dual ‘‘freedom
and responsibility’’ imposed by
W&L’s Honor System.

One student asked whether the EC
is sufficiently responsive to requests
from campus “‘interest groups.’’ The
EC last month rejected appeals for
temporary, non-voting female and
minority members of the Student
Control Committee.

In an initial vote in which the EC
approved the ad hoc woman position,
Caruthers and Menon favored the ap-
pointment and Thompson opposed it.
In a second vote on the female posi-
tion, all three were against it. In a
later vote to add a minority member,
Thompson voted for the change and
Caruthers and Menon against it. Both
measures ultimately failed.

“T don’t think there’s a problem,”
Menon said in response to the forum
question.

“We aren’t unreceptive to issues,
specifically ad hoc members or
minority members,’’ Caruthers said,

adding that “‘there is some tension
between upperclassmen and fresh-
men women, but that can be ex-
pected since most of the student body
was against coeducation.”’

Thompson said the requests for ad
hoc members were an “‘artificial con-
troversy’’ since there had been no
specific complaints about unfairness
on the part of the SCC. ‘Absent proof
that it wasn’t being carried out pro-
perly, I don’t see any controversy,”’
he said.

Increased unity between law and
undergraduate students was a goal
mentioned by all three candidates,
with Menon contending that “‘better
commitment is the key”’ to resolving
differences between the two groups.

Thompson said that he’s “been
able to see how real that ravine that
runs between the library and Woods
Creek can be’’ and that ‘‘the two
campuses seem to alienating them-
selves.”

Caruthers said many of the dif-
ferences between the two groups of
students result from the fact that the
law students are as muchas a decade
older than the undergraduates, often
are married and ‘“‘some of them have
children.”’

“T have yet to experience that,’’ he
added as the candidates and au-
dience laughed.

The presidential candidates’ con-
cern about tension between students
and administrators was echoed by
the two students running for vice
president, the office responsible for
supervising student body finances.
Neither of the candidates has served
on the EC.

Paul ‘‘Chief’’ Abott, a junior from
Richmond, said that ‘‘the pro-
blems between the student body and
the administration can’t be solved
overnight,”’ but pointed out that the
EC is “‘the go-between between the
student body and the administra-
tion.”

Junior Brandt Surgner of Philadel-
phia said that ‘the students should
govern themselves, and the admini-
stration should run the school,” but
that the EC should work to ‘mend
any gaps that might be there.”

Abbott said he’s found it “kind of

scary” this year that ‘‘there’s been a
lot of talk: ‘Does the Honor System
exist anymore?’ ”’

He noted a story in Tuesday’s Rich-
mond Times-Dispatch reporting that
a Radford University survey found 79
percent of the school’s students ad-
mit cheating in high school or col-
lege. ‘‘I believe that’s not so at
W&L,”’ Abbott said.

Surgner said that ‘sometimes I
find myself taking for granted
aspects of the Honor System such as
unproctored exams’’ and that preser-
ving the system is one of the EC’s
most important duties.

“Tt want to make sure that in 30
years when I come back to visit, it’ll
be close to the same school it is now,”
he said.

The two said they oppose ad hoc
female or minority representatives
to the Student Control Committee.

Abbott said that groups requesting
such an SCC member are “kind of
shirking [their] responsibility” not to
‘‘go through the political process.”’

Surgner added that such special
consideration ‘“‘would hurt the stu-
dent body, because it would only
divide the shudent body.”’

Both candidates for secretary
stated at the outset that they have no
experience in student government.

Junior Roby Mize of Dallas noted
that this year has been the school’s
“rookie season with coeducation”
and that there are ‘‘some rough
edges that have tobe smoothed.”’

Sophomore Rick Robins of New-
port News said that this year ‘‘the at-
mosphere of the school has changed
— there’s no doubt about that.”

Mize said a priority for the EC
should be revamping the Honor
System orientation for freshmen
since with an adequate introduction,
they “‘can’t understand its impor-
tance.”

Robins said the Honor System “is
great but could use some strengthen-
ing.”

Both said they oppose ad hoc SCC
representatives. Mize said “there
are better channels to work through”
and Robins added that ‘‘you need to
work through the system, not against
it.”

 

Catalog

 

 

©) Continued from Page 1

plagiarism in a student’s work, each said there are cer-

tain things in papers that tip him off.

‘‘Sometimes you pick up on something unusual or a fact
that would seem unlikely for a student to know,” Colvin

said. -

Duvall said plagiarism could be found in almost any
aspect of a paper. He listed a student’s writing style, the
subject matter addressed and a particular interpretation
that doesn’t seem quite right as ways to spot plagiarism.

Most often, Duvall said, a professor’s familiarity with
source material tips him off; he will be reading a paper

and think: ‘‘I’ve read that before!”’

Duvall used the analogy of a supermarket tabloid
newspaper headline to describe the catalog. He said he
was recently in a grocery store and saw a headline which
read: Take this pill and flush away five pounds! ”’

“That’s what this is,’ Duvall said, referring to the
catalog. “The five pounds is the paper I have for 226 and
using the catalog is flushing it away.”’

The miracle cure doesn’t require that the person lift a
finger to lose weight, Duvall said. And just as that in-
volves no physical exercise, buying a paper from a cata-
log allows a student to avoid mental exercise.

Colvin also characterized students’ ordering of papers
from a research service as taking the easy way out.

RESEARCH ASSISTANCE

CATALOG OF COLLEGIATE RESEARCH

 

14,278 TOPICS

RESEARCH ASSISTANCE

VE . SUITE 206
LOS ANGELES. CALIFORNIA 90025

(213) SEE (Custom Research)

(213) SM (Catalog Research)
(213) lm (Catalog Research)

TELEPHONE ORDERS
ACCEPTED

 

 

“There’s nothing they can get here that they can’t get

with hard work out of the library,’ he said. “It’s not like
they have some secret knowledge that they’re selling.”

The catalog states on its first page that ‘Research
Assistance has been serving the national academic com-
munity since October, 1969. This catalog lists 14,278 quali-
ty research papers. All papers were written by our staff
of professional writers, all with advanced academic
degrees, each a specialist in his field.”

Stekel identified the staff as “‘free-lancers’’ — people
who are working on film scripts, for instance. Because
“‘we have to control the quality’’ of the papers, Stekel
said the company doesn’t solicit papers from professors

or experts in particular fields.

Using the material strictly for research would not pose

VOLUME FIFTEEN

Each Year We Write Thousands of Papers
SEND $2.00 FOR NEXT YEAR'S CATALOG (VOLUME 16) IN SEPTEMBER, 1986
(Please include marketing code found on the back inside cover)

 

NEXT YEAR'S CATALOG

The Research Assistance catalog

senior EC representative Pat Hayden. He added that this
assumes that normal procedures for attribution of
sources are followed.

“If the professor is fully aware that you’re doing it,
there wouldn’t be any problem,’’ Hayden said.

Lewis agreed, saying that ‘‘to use the catalog for
anything but a source is plagiarizing.,

The response to the mailing campaign has been disap-

pointing, Stekel said. ‘It’s not as much as you'd think.
It’s a marginal thing.”

When asked how many orders the company has receiv-
ed since the catalog mailing, Stekel said there were none.

“So far, it doesn’t look too good,’’ he said.

Colvin said he would expect business to pick up, but not

 

  
 
 

 
 

  

 

 

 

 

 

difficulties as far as honor matters are concerned, said _ necessarily at W&L.
NEED Lutul 103-463-1670 Typists—$500 weekly
A CAR? = | WltuL Emergency at home. Write: P.O.
103-377-6331 Box 975, Elizabeth,
Students under 21 NJ 07207
Must Have
prior Insurance =
Approval Brian and Doris Summer or Fall 1986
Fredricksea Summer 1987
RFD7, Box 149, Rt. 60 East Lexington, Virginia 24450 WASHI NGTON
OR

 

 

 

© comaypeacseftamaenaaptneypemanpeccnficmetiese
é4i got my Fulbright
scholarship by
helping Costa Rican
children discover the

toothbrush.??

Work. Share. Save lives.

Craig Leon
Haifa, Israel

If you can meet the challenge, your summer in Latin America can

bring a lifetime of rewards.

Like leadership skills. And a career edge you can’t get anywhere else.
To be an Amigos volunteer, write: Amigos de las Americas, 5618

Star Lane, Houston, Texas 77057,
Or call: 1-800-231-7796. In Texas,

call: 1-800-392-4580,

fucs,

4 Sghomeagiomyinemptamepcciiingtian

LONDON
INTERNSHIPS

SUMMER SESSION ONLY
at Wadham College
of the University of

OXFORD

Accredited courses in government,
economics, journalism and pre-
law by an outstanding faculty,

Full Academic Year Programs at
the London School of Economics,
St. Andrews Universities, for
Qualified Juniors and Seniors.

All credits transferred through
Hampden-Sydney College, Virginia
(Founded in 1776)

 

 

Inquiries to:
Mrs. Janet Kollek, J.D.
Admissions Director
The Washington International
Studies Center
212-724-0804 or 0136
(EO/AA)
teeta

 

 
SPORTS

The Ring-tum Phi, March 6, 1986

 

Track claims ODAC title;
Bleggi, Aldridge honored

 

By ROB MacPHERSON
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee track
team did not have to leave town to go
a long way last weekend, winning
their third straight Old Dominion
Athletic Conference indoor cham-
pionship at VMI’s Cormack Field
House.

The Generals came away with 141
points, 25 more than the second-place
finisher, Lynchburg. Roanoke (80
points), Bridgewater (54 points) and

Lax loses

By DAVID EMRICH
Assistant Sports Editor

 

 

If the outcome of sporting events
were determined solely by the
amount of effort put forth by the par-
ticipants, the Washington and Lee
lacrosse team would be national
champions by now. As it is, there are
many more factors that enter into the
decision. Last Saturday, Duke taught
W&L that lesson, narrowly defeating
the Generals by a score of 7-6.

“We went in thinking we could
win,” said head coach Dennis Daly.
“The teams are very evenly matched
and, over the course of a number of
games, the teams would probably
end up 5-5 against each other, with
the largest margin of victory being
two goals.”

Emory and Henry (30 points) tinisn-
ed third, fourth and fifth.

Aside from the title, W&L also
came away with the top two individ-
ual honors. Head coach Norris
Aldridge was named ODAC Coach of
the Year, and senior sprinter Chris
Bleggi was picked as the Runner of
the Year. This was the third consecu-
tive year that Aldridge received the
award.

“It’s an honor that was bestowed
on me mainly because of what the
young men on the team did,’’ the
coach said.

The Generals collected seven first

place finishes out of a possible 14 on
their way to the title, including the
400-meter and 3,200 meter relays.

Individually, junior Tom Murray
won the shot put with a toss of 45-8.
Another junior, John Burlingame,
contributed to the cause by finishing
first in the long jump with a leap of
21-744. Andy White emerged victor-
ious in the 55-meter hurdles (8.01), as
did Conrad Boyle in the 800-meter
hurdles (2:00.93). Bill Rhinehart
rounded out the first-place finishes

with his 43’11” effort in the triple *

jump.

 

 

CHRIS BLEGGI

despite defensive effort, 7-6

As close as the game was, that is an
accurate assessment. The teams
played tight defense throughout, and
the score was tied following each of
the first three periods.

But in the fourth quarter, Duke
worked very quickly to change that
situation. Scoring two goals within
the first two minutes, Duke went up
6-4. The teams then traded goals, and
the tally stood at 7-5 with less than a
minute to play.

Much to their credit, the Generals
did not surrender. W&L’s Caulley
Deringer scored with 30 seconds left
in the game, pulling W&L to within
one. The Generals’ Sandy Harrison,
who was honored by the team as of-
fensive player of the game for winn-
ing 10 of his 16 face-offs, then won the

following face-off. Teammate Rob
Stanton’s last second shot sailed wide
and the Generals ended up on the
short end of the 7-6 score.

“Both defenses played better than
both offenses,’ said Daly. ‘“‘Our of-
fense was disappointing — we only
took 26 shots in a game where we felt
we should have taken many more.”’

“Our EMO [Extra-Man Offense]
was good. Unfortunately our regular
offense was not as good,” continued
Daly. ‘‘We would have been disap-
pointed [with the offense] whether
we won 8-7 or lost 7-6.”

“Tt’s tough when a game is so close
because you can always look back
and say, ‘What if?’,”’ said Daly. ‘‘But
we’ve got to stop worrying, and think
about improving next time.”

“Next time” will be Saturday at

Wilson Field against Virginia Tech.
The Generals have beaten Tech in all
five meetings of the teams, including
a 23-0 rout in 1984.

“We'll be playing a team that we
haven’t seen yet, because this will be
their first game [of the year],’’ said
Daly. ‘But that gives us an advan-
tage, just like Duke had an advan-
tage over us. We had the opening-
game jitters and made some
mistakes.”’

“Our EMO and EMO defense are
efficient and effective and we'd like
to maintain them,”’ said Daly.

“We're going to have to create and
execute our fast break better,”’ said
Daly. “If we can’t do that, then we’re
going to have to get more from our
regular offense.”’

Tennis winless against Div. | foes

 

By LEIF UELAND
Staff Reporter

 

The ‘Washington and Lee tennis
team got off to a rocky start against
some very strong Division I teams
this week and came up on the short
end all three times they went for the
upset.

The Generals lost to Penn State
(9-0) on Friday, James Madison (5-4)
on Monday and yesterday were
denied once more in their bid for win
No. 1 of 1986 when the homestanding
Hokies of Virginia Tech downed
W&L, 6-3.

Going into the VPI match, W&L
head coach Gary Franke gave the
edge to the Hokies, due to Tech’s real
home “‘court’’ advantage. Franke in-
dicated that the Tech courts are quite
faster than W&L’s and thus stand as
a considerable advantage for them.

Wins for the Generals came from
No. 1 seed David McLeod, winning in
a tight singles match, 7-5, 7-5.

Freshman Bobby Matthews got his
first regular-season match win as a
General when he defeated his Tech
opponent, 7-5, in the third set.

In doubles, the No. 1-seeded team
of McLeod and Jack Messerly got its
second straight win of the season.
The sophomore tandem entered the
season as one of the best doubles
teams in NCAA Division III.

According to Franke, going into the
Generals’ season opener, the team
knew it was facing an improved Penn
State team, compared to the team of
last year that the Generals nearly
upset.

Though W&L was shut out in the
team scoring there were some close

. matches. Sophomores Chris Wiman

and Messerly both took their singles

First-year lady netters

By DAVID NAVE
Staff Reporter

 

When the first Washington and Lee
women’s tennis team opens its sea-
son against Sweet Briar this Monday
at 3:30 on the W&L courts, no one
knows what to expect.

~ “For all we know we may be the
best team in the conference,”’ said
head coach Bill Washburn.

Reerrers ny (RE

Join Us For Dinner At

Maple Kall

One of the Historic Country Inns
of Lexington
463-4666 for reservations
Open Monday, Friday and Saturday

i Route 11 North
ee a ee ea

Oc I

Working with a new program has
made Wasbburn’s job more difficult
than most coaches’. Because he has
no returning players, he is building a
program from scratch. After a short
fall practice season, bad weather has
limited spring practice to only two
outdoor workouts. Washburn has also
encountered a roster change: three
players from last tall no longer par-
ticpate, while two other players have
recently joined the squad.

Bei ad

BEAUTY
BOUTIQUE

Come by for a quick cut
or style for

Fancy Dress

HOURS:
Mon. through Fri.
Evenings by appointment

OPERATORS:
Mary, Ella Mae, Lynn
and Phyllis

BEAUTY BOUTIQUE

107 W. Nelson St., Lexington

463-2422

 

i.

matches to three sets, including
missed match points for Wiman.
Wiman lost by a score of 4-6, 7-6 (7-3),
6-0, and Messerly 6-7 (8-6), 6-3, 6-1.

The Generals’ doubles teams all
challenged their Penn State oppo-
nents, in their eight game pro sets.
The No. 1 team of sophomore
McLeod and Messerly lost 8-6. Junior
Roby Mize and Matthews, at the No.
2 slot, took their match to the tie-
breaker, losing 7-4. The No. 3 team of
Wiman and senior Scott Adams lost
8-5.

On Monday, against Division I
James Madison, the Generals nar-
rowly missed upsetting the team that
shut them out last year.

The Generals split the singles com-
petition. Wins came from Mize 6-2,
3-6, 6-3, Wiman, 6-7 (8-6), 6-2, 7-5; and
Adams, 6-2, 6-0.

With the match all tied up, the
Generals won the first doubles match

with McLeod and Messerly winning
in straight sets 6-1, 6-1. The Generals,
though, were unable to obtain the
fifth point. Mize and Matthews lost a
tough match after having won the
first set, 3-6, 6-3, 6-3. Wiman and
Adams lost in straight sets, both of
which went to tie breakers, 7-6, (7-4),
7-6 (7-5).

“It was a disappointing loss
because we were so close,’”’ Franke
said. He commented that team
members would need to work at
“closing out’’ close matches.

The tennis team will at least be
able to take a brief rest as it enjoys
Fancy Dress. It is then back to a busy
and important month of tennis, in-
cluding a weekend trip to Philadel-
phia in two weeks, where the
Generals will face two of the best
Division III tennis programs in the
nation, Swarthmore (on the 22nd)
and Claremont-Mudd-Scripps (on the
23rd).

are unknown quantity

These circumstances prevented
Washburn from naming a starting
line-up less than a week before the
first match. He summarized his posi-
tion saying, ‘You don’t know what
you can count on.”’

Washburn plans to use fall practice
results and a current players’ ladder
to determine the starting line-up.
Fall results reveal that Bitsy Hopper,
Valerie Pierson, Dana Anstine, and
Martha Christian will be competing

for the top spots. But Washburn ad-
ded that he does not know whether
the spring line-up will resemble last
fall’s or not

W&L will participate in the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference. The
team’s nine-match schedule, conse-
quently, revolves around conference
matches and concludes with the con-
ference championships at Hollins
College on April 25 and 26.

Valley True Value Hardware

True Value

HARD

 

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

E. Nelson Street

463-2186

Mon.-Sat. 8:30-6:00

 

 

 

You know what they say about

Rio

Where time is supposed to stand
still;

So have a great time this
weekend,

We at Huffman-White know you

will!

  
 

t)

Florist

 

463-9152

 

 

165S. Main
ho

 

 

Idol’s

TIME
CT Bivens

image

....Commissioner Peter Ueberroth
decided to make baseball into a
game that was worthy of NBC's
Saturday afternoon advertisements.
You know the ones: Where father
and son are playing catch and then
run inside to watch TV. (You see, it
doesn’t look too good if father and
son run inside to watch TV only to
see that another of their favorite
players is snorting coke this week. )

 

 

 

By Mike
Stachura

 

 

 

And that’s what this whole deal is about, campers. Image. Image
has gotten a bad reputation of late, but here I’m not talking about the
way one presents oneself in spray paint ads; I’m not talking about the
son all those eight-year-old little boys idolize. Ultimately, that’s what
athletes need to be concerned about. It unfortunately is also what very
few these days are concerned about.

How important is it to have athletes as role models? Oh, not very
much. To me, anyway. But then I’m 22 years old and my mommy
doesn’t dress me, most of the time. What about if I’m in the second
grade? You see, rationalizations — and that’s what we're starting to
hear from some of those lucky enough to be reprimanded by Ueber-
roth — don’t work with someone who isn’t even old enough to figure out
what all the statistics on the back of Keith Hernandez’ bubble gum
card mean. There isn’t any reason anymore to respect and pseudo-
worship the various gentlemen with numbers on their backs.

There must be something of the little boy in Peter Ueberroth. Or at
least something that lets him remember what it is like to be a little
boy, what it is like to think the world revolves around No. 39 of the Cin-
cinnati Reds. The problem is that too many of the Dave Parkers of the
world have thought the world revolves around them.

It seems that the only man who is against mandatory drug testing is
Donald Fehr, executive director of the players’ union. Donald Fehr
doesn’t remember what it’s like to be a little boy. I wonder if Donald
Fehr ever was a little boy.

Now while there weren’t all that many players involved in the com-
missioner’s mission, there were enough to get the message across:
Let’s see if we in the major leagues can develop some strong character
traits. And the message is getting across to management, to players,
to fans. But how many youngsters make up one major leaguer? Do we
all remember the story of Charlie Brown and his favorite baseball
player, Joe Slabotnik? Well, good ol’ Chuck thought Joe Slabotnik was
what the game was all about. He was willing to trade his Yogi Berra,
his Mickey Mantle, and his Willie Mays cards for just one Joe Slabot-
nik.

I’m sure we’ve all had our Joe Slabotniks. Mine was a guy who
played football for the 49ers named Ken Willard. The point is these
guys make those of us who worship them feel good. That is they used
to. Nowadays, we’re not so sure about them and that’s a crime.

See if you can remember what it felt like to get your first autograph.
The stuff of which NBC commercials are made, I’ll bet. I think profes-
sional, college and (why not?) high school athletes need to see if they
can remember what if felt like to get their first autograph. They might
also try to remember what it was like to find out that Santa Claus
wasn’t real.

If they did, maybe the game’s commissioner wouldn’t have to spend
his time playing den mother to a group of nose-candy prima donnas,
and if the commissioner didn’t have to do that, maybe he could return
to some of his other duties, like thinking up more father-and-son com-
mercials for NBC. It would be nice....

=) Carnaval!-ing on the Colonnade this week and before we go any
further, let’s give a large tip of the top hat to Messrs. Aldridge and
Bleggi and the rest of the W&L track stars for their awards as Coach-
and Runner-of-the-Year and team conference champion. A bit of a
footnote: W&L’s track team has the highest cumulative G.P.A. of all
Generals’ men’s teams...Good to see Larry Anker recognized as
Academic All-American. Again, credit where credit is due....

 

 

 

Generals matted at nationals

  

 

By CHARLES T. GAY
Staff Reporter

 

Washington and Lee’s grapplers
ended their 1985-86 campaign on a
disappointing but encouraging note
at last weekend’s NCAA Division III
Tournament.

On the positive side, the Generals
qualified two wrestlers at the NCAA
Division III Eastern Regional to
compete in the NCAA’s national tour-
nament, something W&L had been
unable to do for a decade.

However, things did not exactly go
the Generals’ way once they got to

the NCAA Tournament, held at Tren-
ton State College in Trenton, N.J.

Senior co-captain Larry Anker,
selected as a wild-card participant,
was upended in the first round by the
eventual champion. In the wrestle-
back round, Anker was again defeat-
ed, this time in overtime.

Fellow senior Win Phillips’ fate
was even more disappointing than
Anker’s, perhaps even a bit tragic:
After mauling his first round oppo-
nent, Phillips was forced to default
both round two and the wrestle-back:
round because of an injury. Franke
called the turn of events ‘‘a big disap-
pointment.”’

a ee eee ae

VIDEO CENTER
OF LEXINGTON

xk *
* SPECIAL x
xk *&

With this coupon
Movie Rentals — 52.00 per day
3 for *5.00

Player Rental — $5.00
1 Year Membership — 99°

Offer Expires March 31

Lexington-B.V. Shopping Center - 463-2177
Mon.-Sat. 11-9 p.m.

Sun. 12-5 p.m.
 

“BACK PAGE

ee the Bet frre eet et oe
$018 Get seers & tee

 

 

   

A letter from Katherine Anne Porter on display in the University Library

By Hank Mayer/The Ring-tum Phi

Shenandoah’s prominence
shown in authors’ letters

By SAMUEL FOLEY
Staff Reporter

- Eudora Welty, Marguerite Yourcenar, William
Faulkner, e.e. cummings, Langston Hughes, Flannery
O’Connor, James Dickey and Katherine Anne Porter.

- They all have written for Shenandoah, Washington and

“Lee's literary quarterly, but they have something else in

‘common. They're all featured in a display celebrating

-‘Shenandoah’s 35th anniversary. The display is composed
of letters from the authors to the editor of the magazine.

The correspondence from these authors is very reveal-
-ing about the nature of Shenandoah and the key to its suc-

“cess.

Peggy Hays, reference librarian and acting special col-
lections librarian, said, ‘‘A lot of these people wrote for
‘Shenandoah before they really really reached their fame.

“We have been very fortunate to have editors that could
‘spot quality writers and make contacts on a friendship
‘basis.””

It is this “friendship basis’’ that one senses when
visiting the display. The letters are not formal business
letters, but friendly notes.

One letter from James Dicky to Shenandoah’s editor,
Washington and Lee English Professor James Boat-
wright, mentions ‘the good will I always feel when I read
your letters.”

Eudora Welty wrote to Boatwright, ‘‘I’m grateful, once
more, for your doing such a generous thing as you're do-

 
      
   
   
   
   
   
  
   
   
     
  
 

 

The Student Activities Board of
Washington and Lee University
would like to thank our 1986

Fancy Dress Director
Rob Tolleson

for abandoning Fancy Dress
Six days ago by going to the
Bahamas with his tail between his

legs and an SAB member-at-large

by his side.

Great
Job

Rob!

ing and I wish there were a better way of thanking you.”
There is more than just an author/publisher relationship
between Shenandoah and its writers, and the display in
the Boatwright Room of the Univeristy Library makes
this clear.

The display also gives one an idea of the variety that
Shenandoah has had in its writers. Long before the civil
rights and feminist movements, Shenandoah was break-
ing ground in the literary world by ignoring racial and
sex-based issues.

This was a theme Hays had in mind when designing the
display. Of the eight authors in the exhibit, four are
women, one is black and there are representatives from
the North and South.

“T think it is important that Shenandoah was colorless
and sexless. Race and sex were not the issue. Good
writing was the issue,’’ she said.

The eight authors represented in the display are just a
small sampling of what Shenandoah has to offer. Hays
said the toughest part of putting it together was deciding
which authors were to be left out.

“The display is truly interesting and significant and it
is just the tip of the iceberg of what’s in the Shenandoah
file,” she said.

Lynn Williams, tne managing editor of Shenandoah,
calls the display and the anthology published to celebrate
the 35th anniversary ‘“‘a gathering of the best and the
brightest,’’ but added “‘it saddens me that so many
students don’t know it even exists.”

The Shenandoah letters will be on display through June
in the Boatwright Room.

The Ring-tum Phi, March 6, 1986

 

American landscapes on display

By MARK TRAINER
Staff Reporter

 

Thirty landscapes by American ar-
tist Wolf Kahn are being displayed at
the duPont Gallery through March
19. Titled ‘Pastel Light,"’ the exhibit
showcases the work of a_ painter
praised for his ability to achieve ‘‘a
fine balance between tradition and
modernism, representation and ex-
pression.”’

Kahn was born in Germany in 1927,

but emigrated to the United States as
a young child. After studying at the
New York High School of Music and
Art, he attended the Hans Hoffman
School and then went on to receive
his bachelor's degree at the Universi-
ty of Chicago. He now resides in New
York

Kahn was a recipient of the prestig-
ious Fulbright grant as well as the
Guggenheim endowment. Most re-
cently, he was elected a member of
the American Institute of Arts and
Letters. His works are included in the
collections of the Metropolitan Muse

 

 

 

ONCAMPUS

Thursday, March 6
5 p.m. — CHEMISTRY SEMINAR: “Computer Applications in
Molecular Biology.’’ Martin G. Radvany, '87. Room 401.
7p.m.— POLITICS FILM: ‘‘Fail-Safe.’’ Room 327, Commerce School.
7:30 p.m. — LECTURE: “The Political Situation in Germany Today.”
Guenther Gillessen, German Marshall Fund Fellow. Northen
Auditorium, University Library.

Friday, March7
8:30 p.m. — FANCY DRESS BALL. Warner Center.

Saturday, March 8
2p.m.— LACROSSE: Generals vs. Va. Tech. Wilson Field.

Sunday, March 9
1:30 p.m. — BASEBALL: Generals vs. W.Va. Tech. Smith Field .

Monday, March 10
3:30 p.m. — WOMEN’S TENNIS: Generals vs. Sweet Briar.
7:30 p.m. — LECTURE: ‘“‘The British Press: Laudable to Ludicrous,
Lewd, and Lascivious, But Not Free.’’ Clark Mollenhoff, W&L pro-
fessor of journalism. Northen Auditorium, University Library.

Tuesday, March 11
4 p.m. — LECTURE: “Gesture and Gender in Ancient Art.” Dr.
Margaret Mayo, Ancient Art Curator, Virginia Museum of Fine Arts.
duPont Auditorium.
7&9 p.m. — JOURNALISM FILM: “‘State of Siege.” Room 203, Reid
Hall.

Wednesday, March 12
4 p.m, — ENGLISH COLLOQUIUM: “Reading and Commentary:
Poems in Progress.”’ Dabney Stuart, Professor of English. Payne 21.
8 p.m. — CONCERT: W&L University Glee Club along with Wake
Forest Concert Choir. Lee Chapel.
9 p.m. — WEDNESDAY NIGHT IN THE G.H.Q.: featuring “Johnny
Sportcoat and the Casuals.” Sponsored by the Student Activities
Board. Cover charge $2.50.

 

 

te Front Ma rh

a

167 S. Main St., 463-3106 C7

vive

While you’re on your way to
“Rio” stop by and stock up on all
your weekend needs with us —

We have a complete line of
domestic and imported beers,
mixers, chips, dips, etc...

along with the finest meats in town
We can special cut your steaks for you.

FD Specials on Budweiser and Andre Champagne, Cokes,

Pepsis and other necessities.
—Student charge accounts are still available and can be sent home—

Have a good trip

 

to Rio!

 

 

Calizza: Turn over

anew lunch.

Introducing Calizza™
Italian turnover. A “al
delicious new i
lunch from Pizza = [
Hut thats served in |
only five minutes.

We have two varie-
ties— Italian sausage
Calizza™ and five cheese
Calizza™ Each of them a delicious combination of
ingredients stuffed inside freshly-made dough, baked
until golden-brown and served with rich
tomato sauce and parmesan cheese.

 
  

Guaranteed ready in 5 minutes after you order, or your next one is free, 11:30 AM-1:00
PM/Monday-Friday. Applies to selections listed above on orders of five or less.
CALIZZA is a trademark of Pizza Hut, ine. for its brand of Ltalian turnover. CALIZZA
TM Italian turnover and Personal Pan Pizza available 11 AM to 4 PM/Monday-

am. 463-7000
600 E. Nelson

Lexington

iat

© 1985 Preca Hut Ine Cahcsa is a mademark ot Pieza Hut Ine tor its brand of ltalian camover

 

um of Art, the Museum of Modern
Art, and the Whitney Museum,
among others

Kahn's most distinctive trademark
is his creative use of color in the
scenes he depicts. Inspired by the
unique New England landscape, his
work is undeniably American and
conveys a strong sense of location.
With their eclectic artistic influences
and unique composition, the paint-
ings of Kahn are unconventional pre-
sentations of a singular perspective
on nature.

Lloyd Cole
Causes a
Commotion

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Entertainment Editor

 

 

Lloyd Cole and the Commotions
are an English major’s dream come
true.

On their debut album, ‘‘Rattle-
snakes,’’ which came out last year,
lead singer/songwriter Lloyd Cole
sang, ‘‘She looks like Eve Marie-
Saint in ‘On the Waterfront’/She
reads Simone de Bouvoir/in her
American circumstance.”

That was the chorus to the title cut.
And it was catchy. I went around
singing it for a month.

Another song opened with the
verse, “I was looking for a
rhyme/For the New York
Times/When I sensed I was not
alone./She said, /‘“‘Do you know how
to spell ‘audaciously?’ ’’/and I knew
I was in love.”’ For Lloyd Cole, ‘‘pre-
tentiousness”’ is not a dirty word: It’s
a compliment.

Their new album, ‘‘Easy Pieces,”’
is not quite as good as last year’s
stunner, primarily because it isn’t
pretentious enough. The name-
dropping and sardonic cynicism that
fueled ‘‘Rattlesnakes”’ is replaced by
irony and ennui. Also, the music is
not as vibrant.

That aside, ‘‘Easy Pieces”’ is still
one heckuva record. If cynicism has
been replaced by irony, then similar-
ly bittness has been replaced by
tenderness.

Last year, Cole prescribed cyni-
cism to an idealist in ‘Are You
Ready To Be Heartbroken?” (’’Bet-
ter read Norman Mailer/Or get a
new tailor,’’ he sneered.) On the new
album’s ‘‘Grace,” Cole sings about
Jesse, who looks ‘‘so pale and old and
so very ill at ease these days.”

However, Cole seems more sympa-
thetic to his character when he sings,
“out in the summer rain/we will
begin again.”

On ‘Why I Love Country Music’”’
(which, ironically, has not a note of
slide guitar), Cole sings about a rela-
tionship gone sour. “I am_ just
tired/She’s way past caring.”

Neither one, however, has the
gumption to get up and leave. ‘‘We
drink Spanish wine and she plays
country records until the morning.”’
Not quite a Prince song, is it?

“Easy Pieces’’ is full of fascinating
moments like this. Cole paints entire
relationships in three verses and a
chorus, while the Commotions back
him up with understated skill and
elegance. The music is tasteful with
enough hooks to fill a tackle-box and
Cole's voice is at once effective and
endearing.

“Brand New Friend” swings with
just enough Motown to give it soul
and picks up where “Why I Love
Country Music” leaves off.

“Last Weekend’ bounces along
merrily like Lou Reed in a good
mood, while Cole sings about a rela-
tionship consummated and destroyed
in 48 hours.

“Perfect Blue” closes the record
and recalls middle-period Roxy
Music with its poignant lyric and
evocative melody.

So Lloyd Cole and the Commotions
are the Next Important Thing.
Although more subdued and straight-
forward than their gutsy debut,
“Easy Pieces”’ is still a terrific in-
troduction to a terrific songwriter
and a major new talent. Get ‘em
before they're hot.

 

 

 

 

TYPING
Beh
463-5802

Letter w/env.
ivory or White
=e $] PT}
Carrel/Dorm
Delivery Available

 

 
ee eee Ce Cee th CA Tee Oe hh hh 8

 

~W&L Votes ’86

Th nN di d at e Ss — DalVERSITY LIDPARY

& LEE uni. cRsity

 

 

 

  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

President: Vice President: Secretary:
v Andrew Caruthers v Paul ‘Chief’ Abbott ~ Roby Mize
v~ Shayam Menon v Brandt Surgner v Rick Robins
William Thompson
(See page 3) (See page 4) (See page 5)
—
ae | THERS BRANDT
andR AE Te
CARUTE SURGNER
EC.
\ VICE PRESIDENT
\ ROBY MIZE
= FOR EC
Thompson —«c SECRETARY
A Fresident fo Md, Ls |
Reunton Resronstwn / | .
/ Rick ey
| ROB S /
Asupplementto ~~ ~E CRe | /
THE RING-TUM PHI —_"* TAry

March 6, 1986

 
1

\

‘Page 2, Election Suppiemerit, March6, 198 © © © © °° * * *

’ > ’ , * a . * > . .

 

ELECTION OPINION

 

 

HOw Look, Dean! Tates's No Need

Te CALL FOR AN <LEcTION....,

va “Tanaw CARE of ageyTHiNng |”
ae .

Che Ring-tum Phi

 

 

Presidential candidates: our impressions

The student body this year will choose
its president from among three candi-
dates who all currently serve on the Exe-
cutive Committee. That is somewhat
unusual in recent “Big Three”’ elections;
two of the last three student body
presidents, for example, had no EC ex-
perience. One advantage to having in-
cumbent EC members running for higher
office is that there’s some solid informa-
tion on which to evaluate them beyond the
usual flurry of posters, canned state-
ments and long-winded letters.

Since it’s easy to get bored and lost in
the blizzard of candidates’ comments
about coeducation and the Honor System,
we wanted to take a stab at some less
predictable insights into the individuals
asking you to hand your student govern-
ment over to them.

The Ring-tum Phi has a reporter and
two or three editors at each Monday night
EC meeting, so we get a pretty good feel
for the personalities and competence of
the committee members. Since no sane
students should be subjected to those
weekly exercises in controlled chaos, we
thought it appropriate to pass along some
of what we have observed.

Our impressions, then, of the three
presidential candidates:

Vice President Andrew Caruthers
frustrates us not so much because of what
he is but because of what he could be. He
has an extremely appealing personality ;
first impressions are his forte, and he
would excel at the numerous face-man

aspects of the job, such as meeting with
the trustees and orienting the freshmen.
A three-year veteran of the committee,
Caruthers was first elected as a freshman
and has grown more effective each year.
He has mastered the intricacies of the
Honor System and has done a more-than-
competent job this year with the thank-
less task of managing the student body
budgets. Ever conscious of his constituen-
cy, Caruthers is always among the first to
suggest that the committee seek student
opinion when a controversial issue comes
up. Unfortunately, he is also given to pet-
tiness and paranoia, characteristics that
torpedo his otherwise effective leadership
style and hint at a troubling insecurity.
Caruthers remains a likeable, talented
guy who could be the ideal president to
make the student government’s transi-
tion from the “old” to the ‘new’
Washington and Lee. He several times
has shown a willingness to stand up to the
administration and has demonstrated on
numerous occasions that he votes his
principles rather than simple political ad-
vantage. If there is such a thing as earn-
ing the presidency, Caruthers has done it:

He is easily the most dynamic and ex-
perienced of the three candidates. If
Caruthers would stop playing games and

just be himself, he — and the student body

— would be well served.

Junior representative Shayam Menon
has managed skillfully to steer clear of
two traps that lay waiting for him. One
was to become a tooth-and-nails, at-the-

throat rival of Caruthers, and the other
was to be a stooge for this year’s presi-
dent, who is a close friend, fellow dor-
mitory counselor and fraternity brother.
Caruthers and Menon would seem to have
been natural adversaries. When Caru-
thers was a freshman, he basked in the
spotlight of being the only class represen-
tative; the next year, he had Menon as a
colleague. Through efforts on both of
their parts, they have developed an
amicable relationship and have worked
well together. Although Menon generally
agrees with the president, he is not — and
is not perceived as — a John Lewis clone
or puppet. Menon followed Caruthers’
lead in staying in close touch with the
class by employing an innovative system
of specific contacts in each fraternity for
consultation on issues. He is an extremely
popular dorm counselor and has walked
the fine line between being friendly and
outgoing and yet avoiding any ap-
pearance of being a political climber.
Like most members of the committee, he
has a refreshing sense of humor, but
takes matters seriously when it’s time for
business. Menon would hardly be a
charismatic public speaker, a definite
drawback in an office as visible as the
student body president’s. He would
be a caretaker president rather than an
activist, but his thoughtful, careful ap-
proach to issues would promote level-
headedness on the committee.

Second year law representative Bill
Thompson has not distinguished himself,
but neither has he made a fool of himself,

a feat that has eluded several recent law
school representatives. Thompson’s
years as a W&L undergraduate gave him
a good understanding of the Honor
System, and he has worked well with the
committee’s undergraduates. Despite a
surprisingly short temper, he frequently
contributes constructively to committee
discussions. He, too, has escaped too
close an identification with the president,
a friend and fraternity brother, and has
voted differently from him on several
issues. On the rather narrow ideological
spectrum that comprises this year’s EC,
Thompson would be left of center. His
years as an undergraduate have given
him a memory of the institution broader
and deeper than any of the other can-
didates. Having a law student as student
body president would undoubtedly be a
huge stride in promoting greater iden-
tification between the two sides of Woods
Creek. The relationship will never be as
close and as productive as it was then the
law school was housed in Tucker Hall, but
Thompson could significantly narrow the
gap between the two student bodies of one
university.

A final note: More than half of the work
the EC performs is not reported by the
newspaper or seen by many students. To
the extent that member performance
cannot be observed in the context of honor
matters, our judgment of the candidates
is incomplete. In that sense, how this
year’s EC upheld the Honor System
or allowed it to weaken ultimately must
be the deciding factor.. .

 

 
* + * * * * ¥ « . *
7

* 2 . - . 2? ¥ 4

Election Supplement, March 6, 1986, Page 3

 

~ President

 

Caruthers: Urges

 

By JIM STRADER
Editor

 

Experience in several Ex-
ecutive Committee positions and
exposure to a variety of student
government functions are the
key attributes EC Vice President
Andrew Caruthers said he would
bring to the job of student body
president.

Caruthers, 20, a junior
business administration major
from Shreveport, La. said in his
three years on the EC he has
observed not only the major
workings of the committee, but
also minor things the ‘ins and
outs’’ of the EC. His participation
in the functioning of the EC

Menon:

 

By JASON LISI
News Editor

 

Junior Executive Committee
representative Shayam Menon
says that if successful in his
quest for the EC presidency he
will try to strengthen the Honor
System and make the student
government more attentive to
students’ views and opinions.

Menon said in an interview this
week that he currently stays in
touch by use of a ‘‘network”’ of
students he created to keep tabs
on the views of fellow students.
He said that as president, he
would continue the system.

“‘T want to be open-minded next
year,”’ he said.

would give him something to fall
back on as president.

“It’s a big step to be elected to
the EC as a representative,” he
continued. ‘‘And it’s a big step to
£0 from being a rep to being on
the “Big Three’. The next step is
to capitalize on all the fortes and
foibles of the last three student
body presidents I’ve served,”
Caruthers said.

Caruthers stressed the impor-
tance of improved relations be-
tween the undergraduate cam-
pus and the law school as well as
the importance of maintaining
good relations between the stu-
dent body and other University
groups.

“Td like to strengthen the
Honor System orientation for

Uses ‘network’ to

Menon, a business administra-
tion major from Charles Town,
W.Va., is in his second year as a
class representative and also
serves as a dormitory counselor.

He lists the Honor System
among the strengths of W&L, yet
feels the process of implement-
ing it can be improved.

“You would be very idealistic
to say the Honor System works
completely,’ he said. ‘Lying,
cheating and stealing, in some
aspects, are inherent to human
nature.”

“T think we have a system
where we trust each other,”
Menon added. ‘‘There are flaws
but we have to move in a positive
direction rather than a negative
one.”’

‘laissez-faire’ toward coed

first-year law students,” he said.
“T’d like to involve W&L alumni
at the law school — the seven-
year men — in orientation.”’

Caruthers pointed out that ac-
ting as a liason from the student
body to the Board of Trustees is
among the duties of the student
body president.

“He has to articulately express
the student body opinion to the
board on all issues,’ Caruthers
said. ‘‘He is also the conduit to
the faculty. It’s very important
to be able to express student
body opinion there and explain
the opinions no matter what it
may be.”’

On the issue of coeducation and
some of the related problems
that have surfaced, Caruthers
said he thinks W&L ought to

He suggested ways of improv-
ing the system, including more
comprehensive orientation of
freshmen and new faculty mem-
bers at the beginning of the
school year.

As a weakness of the school,
Menon cited the current organi-
zation of the Student Control
Committee.

“T don’t think they’re properly
structured right now to take on
more serious cases,’’ he said, ad-
ding that there should be a more
routine way the SCC goes about
its investigations and hearings.

Menon said he had not seen
much change since he’s been at
W&L except for the dorm life
where, because of new Virginia
drinking laws, the majority of

adopt a ‘‘laissez-faire”’ attitude.

“T don’t think we should force
anything prematurely,’’ he ex-
plained. ‘‘Coeducation is a thing
that has happened and it should
be allowed to run its course. ‘I’m
against pushing things ahead of
their time.”’

Although the Honor System
has been surrounded by con-
troversy recently, Caruthers
said that has. served to
strengthen it.

“Despite the doubt about the
Honor System this year, it’s been
a positive effect,’’ Caruthers
said. “It’s encouraged students
to take an active role. It’s caused
them to strengthen their belief
and realize the importance the
Honor System has at W&L.”’

 

 

 

 

ANDREW CARUTHERS

track W&L views

the freshman class is forbidden
to possess alcohol.

Although Menon initially voted
in favor of creating the non-vot-
ing female position on the SCC,
he said that after hearing SCC
and student body opposition to
the position, he changed his vote.

“T don’t think the placing of an
ad hoc woman [on the SCC] is the
solution to the problem,” he said.

He suggests an alternative sol-
ution, such as the greater use of
dorm counselors to assist with
testimony.

He said that if he loses the race
for president, he will not run for
senior class representative so
that ‘‘new blood’ can flow into
the committee after his two
years as a representative.

 

 

 

 

SHAYAM MENON

Thompson: Student-Hill relations suffering

 

 

 

WILLIAM THOMPSON

 

 

By JASON LISI
News Editor

 

Bill Thompson, a 1984 Wash-
ington and Lee graduate and the
only law student running in the
“Big Three’’ election, says he
has seen how the school has
changed since he arrived in Lex-
ington and wants to “put some-
thing back” into W&L by being
Executive Committee president.

He is presently the second-year
law representative to the EC and
is from Boca Raton, Fla.

Thompson says his main con-
cern is that the future of student
government at W&L is in danger
froin a breakdown of relations
between students and faculty.

‘If there are not improved
relations between student gov-

ernment and the faculty and the
administration, then the very in-
stitution of student government
is threatened,” he said.

“We should be working togeth-
er with these people,’’ he added.
“It’s a relationship that could be
very close.”

If these relations are not im-
proved, Thompson says, ‘‘I see
change for the worse rather than
for the better.”

He said that in his years at
W&L he has seen the academic
nature of the school improve.
“The impression that I get is that
the students are now putting
more pressure on themselves,”’
he said.

But the time-honored traits of
the campus, such as the faith in
the Honor System and the spirit

of camaraderie, have not chang-
ed, he said. ‘‘The things that
make it different from a lot of
schools still exist, and they
haven’t changed,”’ he said.

Thompson reacted to some of
the major issues on campus this
year:

eThompson said he feels that
the coeducation decision was in-
tended to make many of changes
in the University and that the
changes have been favorable.

“The obvious academic advan-
tages that the women have
brought to the campus which
have been stressed by so many
are clear, but I think that there
are other things the women can
add that haven’t even yet come

to fruition,’’ he said.
“They’re obviously interested
in participating on campus.”’

eThompson said he would be
disappointed if some minorities
whose request for a minority
non-voting ad hoc member to the
Student Control Committee voted
against some EC members in
this election.

“If the minority students took
their disfavor with our decision
out at the polls, I think that they
would be placing their energies
in the wrong direction,” he said.

“T think that it would be unfor-
tunate if they chose to take it out
on this particular committee
because the committee was only
acting in the interest of the stu-
dent body,” he said.

 
Page 4, Efection Supplermerit, March6, 1988 © © © © 7 8 ett

 

 

By PAUL FOUTCH
Editor

 

Junior Paul Abbott says he is offering
the student body his trustworthiness to
uphold the Honor System as a candidate
for vice president, and he believes that
students can define the Honor System and
are ultimately responsible for it.

Abbott, an East Asian Studies major
from Richmond, said this week that he
doesn’t believe in the ‘‘boys will be boys’’
argument.

“T think the IFC is there to deal with
behavior of that sort,’’ he said. ‘“‘The EC
is there to determine what’s honorable
and what’s not, and I believe that was
what Robert E. Lee’s argument was in
allowing the students to run the Honor
System.”’

“Technically, [a ‘boys will be boys”’ in-
cident] would be an honor violation, but
then again the EC does try to reflect what
the student body feels about what is hon-
orable and what is not.”’

Abbott referred to a controversial open
honor trial earlier in the year in which a

~ Vice President

Abbott: Honor, trust to be keys to next year

student jury acquitted another student
who had been found guilty of larceny in
Lexington General District Court. “I
thought the decision wasn’t detrimental
to the Honor System because I think the
student body decides the Honor System.”’

Abbott said his administrative exper-
ience includes positions as corresponding
secretary and pledge educator for Phi
Gama Delta fraternity, jobs that give him
a vote in a body similar to the EC and
make him responsible for indoctrinating
freshmen.

He gave Vice President Andrew Caru-
thers good marks for keeping tight con-
trol of the student body budget this year
by limiting the amount of money
organizations could list under ‘‘miscel-
laneous” in their budget requests and
reports, and he praised the EC for giving
groups with larger constituencies greater
funding.

He also said he has gained budgeting
experience by handling a speaker/dinner
program for his fraternity.

The major reason that he’s running for
office, though, is to protect the Honor
System.

Abbott said he read recently about a
poll at another Virginia college with an
honor system. In the poll, 75 percent of
the students admitted to cheating.

“T don’t believe that happens here, and
I don’t wish to see it happen here,”’ Abbott
said.

“The Honor System is one of the rea-
sons I came here in the first place.”

Abbott said the reason there are so few
candidates for ‘“‘Big Three’ positions as
compared with last year may be related
to the amount of controversy the Honor
System has generated.

“Next year is going to be a key year for
the Honor System,”’ he said.

“T don’t think there’s really that many
people willing to take up this challenge.”’

“A lot of people are questioning if there
really is an Honor System.”’ The answer
to maintaining a strong system is a strong
EC, Abbott said.

He added that his contact with much of
the student body will let him keep the EC
in tune with the students.

“T feel I have a firm grasp on the feel-
ings of students.”

 

 

 

 

PAUL ABBOTT

Surgner: W&L ‘tension’ needs to be solved

 

 

 

 

BRANDT SURGNER

i- S. Jefferson St.
13308
Hours:

Mon.-Sat. 9am to lam
Sunday 10am to lam

 

By SYDNEY MARTHINSON
Staff Reporter

 

Junior Brandt Surgner, one of two can-
didates for vice president, feels the most
significant change at Washington and Lee
this year has been a new atmosphere fill-
ed with tension.

Surgner said this week that most of the
tension stems from differences between
the upperclassmen and the freshmen
women; or, with neither party actually to
blame.

“There are still some upperclassmen
who aren’t quite ready to accept coeduca-
tion,” he said, ‘‘and when they hear the
women complaining about the ad hoc
member and things like that, I guess that
just tends to tick them off.”’

Surgner added, though, that he has
been surprized by how receptive some of
the upperclassmen have been.

“As the year has progressed, people
have become more openminded,’’ he
said. ‘‘They just don’t want it all dumped
on them at once.”

Surgner said he is opposed to a female
ad hoc member on the Student Control
Committee. He said it is “not fair’’ to
either men or women, because such an
appointed member would only bring
about hostility and more tension.

Another area in which tension is in-
creasing, according to Surgner, is in stu-
dent attitudes toward the Honor System.
While Surgner does not see any weaken-
ing of the system, he realizes that there
are differences among the student body
over what constitues an honor offense. He
cited fake identification cards as an ex-
ample. While some students consider any
false identification to be a violation of
honor, Surgner said he feels that a viola-
tion occurs only when a student is ques-
tioned about the card’s validity.

“If a person says, ‘“That’s me,”’ that is
without a doubt an honor violation,’’ he
declared.

The various tensions between students
are making them less inclined to be
friendly, Surgner contends. People don’t
seem to speak to each other as much as
they have in the past two years,”’ he said.

Sandwiches (Eat In-Take Out)
Gourmet Items of All Nations _

Cocktails® Wine®@Beer
Subs@Imported Cheeses

 

Because of this lack of communication,
Surgner says that ‘‘tension is detrimental
to the student body.”’

He said he feels his skills in relating
with people will help him deal with the
issues on both sides more effectively.

Surgner said his ‘“‘leadership qualifica-
tions” and his ‘“‘knowledge of the Honor
System’’ make him the best suited for this
position.

He has served as president and vice
president of Sigma Phi Epsilon and is
vice president of Kathekon, the student
alumni association. He said his involve-
ment with last year’s White Book Revi-
sion Committee gave him a strong
background with the Honor System.

“Since I’ve been at W&L, the Honor
System has really had an impact on how I
look at things,”’ he said. Still, he thinks he
and many other students, take some
aspects of the Honor System, such as un-
proctored exams, for granted. ‘‘I would
like to have the opportunity to help ad-
minister the Honor System and preserve
it for this generation as well as future
generations,”’ he said.

Attention
Faculty

and
Fraternities

 

NEw CONSTRUCTION

ADDITIONS REMODELING

RENOVATIONS

stevens construction

P.O. BOx 420
LEXINGTON, VA 24450

 

DAVID W. STEVENS JR.
703-463-4283

FINE CARPENTRY
FREE ESTIMATES

 

 

 
- . 7 , 7 ‘ 7

Election supplement, March 6,19

a a .

86, Page 5

 

v Secretary

 

Mize: Commitment important, not experience

 

By JIM STRADER
Editor

 

Junior Roby Mize, a candidate for Ex-
ecutive Committee secretary, says serving
in that position would give him an opportuni-
ty to repay all that Washington and Lee has
given him.

Mize, a history and economics major from
Lallas, is a member of the Student Recruit-
ment Committee and the Phi Delta Theta
social fraternity, and is a two-year tennis
team letterman. He competed in the NCAA
Division III National Tennis Championships
as botha freshman anda sophomore.

“I’ve been pretty involved at school,’’
Mize, 21, said in an interview this week.

Robins: Honor remains

 

By PAUL FOUTCH
Editor

 

Rick Robins, a sophomore economics ma-
jor from Newport News, says his main
reason for running for Executive Committee
secretary is to keep the Honor System
strong.

“‘T feel that honor should be first and
foremost,”’ Robins said.

He said freshmen and first-year law
students should have the idea of Washington
and Lee honor instilled in them through
more one-on-one contact with student
leaders during orientation, and he said he
would like to see the EC investigate honor
cases more thoroughly.

Robins, Sigma Phi Epsilon’s representa-
tive to the Interfraternity Council, said his

“W&L has given me a lot, and this is one
more way to give it back to the school, by
serving on the EC.”’

This year’s campaign is Mize’s first at-
tempt at student government at W&L, but he
said he doesn’t think experience should be
requirement for office.

“It would help to have EC experience, but
past EC people have stepped in their senior
year without any problems,”’ he said.

Mize said he doesn’t see many recent
changes in the overall W&L community,
although he has seen many changes regard-
ing coeducation. One thing he has especially
noticed through his work on the Student
Recruitment Committee is an improvement
in the applicant pool.

Coeducation has had negative effects as

freshman orientation was good, but “It was a
little bit too casual.”

He said he would like to see freshmen meet
in smaller groups and have the Honor
System explained to them in greater detail.

Robins, who was a witness in an honor
case last year, said he saw some problems
from that experience with the way the EC in-
vestigates possible honor violations.

“Each case should be investigated a bit
more than in the past,’’ he said.

“The EC this year and last year has lacked
in fairness,”’ he said, adding that he couldn’t
comment on the case he was involved in.

Robins said he would like to keep the
Honor System strong, but he doesn’t think
“boys will be boys’’ incidents necessarily
should result in expulsion.

“Each case should be dealt with in-
dividually,”’ he said.

Bedsheets in campaigns

called ugly, banned by VRB

By SEAN BUGG
Staff Reporter

 

Students remembering past
“Big Three’ elections may
notice something different this
year: There aren’t the usual
sheets hanging from buildings to
advertise candidates’ cam-
paigns.

“Tt kind of makes the campus
look ugly,” said junior John
Scannapieco, co-chairman of the
Voting Regulations Board.

The rule banning bedsheets
was passed in order to clean up

 

 

JOHN SCANNAPIECO

In the case of Executive Com-

well, Mize said. ‘‘The school has in a sense
overcompensated” for the women, he ex-
plained. “‘They have been given a lot. The
situation can’t be perfect for them; time is
going to have to smooth out the rough
edges.”

Mize said that although some women have
said they’ve sensed hostilities from men,
“that’s because it was such a hot issue.”

He said he thinks the anti-coed sentiment
has dissipated. “It’s heard about more than
you see it,’’ he said. ‘‘It’s not that pervasive.
Coeducation is a step to the future.”’

The Honor System hasn't undergone any
changes, in Mize’s opinion. ‘‘People point to
cases sometimes, but those are individual
things,”’ Mize said. ‘‘On the whole it still
works.”

 

 

ROBY MIZE

 

 

‘first and foremost’

Robins said the ‘“‘men’s school mentality”’
hasn’t changed at W&L, even with coeduca-
tion. The school is just a ‘‘coeducational
men’s school, if that makes any sense.”’

The answer to changing that doesn’t lie in
ad hoc woman representatives to various
committees, though.

“The best way for them to have their in-
terests represented is to have them elected,”’
he said.

Robins said he was worried that ad hoc
representatives will hurt the unity of student
committees, and a strong EC particularly is
important. Students who want to be repre-
sented can always attend EC meetings, he
said.

“The EC will be receptive to student in-
put.”’

By way of leadership experience, Robins
said he started a wholesale seafood business
that netted $4,500 last summer.

FIO III III IK IK

*

 

 

LOU MONDELLO

The student body ‘‘won’'t stuff

  

RICK ROBINS

Party Pix

alt

Fancy Dress

Get your picture taken

 

the campus, he said’ ‘‘You don’t
have to have a big sheet hanging
to advertise your campaign,”’
Scannapieco contended.

Candidates now are limited to
25 paper posters around campus.

The VRB is “a neutral board
that monitors the elections and
campaigns ... and makes sure
there are no unfair practices,”
Scannapieco said.

mittee elections, the board takes
the election out of the hands of
the body that is up for election in
order to ensure fair voting.

The Honor System also helps
the election run smoothly, Scan-
napieco noted. “I don’t have to
worry about people putting up
more signs than they should,” he
said.

ballot boxes”’ either, because of
the Honor System, he said.

Counting the ballots is another
responsibility of the board, which
consists of six members in addi-
tion to Scannapieco and co-Chair-
man Lou Mondello.

Students who man the ballot
boxes on election days are asked
to do so by members of the
board.

OKI III KKK KKK KKK KKKKK

Fa RN a aed

and buy it from

the SAB next week.

2.9.9.9. 9.0.9. 9.9. 9.9.0 0.2.2. 9.0.0. 0.0.0 6 o 04

i

a

aaa eT

A TEE

 
i

|
' Page b, Election Supplement, March 6, 1986 |

VRB lists campaign, election do’s and don't’s

Following is the text of the
Voting Regulations Board’s elec-
tion rules and regulations:

The purpose of the VRB is to
maintain fair and equitable elec-
tions. Any action or event in-
fluencing voters in an unfair
manner, as well as any question
of possible violation of the stated
rules, shall be brought to the at-
tention of the VRB. The Board,
upon hearing of the matter, will
decide whether or not the can-
didate is disqualified from the
election. The decision of the VRB
may be appealed to the Execu-
tive Committee.

The Chairman shall certify the
election as being in accordance
with the set rules and regula-
tions.

A. All elections and referen-
dums shall be publicized as pro-
vided for in the Student Body
Constitution. The notice shall in-
clude: the date(s), times, pur-
pose of voting, ballot box loca-
tions, and notice of required at-
tendance by the candidates at the
“rule-setting’’ meeting, to be
conducted by the VRB.

B. All possible candidates are
required to attend the VRB
“rule-setting’’ meeting held at
least one week prior to the night
petitions are due. They must be
given a copy of the rules and
regulations at the meeting. All
exceptions must go through the
VRB chairperson prior to the
night petitions are due.

C. All candidates, including
write-in candidates, are subject
to the spending and poster limits
as set by the VRB. Donations of
any sort to one’s campaign are to
be included within these limits.
Any possible violations shall be
reported to the Voting Regula-

 

 

 

 

 

Students vote in front of the Commerce School last year

tions Board. If at any time a can-

. didate has any questions con-

cerning the elections and/or
these regulations, he should con-
sult a VRB member.

D. All candidates, including
write-in candidates, are pro-
hibited from: a) any verbal or
physical contact with potential
voters within 25 feet of polling
place; and b) are prohibited
from having any posters or ban-
ners within 10 feet of the polling
place.

E. There shall be a minimum
of two places for polling for ma-
jor elections unless otherwise
determined by the VRB.

F. All polling places must be
staffed at all times.

G. Hours of operation shall be 9
a.m. to4p.m.

H. All ballot boxes shall re-
main sealed until voting is com-
plete.

I. At each of the polling places
there shall be: a list of the poll
staffers, a copy of the rules, a

 

 

File photos by Cotton Puryear

 

Then-junior Bill Michaud casts his ballot

student directory for voters to
check their names off, and the
ballots.

J. The poll staffers shall re-
main in a position of official
neutrality on candidates and/or
issues being voted on.

K. Under no circumstances
shall any person attempt to
directly influence the vote of a
student after he has obtained a
ballot.

L. If there is a line of students

waiting to vote after polling
hours, only they may cast their
ballots.

M. Write-in votes shall be con-
sidered invalid in run-off elec-
tions.

N. Any call for a recount or any
complaints shall be referred to
the Voting Regulations Board,
which shall meet within 24 hours
after an election at a time
specified at the “rule-setting”’
meeting.

Petitions for EC class representatives due March 17

Candidates’ petitions for Ex-

room, according

the Voting tained from Carol Calkins’ office

 

 

in the University Center. These
official petitions will be the only

ecutive Committee class repre-
sentative are due Monday,

Regulations Board. A_ rule-
setting meeting will follow. An

ATTENTION!!!

 

March 17, at 6:15 p.m. inthe EC official petition form may be ob- _ ones accepted.
Phi photos now available!
8X10 - 4° B&W Have a
5X7 - $2° B&W DIO, inc. message
Come by, take a look at our contact The Official Fancy for that
Te nae Dress Photographer Rovio

Superdance, concerts, etc.

Located on the balcony behind the

Count Basie Orchestra
You will receive:

Two 5x7 PORTRAITS IN FOLDERS
plus:
Four Wallet Size Portraits
EVERTHING IN COLOR!
ALL FOR ONLY $7.50

including tax

Freelancing at Fancy Dress :
and by request. Try The Phi
Classifieds.

Contact: Steve Sadler
Ring-tum Phi
Cotton Puryear
Calyx

463-8581
463-8583

 

 

 
 

® 4

‘Election Supplement, March 6, 1986, Page 7

 

Guide to
‘Big Three’
duties

What do the “Big Three’ do?
Here’s a job description for each
office, adapted from the Student
Body Constitution:

*President: Calls and presides
at meetings of the student body
and the Executive Committee;
appoints all special student body
committees, subject to the ap-
proval of the EC; and has
“power, subject to the approval
of the Executive Committee, to
do anything necessary to pro-
mote the best interests of the stu-
dent body.”’

eVice President: Fuifills the
duties of the president in his
absence and manages the dis-
bursements of student body
funds, subject to approval of the
KC.

eSecretary: Keeps a record of
all student body and EC meet-
ings; records proceedings and
evidence in Honor System cases;
has charge of all student body
records; keeps an up-to-date ver-
sion of the Constituion; performs
student body and EC clerical
duties; and posts notices re-
quired by the Constitution or EC.

 

 

 

 

The seven “‘Big Three” candidates respond to questions in a forum Tuesday

By Hank Mayer/The Ring-tum Phi

Candidates discuss EC’s trial coverage view

 

Staff Reports

 

The Executive Committee’s
opposition to coverage of student
body honor hearings by campus
publications was questioned this
week by some “Big Three’”’ can-
didates, but the three EC
members running for president
reiterated their support for the
policy.”’

The Ring-tum Phi this fall
published facts from an “‘open
honor trial’’ with the consent of
the accused student, which one
member of the EC at the time
called ‘‘irresponsible jour-
nalism.”’

A newspaper official replied at

Pressler:

By TOWNES PRESSLER
Senior Class President

 

 

It really is a unique privilege
that we enjoy at Washington and

Lee to have a
OPINION

completely
student run
Honor Sys-
tem and student government. It
is therefore important that the
leaders of this system be the best
leaders possible.

When voting on Monday, re-
member: that the Honor System
is only as powerful as the student
generation makes it. This was
proven this year in an open trial
in which the student generation
saw drunkenness aS an excuse
for an honor violation. It is
therefore important that you
elect someone whom you feel will

an EC meeting that the proceed-
ings at open hearings don’t stay
secret anyway, that the Honor
System would be strengthened
by a thorough discussion of the
issues raised at such trials, and
that the EC ought not be the
monopoly voice on honor mat-
ters.

Here is a roundup of the can-
didates’ comments on the issue,

gathered in interviews _ this
week:
Junior Andrew Caruthers

(president): “I’m against infor-
mation about open hearings go-
ing outside the Washington and
Lee community. I wouldn’t have
any problems if the paper was
distributed strictly on the W&L

‘Vote and

represent you and the 1986-87 stu-
dent generation. The Honor Sys-
tem today is not what it was in
1960, nor will it be the same in the
year 2000, so make sure that you
elect someone who will represent
next year’s generation.

Big Three elections are on
Monday and each office should
be filled by someone who is well
respected, and is able to make
decisions and stick by those deci-
sions. The job of president is not
an enviable position: it will
always be impossible to keep the
students, the faculty and the
Board of Trustees happy at the
same time. We need someone
who will not be afraid to stand up
to any of these groups. The presi-
dent of the student body will re-
present the student generation to
the faculty and the board as well

campus, but it’s accessible to
people outside.... We are here to
protect [the accused student]
from having his name dragged
through the mud.”

Junior Shayam Menon (presi-
dent): Publications ‘‘can get the
point across with mentioning the
details. We want to keep this
within our community; we don’t
want it to get out.”

Second-year law student Wil-
liam Thompson (president): ‘‘An
active discussion of the issues in-
volved in honor triais is more
than appropriate — it’s neces-
sary.... [But] if a student is ac-
quitted, he should be accepted
back unquestionably; there
shouldn’t be a rehash of the facts

and witnesses.”

Junior Paul “Chief’’ Abbott
(vice president): ‘I think the
press has the right [to cover the
hearings] .... I wouldn’t neces-
sarily say it hurts the Honor
System.”

Junior Brandt Surgner (vice
president): “‘I am pretty much
against having newspaper cover-
age of honor trials because I am
a firm, firm believer in the con-
fidentiality of those who are ac-
cused of honor violations. When
an honor violation goes into an
open trial, the White Book
specifically states that it is only
open to the Washington and Lee
community. Since The Ring-tum
Phi goes out of the W&L commu-

nity, I don’t think it’s right to
publish the facts of honor trials
and have our honor system scrut-
inized by those not in the com-
munity.... [Facts should be] just
minor ones, nothing major.”’

Junior Roby Mize (secretary):
“It is important that students are
informed, but if people are really
interested, they'll be there at the
hearing. The problem with news-
paper coverage is the possibility
that an honor trial will turn intoa
media event. That might cause it
to lose some of its seriousness.”’

Sophomore Rick Robins (sec-
retary): ‘I think it’s something
that should be discussed in The
Phi. I don’t think the EC has
anything to hide.”’

vote wisely’ in EC elections

as make decisions on honor
cases. Choose your president
with this in mind.

The vice president will repre-
sent you in honor trials as well as
in every student organization on
campus. The vice president
keeps the budget for every stu-
dent organization and allocates
student taxes to these groups.
Make sure that whomever you
choose for vice president will be
the type of person who will be
diligent enough to keep up the
books and won't be afraid to
freeze any group’s funds at any
time.

The secretary of the EC,
although not as glorified as the
president and vice president, will
put in as much work and has to
be a conscientious worker above
all else. Every week he will have

to write up the minutes of the
meeting, have them typed, and
post them around campus. In ad-
dition, the secretary has to
record all trials and keep records
at all trials and meetings. When
you are voting, make certain that
the person you vote for will have
the time to put into all of the
duties of secretary.

The president, vice president
and secretary are and will be
very vocal figures in the W&L
community. Make sure that they
will voice your opinion, which
hopefully will also be their own,

The most important thing to
remember when voting for the
Big Three and all other represen-
tatives is that they are represen-
ting you and you control the
Honor System and student gov-
ernment. Vote and vote wisely

 

 

TOWNES PRESSLER
| # { ‘

°F iy MAMA RAAER ETE CEES ECR hE ECE Eee ee et ht tS Te
eli WHAT THHATHHHHAW IVMASLAGUUHHWUHOGNNENATUHHTOUTHVUTHRHOLUHHOROVUHTHHH WHI | AA IE

HII

Fancy Dress Concert... :

Let’s Active
With Special Guests
The dB’s

) Tonight at 9 p.m.

UHLUIUUVIUUUUVUUVHVVAUUHVOULUVUUULLUEULL

HNL

WHAT

PUTA

HHI
it

 

\|

= Tickets - *6.00 - Available at the door

Student Activities Pavilion - Proper I.D. Required
Presented by W&L Student Activities Board

and Cellar Door Concerts

 

Still on Sale...
Fancy Dress Memorabilia
— = —Srt—‘“‘“‘“‘ CULL CC $35 /couple
= Te ee *8 :
: ee $2
= ans.  —§— 2 3/%1

 

: On Sale: Friday 10 a.m. - 2 p.m.

= University Center - Room 109
STM IIUNULLUAUUUUUUUUEUU ANA UAHAAAAAAe =

'
’

+

*

.

‘

‘

‘

+

.

,

.

’

.

 

 

Prior restraint

 

Min) 4O2F
THE UNIVERSITY Linn
WASHII NGTON &

VOLUME 85, NUMBER 22

Mollenhoff tells of

British media laws
Page 3

 
 
 
 

 

 

  
  
 

 

 

Driver restraint

MADD founder
makes speech

 

Page 3

he Ring-tum Phi

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 
  
   

 

 

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Your Violent Femmes weather
70% chance of rain tomorrow;
chance of rain through Monday

 

MARCH 13, 1986

 

Menon escapes a runoff, wins presidency

 

Who got what and where

 

President:
= 25.15%

50.41%

23.02%
1.42%

O Menon 0 Thompson

Fj Law School

a

 

ODK Circle

eo Library

0 50 100 150 200

 

 

250 300

{ Caruthers @ Not Voting

 

Vice President:

     
  
 
  

Law School

 

 

 

28.60%
62.27% ODK Circle
» Library
9.13% 0 S0 100 150 200 250 300
0 Surgner 0 Abbott @ Not Voting
s
Secretary
Law School
83.25% 34.99% ODK Circle
Library
11.76% 0 S50 100 150 200 250 300
O Mize 0 Robins @ Not Voting

   
 
  
 
  

 

 

 

By John Kalitka/The Ring-tum Phi

 

By JOHN KALITKA
Staff Reporter

 

Junior Shayam Menon was elected
next year’s student body president on
Monday, defeating two challengers
and avoiding a runoff by a five-vote
margin.

Menon, of Charles Town, W.Va.,
captured 50.4 percent of the 986 votes
cast. He was opposed by first-year
law student and Executive Commit-
tee representative William Thomp-
son of Boca Raton, Fla., who receiv-
ed 25.2 percent of the vote, and by
junior and student body vice presi-
dent Andrew Caruthers of Shreve-
port, La., who garnered 23 percent of
the vote.

Elected vice president was junior
Brandt Surgner of Philadelphia, and
the secretary will be junior Roby
Mize of Atlanta.

Surgner received 62.3 percent of
the vote to top classmate Paul
“Chief’’ Abbott of Richmond, and
Mize scored 53.3 percent to defeat
sophomore Rick Robins of Newport
News.

A little more than 57 percent of the
student body voted in Monday’s “Big
Three” election. Nearly 65 percent of
the Law School turned out, and about
55 percent of undergraduates voted.
The Law School poll drew 231 voters,
while the two polls on the undergrad-
uate campus — at the University
Library and in ‘“‘ODK Circle” be-
tween the Commerce School and the
Colonnade — together attracted 755.

The results took about 212 hours to
tabulate after polls closed at 4 p.m.
on post-Fancy Dress Monday, ac-
cording to Lou Mondello, Voting
Regulations Board co-chairman.

“Tt shouldn’t have been on the day
after Fancy Dress,”’ said Mondello.
“But the Constitution dictates when
we hold the election,’ The Student
Body Constitution says the “Big
Three”’ elections are to be held the
Monday of the 10th week of winter
term.

Menon said Fancy Dress may have
affected voting, but, he said, ‘‘voting

 

 

 

*

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

Jeff Kelsey, Walker Hays, Chip Brooks and Andrew Bouie (1. tor.) vote Monday

has always been after FD in my two
years here.”’

“Hopefully, this shows the Univer-
sity has confidence in me because
I’m definitely looking forward to the
challenge ahead.”

“Voting Monday after Fancy Dress
is ridiculous,’ said Thompson, the
only Law School candidate on Mon-
day’s ballot. ‘In the past we’ve been
seen as apathetic, [but this time]
over two-thirds of the Law School
turned out. I’m proud of their effort,’
he said.

“I was expecting a run-off between
Shayam and myself ...{but] it’s not
possible to run effectively without
solid undergraduate support,”’
Thompson said.

Although he felt ‘‘disappointment”’
about the results, Thompson believes
his candidacy has “sparked” the

FD ‘86: loose llama, lax liquor checks;
partiers shift from parkas to madras

Ale, entertainment
said to be popular

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
and SYDNEY MARTHINSON
Staff Reporters

 

Last weekend’s packed, popular
Fancy Dress Ball was marred only
by a recalcitrant llama and a few
security problems, one of which
resulted in a Student Conduct Com-
mittee investigation.

Junior Rob Tolleson, the Student
Activities Board’s Fancy Dress
chairman, said a number of letters
have been received praising the
bash, which had as its theme ‘‘Car-
naval: A Night in Rio.”

“The entertainment turned out bet-
ter than most people had planned,”’
he said, adding that the Friday night
fireworks were ‘‘a huge hit.”’

Although no attendance figures are
yet available, Tolleson said a great
deal of beer was consumed, “‘par-
ticularly the Killian’s”’ Red ale.

“That went over real well because
there was more alcohol content,’ he
said. “I think it hit everybody at
once.”’

Tolleson said that if any Alcohol
Beverage Control Board agents had
been in Warner Center, ‘‘we would
have gotten slammed — the security
guys were just hanging around.”’

A llama rented from the Natural
Bridge Zoo to grace the ball entrance
escaped because zoo personnel did
not accompany it.

“Its head was facing away and I
guess someone moved it so they
could see its face,” Tolleson said.

During the evening, a fight erupted
between a second-year law student
and his date, a first-year student.
Proctor Charles F. ‘Murph’ Murray
said the student ‘‘slapped her pretty
good.” SCC Chairman Townes
Pressler said the matter is being in-
vestigated.

  

San]

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

Sophomore Rick Coyle plays Frisbee on the Colonnade

nee eee enemies

Weekend weather
heats up overnight

 

By JASON LISI
News Editor

 

Fancy Dress weekend started with
topcoats and scarves but ended with
shirt sleeves and shorts as tempera-
tures climbed from frigid to balmy.

The warm weather will continue
through tomorrow but might be ac-
companied by showers, according to
the National Weather Service in
Roanoke.

This weekend, both fraternities
and couples took advantage of the
warm weather. For example, Phi
Delta Theta held a champagne
brunch at Zollman’s Pavilion, Sigma
Nu had a cookout and Pi Kappa
Alpha heard Heinsohn and Day at a
member’s house.

Molly Pressler, a junior from the
University of Texas at Austin who
came to Lexington for Fancy Dress,
said she and her date spent much of
the weekend outside driving on the
Blue Ridge Parkway and picnicking.

She said the change in weather ad-
ded to her fun weekend.

“T had a blast,” she said. ‘
really hard to go home.”

Friday and Saturday saw highs of
only 41 degrees but the temperatures
rose to a high of 71 Sunday and 73
Monday. Temperatures dropped
Tuesday and yesterday to the upper
60s.

The warm weather is being caused
by a high-pressure ridge blocking the
movement of cold air from Canada
into this area and allowing the pas-
sage of warmer air from the south-
east, according to National Weather
Service meteorologist Jan Jackson.

Jackson said this type of week-long
warm spell is common in the late
winter and early spring and will pro-
bably be followed by cold weather for
about two weeks

It was

Law School into a new era of student
government participation.

Menon agrees. He wants to
strengthen relations between the
Law School and the undergraduate
schools. Among his suggestions are
redesigning the Calyx to accom-
modate both schools, talking with
law students about their concerns
and clarifying the relationships be-
tween the EC and Law School advo-
cates appearing at honor hearings.

“In the past, there has been an
adversarial role between the EC and
the Law School advocates...We can
avoid this by discussing the rules of
the EC and the role of advocates ear-
ly in the year,’’ Menon said.

The other newly elected officers
echoed similar feelings. Mize spoke
of a “tension” that makes law
students ‘‘feel less a part of the

University. I can see where an under-
graduate might not vote for a candi-
date just because he’s a law stu-
dent.”’

Surgner said, ‘“‘I don’t know that
there’s much the FC can do. I think
people’s attitudes must change
first.”’

Caruthers said he is happy the elec-
tion is over.

“I’m happy Shayam got such a
mandate,” he said. ‘‘Shayam is a sin-
cere, dedicated individual commit-
ted to W&L and all it stands for...I
know the best man won,”

Both Caruthers and Thompson de-
clined to comment on whether they
might seek another office on the EC.

“T will certainly encourage Bill and
Andrew torun,’’ Menon said.

Profiles of the three winners of Mon-
day’s election appear on page 4.

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

Three people demonstrate the funnelator

Goliathbuster: Slingshot
is now ‘state of the art’

 

By MIKE ALLEN
Executive Editor

 

It dices. It slices. It pulverizes
windows. It lacerates people. All the
kids are doing it!

Yes, it’s the ‘‘Winger,”’ also known
as a “‘funnelator’’ or simply as a
giant slingshot. Get yours now for
$25, slashed from $30. And it comes
with a gross of balloons. What a
bargain!

But don’t even think about getting
caught with one in the dormitories.

‘We've discovered that potentially
they’re very harmful,’’ Dean of
Freshmen H. Robert Huntley said
yesterday.

Hence a new policy: Huntley this
week told Head Dormitory Counselor
Tom Mack to advise his colleagues to
confiscate the funnelators on sight.

The crackdown stems from an inci-
dent early Monday in which fresh-
men Jenny Bray and Kelley Putney
were showered with glass when a
funnelator-flung water balloon wing-
ed through Bray's window on the sec-

The Washington and Lee Stu-
dent Control Committee last week
changed its name to the Student
Conduct Committee

SCC Chairman Townes Pressler
said several members of the
Board of Trustees recently ex-
pressed an interest in making the
name change because it ‘‘sounded

 

Heenan rere ree reer eee aD
SCC: New name but same game

ond floor of Graham-Lees Dormi-
tory.

“It just broke out one pane, but
when it hit, it kind of exploded,” Bray
recalled yesterday. “‘It hit the cur-
tain so hard (You know how curtain
rods come apart?) it...wrenched the
rod apart and threw it across the
room on top of Kelley. The glass hit
me in the back and it was in my hair
and the back of the legs.”’

Assistant Proctor William C.
“Burr” Datz, who inspected the
damage later that morning, said the
balloon had sailed about 150 feet from
the upper floor of a dormitory across
the street and hit with such force that
slivers of glass were embedded in
posters on the opposite side of the
room,

Because Bray had her back to the
window and Putney was lying on the
bed, neither was seriously injured

‘Had I been facing the window, I
would have had a face and eyes full of
glass,’ Bray said. “I didn’t get
shaken up until I realized how lucky

See Sling, Page 4

better.’’ The board had been con-
sidering the change for seven
years, Pressler said

The duties of the SCC, investi-
gating and acting upon com-
plaints of alleged student miscon-
duct that are not violations of the

Honor System, will remain the
same, Pressler said

 

 
 

 

OPINION
Challenge

‘‘T havea lot to prove,” president-elect Shayam Menon said
Monday night with a combination of anticipation and trepida-
tion.

He is correct for two reasons: First, the down side of
avoiding a runoff is that exactly half the people who voted
chose someone else; and, second, one of his opponents had
considerably more polish and experience. Neither of those,
though, is a fatal handicap; indeed, Menon already seems to
be using them as incentives to exert extra effort and energy
in pursuit of a successful term. He is a man bent on proving
his doubters wrong; we believe he will.

Menon promises to bring the student body a markedly dif-
ferent style of leadership from the other presidents of his stu-
dent generation. One of the other candidates said that if
elected, he planned to capitalize on the fortes and avoid the
foibles of the trio of presidents he’s worked under. With
enough support and savvy, Menon, too, can in some measure
capture the strengths of the idealistic Bob Jenevein, the af-
fable Cole Dawson and the charismatic John Lewis.

Our president-elect, though, is sufficiently perceptive to
realize he can never precisely duplicate any of his three
predecessors’ characteristics — and he ought not. Already
he’s talked of some innovative ideas for making the Honor
System more alive for students, and for communicating stu-
dent body sentiment to the trustees and faculty. Menon
knows what he has to work on, and some of the creative ap-

= he’s now formulating show he’s on exactly the right
rack.

One aspect of the election troubles us. Consider the matter
of Andrew Caruthers, who put three years of his college life
into serving the student body, only to be thrashed at the polls
when it came time for what should have been his coup de
grace. The student body has shown several times in recent
years that it doesn’t much care for ambitious student
politicos, and even the biggest Caruthers fan has to admit
that most people perceived him that way. It seems curious to
penalize a candidate for experience, but that is the lesson of
Andrew Caruthers, James White and Darby Brower.

A second issue this election raises is whether, as one can-
didate suggested, the freshmen have become the “king-
makers”’ in student body elections. Menon and Lewis both
are dormitory counselors, and having the freshman block
vote surely was a formidable advantage in both cases. We’re
not convinced, though, that being a dorm counselor should be
a prerequisite to being president.

Those two concerns, though, ought not detract from
Menon’s well-deserved victory. We believe he is up to his
task, and look forward to his attacking it with vigor.

If it ain’t broke...

Ah — for the open-minded thought of a law student. Or so I
thought when I read last week’s W&L Law News editorial,
‘‘Making sanctions fit offenses.”’

When I finished reading their argument for an end to the
single-sanction honor system, I began to wonder whether the
modern adage ‘garbage in, garbage out”’ really held true.

The single sanction stands as strong support for the Honor

_ System because it does not allow for degrees of honor. The
criminal system may allow for degrees of severity of a crime
(misdemeanor, felony, etc.), but the Honor System recog-
nizes only one factor in its considerations — guilt or in-
nocence.

_ In that sense, the Honor System is severe and the conse-

. quences of disobeying it are grave. Trust is to be earned and
not to be assumed.

The Honor System is not designed to measure up to any
legal principle that punishment is to fit the crime. The Honor
System has survived the test of time and been followed by
countless students over the years precisely because the
system operates independently of the administration and es-
tablished legal practice outside of the campus.

How law students — and many other outside observers
—fail to understand the single sanction system is obvious. It
is not a mini-legal system, where a lawyer can manipulate
the courtroom to his advantage, where every case depends
upon some maxim written in law books or where the judge
can decide on the admissability of evidence. To the contrary,
the system exists and operates as it does because every case
is decided on its own merits. Every student generation
decides what it considers honorable and dishonorable
behavior, and every student is expected to live up to that
principle for at feast the four years in which they study here.

Every student chooses Washington and Lee cognizant of
the contract into which they are entering. When that contract
is broken or trust is breached, action must be taken. That is
the finality — and the strength — of the single sanction.

Proportionality and compassion have nothing to do with
the W&L Honor System. Neither the idea of established
precedent nor reform has any relevance to the matter.

 

  

—NRP
= =
Che Ring-tum Phi
NEWS STAFF
a ike ie ih NG re Mike Allen
ys i i es Paul Foutch
Jim Strader
Managing Editor ......... ccc ccccccccerevcscrecenetenseceserseeees Reade Williams
Sports Halter... ..cccccsecccsccvcveceecs ... Mike Stachura
NeWS HAUOP. ooo cc ccc ccctecescccceceenseccrecetasessessacecseneocesens Jason Lisi
Photography Editor ............ccceceeseccevecencncncveeversereeeeess Steve Sadler
Chief Copy Editor ......... $0500 o04'eieeece cu WOR te Renn
Entertainment Editor. ..........0:ccceeeceeteeereeeceeceereneneee Marshall Boswell
Assistant Sports Editor ............ cece cece cree ee eee eee eseneeeeeees David Emrich
EDITORIAL PAGE
Editorial Page E@itor ........ ccc ccc ce cseessrcecceserrsreceessence Nelson Patterson
Assistant Editorial Page Editor... ........:-sceeeeceereeeeeeeeeeeees Marie Kothman
err cor ne ic Chris Bowring
BUSINESS STAFF
Bnniness MORAGET 00... cess csc cccnccrceesetecegeeresereeecseneconeges Jeff Kimbell
Advertising Manager ........ccssescccccccecnensebersereuseeeeres Hank Greenberg
Advertising Salesmen ..........-sceeceeeereereereseees Caroline Boone, John Feyrer,
Keri Hinrichs, Jay Reville, Greg Turley,
Circulation Manager ..........cceeceeceeeeeeceeseerenseseresseeees Matt Horridge
The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise Midepeadent. ©.) shoe Rig one
Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 200 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run. Or send them to The
Ring-tum Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity,

 

 

    

Sonal

PK
CS
ne

wh

 

The Ring-tum Phi, March 13, 1986

 
  
    

 

"WOULD THE ‘Boys’

GeT BACK TO

OUSS OFFICES {| 4
ON THE WEST SIDE

( BEFORE

FALLS on HIS SWORD.

THEIR.

GEORGE

 

 

 

When is an election not an election?

 

By NELSON PATTERSON
Editorial Page Editor

 

There was something different
about last Monday's “Big Three’’
election. Sure, there was the rare oc-
currence of a candidate receiving a
majority of the votes cast, despite
having two opponents. There were
also the victories in the vice-
president and secretary spots, as
should be the case with only two can-
didates running. After all, we are not
in the Philippines.

But that is not what I am talking
about. I just felt that there was never
really a campaign underway.

Some might say that’s because I
am a senior, and seniors, by defini-
tion, love to wreak havoc on future
generations by voting for the can-
didate with the highest flap factor
(though I don’t think most seniors did
this year) or write-in some odd or
comical name for one of the three of-
fices. Seniors, after all, don’t have to
live under the consequences of their
actions. It’s that same attitude ex-
pressed by a law school graduate in

Toles

WONDER WHAT

the recently arrived Calyx: “I’m not
going to be here next year, so I don’t
much give a damn. They ought to
bomb this place back into the Stone
Age.” Nice attitude.

Maybe it didn’t feel like a real elec-
tion because I only got one campaign
letter in my carrel in the library.
Although that letter contained plenty
of trite campaign promises and cat-
chy sayings (what else is election
advertising about?), it still was not
sufficient to hold my attention for
long or stifle my yawn. Another day,
another night, another election.

Then again, I didn’t help count
ballots as I have in past years, so
maybe that is why I did not feel as
though this was a real election. The
excitement (and the long hours of
work in counting ballots) associated
with the election process really peaks
with the ballot counting. I guess it
has something to do with the “I-
knew-who-won-before-you-did” _at-
titude. This time, I didn’t know very
early at all.

Maybe it was the lack of pretty
bedsheets that mattered. There were
no bedsheets hanging from every
building in the vicinity of a polling

 

 

area. I wasn’t able to admire the can-
didate who misspelled his name or
the office he was seeking. I was not
treated to the latest in psychedelic
paints to catch and hold my atten-
tion. Nor was I able to make some
sort of judgment on the candidate ac-
cording to the type of sneaker or shoe
that dangles from the sheet corners
and occasionally bumps into the
classroom window on a breezy day.
The Voting Regulations Board decid-
ed to contribute to campus beautifi-
cation by banning bedsheets for the
elections this year. The campus can
look sort of ratty with last evening’s
sheet hanging from Newcomb Hall.
Aesthetic appeal, after all, stands on-
ly next to academic rigor.

Maybe it had something to do with
the rapid end to the Big Three elec-
tion with Shayam Menon’s surprising
capture of a majority of the vote for
president on the first ballot. Since
Washington and Lee does not have
the reputation of making quick or
rapid decisions, the majority vote
came asa surprise.

I know, however, that my lack of
enthusiasm did not stem from a lack
of familiarity with the candidates.

~ A LITTLE HOMELAND
OF YOUR OWN, P.W

The Phi’s coverage of last week’s
candidate debate and the profiles of
the various students, coupled with
the fact that I know a few of them,
made them more than “faces in a
crowd.”’

But that alone is not enough to stop
me from wondering what was differ-
ent about the election. I am not sure I
even know what the difference is or if
there even existed one at all. The
sense of urgency in having to vote, of
being the one to know what happen-
ed, of helping in the creation of the
latest in Fieldcrest sheet campaign
“posters,’’ of putting up posters and
telling friends why I am voting as I
am — all of that was absent.

I am led to believe that many other
students felt the same way, accord-
ing to a statement by an EC member
at Monday night’s meeting. Having
80 less sheets hanging around the
campus is sure to make a difference
in how one views an election, but can
it matter that much?

Probably not.

Though I cannot vote in the next
election, I wonder if students will feel
the same way. I hope not.

EEE
Clarification

A quotation by freshman
Valerie Pierson about the In-
dependent Union in The Ring-tum
Phi of Feb. 27 was correct but
lacked context. Her comment that
“they haven’t been able to
4 organize anything in the past’
was meant to refer to a lack of
participation by members, not a
lack of effort by IU officials.

 

 

 

University situation ethics angers alumnus

 

Editors’ Note: The author of this letter forwarded
a copy to The Ring-tum Phi for publication.

Board of Trustees
Washington & Lee University
Lexington, Virginia

Gentlemen:

As an interviewer-alumnus I am under the
onus to emphasize the importance of the Honor
System to prospective students. My son, who has
been virtually brainwashed concerning such
matters of honor, may well apply at W&L. Yet,
both of us are having an ethical problem trying
to reconcile articles appearing in The Ring-tum
Phi relating to students being convicted of petty
larceny and drug offenses still being retained in
the University.

There is such a thing as fraud and breach of
implied warranty involved in this issue as well as
matters of honor.

In law, whenever we wish to discredit the word
of a witness under oath, one method applied is to
ask if the person has ever been convicted of a
crime. Upon an affirmative answer, he is reduc-
ed from an honest citizen to that of a cad whose
word is to be doubted by all citizens,

If Washington and Lee confers a degree upon
the ilk of miscreants who lurk among the ivy

 

 

covered columniation, and that graduate has

been convicted of petty or grand larceny or drug
dealing or possession of the destroyer of civiliza-
tions, i.e., cocaine, the Board of Trustees is im-
pliedly warranting that he is a gentleman, one to
be trusted, an honorable man who does not
cheat, lie, or steal, or who is not a convicted
felon. If one relies upon that implied warranty
and employs that thug-alumnus in a position of
trust, and he continues his lifestyle of stealing,
lying, cheating, and breaking the laws, then the
University has breached that warranty, and I
believe committed a fraud upon the public who
has grown to respect that institution based upon
past reputation and representation.

There is precedent for damages being award-
ed for passing a student through college when in
truth and fact that student did not pass the re-
quired curriculum.

But aside from all that, I still am having trou-
ble reconciling in my ground base of ethics learn-
ed from my professors at W&L the present
stance of the University in not expelling a stu-
dent who has been convicted of a crime involving
moral turpitude, such as stealing, lying, using
someone's credit card to obtain merchandise, or
violating the drug laws of this country. I recall a
student being expelled from the University for
adding sand to our samples to be tested in order
to slow his fellows down in Doctor Gilreath’s
qualitative analysis. Is this crime any different

from the tolerance of a student who obtains food
from the student union cafeteria and failing to
pay for it?

If you allow such thugs to carry the honor of
“Washington & Lee Graduate,” a great disser-
vice is done to the Honor System and the
students who are expected to mold their lives
after it; and a collossal fraud is being
perpetrated upon every prospective employer,
every potential father-in-law or wife, and the
public at large.

It is not the office of the university to
rehabilitate criminals; it is not the office of the
university to classify crimes as academic and
others as social. A man is a thief if he steals
grades just as he is a thief who steals money or
credit cards; a man is a criminal if he hides
library source materials from his fellow students
as is the man who hides cocaine from law en-
forcement officials.

Perhaps I missed something in my ethics class
at W&L; perhaps I need to take a refresher
course in logic. But at this time, I feel you have
adopted situation ethics and should subscribe to
“Playboy” for the library in order to provide
philosophical material of more modern propor-
tions.

Very truly yours,
Lawrence A.G. Johnson
Class of 1955

 

 

 

 

“-
,
een emamneene cece nent
NEWS

 

The Ring-tum Phi, March 13, 1986

 

 

 

By JIM STRADER
Editor

A revision in the class finance
system last year has led to problems
in arranging class parties at Wash-
ington and Lee, according to Townes
Pressler, senior class president.

Each academic class used to main-
tain its own bank account — compos-
ed of money from the sale of class
passes — to finance class parties,
Pressler said.

Last year, however, Darby
Brower, president of the Class of
1985, directed that the four accounts
be combined and asked Louis Cella,
then-president of the sophomore
class and treasurer for all four
classes, to administer the fund. The
new system has made it difficult for
each class to know how much money
it has, according to some of the class
officers.

Brower said yesterday from Tam-
pa, Fla., that he thought the money
would earn higher interest if'it were
in a combined fund rather than in
separate accounts.

Pressler remembers Brower’s rea-
soning differently. “I think it was
because he wanted more money for
the senior class party,” he said.

Cella said that to keep track of how
much money each class had, he drew
up a list of the different amounts that
each contributed to the fund, along
with a breakdown of the interest.

“Everything was accounted for,”
Brower confirmed. “There were
separate amounts for each class and

IFC vote set
for Monday

By JIM STRADER
Editor

the interest it would make.’’ He ad-
ded that each class president was
given a limit on how much of the fund
was his to use.

Cella said that when he received
control of the money last year, the
sophomore class had the greatest
sum of the four accounts. Because of
the change in Virginia’s legal drink-
ing age, his class was unable to have
alcohol at class parties and subse-
quently didn’t spend money from its
account.

The junior and senior classes last
year — both with students above the
legal drinking age — had spent most
of their money on parties throughout
the year, Cella said.

This left the greatest amount in the
hands of the class that could not
spend it on alcohol for class parties
—the sophomores.

When the funds were combined,
Cella said, he and then vice president
of the sophomore class Walker
McKay ‘‘were adamant about keep-
ing our share separate.”

Cella said he gave the list detailing
the money each class had in the ac-
count to Brower at the end of last
year so that Brower could forward it
to the next treasurer.

“If Darby or someone lost that
list,’ Cella said, ‘‘no one knows how
much each class has.”

Brower said he gave the list to
Associate Dean of Students Michael
A. Cappeto at the end of the year with
other Student Control Committte
material to pass along to Pressler.

Pressler said he did not receive
any information on the class ac-

counts this fall and consequently has
no record of exactly how much each
class has to spend from the common
fund. The problem this has caused,
he explained, is that all of the classes
want to have parties, but there isn’t
enough money to finance them

Junior class president Mike
McAllister, who took control of the
class money from Cella this year,
said the balance of the fund as of Feb
21 was $3,204

This amount does not take into ac-
count money owed to the Student Ac-
tivities Board for a band party co-
sponsored by the junior class and the
SAB earlier this year. SAB Chairman
Mike Guerriero said the juniors’
share of the cost of putting on the par-
ty, which featured the Spongetones,
was $1,000.

McAllister said he sees little use in
trying to determine how much money
each class has. ‘‘I’ve been to the bank
and sat down with the people there to
try to figure it out.” he said.

The bank had no records of the
separate accounts, McAllister said,
and it would be more trouble than it’s
worth to resolve the matter. He sug-
gested that the sophomore and junior
classes evenly split whatever money
is left in the account at the end of this
year and start again from scratch.

“It’s come to that, I think,” he
said.

McAllister said he couldn’t under-
stand why Brower decided to com-
bine the class funds. ‘‘That was pret-
ty stupid on Darby’s part,’’
McAllister said, ‘‘because the money
would earn the same interest rate in

Mixed fund hinders parties

smaller accounts.”’

“And it was also pretty stupid on
his part because there's no record of
how much money each class has,”’ he
continued

In order to prevent similar pro-
blems, Pressler proposed adding
class dues to the student tax, which is

paid with each year’s tuition. He said
he plans to make this proposal to the
Board of Trustees at its May
meeting

Pressler did away with class dues
last year for several reasons. Among
these was the change in the drinking
age, which made planning parties
difficult because a majority of the
school was underage.

In addition, Pressler said, many
students in recent years have ignored
the dues. which were paid for by buy-
ing a class pass. This lack of support,
combined with other difficulties in
fundraising, also contributed to
Pressler’s decision.

Pressler said a student tax would
be a simpler way to ensure that
classes would be able to have parties,
once their members are of legal age.
He added that it would make more
sense for classes to start their funds
as freshmen and let the money earn
interest until they are of legal age
“so that when they can have a party,
it’s a good one.”

Pressler said the senior class par-
ty, which he is responsible for plan-
ning, will cost approximately $2,000.
Each member of the senior class
paid $10 at the beginning of the year
to finance the party, which will be
held just before graduation.

 

 

Sol

 

By Matt Horridge/The Ring-tum Phi

Clark Mollenhoff lectures in Northen Auditorium

 

Elections for the posts of Inter-
fraternity Council president and vice
president will be held Monday,
according to incumbent IFC Presi-
dent Jaimie Hayne.

Elections are open to fraternity
members only. Polls will be located
in front of the University Library and
the Commerce School and open from
8 a.m. until 5 p.m.

Candidates for president are Phi
Delta Theta junior Mac McGrew of
Atlanta and Phi Kappa Psi junior
Chris Saxman of Staunton.

Running for vice president are five
juniors: Phi Kappa Psi’s Michael
Beatty of Williamsburg, Lambda Chi
Alpha’s John Cummings of Fall
River, Mass., Pi Kappa Alpha’s
Walker McKay of Columbia, S.C.,
Phi Kappa Sigma’s Tom Peters of
Wilson, N.C. and Kappa Sigma’s
Robert White of Tulsa, Okla..

Provided there is no run-off for the
vice president’s spot, Hayne said the
IFC representatives will elect the
group’s other officers — secretary,
treasurer, justices and rush officials
— at its regular meeting Tuesday
night.

 

 

Talking MADD

Mothers Against Drunk Driving founder Candy
Lightner on Tuesday told a Lee Chapel audience that pro-
blem drinkers usually drive intoxicated 1,000 to 2,000
times before they are arrested. Lightner, who started the
organization after her daughter was killed at the hands of
a drunk driver in 1980, was this year’s second Contact

 

By Hank Mayer/The Ring-tum Phi

speaker. “Alcohol is the most abused drug among our
youth,’’ she said. ‘It pervades all aspects of society.”
Saying that her two major goals are to increase aware-
ness of drunk driving and stiffen penalties for those ap-
prehended, Lightner said she favors a minimum drinking
age of 24 but noted that 21 is ‘‘more practical.”

 

NEWS BRIEFS

Mollenhoff speaks
on differences in

U.S.-U.K.

By JOHN PENSEC
Staff Reporter

 

 

 

Although much of American tradi-
tion in law, government and jour-
nalism come from Great Britain,
Washington and Lee Journalism Pro-
fessor Clark R. Mollenhoff said Mon-
day evening there are great dif-
ferences in the countries’ systems.

Northen Auditorium was filled to
capacity when Mollenhoff spoke of
his experiences studying the British
media.

For five months last fall, Mollen-
hoff was an exchange Fellow at Uni-
versity College, Oxford. Investigat-
ing the British press system for a
prolonged period gave Mollenhoff a
well-rounded view of that system.

The British press is ‘‘a little more
classy”’ than its American counter-
part, and journalists in England have
a much better understanding of the
law, Mollenhoff said. ‘“!'hey have*
to,” he continued, ‘‘or they’d be
thrown in jail.”’

The British Official Secrets Act
makes it illegal both to release and
receive government information.

The Official Secrets Act was origi-

media

nally enacted to protect national
security, but over the years, Mollen-
hoff said, the governments have
abused the power the act gives them.

Since Great Britain is governed
under a parliamentary system, the
administration of the sitting prime
minister takes part in making laws.
Unlike the U.S. government, there is
no system of checks and balances,
Mollenhoff said.

The separation of powers that ex-
ists in this country limits the abuses
of authority by individuals, although
Mollenhoff said there are exceptions.
U.S. Defense Secretary Caspar Wein-
berger and the Defense Department
often act as an independent body he
said. The Department of Defense has
its own auditing agency; all other
government agencies are audited by
the General Accounting Office.

Other differences between the two
systems include the U.S. Freedom of
Information Act, which makes much
information available to the public.
Mollenhoff said he used the act when
investigating whistleblowers in the
Defense Department.

Under the British system, ‘‘I’d be
in jail every three weeks,’ Mollen-
hoff said.

Rutgers Chi Psis lift W&L office equipment during FD

Staff Reports

 

Twenty-two Rutgers University freshmen from the
Chi Psi social fraternity raided Washington and Lee
this weekend, collecting but later returning more than
$1,000 in ‘‘Hill’’ office equipment. W&L’s chapter of Chi
Psi had no connection with the incident.

According to Proctor Charles F. ‘Murph’ Murray,
the students removed a clock, office phone, computer
disks and other software from Newcomb Hall; a projec-
tor and an office phone from the Commerce School; a
television set and two fire extinguishers from Graham-
Lees dormitory; and office telephones from Payne and
Lewis halls.

The students were caught by University security of-
ficials when the visitors tried to lift a television set over
the fence surrounding the W&], Chi Psi “‘lodge’’ on Lee
Avenue.

Associate Dean of Students Dan N. Murphy said he
contacted the dean of fraternities and sororities at
Rutgers, as well as the national chapter of the fraterni-
ty, resulting in the return of the equipment on Tuesday

to Computer Center Director Thomas C. Imeson.

Imeson said the University will take no additional ac-
tion against the students because the goods were
returned.

The Rutgers students come every year, according to
W&L’s Chi Psi president senior Joe Whelan who
described the actions as ‘‘totally out of control.”’

“We're very unhappy with them for dragging our
name into the mud,” he said.

—Sydney Marthinson

Police list weekend offenses

Freshman Peter Parker, of Lynchburg, was charged
with disorderly conduct March 8 after a March 1 inci-
dent in front of the Beta Theta Pi fraternity house.

The police report stated that Officer G.P. Joines was
driving past the fraternity at approximately 3:47 a.m.
when Parker threw an object at Joines’ patrol car and
shouted an obscenity.

After talking to the assistant commonwealth’s at-
torney, the report continued, Joines reduced the charge
from throwing a missile at a moving object — a felony

— to the misdemeanor of disorderly conduct. Parker is
scheduled to appear in Lexington General District
Court on April 22.

eJames C. Kephart, class of 1985, of San Antonio, Tex-
as, was charged with unlawful burning and being drunk
in public early Saturday morning after allegedly setting
a mattress on fire outside a Nelson Street house.

A court date for Kephart has been set for March 25 in
Lexington General District Court.

eA car owned by Thomas E. Meehan, of Houston, was
damaged early Sunday morning while it was parked
outside Baker Dormitory. The police report stated the
roof was collapsed and there was a single footprint on
the roof.

There are no witnesses or suspects in the case.

There was a rash of tire slashings last week in
University parking lots.

Between 4 p.m. and midnight on March 3, the left
tires on a car owned by law student James Cargill were
slashed in the Law School parking lot. Damage was
estimated at $120.

eThat same night, the rear tires on law student
Lawrence Codispoti’s car were also destroyed in the

Law School parking lot. Damage was estimated at $130.

eAll four tires on freshman George Sparacio’s car
were slashed March 3 while it was in the parking lot
next to the lacrosse practice field. Damage was
estimated at $300.

¢On March 5, the left front tire of law student Bryan
Bishop’s car was slashed in the Law School parking lot,
causing $75 worth of damages.

Sophomore Kevin Webb’s left rear tire was slashed
in a parking lot on McDowell Street the same evening.
Damage was estimated at $10v.

eThe third car vandalized that evening belonged to
sophomore David Bekenstein. Both right tires on his
car were destroyed, causing an estimated $200 worth of
damage.

Police Chief L.O. Sutton said he sent evidence to the
state laboratory to see if the tire slashings were all done
by the same person.

Sutton said he is pleased that Fancy Dress weekend
passed uneventfu!ly. This year’s FD was ‘“‘less noisy,
less ... violent’ than the other two he has been in town
for, he said.

—Matt Horridge

 

 

 

Make Your Spring Break Plans

NOW!!!

Herring Travel Services

 

 

Homemade

 

 

THE SANDWICH SHOP

fe) ET) ia 3 aur

Have you tried our Spicy Sausage Sub?
Ser tae
SPDT Tel Melee adele) (lilo Mott)
Ta Me im elie ees)

3
yee Cle meer) Py Lt 1)

 

 

Sauce, Kielbasa

 

FOR SALE:

2 SUNN 300
WATT DUAL
POWER AMPS.
$300.00 ea.

Call Brandt
at 463-9800

 

pro Va. 24450 Wendell’ S
463-2242 Barber

Shop

| need your
head for

my business.

 

 

 

 
Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, March 13, 1986

 

 

 

an.

  

 

 

 

Shayam Menon in the Executive Committee room

‘Regular guy’ Menon feels
ready to lead ‘Big Three’

 

Brandt Surgner shows a prospective student around campus

Surgner adds EC duties to
an active campus schedule

 

Photos by Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum P!

Roby Mize comes to the net

Late start, ‘lazy’ campaign
don’t prevent Mize victory

 

‘

 

By PAUL FOUTCH
Editor

Junior Shayam Menon, who on
Monday was elected to one of the
most demanding positions on campus
— student body president — says he’s
‘just a regular guy’’ who’s ready to
take on the job’s responsibility.

Beating two other candidates
without needing a runoff — the first
time that’s happened since 1982
— Menon clearly was the students’
choice, and he says he recognizes a
huge responsiblility in being presi-
dent.

Menon’s activities, besides being
an Executive Committee represen-
tative the past two years, have in-
cluded being a member of the Stu-
dent Recruitment Committee, the
student-alumni. association Kathe-
kon, and Phi Kappa Psi social frater-
nity, following the New York
Yankees, listening to music, and ma-
joring in business administration.

He says he is going to have to give
up some of those activities.

“‘Beforehand, you have to make the
decision that you’re committed and
that [being president] is going to
take up your time,”’ he said.

Which isn’t to say that he’s wary of

Sling

() Continued from Page 1

 

 

we were.”

A poster in Graham-Lees advertis-
ing the slingshot notes that the device
“represents the essence of...safety”’
but that “‘serious injury and property
damage are real possibilities.”’

‘Confused? The flyer, which in-
cludes the name, dorm room and tel-
ephone number of a freshman sales
representative, sports this helpful
postscript: ‘‘Exercise good judgment
when using this product.”

Huntley said the three freshmen
who hurled the balloon turned them-
selves in immediately and did not in-
tend the action at all “intentionally
or maliciously.”

Nevertheless, the Student Conduct
Committee is investigating the mat-
ter, according to Datz.

Datz, a 1975 Washington and Lee
graduate, said that when he was in
school, he and his friends used to con-
struct a similar device out of surgical
tubing and a pail and ‘‘go out in the
moonlight and shoot it at cows.”

He says the ‘Winger’ is just a
“state of the art’’ version of the same
gadget. ‘‘It shows how technological
kids are these days,’’ he said.

taking the job.

“I’m really looking forward to this.
I want to start doing things right
away.”

Responding to an editorial in last
week’s Ring-tum Phi that said he
would be a “caretaker president,’’
Menon said he welcomed the con-
structive criticism.

“‘T haven’t been the most vocal guy
on the committee this year,” he said,
but he knows he is going to have to
develop his public speaking and lead-
ership skills.

He also has new ideas for next
year’s EC, including having the
whole committee design the fresh-
man orientation in the spring and
sending fraternity presidents letters
saying that reports of stolen road
signs would be investigated as honor
violations, although the student gen-
eration would have to decide if each
case is an honor violation.

When asked if he considered him-
self a minority, Menon said no.

“‘T've always felt very strongly that
if you think of yourself as a minority,
you'll be treated as a minority.”’

Menon’s parents are from India,
but he was born in Kettering, Eng-
land, and has lived the last 10 years
in Charles Town, W.Va.

 

 

By DANIEL BUNCH
Staff Reporter

 

Junior Brandt Surgner, the winner
in Monday’s vice-presidential elec
tion, attributes his victory to his in-
volvement in campus activities and
name recognition among students.

Surgner, an economics major from
Philadelphia, said this week that
after graduation, he plans to go into
some form of banking.

Surgner has been involved in
several campus activities. He is cur-
rently vice president of Kathekon,
the student alumni association, and
is a member of the Cold Check Com-
mittee, the Voting Regulations Board
and the Student Recruitment Com-
mittee. Last year he was on the White
Book Revisions Committee, and he
recently completed a term as presi-
dent of Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity.

Surgner’s off-campus interests are
squash, hunting and ‘‘a lot of tennis
anda lot of golf.”

Describing the most interesting
moment in his campaign, Surgner
said: ‘‘While I was getting signatures
for my petition, I walked into a room
where a group of girls were and they
started grilling and asking me all

 

 

GENERAL NOTES

 

The absolute deadline for sub-
mitting senior pictures to the
Calyx is Wednesday, March 19.
We are still taking senior picture
orders and handing out those that
have been printed. All senior in-
dex forms must be in by March 31.

The 1985 Calyx is available
through March 26 on Monday
from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. and Wednes-
day from 7 to 9 p.m. in room 207 of
the University Center.

“Hypertension and the Brain,”’
a lecture by Dr. H.E. King, pro-
fessor of psychology, will be given
Tuesday at 5 p.m. in Room 305,
Parmly Hall. Refreshments will
be served at 4:45 p.m.

CLASSIFIEDS

Petitions for class officers will
be due during the rule-setting
meeting on Monday at 6:15 p.m. in
the EC room. An official petition
form may be obtained from Carol
Calkins. These official petitions
will be the only petitions accepted.

 

PERSONALS

Steve, Tim Elizabeth — “I may
not win the battle, but you're giv-
ing me the will to try.”’ W&L or
bust! Love, PLURG.

 

 

 

 

Typists—$500 weekly
at home. Write: P.O.
Box 975, Elizabeth,
NJ 07207

 

 

 

 
 

ALOHA WOK

409 South Main Si., Lexington, Virginia 24450
703-463-9342

   

Chinese and
American Cuisine

Exotic Cocktails
Carry-out Service
Available
Open Tuesday through Sunday

Luncheon 11:30 - 2:30
Dinner 5 - 10

Saturday Open 4 - 10

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Shop for
PAPPAGALLO

Shoes, Clothing
& Accessories

23 NORTH MAIN STREET
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

463-5988

sorts of questions before they would
sign my petition.”

His campaign consisted of putting
posters up around campus, slipping
letters under freshman doors and go-
ing to the Law School to meet law
students.

When asked why he thought he beat
his opponent, Paul ‘‘Chief’’ Abbott,
Surgner said he thought it was
because he participates in more
school activities and his name is bet-
ter known among students.

Surgner had mentioned the tension
between upperclassmen and fresh-
man women as a problem during his
campaign. ‘“‘Next year, a lot of it is
going to be resolved by itself.”

He added that the presence of
freshman and sophomore women will
help the situation. He also urged that
students “be very fair and con-
siderate when people are applying
for committee positions.”

Surgner said he agrees with the EC
decision not to appoint a non-voting
member to the Student Conduct Com-
mittee.

Surgner’s other plans for his term
are to get ‘‘more in-depth introduc-
tion to the Honor System for fresh-
men’”’ and to be “‘very careful about

 

 

 

 

 

By JIM STRADER
Editor

 

Although the job of Executive Com-
mittee secretary will make further
demands on Roby Mize’s already
crammed schedule, the junior said
this. week that self-discipline and
sacrifice will allow him to make the
necessary commitment to the posi-
tion.

In fact, his schedule almost
prevented him from entering the
race. “It was a last-minute deci-
sion,’’ Mize said. ‘‘I’d had some sec-
ond thoughts about it because it’s a
big decision. I know it’s a large time
commitment, but it isn’t a matter of
not having enough time — it’s a ques-
tion of making a sacrifice.”

Because the decision to run came
so late, Mize said he had little time to
collect signatures for his petition, but
says his campaign was anything but
vigorous.

“I was pretty lazy,’’ he admitted.
His major campaign efforts were to
hang posters around campus and
participate in the EC-sponsored can-
didates’ forum.

The races for secretary and vice

 

president, were between candidates +
with no EC experience. Mize said he,
was surprised EC representatives
did not run for the other ‘‘Big Three’’+
offices.

«

Although he admits experience 4
would be an asset, Mize said it is not ¢ ©

essential for the job. Motivation and ,
common sense are attributes Mize

feels are more important. a

This year’s EC has been “‘fairly ,
diligent” in the performance of its

duties, Mize said. He doesn’t see * —

himself exerting a great influence +
over the character of the committee ,
next year.

“There’s really not too much room *
for change, especially for the secre- ,
tary,”’ Mize said.

In addition to his new responsibili- *
ty on the EC, Mize is a two-year let- -
terman on the tennis team and a ,
member of the Student Recruitment
Committee and Phi Delta Theta fra- *
ternity. He also competes on several ,
intramural sports teams and is a!
member of the squash club. "

Other outside interests include ski-
ing, scuba-diving and reading. Mize
said he enjoys contemporary fiction,
particularly by young writers, such js
as Jay McInerney, author of the best- \,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

how I allocate funds.” president, unlike the contest for seller “Bright Lights, Big City.”
South ern Mis 4 te Ae
Inn is eae Cera cL :
ointmean UB oh st]
Welcome eater a U0 UT Old Main St. Mall
Students &. . ie Te Lexington, VA 24450
Serving breakfast, lunch ;
and dinner for over VARNER & P OLE
50 years Furniture Dealers
Main Street, Lexington 115 S. Main Street 463-2742
463-3612 “For your extra pieces of furniture’’
Fall 1 7
” pth ‘ — Valley True Value Hardware

 

WASHINGTON
OR

LONDON
INTERNSHIPS

SUMMER SESSION ONLY
at Wadham College
of the University of

OXFORD

Accredited courses in government,
economics, journalism and pre-
law by an outstanding faculty.

Full Academic Year Programs at
the London School of Economics,
St. Andrews Universities, for
Qualified Juniors and Seniors.

All credits transferred through
Hampden-Sydney College, Virginia
(Founded in 1776)

 

 

Inquiries to:
Mrs. Janet Kollek, J.D.
Admissions Director
The Washington International
Studies Center
212-724-0804 or 0136

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

Bring in the

 

Sunday Lunch Buffet 12 - 2:30 (EO/AA)
smn esac ppmeoreerecneees ASS hy SE Ce
GENERA,
/ CYA: ; b (
dpuffro (Florist i ae
“4DQuART®

Spring Hours:

Lunch: Mon.-Fri. 11-2:30
Dinner: Every Night 5-7:30
Closing Time: 8 P.M. (exempting special

Fruit Value

HAROWARE STORES

 

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

E. Nelson Street
463-2186

=

eR aie wee

SE) ES) ED) A ) AD) EE) A) eR eS)

Join Us For Dinner At

Maple Hall

One of the Historie Country Inns
of Lexington

463-4666 for reservations
Open Monday, Friday and Saturday

Route 11 North
LE > A) ND) SE) ED) ES SE) A ) ee) <r) A

Mon.-Sat. 8:30-6:00
Sun, 1-5

 

  
 
  
  

MISSING

Fancy Dress Decorations

Two 3-foot Masks
Eight Tiki Torches

 

OD 0 OP “8

aS:

 

os

s

=

< -

i

-*
*

«

We would appreciate the return of

springtime

with flowers!

463-9152

 

 

 

  

165 S. Main
Pac

 

 

 

events)

Appearing Friday, March 14
“Tough Luck”’

featuring
the exciting Lips Lackowitz

 

 

 

 

 

 

—

oe EARN

   
  

these items to the S.A.B. office as soon
as possible. This will not be considered
an honor violation if returned. No ques-
tions will be asked.

  

~
SPORTS

 

‘Lax throttles Tech,

sets school record;

‘Dartmouth is next

| By DAVID EMRICH
Assistant Sports Editor

Here it is, the official short version
the Virginia Tech lacrosse team’s
ig afternoon: W&L 28, Virginia
-ch 1. Kind of self-explanatory.
The Hokies arrived in Lexington on
‘Saturday to oppose the Generals
before the Fancy Dress Weekend
crowd, but the Tech athletes didn’t
manage to provide much opposition,
falling to W&L for the sixth straight
time.

This time W&L set a school record
for the number of goals scored on
its way to the rout of the overmatch-
ed Virginia Tech team. In order to
find a similar offensive showing by
the Generals one would have to
travel back almost 13 years, to the
afternoon of April 18, 1973, when
W&L put 26 goals on the board
against Duke.

“We had hoped for a little more
competitive situation,’”’ said coach
Dennis Daly. ‘‘But we were happy to
get everyone into the game, and were
very pleased by the performances of

the young players. They executed
well, stayed with the game plan, and
did what they had to do,”’ said Daly.

W&L raced to a 7-0 lead by the end
of the first quarter on the strength of
a hat trick by senior attackman G.T.
Corrigan. The lone Hokie goal came
in the second quarter when a loose
ball in front of the W&L goal was bat-
ted into the net.

From there, W&L took control
again, amassing a 14-1 lead at the
half and a 22-1 margin after three
quarters. W&L used three goalies
— starter John Church and sopho-
mores Paul Burke and Rob Buttara-
zi.

The Generals’ offensive production
was up from the Duke loss in more
than one category. W&L took 65 shots
on Saturday, two-and-a-half times as
many as the the shot total against
Duke. The Generals also won 29 of
the game’s 32 faceoffs.

Despite the rout, Daly felt there
was still room for improvement.
“The little time we were on defense,
we weren’t happy with the execu-
tion,’ said Daly. ‘We didn’t feel we

The Ring-tum Phi, March 13, 1986

were keeping them out the way we
should have been.”’

“The game gave us a chance to get
everyone into the game, and it got
our record to .500, and that’s always
good,” continued Daly. ‘‘But we’re
not sure that we’re a better team
execution-wise and tempo-wise.”’

Sunday, W&L will host Dartmouth,
a team which Daly said “plays with
emotion and is very physical.’ He
added, ‘‘Dartmouth is a team we
should be able to compete with.”’

LAX FACTS...Freshman _at-
tackman John Ware was named Of-
fensive Player-of-the-Game and
sophomore Defenseman Roger Rey-
nolds was named Defensive Player-
of-the-Game by their teammates
ae Dartmouth, which went 3-9 last
year (1-5 in the Ivy League), lost 11
players, including their leading
scorer, to graduation... Corrigan
leads the team with five goals and
nine total points... In two games,
W&L has won 78 percent of its face-
offs. The duty hs been shared by
sophomores Sandy Harrison and Stu
Geisel.

Track needs to be healthy to win ODAC

.

 

* By ROB MacPHERSON
, Staff Reporter

 

+

The Washington and Lee track and
+ field team opens its outdoor season
with a meet at Davidson on Saturday.
The Generals are looking forward
s to a repeat performance of last
_ year’s 6-0 season and second-place
finish in the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference championships.
Head coach Norris Aldridge stress-
_ ed staying healthy this year, some-
thing which the Generals were

:

 

optics

 

 

 

BILL CURTISS

unable to do last season and which
contributed to their not winning the
ODAC. ‘‘We have the potential to be
as good as we were last year if we
can avoid injuries,”’ the coach said.
“Of course, a little luck always helps,
too.”’

Leading the Generals into action
this spring will be senior captains
Chris Bleggi, Chris McGowan and
Jim McLaughlin. Bleggi was recent-
ly named ODAC Runner-of-the-Year
on the indoor circuit.

Aside from the captains, Aldridge
cited hurdier Andy White and utility

man John White as major contribu-
tors. Andy holds school records in
both the 110-meter and 400-meter
burdles, while John competes in four
events: the long jump, the triple
jump, sprints and relays.

The distance runners include Rich
Moore, Scott Rippeon, Ash Andrews,
Conrad Boyle, Jamie Urso and J.J.
Boquet. John Burlingame leads the
team in the long jump as does
Townes Pressler in the high jump. In-
door conference champion Tom Mur-
ray will handle the shot-putting
duties and Mike McAlevey will con-

centrate on the javelin. The pole
vaulting will be done by John Carder,
Joe Fisher and Rob Williamson.

Coach Aldridge said he is also hop-
ing that injured Matt Steilberg will
be able to come back and offer help to
the team in the pole vault.

Rounding out the team are sprint-
ers Bill Rhinehart and Kevin
Weaver.

The first home meet will be Tues-
day when the Generals play host to

Bridgewater and Eastern Mennonite
in a tri-meet.

W&L ‘9’ loses, ties in openers

 

By CHARLES T. GAY
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee baseball
team’s season opener was spoiled by
West Virginia Tech, 5-1,
but the Generals managed to salvage
a 5-5 tie in the doubleheader’s second
game.

W&L was stymied in the opener by
Tech hurler Jeff Thompson, who last-
ed all seven innings and allowed only
one run on seven hits in registering
the win.

_ In the meantime, W&L pitcher Bill
Schoettelkotte was touched for five
earned runs in 63 innings.

The Generals’ lone hitting star was
first-baseman Bill Curtiss, who col-
lected three singles in three at-bats.

The doubleheader’s final innings

were a seesaw battle. The Generals
entered the game’s final frame with
a 4-3 lead, but Tech outfielder Tracy
Gilmore put his side ahead with a
two-run double. The Generals knot-
ted the score by scratching for a run
in the bottom of the seventh.

Tennis: Men ‘psyched’ despite losses...

 

»By LEIF UELAND
Staff Reporter

 

» The Washington and Lee tennis
team is encountering some of the dif-
“ficulties of a young team working to
»put its season in gear the year after a
season of great success.
" Having lost three matches to Divi-
esion I teams and knowing that
, the weekend which could decide
whether they make nationals is only
+a little more than a week away, the
,Generals are taking their young

season in stride.

“Realistically, we didn’t plan on
beating those teams [Penn State,
James Madison and Virginia Tech],”’
senior captain Scott Adams com-
mented. “It would have been nice,
especially being so close against
James Madison [a 5-4 loss], but that
match was a big improvement over
last year.”

‘Friday, the Generals travel to
Christopher Newport, a match that
likely will give the team its first win
of the season and, according to team

members, a satisfying reminder of
the thrill of victory.

Saturday, W&L will
against William and Mary.

Looming in the near future is next
weekend’s trip to Philadelphia where
the Generals will play two of the na-
tion’s best teams, No. 1-ranked Swar-
thmore and No. 6-ranked Claremont.

“7 think we have the right attitude
going into it. We’re real psyched up,”
Adams said. ‘I think everyone feels
that they’re playing well, it’s just a
matter of winning the right match at
the right time.”

compete

‘...Women ‘out-talented’ in early matches

 

* By DAVID NAVE
, Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee women’s
ytennis team’s record dropped to 0-2
jwhen it lost to Roanoke, 8-1, yester-
r afternoon in Salem.

” Head tennis coach Bill Washburn
, Said, “All the girls played well and

Golf returns starters, expects to benefit

The Washington and Lee men’s
golf team, which was forced to play a
lineup without any returning letter-
men last year, has the luxury of hav-
ing the top four players back this
season.

The season starts this weekend
when the Generals take part in the
James Madison Invitational in Har-
risonburg.

Despite the lack of experience, tne
1985 men’s team finished with a 5-1
_record and a fourth-place in the Old
“Dominion Athletic Conference tour-
nament. The team’s first four posi-
tions were held by All-ODAC Greg
Wheeler, Gary Campbell, Mark
Zavatsky and Chip Gist, all of whom
are back in the Generals’ lineup in
1986.

 
 
  
    
 
   
   

110 S. Jefferson St.
Le
: 308
Hours:

Sunday 10am to lam

bi

played hard. At the moment, we just
seem to be out-talented, but we are
learning.”

Courtney Coyle, the Generals’ No.
5 player, posted W&L’s only victory
— and the team’s first point of the
season — with a straight-set 6-1, 6-1
victory over Roanoke’s Audrey
Haughey.

Washburn said that the team ob-

“We are in better shape going into
this season,” said head coach Buck
Leslie, who earned his 100th win a
year ago. ‘“‘We have some players
who have shown they can score some
low rounds. Now our immediate

viously needs to improve, but he indi-
cated that it is already making pro-
gress. He noted that although the
team lost 8-1, it improved upon the
season opener that was played Mon-
day. The Generals lost to Sweet
Briar, 9-0.

The women next play on Tuesday
against Lynchburg on the W&L foot-
bridge courts.

from experience

goals are to fill the number five and
six spots with people who can score
and score consistently.”

This will also be the first season for
the women’s golf team.

 

     

 

NEED Libra 103-463-1670
A CAR? LEL TOL Emergency
703-377-6331
Students under 21
Must Have
prior Insurance
Approval Brian and Doris
Fredricksen
RFD7, Box 149, Rt. 60 East Lexington, Virginia 24450

  

 

 

Mon.-Sat. 9am te lam

Catering

k

Sandwiches (Eat In-Take Out)
Gourmet Items of All Nations
Cocktails® Wine®@ Beer

Subs@Imported Cheeses

W&L looked ready to break
through and pick up the victory in the
ninth when the Generals loaded the
bases with one out. But centerfielder
Chris Talley’s flyout and first-base-
man Schoettelkotte’s strike-out end-
ed the Generals’ threat.

The Generals go on the road this
afternoon to take on Christopher
Newport. Saturday, W&L travels to
Shenandoah for a doubleheader.

W&L will begin its Old Dominion
Athletic Conference season with a

 

Overemphasis vs.
proper emphasis

....F rank Deford told a Lee Chapei
audience last Wednesday that ‘‘we
can never de-emphasize sports” but
that we ought not ‘“‘overemphasize”’
sports. Granted, such a_ senti-
ment is an admirable one. We are
thus acknowledging that athletic
competition tends to get us all ex-
cited, but at the same time we need
to keep that excitement in perspec-
tive. As the writer noted, this must especially be the case in the realm
of intercollegiate athletics.

The question we must ask Mr. Deford is: ‘‘Can the intercollegiate
sports world walk the fine line between proper emphasis and improper
emphasis?” The examples where the fine line has been jumped over,
most often on the Division I level, are there for the counting. Now, of
course, it’s not universal overemphasis, but one that comes from a few
coaches and administrators who think that success in athletics
(mistakenly defined solely in terms of wins and losses) is how a col-
lege should define overall success.

But we’re not talking about the corruption-laden programs here.
Their problems are clear. What isn’t clear is what happens when an
athletic program does everything it can simply to do its best? Is that
an oeveremphasis? Such a thought is scary because it can easily hit
home at a mild-mannered Division III institution like Washington and
Lee.

Is there a difference between providing an adequate opportunity for
athletic participation and providing the best opportunity for athletic
participation? And is that difference a bad thing? What I’m getting
at is whether it’s fair that Washington and Lee can provide the
facilities and programs that it does for a sport like football and com-
pete on an even basis with other schools that do not have the resources
that W&L has.

Is it overemphasis to have something like the Barbell Club? Is it
overemphasis to have the tennis team (at its own expense) travel to
Staunton so many times a week to play indoors during the winter mon-
ths? Is it overemphasis to decide to send the baseball and lacrosse
teams (at their own expense) to Florida over Washington Holiday?

What I can reasonably offer is that W&L is providing the best oppor-
tunity for its teams to do their best. And who can find fault with that
philosophy? Well, on its face, no one can. But if sports mean this much
at a small-time college, one has some indication of how they can come
to mean too much at a big-time university.

 

TIME
OUT...

 

By Mike
Stachura

 

 

 

 

What I’m lamenting is that somewhere the simple ideal that sports
are nothing more than games and should be played for the fun of it
cannot work anymore. (Deford said that may never have been the
case, anyway.) In essence, it seems that as we organize our games
more and more, they become less and less fun and more and more
work.

The phrase that sticks in my mind is the practice-field charge: ‘It’s
the price you have to pay now that will bring you success in the game.”’
When does that price become too high and how do we make sure that it

....Around the Colonnade, something of interest is going on IM-wise.
It seems that the Law ’86 team is going for its third straight champion-
ship in basketball. That hasn’t been done before. Ever....

...Finally, here are the Final Four guesses: West: St. John’s,
Midwest: Notre Dame, East: Duke, Southeast: Georgia Tech....

 

 

 

 

Tuesday game against Bridgewater.
i I
bs
as Canterbury Fellowship
R. EB. Lee Memorial Church
col JF 123 Weet Washington Street

Saturday - Workshops led

EVENTS FOR STUD

/ MARCH 21 = 22:

"Search for Signs of Intelligent Life in the Church"

Friday night dinner, Holy Eucharist, Key Note Speaker:

Friar and Member of the Anglican Franciscan brotherhood; the Rev. Nancy Taylor,
Episcopal Chaplain to W & L and VMI.
The Rev. Nancy Taylor, 463-4981.

Lexington, Virginia 24450
(703) 463-4981

TRIDIOCESAN CONFERENCE

The Rev. Linda Strohmier.
by The Rev. Linda Strohmier; John Bankert, Franciscan

For further information contact

ENTS AT R. E. LEE MEMORIAL CHURCH (EPISCOPAL)

123 West Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

Monday March 24:

7 pm. Holy Eu

Tuesday March 25:

Wednesday March 26:

Thursday March 27:

Friday March 28:
7745 a.m. and 5
Saturday March 29:

6 p.m.

Sunday March 30:

 

Throughout Lent: Holy Eucharist Wednesdays at 7:15 a.m.
12:15 p.m.
Holy Eucharist Sundays at 8:15 a.m.
10:30 a.m.
Holy Week Schedule of Events:
Sunday March 23: Palm Sunday
5 p.m. Sung Eucharist. Wé&l Chorus to sing. Presentation by
Br. Jon Bankert, S.S.F., The Rev. Linda Strohmier, preacher
followed by reception and dinner.

7 p.m. Eucharist following Br. John's presentation: "Abraham & Isaac"

7 p.m. Holy Eucharist following Br. Jon's presentation:
All the above programs should be completed by 8:30.
Maundy Thursday

5:30 p.m. The Rev. Linda Strohmier will lead the Parish in a Maundy
Thursday Supper, reliving the ‘Last Supper'.

7:00 p.m. Eucharist and Maundy Thursday Liturgy.

Good Friday

Holy Saturday
The Great Easter Vigil
Easter Sunday

8:30 am and 10:30 a.m.

charist following Br. Jon's presentation: "Noah"

"Red Sea"

730 p.m. Good Friday Liturgies

Holy Eucharist

 

 
-BACK PAGE

 

LOST

at Fancy Dress Ball — gold men’s ring; black onyx
stone, inscription of Roman head in stone; lots of sen-
timental value; reward offered.

if found, bring to Student Center.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Calizza. Turn over
anew lunch.

Introducing Calizza™
Italian turnover. A
delicious new
lunch from Pizza
H ut thats serond In
only five minutes.

We have two varie-
ties — Italian sausage
Calizza™ and five cheese
Calizza” Each of them a delicious combination of

   
 

/

ingredients stuffed inside freshly-made dough, baked
unti golden-brown and served with rich
tomato sauce and parmesan cheese

Guaranteed ready in 5 minutes after you order, or your next one is free, 11:30 AM-1:00

PM/Monday-Friday. Applies to selections listed above on orders of five or less.
CALIZZA is a trademark of Pizza Hut, Inc. for its brand of Italian turnover. CALIZZA
TM Italian turnever and Personal Pan Pizza available 11 AM to 4 PM/Monday-
Friday

am 463-7000
PizZA — 600 E. Nelson
Hut. Lexington

1985 Preza Hut Ine Cabhzza is.a trademark of Pizza Hut, Inc tor its brand of Italian turnover

    

 

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELI
Entertainment Fditor

 

If you like Lou Reed, the Velvet
Underground, Elvis Presley, Phil
Spector, Hank Williams, William
Faulkner, the Sex Pistols or the Roll-
ing Stones, then you are probably go-
ing to like the Violent Femmes’ ‘‘The
Blind Leading The Naked.”’

You might also like their live show
The Femmes will play the Stu-
dent Activities Pavilion Saturday
night at 8:30. Tickets are on sale in
the W&L Bookstore for $8. Somehow,
the Femmes — that oddball group of
oddball groups — have taken all of
the above groups and mashed them
together to make a funny, goofy and
oceasionally very frightening third
record, And although their first two
records were funny, goofy and
frightening, this new one sounds like
it could be a hit

But stop before you yell ‘‘sell-out!”’
Although it could be a hit, that does
not necessarily mean it will be.

For instance, the record’s first
single is a remake of Bark Bolin’s
“Children of the Revolution,’’ and it
abandons the Femmes’ traditional
three-piece acoustic line-up for an
overproduced arrangement com-
plete with synthesizers and over-
dubs. With Gordon Gano’s tortured

Mew STUDENT: SCTEVIGES

BOARD aad

KOD.

The Ring-tum Phi, March 13, 1986

And just what is
a Violent Femme?

 

lead vocal, however, it seems im
probable that this brooding number
will ever find a place in radio-land.

Or take ‘I Held Her In My Arms”’

a song with “hit single”’ written all
over it. It sounds like some great lost
Phil Spector number or perhaps a
Springsteen tune stolen from the
Boss’ back pocket. The problem
is that it is about an adolescent boy’s
confusion about his sexuality.

That is the way this whole record
is. Calling it ‘The Blind Leading The
Naked” is certainly no accident as
each song seems to be one thing but
turns out to be something else entire-
ly.

“Special” starts out as a happy
rocker about a girl and turns out to be
a terrifying study of obsession and
homicide. The scary ‘‘Candlelight
Song” depicts a deranged/retarded
character who hears morning/of the
deepest kind.” He laments that
his ‘doll is dead’’ while the music
twists in minor chords and dissonant
guitar lines behind him.

So, you figure it out. The music is
odd, rocking, scary, exhilerating and
entertaining. The lyrics are just plain
weird. And if Gordon Gano occasion-
ally copies the Velvet Underground
(“Good Friend,’’ ‘‘Two People’’),
that’s OK by me. This deserves to be
a hit. If it doesn’t make it, you can’t
blame them for not trying.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ATDHIE * PAVILION“

 

“AIP. fh

WIEN! $8.00 on aale in Ul LBaakatore, 8/10-8/14

Open to WAL students, guests, and students from

area Women's Colleges

   
  
    
     
   

‘:

PROPER LID. NEEDED

  

 

$ID

CBs

ee ee ee ee eee

9 p.m. — BAND:
G.H.Q

(91.5)

Evans Dining Hall
2-5:30 p.m. -

Wilson Field.
3p.m.,

Brain.”
Parmly Hall.

Reid Hall.
7:30 p.m. —

7 p.m. — POLITICS FILM:

School.

 

 

ONCAMPUS

Friday, March 14
“Lips Lackowitz.”’

Saturday, March 15

2 p.m. — OPERA BROADCAST: “Simon Boccanegra.”’

7p.m.— CHESS CLUB MEETING: Room 113, University Library

Sunday, March 15
2p.m.— LACROSSE: Generals vs. Dartmouth; Wilson Field.

Tuesday, March 18
Noon — General-Lee Speaking Sports Luncheon. Washington Room,

SUMMER OPPORTUNITIES FAIR. University Center.
3p.m.— TRACK: Generals vs. Bridgewater and Eastern Mennonite.

3p.m,— BASEBALL: Generals vs. Bridgewater. Smith Field.

— WOMEN’S TENNIS: Generals vs. Lynchburg.

5 p.m. — BIOLOGY FORUM: LECTURE “Hypertension and the
Dr. H.E. King, W&L professor of psychology. Room 305,

7 & 9 p.m. — JOURNALISM FILM:

CONTACT ’86 LECTURE: James G. Watt, former U.S.
secretary of the Interior. Lee Chapel. Public invited.

Wednesday, March 19
3p.m.— MEN’S TENNIS: Generals vs. Emory & Henry.
“Spartacus”’

8 p.m. — LECTURE: “The Future of Social Movements in America.”’
Dr. Mayer N. Zald, Chair of the Department of Sociology, University
of Michigan. Room 9, Newcomb Hall. Public invited.

_ 9p.m. — Wednesday Night in G.H.Q.: Featuring Heinsohn and Day.
Sponsored by the Student Activities Board. Cover charge $2.50. G.H.Q.

Cover charge $3. Sponsored by

WLUR-FM

 

“Autumn Sonata.’’ Room 203,

Room 327, Commerce

 

 

 

‘F/X’ and the underdog

 

By TIM McMAHON
Movie Critic

 

There is something about under-
dogs that appeals to the American
public. So often we root for these
seemingly hapless, hopeless wonders
until something good happens for
them. Villanova gave us the oppor-
tunity to cheer the underdog in sports
recently, and “F/X’’ provides us
with a fast-paced, action film that
gives movie audiences the same op-
portunity.

Australian Bryan Brown (‘‘Break-
er Morant’”) plays Rollie Tyler, a
New York special effects expert who
is hired by the Justice Department to
fake the assassination of a witness in
a mob-related case. After doing his
job, however, attempts are made on
Tyler’s life, one of which kills his
girlfriend, and he realizes that he is
in the unenviable position of being
alone with no authorities to help him.
In fact, it is the authorities who are
out to kill him, and his only recourse
is to try to strike back using his
special effects know-how.

An interesting subplot also de-
velops when a New York police de-
tective gets involved in the investiga-
tion of the death of Tyler’s girlfriend.
Versatile Brian Dennehey

(“Silverado,’’ “Cocoon’’) plays the
wise-eracking, no-nansence Ten Me-
Carthy, who tries to piece together
the connections in the Tyler-related
killings.

As has happened so often recently,
Dennehey turns in a solid character
performance; one just might call
him the Charles Durning of the 1980s.
Brown, meanwhile, handles the star-
ring role with great skill.

The real stars of ‘“F/X’’ though,
are the props and gags Tyler uses
throughout. This man loves playing
with his know-how, and his do-or-die
predicament is the ultimate test of
his skills. The audience remains in
suspense, always suspecting some-
thing is not quite what it seems to be,
yet never knowing just what is

~ wrong. Still, it is ironic to note that in

a movie so laden with effects and ac-
tion, the movie’s own effects are done
sloppily on occasion, but

overall success of the picture.

And that is the point I should pro-
bably stress most: ‘‘F/X”’ is a suc-
cessful picture. It has style, pacing,
suspense and action. Add in the two
likeable and dependable stars, and
you have a movie that should not be
missed.

 

VOR NU eee ee

mand 6am Wy ces ee

In General’s

 

The Student Activities Board
presents
TONIGHT:

BRIAN DE PALMA
THE MODERN MASTER OF SUSPENSE,
INVITES YOU TO WITNESS

A SEDUCTION.
A MYSTERY.
A MURDER.

BODY DOUBLE

YOU CAN'T BELIEVE EVERYTHING YOU SEE.

COLUMBIA PICTURES ovssexs
sree va tekd tg wae
BODY DOUBLE

GREGG HENRY MELANIE GRIF

situs HOWARD GOTTFRIED be nd DONAGGIO aaa eae
Mas aN ED). We, uO © eee NSO MeN R gies 8) 8) a

Bahn DE PALMA "°8 BRIAN DE Pa t
Met tai d seine ye veut

 

SUNDAY NIGHT:
Hitchcock’s
REAR WINDOW
Showtime: 8:05 p.m.
Headquarters
On 3 large-screen TVs
Admission: Two Bucks

eer ne a ee he ems

 

 

these «
moments are so few and far between ,
that they never detract from the

ions
ff

 

{Booked
| Cops fight

+

o

°

drunk driving

Page 4 &

Che Ring-tum Phi

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

VOLUME 85, NUMBER 23

  

 

Books

 

 

Library fights
book battering

 
 

Page 4

 

 

 

Your Charlottesville weather

 

 

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Friday: sunny and cold
Through Monday: warmer

      
   

  

MARCH 20, 1986

 

76 men, 8 women
from three classes
running on Monday

 

By DANIEL BUNCH
Staff Reporter

 

Eighty-four candidates clogged the
Executive Committee room Monday
night as they presented petitions to
run for student body office.

Elections for EC representatives,
class presidents and vice presidents
and University Council representa-
tives will be held Monday.

Voting Regulations Board co-
chairman John Scannapieco said he
was not surprised by the number.

“T estimated there would be about
30 people per class,”’ he said.

A 20-poster-per-candidate limit and

 

 

everybody else will spread them
around,” he said.

Scannapieco says there are eight
women running for office, all of them
freshmen.

Several said they thought they
would have no problems getting
votes from the men, although EC
candidate Alston Parker said some
people had said to her: ‘‘You can’t
run —you’re a girl.”’

Amy Balfour, a candidate for class
vice president, had a more typical
view.

“T really can’t see it making much
of a difference,”’ she said.

Runoffs for the election will be
held next Thursday.

a no-bed-sheet rule are in effect.
Scannapieco said he didn’t see a
problem developing with too many
posters around campus.
“Freshmen will pretty much keep
them in the freshman area, and

inside...

The 84 candidates are listed on
page 4.

 

 

 

 

 

A candidate in Monday’s elections puts up a poster

ot
eS

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

 

 

.

 

* By DAVID EMRICH
* Assistant Sports Editor

'

 

+ Does the annual contest against the University
of Virginia mean a lot to the Washington and Lee
* lacrosse team?
y Does water meana lot toa fish? Does beer mean
, alot toa mink? ;
The Generals have not beaten the Wahoos since
* 1977, meaning that no one on the W&L squad — a
, group that includes 10 seniors — has participated
in a win over our neighbors to the northeast.
’ Despite a 43-year history of the rivalry, the
, Generals’ victory column has yet to hit double
figures — U.Va. has dominated the series, 34-9.
* Saturday’s game begins at 2 p.m. at Scott
, Stadium in Charlottesville. Admission is $3, but a
live broadcast can be heard free on Lexington’s
* WVLI (96 FM). Station announcer Doug Chase

 

will provide play-by-play and W&L senior Ken
Jacoby offers color commentary.

The teams are on equal footing in the season
record department — both go into the game with a
2-1 tally — but W&L head coach Dennis Daly said
this week that ‘‘U.Va. will be tough.”’

The Wahoos split their last two contests, down-
ing the Roanoke Maroons 20-11 yesterday, but
getting upset by the University of Maryland-
Baltimore County Retrievers on Saturday, 7-6.
They opened their season with a 10-4 win over
Brown.

W&L opened the season with a 7-6 loss to Duke,
but followed that with two wins at home — a 28-1
rout of Virginia Tech and a 17-12 win over Dart-
mouth on Saturday. (See story on Dartmouth
game, page 6.)

Daly said Virginia has ‘‘more talent and depth
than anyone we’ve played this year.”’

“‘We expect this will be a very competitive game

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

Senior Troy Andrade enjoys a little Caribbean sunshine right here in Lexington

Pay-rays

' Minks now can flash ’em that Caper’s-tone tan

 

By SIMON PEREZ
Staff Reporter

natural sunlight.”

However, she warned that as with anything, ‘“‘recom-

 

Caper’s, Inc

’ to travel south.

+ _ Caper’s, at 25 N. Main St., currently operates the only

tanning salon in Lexington.

Owner April Watts says she decided to include a tan-
ning bed in her hair salon because she thought it would

, be something W&L students would like.

Of the 10 to 20 people who use the tanning bed at
» Caper’s daily, Watts estimates that 65 percent are W&L
, Students. For $5 a visit, a person can get a good tan in 19

trips to Caper’s over a two-week period.

» Watts said the main concern of most people is safety,

offers Washington and Lee students
the chance to get that ‘‘awesome tan’’ without having

suitable for tanning.

dealt with individually,”’ she said

weeks last term.

worth it during the winter.

a ee ee

but she maintained that ‘‘tanning beds are safer than

mended use is OK, but abuse is bad for you.”’
Watts interviews every customer before he or she
begins the process to make sure that the customer is

“The purpose is to tan, not to burn, so each person ..:

Depending on the person, the first visit will last from 10
to 20 minutes to avoid burning, but later visits are in-
creased to 30 minutes after a sufficient tan is achieved

Sophomore Darrin Denny visited Caper’s for several

He said everything was handled very carefully and pro-
fessionally and that paying to get a tan was especially

Lax attack: W&L faces U.Va. Saturday

and we will be the underdogs,’’ he added.

Senior defenseman Bill Rush said W&L has
“tried to approach every game as if [it were] the
same as all others, but without a doubt this team
takes the U.Va. game more seriously than any of
the others on the schedule.”

Senior defenseman and co-captain Chris John
added that he’d like to beat the Wahoos before he
graduates.

‘“‘We’re very much looking forward to playing
them, because obviously we haven’t beat them in
[my] three years,” he said.

But as much as the game means to the
Generals, it doesn’t seem to hold the same signi-
fieance for U.Va.

Doyle Smith, in the U.Va. Sports Information
Department, said, ‘‘It’s not quite as big a game
because of the conference affiliations and what-

“) See Lacrosse, Page 6

By BERT PARKS
Staff Reporter

 

Lee Chapel was steamy Tuesday
night because of the standing-room-
only crowd gathered to hear former
Interior Secretary James G. Watt,
but it fairly sizzled during the 75-
minute question period following his
half-hour address.

Watt, the third speaker in the
Contact '86 lecture series, spoke on
“the role of government in
establishing moral values’’ but ad-
dressed issues ranging from conser-
vation to the media to abortion.

Responding to a question about
how prayer in school can be allowed
without infringing on the religious
beliefs of others, Watt, 48, replied
that he was “sick and tired’’ of
liberals denying constitutional
rights to children in school.

“Don’t deny me my rights,” Watt
said, adding that his children should
have the right to pray in school.

When asked about the controver-
sial policies he implemented as
secretary of the interior during the
first Reagan administration, espec-
ially the selling of so much. Ameri-
can public land to private in-
dustries, Watt said his “record is
beautiful.... With few exceptions,
federal acres are better off now
than when I became secretary.”’

Watt added that “if I believed
everything I read in the news-
papers, I’d hate Jim Watt —
it’s amazing how little regard for
the truth they have.”

Watt was grilled on abortion, as
well. He was once an unborn child,
he explained, and he is ready to de-
fend the rights of unborn children
today. Watt said, ‘I want to be on
the side of life,’ and that killing an
unborn child is wrong

Before the question and answer
period, Watt drew the line between
conservatives and liberals in a half-

Saxman wins
top IFC post

 

By SEAN BUGG
and JIM STRADER
Staff Reporters

 

Junior Chris Saxman on Monday
defeated classmate Mac McGrew by
nine votes for the office of Inter-
fraternity Council president.

Saxman, a member of Phi Kappa
Psi from Staunton, received 295
votes, while McGrew, a Phi Delta
Theta member from Atlanta, gar-
nered 286 votes.

Junior Tom Peters, a Phi Kappa
Sigma member from Wilson, N.C.,
won vice president with 382 votes,
defeating three challengers from his
class.

The other candidates were Michael
Beatty of Phi Kappa Psi, who receiv-
ed 118 votes; John Cummings of
Lambda Chi Alpha, who had 75
votes; and Robert White of Kappa
Sigma, who received 74 votes.

A total of 581 votes were cast for
president and 649 for vice president.
At the end of last term, 896 students
— approximately 64 percent of the
undergraduate student body — were

affiliated with the 17 fraternities,
showing turnouts of 65 percent for
president and 72 percent for vice
president.

Saxman said yesterday that his
plans for the IFC next year center
on making improvements in the
fraternity system. These improve-
ments include aspects such as the
number of fraternity members,
house finances and building struc-
ture. He said there is room for
change in every fraternity

Sorority development at Washing-
ton and Lee, which Saxman said he
thinks will come before too long,
should not cause problems for fra-
ternities.

‘‘People talk about sororities here
in the future,’ Saxman said. “I
want to see 17 fraternities with
them. I really don’t want to see any
fraternities go under.”

Nominations were opened at Tues-
day’s IFC meeting for the offices of
secretary, treasurer, senior and
junior justices, and rush and public
relations officials. The nominations
are open through tomorrow, Sax-
man said,

 

a

on Friday.

ceedings.

complaint from a local resident.

 

Honor trial discussed on WLUR

Two freshmen were dismissed from WLUR-FM this week after they
joked on the air about a student body honor hearing held in Lee Chapel

Associate Journalism Professor Robert J. deMaria said the students
discussed specific facts of the case, including the accused student’s
name, the names of witnesses and the fact that it was an all-male jury.

“We decided we could not condone that,’’ he said, adding that the
two violated several station policies during the Friday night incident.

DeMaria said he notified the Executive Committee and Dean of
Students Lewis G. John of the students’ actions, which appeared to
violate the confidentiality requirement surrounding all honor pro-

The matter came to deMaria’s attention because a student made a
tape of the show, which included the dedication of the Thompson
Twins’ song “‘Lies”’ to the defendant. DeMaria said he also received a

A freshman was acquitted of a charge of cheating at Friday’s open
honor trial. The jury deliberated for slightly more than two hours after
approximately six hours of testimony.

 

 

Packed chapel sizzles with Watt’s
views of prayer, abortion and more

 

 

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

Former Interior Secretary James Watt speaks with a student

hour lecture about the changing
values in America.

“There is a battle being wayed in
the churches, in the schools, and in
the halls of government ... not be
tween Democrats and Republicans
but between liberals and conser
vatives. And it is a battle about the
moral standards of America,”’ Watt

said
“Many people say they're mode
rates,’ Watt said, “but you are

either for us or against us,’’ He said
to be a moderate is to drift down the
middle of the political spectrum
Watt contended that the established
institutions in America today are
liberal

America must elect men and
women with morals, Watt con-
tinued, making the first of several
calls to Washington and Lee stu-
dents and young people across the
nation to ‘have the courage to stand
up and say what’s wrong.”’
 

 

OPINION
ur view

Among the swarm of next week’s candidates who are seek-
ing to serve the student body and/or enhance their resumes
are a few who actually have some experience. Five members
of the Executive Committee are running for re-election to
that body, and one candidate served on the EC last year. Bas-
ed on our observations at the committee’s weekly meetings,
here is a fast look at the aptitudes and ineptitudes of those
half-dozen candidates:

 

Vice President Andrew Caruthers is unafraid to make dif-
ficult choices. Earlier this year, he chose to de-activate from
one of the campus’s most prestigious fraternities, likely
harming his electoral base. Now he’s chosen to run for senior
class EC representative after being mangled in last week’s
presidential election. At first, this struck us as being
somewhat akin to running for dogeatcher after you’ve been
mayor, but the move would be beneficial both for the com-
mittee and Caruthers. His extensive knowledge of student
government surely would benefit next year’s EC, and Caru-
thers would be a major asset as long as he is willing to yield
the stage to others. With enough effort from the ‘‘Big Three”’
and from Caruthers, they all could have a productive year.

Freshman representative Matt Bryant is one of those rare
individuals who inspires genuine admiration among his
peers. If he manages to resist cockiness and complacency,
the downfalls of many with his potential, he will be one of the
committee’s future stars. Although in Bryant’s initial weeks
in office he had the annoying habit of giving opinions on mat-
ters about which he knew little or nothing, he has tempered
that and now commits fewer gaffes than perhaps anyone on
the committee. In fact, his caution sometimes appears to be
boredom, and the committee would be well served by having
more input from him at its open meetings. Bryant has won
the respect of his EC colleagues and is treated simply as a
member of the committee rather than as the freshman side-
kick. Bryant promises to continue to be a leader at W&L and
beyond.

The word that comes to mind for sophomore representative
Brad Root is solid. He doesn’t go for the spotlight or talk very
much, but he’s consistent in his views and plays an essential
role as one of the committee’s behind-the-scenes men, espec-
ially in honor matters. Root demonstrated his flexibility ear-
ly in the year by being the point-man on the credit-card-in-
the-bookstore issue. At first he was skeptical of the need for
presenting cards instead of just repeating your number, but
then went and talked with the bookstore manager and chang-
ed his mind when he heard the reasons, which he then con-
veyed to the committee. Root is a second-generation Wash-
ington and Lee student and takes his duty to tradition serious-
ly.

Sophomore representative Pat Schaefer is one of the com-
mittee’s most complicated members. He often rubs people
who don’t know him the wrong way, and friends who under-
stand his strengths can’t understand why. Schaefer walks the
fine line between dedication and overzealousness, usually
falling on the side of the former, but occasionally lapsing into
excess. One of Schaefer’s major weaknesses is spouting off
before he thinks during open meetings. For example, when
what turned out to be a possible honor violation involving the
Ariel came up one week, Schaefer’s instant, irrelevant
response was: ‘Freeze their funds!” Another week, when
the committee was debating newspaper coverage of an honor
hearing, some EC members kept making vague references to
a directive that had been issued to The W&L Law News and
no one else. A representative of this newspaper asked what
“rule” they were talking about. “Ignorance is no excuse,”
Schaefer spluttered, demonstrating that he himself was ig-
norant of the issue at hand and wasn’t even following the
discussion, but nevertheless wanted to get his two cents’
worth in. It would be tragically shortsighted, though, to
penalize a candidate for being candid and forthright — two
qualities in short supply in political bodies of all sorts.
Schaefer’s honesty allows you to know exactly where he
stands, which is refreshing in an elected representative. He
also has a healthy capacity for outrage that is rare in today’s

“go along, get along”’ world. Like Root, he is very commit-
ted to the traditions of W&L, his father’s alma mater.

When junior representative Baltzer LeJeune launches into
one of his rambling, unfathomable monologues (and, sure as
Sominex, you can count on one at just about every meeting),
members of both the committee and the audience roll their
eyes and tune out. While we would welcome a thoughtful and
articulate liberal voice on the committee, LeJeune’s insipid
digressions serve only to make a mockery of alternative
points of view. He is the committee’s least effective member.

Sophomore Brandt Wood was the freshman representative
last year who was defeated for re-election. He was a stable if
uninspired presence in his rookie year and handled the duties
of ‘‘EC pledge” competently and with a sense of humor.

Che Ring-tum Phi

NEWS STAFF
Mec ihk edhe Mike Allen
a ic iueiiinc Paul Foutch
Jim Strader
I 6b vised eebssvertiscsiees te es Reade Williams
I i 5 ca ih ibesee hindi i eee Mike Stachura
PTT hbk hibie eerie aici ee ee Jason Lisi
ho ae me csp RR Steve Sadler
BT BI 64. bs Fe we vedneccccectsadesccescertssieseiis ease Matt Horridge
ood tet bh  U  ee e Marshall Boswell
POC IT TE ioe a bs vse cecisisesssi siete eisssesien David Emrich
EDITORIAL PAGE
RIPE i ieciscccee se Nelson Patterson
Assistant Editorial Page Editor.................cccceeeeeeeeeee eee. Marie Kothman
CRTOROIINE oc cs iciecdverccccvccetecccvcsavscesesseusesceveceesess Chris Bowring
BUSINESS STAFF
Business Manager ..... ligiisviti fei ae ee eee Jeff Kimbell
MM VOTTaING MORAG oo os oc cesses cccccccsecccccccessecsecnsssss Hank Greenberg
I a is ik Aa Caroline Boone, John Feyrer,
Keri Hinrichs, Jay Reville, Greg Turley,
Cipewtnthon MamO Oh oo ic.ccccciccccccccccdessccccssacessscesasscects Matt Horridge

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 200 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run. Or send them to The
Ring-tum Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

 

 

 

      

The Ring-tum Phi, March 20, 1986

ay

aoah

Ye
Mee

cyt ay .

oe

i. Ligh

fl

er

  

on

      
   

me

During the election of '86,

everyone was a Candidate.

No one voted.

 

 

Strike those Honor System obituaries

 

By MIKE ALLEN
Executive Editor

“The whole thing was a farce.
There were people wearing hats in
the --damned chapel.”

That complaint at a Friday night
party, singling out just one troubl-
ing aspect of the day’s student body
honor hearing, captured the disgust
many held for the proceeding.

But was Friday’s verdict really
the death knell of the Honor
System?

see

Two friends who no longer see each
other very often had dinner on Friday
night. After spending the day in Lee
Chapel, they didn’t much feel like
toasting the Honor System, so over dai-
quiris and Blue Hawaiians, talk turned to
Sreshman year, when they were worthless
and irresponsible — and loving every
minute of it.

One of them brought up one of those
incidents you repress and eventually
forget about, but recall vividly as soon as

it’s.mentioned, ‘‘Remember when...,”’ he
began. Yes, his friend remembered.

He remembered the night in his
Sreshman fall when he was calling down
the road to get a date for homecoming.
The first person he dialed was going to
be out of town, but the second woman
he asked didn’t have much of an excuse.
He felt blown off. He had been blown
off.

A third call clinched the weekend; the
two went to homecoming, had a great
time and our hapless freshman didn't
think anything more about strikes one
and two.

Didn’t think about them, that is, until
word filtered back to his pledge class that
the first two women lived next door to
each other. Not knowing the second
woman’s number, he naively had allowed
the switchboard operator to connect him;
the unncessary, humiliating faux pas had
res'lted. No wonder that second excuse
was a little vague and unconvincing.

The ‘‘there but for the grace of God”
brand of consolation from upperclassmen
in the fraternity was little comfort amid
the glee the incident seemed to engender
in our hammerhead’s. classmates. Was

this gape the end of social life as we
know it? Had he reached his Waterloo
with women’s schools? It sure seemed
that way.

That wasn’t the case, of course. There
have been many dates — and rejections
— since then. Life, the foolish freshman
learned, is longer than one stupid phone
call.

ee

Is the Honor System dead? Some
people who count certainly think so.
This week, I had the unsettling ex-
perience of watching someone I
respect scream and throw things in
anger and frustration at what he
sees as the demise of the system so
many love and have worked to pre-
serve.

Robert E. Lee’s legacy, though, is
bigger than any of us, and it cer-
tainly can outlast one or two
wrongheaded verdicts. It would be
arrogant to presume that we can
destroy overnight what has been
built up over more than a century.

The student body and Executive
Committee now must examine

whether everything possible is being
done to ensure the system’s sur-
vival. Should the jury be weighted
toward upperclassmen? Should
potential jurors be asked not merely
whether they support the system,
but more specifically whether they
are willing to vote to expel a person
they deem guilty? Are witnesses
being adequately protected, so they
can report potential violations
without fear of ostracism? Should
there be tighter restrictions on tac-
tics available to advocates?

We need to answer those ques-
tions. When bull session comments
take the form of, ‘She did it, but
they didn’t prove it’ and “‘It’s not
worth ruining someone’s life for,”’
something is desperately —
although not fatally — amiss.

Some saw 1954’s end of athletic
scholarships as the bane of Wash-
ington and Lee. Three decades
later, others portrayed coeducation
as the ruination of the institutiun.
Both were proven wrong.

Today’s doomsayers will be as
well,

Liberal knaves crush hope of freedom

 

By NELSON PATTERSON
Editorial Page Editor

 

Should the United States support
the ‘‘Contra”’ effort to destabilize or
keep at bay the Sandinista regime
in Nicaragua?

The question is indeed whether
you are liberal or whether you are
American.

Call it McCarthyism, if that is
how you might attempt to discredit
it. Call it preaching, imperialism
— call me a radical interventionist.
The nicknames and charges that
may be thrown around are nothing
more than clever rhetorical
methods of obfuscating the real
issue.

Washington and Lee students
ought to be concerned with the vote
scheduled for today on the military
aid issue because it will affect us —
both as taxpayers and as possible
members of any armed forces that
might have to “stem the red tide’’
as it approaches ‘Harlingen, Tex-
as” or any point on our southern
border. We ought to state our opi-
nion because we will be the ones to
pay for whatever outcome evolves.

There are really two scenarios
available: either we assist the
rebels now, providing them with the
necessary weapons and humanitar-

Reader’s faith in Honor System restored

To the editors:

Recent letters to The Phi have expressed

ian aid necessary to fight the
modern Soviet military equipment
supplied the Sandinistas or we allow
the contras to fall, victims of
neglect and lack of sophistication.

I support giving military and
humanitarian aid to the contras for
several reasons. First, I don’t
believe I want to support a position
that is espoused by sniveling pro-
fessors spewing forth leftist dogma.
Somehow the thought is repulsive.
In the sixties, students were told to
suspect their elders and question
their judgments. When we entered
college, we were told to gather in-
formation and evaluate it, never ac-
cepting any opinion as untouchable.
Today, when a law professor tells
the press that visiting Nicaragua —
home to suppression of the press,
persecution of the church and
suspension of all political rights —
is a spiritual experience, I im-
mediately suspect the man and the
position. Apparently, the professor’s
position is indicative of that taken
by naive and pathetic dolts who
never heard of Neville Chamber-
lain.

Besides suspicion of the position
taken by the Chris Dodds and
Michael Barnes of this world, I have
to question those individuals who
believe that an ounce of prevention
is not worth a pound of cure. The

argument is well-defined but full of
logical loopholes: the contras have
made no progress in destabilizing
the Sandinista rule, have wreaked
havoc on the economy, have massa-
cred their fellow citizens and have
no broadbased popular support.

They have made no progress
because we have refused to aid
them militarily for the past two
years. They have diverted scarce
but valuable resources in the
economy of the Sandinistas, thus
weakening an already fragile
market system. Is it any different
from the beloved (and moral!??!)
liberal position that disinvestment
of stocks from South Africa will
destroy the economy there?
Charges of the massacre of innocent
villagers have been documented,
that is to be deplored. But we can-
not be selective in our disgust, turn-
ing a casual eye from Sandinista
atrocities either. Ever hear of the
latest ploy to pretend to be contras
and kill their fellow revolutionaries,
just to turn opinion against the
freedom fighres? Finally, to deny
the contras any level of popularity
is to ignore the fact that over ninety
percent of the fighters there today
are young Nicaraguans, men and
women who entered their teenage
years under Sandinista rule. Funny
how they view the Sandinistas as

LETTERS

System and the privilege of open exams more
than any event since I have been at W&L.

disbelief that the Honor System still works.
This year’s open trials have also questioned the
Honor System, as has the graffiti on the

elevator doors in the library.

I too have felt at times that the Honor

System is not as good as it could be, but last

week’s trial helped to restore my faith in the
Honor System and in future classes of the

University.

Obviously, the freshman class understands
what honor is. Last week an individual stood up
for what she knew was right under the honor
code; her feelings for the Honor System were
so strong that even peer pressure didn’t deter

her from what she believed.

Perhaps what she saw was not what was
really happening, but the fact that she ques-

tioned the incident is commendable.

The Honor System does work and will con-
tinue to work as long as we have students like
this, who are not afraid to support the Honor
System. This incident strengthened the Honor

 

 

To the editors:

I would like to express my discontent with last
week’s article on Fancy Dress 1986. Many
aspects of this article were placed out of context
and don’t truly reflect the actual happenings of
the night. The security problems you spoke of
were early in the evening and were corrected
promptly by Fancy Dress Director Rob Tolleson.
Security for Fancy Dress as well as all our con-
certs has been exceptional under the control of
Kevin Weaver. Tolleson’s quote concerning the
Alcoholic Beverage Control Board and the Stu-
dent Activities Board getting ‘‘slammed’’ was
only a problem early on in the evening and was
again corrected promptly. Fancy Dress this year
turned out to be a major success. We have

Townes G. Pressler
Class of 1986

Guerriero defends FD ’86

received numerous comments and letters prais-
ing this year’s ball. I hope everyone who attend-
ed enjoyed themselves, and I expect that next
year’s ball will be an even greater success.

Student grateful for support

To the editors:

I am writing this letter on behalf of Betsy
Parkins and myself. We would like to take this
opportunity to thank the EC, friends and people
who have supported us during this ordeal.

This has been an exceedingly difficult time
for not only us, but the entire school. We ap-
preciate your patience and understanding. |
now realize how lucky I am to attend this
university that has so many people who really
care. Although words are insufficient, your
kindness will never be forgotten.

far worse than Anastasio Somoza.

I do not urge that we ignore the
Contadora peace process that hopes
to attain an end to hostilities in the
region through diplomatic means.
While such means are always to be
preferred, they are not always the
most effective means in the short
run. We need to listen to the opi-
nions of those countries; publicly,
they espouse the diplomatic pro-
cess. But is that all that there is?
Would any rational person really ex-
pect Costa Rica — an unarmed de-
mocratic neighbor of Nicaragua’s
— to say publicly that they fear the
military buildup next door when the
best they could use to defend them-
selves would be sticks and mache-
tes?

Nicaragua under the Sandinistas
poses a threat to every country in
Latin America. Twenty years after
we raised hell over a nominal Soviet
presence in Cuba and the position-
ing of missiles there, why are we so
complacent toward Nicaragua? Its
ambitions are plain, its repressions
are documented, and its attempt at
disinformation seems to be pulling
the wool over many congressional
eyes. I fear for our country if the
sniveling knaves and henchmen of
Daniel Ortega succeed in convincing
the United States to walk away with
its tail between its legs.

Mike Guerriero
Executive Director
Student Activities Board

Breton Chase
Class of 1989

 

 

ow

 
 

By Hank Mayer/The Ring-tum Phi

Members of the East Lexington Lacrosse Club at practice last week

Lax club has players to field,
but lacks a field for playing

 

By TIM RICHARDSON
Staff Reporter

 

The East Lexington Lacrosse Club
has a home game Saturday against
the Mary Washington College
Lacrosse Club. Only it doesn’t ex-
actly have a home field to play on.

Organized this year, the club has
had a problem with finding playing
and practice fields, according to
club president Mike Stone, an assis-
tant lacrosse coach at Virginia
Military Institute.

Stone explained that the club,
named for its sponsor, the East Lex-
ington grocery store, had originally
obtained permission to use the up-
per practice fields at Washington
and Lee. He said the university
later withdrew its offer because the
club lacked insurance.

The club played its first game, a

_ 10-5 loss to VMI, at Lylburn Down-

ing Middle School in Lexington. By
Tuesday, it still had not determined

, asite for Saturday’s game.

“The lack of practice facilities is

hindering our development and
could hamper our enthusiasm,”
Stone said. He added that if a
suitable field is found, the club
possibly could gain admittance to
the Central Atlantic Lacrosse
League, a league composed of
teams in Richmond, Washington,
D.C. and Charlottesville.

Because most of its members are
W&L undergraduate and law
students, the club will apply to the
University athletic committee for
club status, Stone said. Once
recognized by the university as a
club, it would then have permission
to use the school’s facilities. The ap-
plication is expected to be presented
next month, according to junior Jeff
Mandak, who will represent the club
in front of the committee.

Besides the lack of fields, the club
has had minor difficulty in schedul-
ing games and getting individual
equipment, Stone said.

It shas -already played Virginia
Tech and the Roanoke College
junior varsity team, losing both
games, along with the loss to VMI.

Remaining on the schedule are
Mary Washington, Liberty Universi-
ty and another game with Roanoke.

Stone said, “It was difficult
scheduling because of our late start
and W&L’s academic schedule
doesn’t mesh with other schools.”’

He said he had little time to ar-
range a schedule becausethe club
was not organized until February
and most other schools end the year
in late April. :

Many of the club’s 37 members
had to borrow or buy their own
equipment, according to Stone. He
said the club’s $35 dues were used
directly to buy balls and a game
clock and to pay for transportation
and officials.

“It was a tough transition for a lot
of them, having had their equip-
ment furnished in high school,’

Despite the fledgling organiza-
tion’s problems, Stone said he was
pleased with the enthusiasm and
talent of the players.

“They still wanted to compete but
found no outlet for themselves,’’ he
said.

Goshen: ‘You take the high road’

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Entertainment Editor

 

Everyone can quit holding his
breath.

Contrary to popular belief, there
can still be a spring term here at
Washington and Lee because there
still exists a way to get to Goshen.

Now, this route may not necessar-

* ily be the shortest distance between

~

two points, but it is better than

nothing. Ocassionally, one has to go

past his elbow to get to his thumb.
Get out a note pad and take this

 

Take Interstate 64 west and con-
tinue over North Mountain. You will
see a ‘‘Goshen”’ exit. Take it.

Follow this down to the bottom of
a ramp, and take the ramp at the
right and continue for about 200
yards.

Route 60 should appear on the
left. If it doesn’t then take it. Drive
for one mile until you see a turn-off
to the right. There will be a sign
reading ‘‘Goshen.” Now, go for
about 10 more miles.

This road will T-intersect with Old

Route 39. Burke Parson’s Wood Yard
should be visible by now. (You can’t

miss it. There will be a 20 foot high
stack of railroad ties in the front.)

Voila! The town of Goshen!

The whole journey takes between
30 and 40 minutes. Now whether
there will be much pretty water to
play in or parks to picnic in is
another story.

Normally, W&L students would
take State Route 39 to Goshen but
last fall’s devastating flood render-
ed the road impassable. Virginia
State Highway Department assis-
tant resident engineer John Hull
said the road probably will be clos-
ed until July.

The Ring-tum Phi, March 20, 1986

System may
be automated

 

By SEAN BUGG
Staff Reporter

Washington and Lee may have a
new registration system by winter
term of the ’86-’87 year, if Universi-
ty Registrar D. Scott Dittman’s
ideas are approved by the faculty
and administration.

The new system would allow stu-
dents to go to their advisers, pick
their courses, then go to a computer
terminal and enter their schedule.
The student would know his
schedule immediately, or if pro-
blems existed with the schedule.

Dittman said plans are not yet
complete. One thing that might
cause problem is computer access.

“It would have to go through my
office,’ Dittman said. Students
could not just use any computer on
campus; scheduling is done on a
computer that student terminals do
not have access to.

Dittman stressed that these ideas
are just ‘“‘a possibility.” It must
first be approved by the faculty

Awareness
has reduced
DUI arrests

 

By MATT HORRIDGE
Staff Reporter

 

Drunk driving charges in Lex-
ington dropped 30 percent last year
from 1984’s totals, according to
Police Chief L.O. Sutton.

In 1985, 160 citations for driving
under the influence of alcohol were
issued in Lexington, compared with
229 in 1984. Through the end of last
month, 26 DUI arrests were made in
the city.

Sutton said public awareness of
the dangers of driving drunk, com-
bined with the knowledge that Lex-
ington officials do not hesitate in
prosecuting those accused of driving
under the influence, account for the
decrease in the number of citations.

Sutton said Lexington Police Sgt.
Steve Crowder gives lectures
throughout the community on the
dangers of mixing drinking and
driving and these discussions have
increased ‘“‘community awareness”
of the problems of drunken driving.

And students have been getting
the message. Sophomore Charlie
Benedict agreed that his knowledge
of the damage done by drunk dri-
vers has made him more careful.

“The biggest decrease [in DUI ar-
rests] is because of the media,”
Benedict said.

Crowder has visited the Sigma Nu
house three times to discuss the use
and abuse of alcohol.

Three weeks ago, Sigma Nu spon-
sored a colloquium titled’’The Ef-
fects of Alcohol on Society.’’ Sopho-
more Baxter Sharp, coordinator of
the event, said the session was well
attended and the brothers found the

 

NEWS BRIEFS |

Committee on Registration and
Class Schedules. After that it must
be approved by various other com-
mittees.

The new system is not designed to
phase out the faculty adviser
system. “Advising will probably
become more important,” Dittman
said.

The computer used by Dittman’s
office has had the capability to do
registration the way Dittman plans
since it has been in operation at
W&L, and the Law School has
already switched to this system.

Last term Dittman made a
change in the registration process
by replacing the small brown com-
puter cards with full sheets of paper
containing all the information need-
ed for registration.

“It was so cramped,” Dittman
said of the computer cards.

One of the major reasons for the
change is to get ‘‘more information
on them regarding the student, ma-
jor and adviser,” Dittman said.

Dittman wanted to use this infor-
mation to update computer records,

 

 

D. SCOTT DITTMAN

which he said were wrong in many
cases. A large number of students
were listed with the wrong adviser,
and as of Tuesday, about 80
students had no adviser listed on the
computer.

Dittman hopes the new form will
keep the computer files from get-
ting that messed up again.

In other business, Director of
Publications Jeff Hanna said the
1986-87 catalog is ‘‘at the printers.”

“T hope that we will have them
back here shortly ,’’ Hanna said.

Contrary to campus rumors, stu-
dents will not be charged for the
new catalogs, according to Dittman.

 

 

 

By Hank Mayer/The Ring-tum Phi

Sgt, Steve Crowder and Mark Fishman ata talk on DUIs

discussions very informative.

Sharp added that the upcoming
Fancy Dress weekend played a
large part in the decision to hold the
colloquium in late February.

Lexington’s reputation for being
tough on DUI offenders has also
helped curb the number of drunk
drivers, Sutton said.

Sutton added, ‘We consistently
enforce DUI.”

Lexington Police Lt. Bruce M.
Beard said DUI arrests are decreas-
ing because “people are beginning
to be more educated on the reper-
cussions of driving drunk.”’

“The word is out,” Sutton said.
“Don’t get drunk and drive in Lex-
ington.”’

Sutton said the police department
has also stressed using a “‘designa-
ted driver’’ system for those who
have to drive to parties.

Sutton said many of his officers
have encountered situations in
which “‘there may be four or five in

Committee fills two of three C-School positions for fall

the car wliw are bombed [but] the
driver is in good shape.”’

“Students are really being more
cautious,” Beard added.

Sophomore Suzanne Guarch, an
exchange student from Hollins Col-
lege, said she and her friends use
the ‘designated driver’ system
often.

“Usually the person driving took
the responsibility,’ she said. She
said she had to “sacrifice a few
drinks here and there’’ but quickly
added that not drinking was
tolerable.

Candy Lightner, founder of
Mothers Against Drunk Driving,
argued last week that the decrease
in DUI arrests is actually an indica-
tion that there are more drunken
drivers on the road who are not be-
ing caught by police.

Sutton disagrees, though.’’There
are not nearly as many [drunken
drivers] out there as there used to
be,’”’ he maintained. ‘‘And I think
that’s good.”’

 

Staff Reports

 

The Commerce School will have three new pro-
fessors next year, according to economics Professor
Bruce H. Herrick.

Herrick said a selection committee reviewed over
100 applications for the positions.

“We're very glad with the appointments we’ve
made, and the people we’ve chosen were at the very
top of the list’”’ of applicants, Herrick added.

Herrick said Michael Smitka, who is being hired
full-time, was chosen because of his specialty — East
Asian economics. A doctoral candidate at Yale Uni-
versity, Smitka has done extensive work studying
Japanese industrial organization, Herrick said.

The East Asian economic courses he will teach will
be connected with the current East Asian studies pro-
gram, Herrick added.

This will be Smitka’s first teaching experience, Her-
rick said, but in a way, his not having taught is an ad-
vantage. Top graduate students like Smitka are ‘thot
candidates ,” Herrick said because they do not have
to take teaching assistant jobs; their study is financed
often by grants and fellowships.

Carole Biewener has been hired only for next year
to stand in for Commerce School Dean Edward C. AT-
wood, who will be on sabbatical at Oxford, Herrick

said.

Biewener, who is working on her doctorate at the
University of Massachusetts at Amherst, will teach
Money and Banking, and Intermediate Macroecono-
mic Theory,-Herrick said. She has taught those two
courses as a teaching assistant at Massachusetts for
four years, Herrick said.

The search is continuing for a political science pro-
fessor to fill the vacancy left by William Buchanan,

who will only be teaching half-time next year, Herrick
said, Herrick predicted that a candidate would be cho-
sen within three to four weeks.

—Simon Perez

Sophomore’s car strikes Wahoo

Sophomore Daniel Boudreau was charged with
reckless driving and driving under the influence of
alcohol early Sunday morning when the car he was
driving struck a University of Virginia student who
was later charged with being drunk in public.

The police report said Boudreau, a 19-year-old from
Fredericksburg, was driving west on West Washing-
ton Street at approximately 25 m.p.h. while also try-
ing to clear moisture from his windshield. The stu-
dent, David L. Walker, 19, of Millerville, Md., was
walking facing traffic when he was struck.

According to the report, Walker was taken to Stone-
wall Jackson Memorial Hospital, where he received
several stitches for lacerations on his head and chin.
He was admitted to the hospital for observation.

Boudreau’s Volkswagen suffered $50 in damages.

—Matt Horridge

Fair turnout a disappointment

The Summer Opportunities Fair Tuesday attracted
about 20 students, according to Associate Dean of
Students Anne C.P. Schroer. “While it was a disap-
pointment on one hand that more students didn’t at-
tend,” she said it was ‘‘a fair start’’ and ‘“‘we know
much better about where to go for the next program.”

Schroer said at least 20 seniors and five faculty
members participated on the six panels during the se-
cond half of the workshop.

Also, Schroer outlined some changes for next year.
Resume and job-hunting skills workshops for under-
classmen will be offered in November and December.
Schroer said she plans to do the summer jobs work-
shop one evening in January or February

She commented that she liked having the first sum-
mer jobs workshop held the Wednesday before Wash-
ington Holiday because ‘‘some students really did
take advantage of job-hunting that week.”

Schroer also described the workshop Tuesday as the
“first step toward a change of philosophy in the Office
of Carrrer Development and Placement. She said the
office has “developed a very good program for
seniors,’ but would like to see it expanded to ‘‘a good
program for all four levels.”’

Other workshops for freshmen and sophomores will
be added next fall as a means ‘“‘to communicate that
career development has to start early,’”’ she said.
Topics for these seminars may include ‘choosing ma-
jors, defining career values and matching personality
patterns and interest with abilities”

—Deborah Hattes

Professor publishes book

Charles W. Turner, professor emeritus of history at
Washington and Lee, has published a collection of
essays describing the agricultural reform movement in
Virginia in the 19th century.

Titled, ‘‘Virginia’s Green Revolution,’ Turner’s book
details Virginia’s effort to improve agriculture in the
19th century through cooperation between leading
farmers and political leaders. The agricultural
societies and clubs formed by these groups later
became organizations that backed the establishment of
departments and schools for agriculture, and the
building of railroads and better overland roads.

Turner paid close attention to such leaders as
General William H. Richardson, Philip St. George
Cocke, John Lyle Campbell and others. One chapter is
devoted specifically to the agricultural reform in
Rockbridge County. The Rockbridge fair was the first
such event held in the South after the Civil War.

Turner retired from the Washington and Lee faculty
in 1982. He is a 1937 graduate of the University of Rich-
mond. He received his master’s degree from the Uni-
versity of North Carolina and a doctorate from the Uni-
versity of Minnesota.

Turner has served as historian, librarian and
genealogist ‘or the Rockbridge Historical Society and
has edited and published versions of the letters of a
large number of Civil War-era Rockbridge County
residents.

“Virginia’s Green Revolution” is published by The
Humphries Press Inc. of Waynesboro.

Final Contact lecture Tuesday

M. Pinson Neal Jr., past president of the Southern
Medical Association, will deliver the final lecture in the
Contact ’86 series at 7:30 p.m. Tuesday in Lee Chapel.
The lecture is free and open to the public.

The lecture series is titled ‘‘Changing Values in
America.”’ It is sponsored by the Interfraternity Coun-
cil and the Executive Committee.

Neal received his bachelor’s degree in medicine
from the University of Missouri, and his medical
degree from the University of Tennessee.

Neal is currently director of housestaff education for
the department of radiology at the Medical College of
Virginia. He has served as provost of the health
sciences campus and director of continuing education
at MCV in Richmond.

 

 
_— OO Re rR me

Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, March 20, 1986

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

       
      

 

 

 

 

We ; 4 See 2 a qd t = =
cm m Ka
EC may keep SBA oe Capitalism an eee) | |
te oe ig : rl
= Wa&L’ ics Institute :
leaders from being L’s Ethics Institute -
* : t
defense advocates might be one of a kind:
€
. professor at Loyola University of :
By PAUL FOUTCH Chicago, to campus for seminars * ,
By DANIEL BUNCH sgn epoca Editor and a public speech Friday nighton » | «
Staff Report ee ‘Individual Responsibilities in
Staff Reporter ’ i ’ ; Bai ¢
camel ae aoe eee ee Washington and Lee’s Business Business: Moral Dilemmas of Busi-

A possible White Book revision that other law representatives will return Ethics er een ane eo ee eee oo ‘ ‘
would keep Student Bar Association from their break. seminars and speecnes — : : ; 5 8 ‘
presidents and vice presidents from In other business, Contact Chair- through Sunday, may be unique, ac- ness: A Philosophical Apprese},”
acting as defense advocates inhonor man Lee Hollis said Contact may try cording to one of last year's par- a o anaauan ia ¢ £
ame was eee a — He coe. a Se and ——" 4 + is cubninstion of aor inte o-taught by ‘
Yommittee meeting Monday night. a rtson to campus next year. ; ax

Third-year law representative Joel In new business, the EC considered the interdepartmental course in ap- — eee — 2 Oe
Johnston, who made the motion, — the idea of holding special events to plied business ethics, part of W&L's saan v sha F. Severs: Tae ther * ‘
said he was concerned about preser- _ celebrate the bicentennial of the con- Society and the Professions” pro- ge “Societ a ye By onl
ue an eee of impartiality pc gs ol his committee os = = oe ee pace mi 7 aor eat :
at trials. student opinion on iss gues , an am, ¢ ‘
: The SBA president is the chairman _ before taking Be action. several faculty members will directed by Religion oe ; ;
at public honor trials and resolves —_ Senior Peter Bennorth, who is on a discuss issues ranging from 4 Louis W. eee : ca oe
conflicts between defense advocates special committee to study W&L ac- Powel ogg to involvement wit oe in law, jour- , ‘

£C advocates. iviti i ial, said an ! rica. . ;
~ oe a : prone at eee aa es By W. Patrick Hinely/Wal © Harvard University Business Pro- These three courses also have in- ‘ :

a ae acon mas this s ray and next fall He said they fessor Kenneth Goodpaster, a guest stitutes. At the end of the year, , ,
tei r eo sagen yaaa are cumlaiias having a constitu- Cranes and ravens at last year’s Institute, praised the | Hodges compiles lectures from each .
re ee : : rogram for bringing students of the four institutes into “Social ©“ | *
Th ;. who was a defense advocate tional convention that would be prog ging

ae, Se wee al of something like the Mock Convention together with real businessmen for Responsibility: Business, Jour- « | ,
earlier in the year, was chairman = : Te ae Biology Professor Peter W. Bergstrom and junior Mark Farley are in-depth studies of business ethics. nalism, Law, Medicine,”’ an ethics
the trial. Student support is crucial,” Ben-  jowered into a quarry to find a raven’s nest they are using in an experi- “Some schools have a lot going on journal that, like the “‘Scciety and “ :

“Tf you let this person or that per- north said. : = ment. Bergstrom, Farley and junior Edward Newton are planning to in- with business ethics but not neces- the Professions’ program itself, is , ‘
son do both things in the same year, In financial action, the funds for stall a radio transmitter-thermometer into a hollowed chicken egg so the — sarily on an annual basis,” Good- _ inits 12thyear.
people may start to wonder,” the literary magazine Ariel remain researchers can record raven incubation temperatures. Last year the paster said. Religion department secretary “ :
Johnston said. frozen, which means the editors can't three used the crane, owned by Charles Barger & Son construction com- “Business ethics is undoubtedly a Nancy Hanna says the journals are « ‘

He added that it would be a dif- withdraw their money from the Busi- pany of Lexington, to put bands on young ravens and follow them after growing field,” he added. sent to about 8,000 alumni, but she
ferent matter for a person to be a _ ness Office until they make a budget they left the nest. The research team discovered the nest in the abandoned The Institute this year will bring added that it’s hard to tell what ‘ :
defense advocate one year and SBA ___ report tothe EC. quarry last year. Patricia H. Werhane, a philosophy __ their impactis. e '

« a ‘ ‘
Historian |
4 .
a ' ’
discusses t
€ *
a
Hitler |
e ‘
Ae ?
By JIM STRADER :
Editor ‘ ’
_o
oyna pute, The names Phi Beta Kappa and
"ph whos ante en Adolf Hitler are not often linked. 7?
But at his Phi Beta Kappa convoca- ‘ >
tion speech last Thursday in Lee ; ;
ee Chapel, Yale University History
By Hank Mayer/The Ring-tum Phi. Professor Henry Ashby Turner wi ‘ °
: as ic ‘ ‘ ‘ : ted that world histo’ oul
A damaged book in the exhibit in the main lobby of the University Library rec rs snialiy sihanad tt Hitler a
Li b di | hi bit é b tt d b k 5 had had a better education. c x
Turner, a 1954 graduate of Wash- : _
i rary isp ay ex i i Ss a ere oO Ss ington and Lee, also wove a tale of
the way recent world history would ’ =
impression that students sometimes university and go to work as far have developed had Hitler absent- ™ ‘ ‘
By DEBORAH HATTES feel the librarians are nagging, but from all information as possible, | mindedly stepped off a curb into the ——— ee
Staff Reporter she said that “over time, food and you should consider professional path of a beer wagon in Munich in Henry Turner speaks in Lee Chapel last Thursday
drink do disastrous things’’ to treatment.” 1930. ' , ‘

To determine students’ attitudes books. Another “real problem” cited by lf this had happened, Turner theo- of uncontrolled minds can be devas- Turner disagrees and counters that , t
toward books, the University The exhibit includes an 11- Warren is “snuff and spit,” which ed, Hitler’s Nazi party, which — tating, Turner said. the factual errors make Abraham’s
Library has set up an exhibit titled question quiz reprinted from the has been found in cups in the Was ae to eine aes This problem affected Germany ™aterial “sterile” and “‘worthless.”.  * | "
Enemies of Books: Are You a University of British Columbia  jiprary. She said the liquid “attacks POWer at me, w id ve t0 : in the 1930s, Turner said later in a “Dates were altered,” Turner « | °*
me deol in the main lobby yg ee bags = — books in terms of acidity.” = Byes mage — Wer = discussion with W&L history stu- said. “The one thing you don’t do , | ,
n urred, ; : :

? The exhibit points out that rag gets fh 4: book with 4 “People have found it in books $0 woyld the development of the a ae oe = my 6 aoe Se. fen. '
“although books seem sturdy, long rusty paper clip or a wet lettuce ‘hey hardly open on that page atomic bomb, the Cold War or to- ee ou’re building whatever conclusion *
lasting objects, without the proper leaf unless I have a slice of bacon ®"Ymore,” Warrensaid. day’s problems in the Middle East. In the recent instance, Turner YOU might arrive at on sand —or « | ,
care and handling they will quickly handy.” Brown emphasized that the Turner, who called Hitler the was referring to problems in acade- detract 1
fall apart.” Other abuses shown in the exhibit library does not want to take the “greatest” figure of the 20th cen- ‘mic circles with “non-knowledge. But Abraham’s actions are not

The exhibit shows actual damag- are a broken spine caused by push- Pleasure away from reading books, tury, moral judgments aside, cited He has been involved in a dispute what disturbs Turner most in this “ | *¢
ed books from the library’s collec- ing down too hard when making ut is “trying to raise people's con- Hitler's lack of education as a ma- with David Abraham, a former controversy, which has received at- , | ,
tions. photocopies, curled pages from ex-  Sciousness so that the collection jor factor in explaining his actions. member of the history department tention in the national press. What

University Librarian Barbara posure to moisture and two books _ lastsas long asit should.” In a man such as Hitler, Turner at Princeton University, over errors troubles him is the refusal of a * | *
Brown and reference librarian chewed by dogs. Brown explained that in addition said, “‘high intelligence, without the Turner found in a book Abraham great many historians to challenge j
Yolanda Warren have seen similar Some advice is offered to those to paying twice for a book that must tempering effect of a liberal educa- ee the rise : Hitler, a topic Abraham.
exhibits. Brown said that she and book users who take the quiz. It be replaced, there are “physical tion, can give rise to ideas of great seme pirihestl imself has also “The most shocking aspect is not *“*~
Warren had discussed “ways to says “congratulations” to people processing” costs associated with peril. 1 materia: that the person would alter the +4 | ¢
educate the community about the who score zero, but advises those ordering a book. Or, an out-of-print _ Turner’s lesson for the 22 Phi Although Abraham has admitted evidence,” Turner said, ‘‘but that so a
problems associated with food and frequent book abusers who have in- book may not be replaceable. A $7 Beta Kappa initiates was that in- the errors in his book, he contends many other people would say it
drink.” dicated an “unhealthy attitude to rebinding cost might also be incur- tellectual achievement must come that they do not damage his thesis; doesn’t matter. That has shocked ¢ | *

Brown explained that she has the books and learning” to “leave red in a disciplined manner. The result instead he says they strengthen it. metomy professional foundations.” |, | ,

s e j ® a ’ 7

84 wi square off in Monday s election “ae

. . [M) * &

Senior president Tommy McBride lan Bottomley Chuck Shissias a4
Mark Oluvic Jim Ambrosini Christopher C. Brand

Greg Barrow Hunter Applewhite Mike Forrester Mark Bryant ° ‘ _

Mike ee J vp David Lawrence Greg Dale oO 7 '

Louis Cella unior E. Wright Ledbetter

—— Sophomore VP Eddie Yu e |:
Senior VE David Jordan aaa Michael Watson el
; : Charlie Benedict Alston Parker
on Don Nimey David E. Thompson Christopher S. de Movellan ‘ ‘
Rich Hobson ; 1 Holifield eH
Doug Elliott Michae Heidi Read
Andrew Reibach aon Coffland Bud Meadows te - (ALLAN HL HNN “Ee
rarsg  Devitaie Fritz Lake oi Sadiolary 4
ris erioc i Clare Ka e + jaan" APA AARAR RAS. 5 j
Rob Tolleson Junior EC Amy ale Sonhomore UC 5° (AX ARIS SOND 2 AR 2
Scott Yancey Brandt Wood Tom West p eaG
: Pat Schaefer
Senior EC Brad Root Sophomore EC Rob Guyton SHARE THE WORK ake
Tom O’Brien Melissa Thrasher wee ORKLOAD! Si

Andrew Caruthers Lester Coe Matt Bryant Carol Couch == a ee ie

aan Petes pageretnelll To those students, faculty and ‘i

Baltzer LeJeune Dan Fales staff members who would like ise

Rob Merritt Sean Campbell to he a littl : . eh

Michael “Weezy” McGarry | IBM/PC FAIR Oo have a little more free time — :

Marshall Eubank Junior UC vou now have the Opportunity i

Sen ior UC Todd S. Barton 1BM Corporation and Washington and Lee Computer Center to share vour workload Wisk J ise
— Michael Suttle are sponsoring a Personal Computer Fair: an IBM Personal Computer i

John Brownlee Charles Lyle 3 A : :

' : Buck Wiley Tuesday, March 25th PC’s are workaholies and they ‘
Junior president 10 a.m. until 5 p.m. love what they do. Check F
“Saab ns PN RO Sophomore president Room 109, Student Center tk ‘ ! * : : se t

Mike Henry IR REISER NETO lem Out. See how easy it is to

Jim Lancaster Frank ands assy gue maser Semmens et acquire one

Jim Morgan John Hamilton ee eee ee pane : enter ‘

: a 1-2-3, IBM‘s Filing Assistant, Planning Assistant and Graphing Assis- ‘“
: no event re ao tant will be available for your evaluation. oon ps Ben neem Center
John Gammage rutcher arch 25th,
Students, faculty and staff members may purchase IBM/PCs at a 30% from 10 a.m. -5 p.m, tosee :
educational discount and IBM offers special financing arrangements. how IBM/PCs can help '
VARNER & POLE Be sure to pick up a price sheet and information on financing at the you!”’
Fair.
Furniture Dealers We invite the Washington and Lee community to stop by the Student us 2 ,
115 S. Main Street 463-2742 Center to take advantage of this opportunity to view 1BM Personal Washington & Lee University”
leoeeeeaeeneiceial eornrahcenntaoeesintiaioeeeeinpmigens sel

 

 

 

 

he

“For your extra pieces of furniture’’ Computing Equipment and Software.

   

 

 

 

 

—

a arpyeee
 

W&L CR elected to

State-wide office,
sparks controversy

 

By PETER BOATNER
Staff Reporter

 

John Pensec, currently chairman
of the W&L College Republicans, has
been elected to a seat on the state-
wide board of that organization.

Pensec, a junior from Ridgewood,
N.J., was selected as the second vice
chairman of the College Republican
Federation of Virginia at a conven-
tion of Virginia College Republicans
over Washington Holiday, In his new
position, Pensec is responsible for
starting new clubs in the state and
strengthening existing organizations.

Pensec was also re-elected as
chairman of the W&L College Repub-
licans Monday night.

Pensec’s election to the state-wide
office sparked controversy among
the W&L College Republicans,
though, with the resignation of club
treasurer Reade Williams. Williams
resigned in protest of the use of funds
from the club here to finance Pen-
sec’s campaign for the state-wide of-
fice.

Williams said his resignation was
“mostly a symbolic gesture’ to pro-
test use of club funds in Pensec’s
“Jast minute’ campaign. Williams’
duties as treasurer would normally
have ended in two weeks, he said.

“T don’t have a problem with using
ae ’ ¢ . fH" veimburs-

ed,”’ said Williams, whose main ob-
jection was that the use of the club’s
money was not discussed beforehand
by the leaders of the club here. He
said that it seemed as though the
W&L members who went to the state
convention ‘noticed they had the
support to win”’ a position for Pensec
and used club money to doit.

This action was later approved by
the Executive Board of the W&L Col-
lege Republicans.

“TI don’t want to detract from
John’s election,’’ Williams said, but
“club funds should be used for the
club as a whole, not for the political
aspirations of one member.”

Pensec insisted that the use of the
money was ‘‘a legitimate expense”’
that would benefit the W&L club in
the long run. He noted that club funds
were used last year, when senior
Gerald Shepherd lost his bid for a
state position.

The W&L College Republicans
have always had a strong representa-
tion on the state board, according to
Pensec. At one time in the early ’70s,
three of the board’s six members
were from W&L.

The Virginia College Republicans
hope to have 20 new clubs at cam-
puses throughout the state by the end
of this year, so that they will be in
place for the fall congressional elec-
tions. Establishing these clubs will be
Pensec’s responsibility.

“This will involve a lot of time on

 

 

 

JOHN PENSEC

the phone with people from places
like Radford and Roanoke,” said
Pensec, who adds that his job is
mainly to “offer a contact between
the state organization and the local
level.”

In the local area, Pensec noted, two
people have shown interest in run-
ning against the incumbent congress-
man, Democrat Jim Olin. One of
these possible candidates is a W&L
alumnus from Lynchburg, who Pen-
sec hopes will spark interest on the
campus. “Olin can be beat, but it’s
going to be rough,” said Pensec.

Pensec feels that having a member
on the state board will be beneficial
for the club here because it will get
W&L Republicans involved in state-
wide political affairs rather than just
local events.

Pensec said interest in the College
Republicans has dropped off consid-
erably since the gubernatorial elec-
tion in the fall, when there were
about 200 chartered members.

The club, Pensec said, is ‘‘current-
ly in limbo,” but several events are
planned for the spring.

For instance, he said, a challenge
has been issued to the W&L Young
Democrats for a softball game, but
no response has been received.

Committee to present alcohol forum

 

By SEAN BUGG
Staff Reporter

 

Carol Calkins and John Wiltse,
members of the Alcohol and Health
Awareness Committee, gave a pre-
sentation about Alcohol Awareness
Week Tuesday night at the Inter-
fraternity Council meeting.

Alcohol Awareness Week will be
next week. On Wednesday there will
be a panel discussion concerning
“Responsible Drinking: Avoiding
Abuse,” at 7 p.m. in Room 109. of
the University Center.

The panelists are Dr. James Wor-
th, W&L’s counseling psychologist;
Al Davis, a W&L alumnus and a

staff member of Alcohol and Drug
Abuse Services of Rockbridge Coun-
ty; and Chip Jones, a local resident
and an active member of alcohol
education in the Lexington-Rock-
bridge area.

“This is the first time the Alcohol
Committee has been active,’’ in do-
ing programs and offering help,
Wiltse said.

In response to rumors that the
committee had been formed to ban
alcohol on campus, Calkins said the
committee is not ‘‘out there beating
a drum, saying ‘No drinking.’ ”

“The whole theme of the commit-
tee...is working - on~ responsible
drinking,” Wiltse said.

In other IFC business, outgoing

President Jaimie Hayne proposed
“legalizing what you would call an
“Initiation Week.”

Hayne said the proposal was in
response to complaints from pro-
fessors that students were missing
classes because of weeknight pledge
activities.

“It’s kind of a farce for me to say
they’re illegal when everyone knows
they go on,” Hayne said.

Under the proposed new rule,
fraternities would indicate to the
IFC the nights they will hold initia-
tion functions.

“That way, we know what’s going
on,’’ Hayfie said. The proposal will
be discussed again at next Tues-
day’s meeting.

 

 

GENERAL NOTES

 

Examination envelopes and in-
struction forms for winter term
exams will be available beginning
Monday in the Registrar’s Office.
The exam envelopes are to be
turned in to professors at the first
class meeting on or after Monday,
March 31. Exams begin Saturday,
April 5 and end Friday, April 11.

“Spartacus,” a 1960 Stanley
Kubrick film, will be shown in
room 327 of the Commerce
School tonight at 7 as part of the
Politics FilmFest. The film, star-
ring Kirk Douglas, Laurence Oli-
vier, Tony Curtis and

reler Usunov, reenacts the tac-

 

CLASSIFIEDS

tual slave revolt against imperial
Rome to dramatize change in
politics: What ultimately justi-
fies change versus order in any
form of polity?

Contributions for the spring
issue of the Ariel, the Washing-
ton and Lee literary magazine,
will be accepted until tomorrow.
Stories, poems or photographs
may be submitted to Carol
Calkins’ office in the University
Center. The magazine will be
published in early May.

The United States Information
Agency (USIA) and the Institute
of International Education (ITE)
announces that the official open-
ing of the 1987-88 competition for
grants for graduate study or

. the language of the host country.

research abroad in academic
fields and for professional train-
ing in the creative and performing
arts is scheduled for May 1. It is
expected that approximately 700
awards to over 70 countries will be
available for the 1987-88 academic
year.

Applicants must be U.S. citizens
at the time of application, who will
generally hold a_ bachelor’s
degree or its equivalent before the
beginning date of the grant and, in
most cases, will be proficient in

Application forms and further
information for students currently
enrolled at W&L may be obtained
from the Fulbright Program Ad-
viser, Professor John M. Evans,
in Payne Hall (32-C).

 

 

  
    
 

finswering” Lexing
Final Exams
Are Coming
Study hard! Study long!
Have trouble getting up?
| Don’t Sleep Through
a Your Finals
| WAKE-UP SERVICE
| 463-1777

‘| Special Rates For Students
a © Box $33 Leningion virgin ase Be

AED
Michelin B.F. Goodrich
x Alignment *

x Brakes x
x Radiator Repairs x
* Swim Tubes x

Hileman Tire & Radiator
536 E. Nelson St.

463-2146

 

 

 

165 S. Main

 

     
  

We have plants and
flowers for any and
every occasion!

 

 

 

463-9152

 

 

 

 

 

Under

_ SARE SP DA IS EE SSIES SPREE TPS
By MATT HORRIDGE
Staff Reporter

 

The spring-like weather Lexington
is experiencing may help bring
students out of the doldrums many
experience during the winter term.
With exams just around the corner,
however, there may be only a short-
lived reprieve from _high-stress
situations.

College is an especially stressful
period of life because of all the
changes that must be adapted to, ex-
plained James W. Worth, the Univer-
sity’s counseling psychologist.

’ New friends, new unfamiliar living
rangements, heavy course loads and
a budding social life can create a
stressful environment, especially for
freshmen, he said.

Worth defined stress as ‘‘changes,
internally or externally’ in [one’s]
environment.”’ He said that there are
three possible reactions to stress.
“You can get stronger personally,
you can react on the source of stress,
or] you can get the hell out.”’

There are as many causes of
stress as there are people, Worth
said. Sophomore Tim Brennan said
“homework that I can’t under-
stand’? and difficult classes
frustrate him and raise his stress
levels.

Worth described a_ curvilinear
graph in which stress and mental
alertness are compared. He said that
at the point at which there is no
stress, there is also no mental activi-
ty.

As stress rises, mental alertness
also increases to the point at which
consciousness reaches its peak. If
more stress is added to a person’s en-
vironment after that point, however,
mental awareness deteriorates,
eventually to the point of a nervous
breakdown.

Many students find themselves
past their point of controllable stress
and then make drastic cuts in their
school work and social lives, Worth
said. ‘‘There has to be the middle
ground,”’ he emphasized.

“Y chink it’s important for people to
read their own stress signs,’’ Worth
said. ‘‘If you know your stress signs,
you know when you're getting into a
stressful situation.”

Worth said that many students
create especially stressful situations
for themselves by placing demands

 

Lexington Hardware

 

463-2242

Wendell’s
Barber
Shop

| need

    

your head

for my business

The Sandwich Shop appreciates
your business!
Come by and have one of our deluxe

Italian Subs — only $2.20

To Go Orders - 463-2595
Old Main Street Mall

Hair Wates

 

|

GRAND OPENING

Stop by today and register for your student discount
card which entitles you to 10% off any service.

Hair Mates

18 Va. locations to serve you, including
College Square Shopping Center (next to Kroger’s)
Rt. 11 North
Lexington, Va.
463-1605

 

The Ring-tum Phi, March 20, 1986, Page 5

stress

Pressures of student life
create demands, confusion

on themselves that are too great.
When their goals are not met
satisfactorily, Worth said, ‘‘they
become very angry with them-
selves.”’

Sophomore Gregg Kettles said,
“Grades give me_ stress.’ The
pressure he feels to do well in
school comes from within himself,
not his parents, he added.

Worth pointed out that many
students confuse what they think is
stress with depression. He said many
students say they are ‘‘unexcited
about life, not sad,” and they
therefore dismiss depression as the
cause of those feelings because many
think depression means feeilng down
in the dumps.

“A minimum of 50 percent of the
students....will experience depres-
sion,’’ Worth said. He said symptons
of depression include tiredness, dif-
ficulty in organizing time, lack of
self-confidence, irritability, a feeling
that one’s life is unmanageable, and
fitful sleep.

“You've probably got a depression
going in your life,” if you experience
these symptoms, Worth said.

Worth said he sees the greatest ma-
jority of his depression cases during
winter term. He said the newness of
school having worn off, the search for
a job, seeing grades from fall term,
and the dreary weather combine to
leave many students feeling blue.

Worth applauded the administra-
tion for placing breaks every six
weeks through the winter and spr-
ing terms because they help break
the monotony of school life.

Brennan also approves of W&L’s
schedule. ‘‘I think that by the time
the term is coming to a close,
you’re ready to get out of here,” he

said.

Worth offered some tips on how to
reduce the effects of stress. He said
the first step is to get three nutritious
meals a day, vigorous exercise three
times a week and — most important
— seven hours of sleep each night. “I
can’t emphasize that enough,” Worth
said.

Sometimes one’s environment
must be changed to eliminate stress,
Worth said. Adjusting course loads,
moving to a more quiet residence,
and revamping one’s study techni-
ques are among his Suggestions.

The key to dealing with stress,
Worth said, is “learning to have a
balanced life.”’

Worth urges students to seek
counseling for depression and stress
problems if they feel they cannot
handle the problems themselves.
“One-fifth of studuuis guin.g .. 1h
Washington and Lee avail them-
selves of the counseling,’’ Worth
said.

Worth said that when a student
comes to him about a stress-related
problem, he most often uses what he
calls “progressive relaxation’ to
help the student combat his problem.
Progressive relaxation is a series of
exercises designed to help people
learn to relax. Worth said he tapes
the counseling session so the student
can take the tape to his room and do
the exercises there.

Worth said there is often a stigma
attached to seeing a counselor. At
first, he said, ‘we tend to deny
there’s a problem,’’ If a person
realizes he has a problem, he may
think that going to a counselor
precludes more serious problesm.

“They see it as a sign of being
crazy,” he said.

That, Worth said, is a sad miscon-
ception. He said that in fact, counsel-
ing is mainly designed for the sane,
not the insane. By recognizing and
treating stress-related problems ear-
ly, a student’s stress levels need not
get out of hand.

Worth said two groups here may
experience some unique stress-
related problems — blacks and
women.

The fact thut there are so few
blacks at W&L here may cause stress
for them. ‘That, in and of itself, is
stress,’ Worth said. ‘‘Until we get
more blacks and more minority
students here, it will be tough.”

“T think we’re making strides’’ in
recruiting minorities, he said, but “‘I
think we havea ways to go.”

The change to coeducation caused
problems for both upperclass males
and incoming women. “These are
changes that are stressful,’’ Worth
said.

“T’m very pleased with the way
women are adapting here,’’ Worth
said.

“The great majority of the women
have had few problems, he added,
and only a few have seen him for ad-
justment problems.

“Human growth and development
and maturity come not from being
stress-free but by successfully hand-
ling stress.”’

y r Ee ee

Only Hairstylist to
accept the Colonnade
eT

ie urs
463-9588

y "Marie

=

hare nner ee

 

Movie Rentals — $2.00 per day
3 for *5.00

Player Rental — $5.00
1 Year Membership — 99°

Offer Expires March 31
Lexington-B.V. Shopping Center - 463-2177
Mon.-Sat. 11-9 p.m.

y
Rees ty

Old Main St. Mall
Lexington, V1 24450

Oe ee

Join Us For Dinner At

One of the Historic Country Inns
of Lexington
463-4666 for reservations

Open Monday, Friday and Saturday

Route 11 North
Sey) aoe + i <j aa saree Oe a 1 RC SR

2 OS Ee ee ee ae a
Easter Special

VIDEO CENTER
OF LEXINGTON

x**
* SPECIAL x

kk *
With this coupon

Pili

Sun. 12-5 p.m.
 

SPORTS bi
Dartmouth dumped, Wahoos next

Goals, goalie A Little Fable

key 17-12 win, wi i nes EM oT a
i ae Se Cs Jae (Reprinted, with a few up-to-date changes, from a 1973

record at 2-1 Ring-tum Phi.)

Once upon a time there was a sleepy little school in a sleepy
little town in a beautiful and green valley with mountains all

By DAVID EMRICH

Assistant Sports Editor

 

 

 

 

 

around. The students at the school were like those anywhere
else — some slept all the time, some played, others walked
around with their noses buried in big thick books. During the
spring there seemed to be fewer and fewer with their noses in
books: most bought inner tubes and spent their Saturday af-
ternoons floating in big pools of beer or Southern Comfort.

Alas, it seemed for a long time that none of these boys could
become interested in anything but reading or floating all day
long. Until one day one got the bright idea of tying a net on
the end of a pole and tossing a ball with it. Soon everyone in
the little town was running up and down the football field,
waving their sticks, hitting each other with them, and having
a glorious time.

Then, word of the Wahoos came to town. No one knew what
a Wahoo was or where the Wahoos came from. They carried
sticks just the same, tossed the ball quickly from one to the
other — and the people in the little town were sore afraid.

Somehow those funny looking Wahoos began beating the
people of the sleepy Itttle town at their own game.

Then the people said, ‘Why don’t we leave our books and
our inner tubes and join together to beat back these Wahoos?
And it was done. The books were tossed aside and the lovely
pools were drunk dry — and everyone gathered together and
traveled to the lair of the Wahoos to end their threat, once
and for all.

Everyone knew the Wahoos, mindless creatures though
they were, would be a mean and fierce bunch, having re-
cently been nipped by a Retriever. But the people in the
sleepy little town were not afraid, having just slain a Big
Green Monster themselves. ‘‘We will not be afraid of any-
thing, especially something as silly as a Wahoo!” they
shouted, and they stormed off to invade Wahooland.

And now the Wahoos are quaking in their collective boots,
locking their doors, and even playing their game on an un-
natural surface in hopes that the people of the sleepy little
town don’t beat them too badly.

You see, Wahoo is just another one of those ‘‘W’’ words
like wimp and whiner; General, if you haven’t noticed, is
one of those ‘‘G’’ words like gentleman and gladiator.

 

When a game plan is well ex:
ecuted, the results will generally be
extremely favorable. On Sunday,
the Washington and Lee lacrosse
game plan was executed almost
flawlessly, and the outcome was
just as * id expect

By employing what head coach
Dennis Daly described as a ‘‘team
effort’’ the Generals handily
defeated the visiting Dartmouth Big
Green by a score of 17-12.

“The defense played aggressively
and forced Dartmouth into taking
tough shots. John Church made
some key saves and started the
transition to offense with excellent
passes. Then our offense took ad-
vantage of the opportunities,’ Daly
said.

The offensive opportunities Daly
spoke of began appearing almost
immediately. The Generals grabbed
a 6-2 lead after the first quarter,
and held that four-goal lead all the
way up to the half.

When the teams returned follow-
ing the intermission, W&L put on a
brief but effective offensive show.
The Generals started the half with
five unanswered goals to take a 15-6
lead and put the game out of Dart-
mouth’s reach.

“We are very pleased that ever)
thing seemed to gel and that we
could execute our game plan,”’ said
Daly. ‘“‘We wanted to improve our
ride, play tough defense and run our
transition game. We demonstrated
we could do that against a good
team.”

“The game gave us confidence,”’
the coach commented, ‘‘confidence
that we could play at the level we
hoped we could play at. And con-

sdidind
By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

 

Two W&L attackmen sandwich a Dartmouth defenseman

 

 

fidence does great things for a
team.”

This year’s incarnation of the
W&L lacrosse team seems to be
more offensively oriented than last
year’s version of the team. Daly
said a strategy reevaluation and a
different schedule were contributors
to the new-look Generals.

“Last year, we didn’t feel we haa
the talent to run with the teams on
the schedule,”’ said Daly. ‘‘When we
evaluated that decision to play con-
servatively, we won some games
with it, but it didn’t allow us to win
some of the games we should have
won.”

schedule,”’ continued Daly, ‘‘we felt <

that we could win by creating some
unsettled situations and pushing the
ball upfield some more.”

LAX FACTS...Church was named
defensive Player-of-the-Game by his
teammates for the second time this
season on the strength of his 24
saves, while senior attackman
Caulley Deringer was honored as of-
fensive Player-of-the-Game by the
squad for his three-goal ef-
fort...Other outstanding _ perfor-
mances on Sunday included G.T.
Corrigan with four goals and an
assist, Bill Garavente with three
goals, and Bill Holmes with five

Lacrosse

C Continued from Page 1

 

not. But it is a big game because
we're talking about what are
generally the two best Division I
teams in the state.”

Scott Stadium has an artificial
surface, something to which W&L is
not accustomed and something that
has given past W&L teams some
difficulty. The Generals’ only other
game on synthetic turf this season
was the season-opening loss to
Duke.

ference in the U.Va. game?

“It makes us faster,’’ co-captain
John said. “Of course, it makes
them faster as well. It affects both
teams the same way. It doesn’t
matter what field we play on, as
long as we go after them.”

Attackman G.T. Corrigan,
another senior, expressed a similar
sentiment. ‘It doesn’t matter to us
where we play. We’re going to give
a good effort.”

Sophomore midfielder Greg
Unger felt that playing on the syn-
thetic surface would benefit the
Generals. ‘‘We’re a faster team this
year,” he said. ‘‘And that’s been our

[playing on turf] can only help us.

“We set goals each week,’’ Unger
continued, ‘‘and on our goal sheet
for this week, there’s a statement
that says, ‘We’re playing just a
team of college players. Not a
university, not a lacrosse tradition.’
They’re just like us, they’re our
age. We’re the underdogs, but we’re
going to go out and go after them.”’

Other members of the team share
Unger’s confidence in the Generals’
abilities.

“We're coming off a good win
against Dartmouth,”’ Corrigan said.
“T think our ball club’s really play-
ing well, and I think that we're in

U.Va.’

“It goes without being said that
U.Va.’s always a talented team,”
senior attackman Caulley Deringer
said. ‘I think that this year they
have a few young players playing
some key roles and that’s going to
work to our advantage because we
do have 10 Seniors.”

Deringer continued: ‘“‘We’ve had
two big wins in the last couple of
weeks and we’re kind of on a roll,
and things are really going to be
looking up for Saturday, and we're
very optimistic about it. We’re not
going to hold back ... we’re just go-
ing to go at them and hope for the

 

 

“This year with the change in

 

assists.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Will playing on turf make any dif-

game plan,

transition, and that

the best situation this year to take

best.””

 

 

 

 

   

      
 

 

 

SF EMO N ies

Oy

   
   
 

Acceptor of the Colonnade Card

eee Te

 

 

 

for Easter.

baskets, stuffed animals,

 

 

 

Cheech & Chong’s

Next Movie
(Friday, Mar. 21)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

| ’
6 J a 2 5 i 5
Let's dispense with the Cavalier attitude |;
,
...Well, the upcoming weekend Well, while the book isn’t shut on that matter just yet, we’ve got to — let’s dispense with the Cavalier attitude toward commitment and :
TIME for Washington and Lee lacrosse stop to give credit where credit is due. Campers, the W&L be committed to letting our peers (and our students) know that their :
certainly has been put in the right gentlemen can flat out play lacrosse. They’re fun to watch. There’s efforts are not going unnoticed. It often is the difference between ;
OUT perspective by the NCAA tourna- something intangible here, too, called confidence. Don’t expect these winning and losing. =
*** ment upsets last weekend. guys to back off. Just ask Steve McGrath, who made a hit Sunday The game this weekend is a chance to dispel the lack of campus te
ms It’s a good thing, too, because afternoon that left a Dartmouth player unsure of what continent he confidence in the lacrosse program. The onus is on you, the fans. |
( @ By Mike when the Generals travel to was on. But you have to watch them to get the gist of what I’m say- For W&L to have a chance against U.Va., the team must give its
Stach Charlottesville this weekend, they’ll ing. Emphasis on ‘‘have to watch.” best effort of the year. But they cannot win it alone. There’s no ’
achura be looking for their first win over Let’s get a large group of people in Charlottesville on Saturday. doubt in my mind that the team will live up to its end of the .
the Wahoos since Jimmy Carter This game is an important game for W&L lacrosse, and as such, bargain. Be just as equal to the task by living up to yours....The
was big. And that little voice that tells me I ought to be writing deserves the proper amount of support. The W&L lacrosse program game starts at 2 p.m. Saturday at Scott Stadium. Admission is a .
home is telling me this year’s game with the neanderthals from has suffered the abuse of doubting Thomases long enough. It has paltry $3..... »
over the mountain may be just a bit different from the last three proved itself ready for the task of destroying that doubt. But the
W&L-U.Va. games I’ve been privileged to live through. You see, team is going to need more than the casual interest of friends and Ss... While we're basking in the Colonnade, we ought to mention °
both me and the little voice are about as fed up with U.Va. beating family to defeat Virginia on the Astroturf of Scott Stadium. (Unfor- that this weekend in Philadelphia (two matches with two of the best ‘
W&L in jacrosse as we were with Roanoke beating W&L in basket- tunately, Astroturf may be the biggest advantage the Wahoos have. teams in the country) is rather large for W&L tennis. A win against
ball. The game is a whole ‘nother animal on the artificial surface.) The Swarthmore or Claremont or both should get the net-men into the ,
(Before I go any further, I must confess that the temptation here Generals will need some very real, very visible support. national championships...Track is still in dynasty mode: three wins .
is to write a homer column, But wait. Is that such a bad thing? It We all know that apathy is a boil on the butt of this campus. That on Saturday, including a 105-33 slashing of Davidson...
would do me and probably all of you some good for W&L to beat the has been a given from Day One. However, it need not necessarily be ... You figure out the NCAAs — nobody else can. Upset of the up- .
tar out of the Wahoos. And the possibility is quite real.) the case here. It’s easy to cheer for the home team when the na- coming week? How about Auburn over UNLV and week? Carolina- +
It has been some time since a W&L lacrosse game has held this tional championship is on the line. But that need not be a necessary Louisville and possibly Davy-Duke...P.S.: Source tells me that
much significance, and perhaps that’s even more good news than requirement for fan support. (Indeed, even when W&L has been up David Robinson holds the Naval Academy record for the ebstacle
whether the Generals win the game by six goals or two goals. The for a national championship (the tennis team last year), there was course and is something of a whiz on the pommel horse, too. File ‘
point is that with this Saturday, W&L lacrosse is ready to make a little support — despite the championships being held at W&L!) No, that.... ;
statement to all those non-believers who have been lamenting that what is necessary is some recognition, some partisan support, the ..Finally, ladies and gentlemen, Dave Parker: “I used cocaine
Lee’s little college is out of its league by trying to play Division I kind that, as I understand it, was here at one time and has not been for recreation. I never had a problem.”’ Kind of like golf, huh °
lacrosse. seen in awhile. For once — and perhaps it will become a trend Dave’....... ;
.
vorny
NEED LUboL 103-463-1670 4
on | S.A.B. FILMS |
(rit: 703-377-6331 AD. ‘aa
Students under 21 _ presents - 4
Must Have ; '
prior Insurance Lettuce A COMEDY WEEKEND! ad
Approval Brian and Doris featuring ae
Fredrick : ‘
st aaa all hop down to Monty Python's oe |
FANTASIES The Meaning of Life - |
RFD7, Box 149, Rt. 60 East Lexington, Virginia 24450 (Thursday, Mar. 20) ,

i
9 sc «@
: McCRUM’S DRUG’S 1 jewelry, basket stuffers Monty Python's '
i For those y ll ab The Life of Brian :
25% off All Easter : or those you carrot all about. a
' % aster Merchandise ' ee (Sunday, Mar. 23)
é (except candy) + si acostaheaieeaiael occlusal i. ’
‘ 8:05 p.m.  o
; 17S. Main Street : ( J Aadalashonbe .
4 a
&
 

 

 

Thinclads start undefeated,
outrun six in two meets

~

™

”

~

~

*

”

~

By ROB MacPHERSON
Staff Reporter

 

Talk about continuity,

The Washington and Lee track
and field team picked up right
where it left off as it moved out-
doors to start its 1986 campaign.
The thinclads began their outdoor
season with six victories in two
meets this week.

On Tuesday, the Generals played
the unfriendly host to three Old
Dominion Athletic Conference op-
ponents, downing Roanoke, Bridge-
water and Eastern Mennonite by
winning 12 of the 17 events during
the afternoon.

The Tuesday meet was a repeat
performance of Saturday’s opener
at Davidson, N.C., where W&L was
victorious in its first outdoor com-
petition, taking 15 of 17 events from
the host Wildcats and beating Bar-
ber-Scotia, 95-38, and the College of
Wooster, 71-68.

Against the ODAC foes on Tues-
day, the Generals performed well
despite a number of athletes who
saw limited action due to health

problems, Chris Bleggi, the ODAC
Indoor Runner-of-the-Year, has
been battling bronchitis, and Kevin
Weaver has a slightly pulled ham-
string.

However, both were members of
the Generals’ victorious 400-meter
relay team, and Bleggi managed to
run in the 100 meters.

Add to Bleggi and Weaver a sick
Richard Moore, who competed in
the 1500 meters despite his illness,
and you get a worried W&L head
track coach Norris Aldridge.

“IT didn’t know how well we would
do,” he said. ‘‘We’re not fully
healthy and Roanoke is an improv-
ed team.”’

The coach also commented that
due to late classes, the Generals
rarely have had a complete team at
practice.

W&L was led on the track by An-
dy White and Bill Rhinehart. White
took the 110- and 400-meter hurdles,
and co-captain Rhinehart finished
first in the 100 meters and the triple
jump.

Co-captain Chris McGowan took
first in the 400 meters and also an-

Golf fights weather;
Leslie ‘pleased’

 

By MIKE SHADY
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee golf
season has begun on a positive note
with a win in the team’s first match
of the season and a respectable finish
at a miulti-divisional tournament
over the weekend.

Yesterday, the Generals easily
defeated Shenandoah on the Lex-
ington Country Club course. The
team was led by Jeff Kimbell’s 77
and John Gammage’s 79.

»

*

v

~

The team slipped and slid into an
llth-place tie last weekend in the
James Madison Invitational.

The -22-team tournament, which
included Division I, If and II

» teams, was played despite heavy

rains during the first round on Fri-

‘day. The rain seemed to help the
» Generals as they shot a combined

, 316 on Friday, good for seventh
place.

Diamond squad plagued fia
‘by errors, feeble hitting §

 

. By CHARLES T. GAY
Staff Reporter

 

, Plagued by feeble hitting,

Washington and Lee’s baseball squad
* dropped a pair of contests this week,
+92 to Christopher Newport last
Thursday, and 7-1 to Bridgewater
* Tuesday.
+ The two losses bring the Generals’

 

“I was pretty much pleased with
the performance for our first
outing,’ said Leslie. ‘“‘Most of the
other teams had played at least
once.”

Led by sophomores Gary Camp-
bell (74-82) and Chip Gist (79-79),
W&L had a two-day total of 639.
Also scoring for the Generals were
senior captain Greg Wheeler (80-82)
and freshman Pete Coleman (83-80).

“Pete was not much of a sur-
prise,’ stated Leslie. ‘‘He has the
potential to play well for us.”’

The Generals travel down south to
Elon, N.C. for the Max Ward Invita-
tional next Monday and Tuesday.

The team has been practicing out-
side as much as it can, even brav-
ing the cold temperatures and
some occasional snow flurries.

“Tt don’t know how much it ac-
complished physically but mentally
it may have given us some con-
fidence,”’ said-Leslie.

record to 0-3-1.

Coach Jim Murdock refused to
make excuses for the winless
Generals. ‘“‘We’re not concentrating
out there,”’ he stated. “Bridgewater
did an excellent job, and we just
didn’t play well.”’

As for the future, Murdock said,
“We're not a great hitting club. We
can’t sit back on our heels. We’ve
got to execute to win.”

Against Newport, the Generals
could only muster seven hits in the
defeat. Pitcher Bill Schoettelkotte
was charged with five earned runs in
four innings and was tagged with the
loss. Third baseman Milam Turner
was the only General to pick up two
hits in the game.

The Generals’ offense was even
weaker at home against Bridge-
water, collecting only five hits and
scratching for one run in the ninth.
W&L hurler Carter Steuart was
touched for five runs (three earned)
in seven innings and was saddled
with the loss. Bridgewater’s hurler
Alan Stadler was responsible for
stifling the Generals.

W&L also had problems on
defense, committing five errors, two
each by shortstop Harry Halpert and
first baseman Schoettelkotte.

Halpert gained partial redemption
by driving in the Generals’ lone tally
with an infield hit in the bottom of the
ninth.

Saturday’s scheduled. doublehead-
er with Shenandoah was canceled.

The Generals will face Eastern
Mennonite at home today, Randolph-
Macon in a doubleheader Saturday,
and then go on the road to Hampden-
Sydney for another doubleheader
Monday.

Members of the University Community © Guests

Beat the Winter Doldrums

 

Join Us For

A SOUP & SANDWICH BUFFET

All You Can Eat $2.00 inc
Monday, March 24, 1986
11:45 AM to 1:15 PM

tax

EVANS DINING HALL

chored the winning mile relay team.
Freshman Jamie Urso rounded out
W&L’s track winnings with a top-
notch performance in the 800.

The Generals dominated in the
field, sweeping five of seven events.
Tom Murray captured the shot put
with a toss of 45-10 and co-captain
Jim McLaughlin took first in the
discus by almost 28 feet. Joe Fisher
was tops in the pole vault, while
Mike McAlevey easily captured the
javelin competition.

On Saturday, the Generals opened
their season with many solid perfor-
mances. Bleggi won both the 100
and 200, while McGowan captured
the 400 meters. Urso also was first
in the 800 meters. White and
McLaughlin also earned victories.

Aldridge summed everything up
by saying, ‘“‘We won what I thought
we would. We were a little sore
after Saturday so we had an easy
Monday. But we ran well for our
first meet.”’

The Generals travel to Lynchburg
for the Liberty University Invita-
tional on Saturday.

4

The Ring-tum Phi, March 20, 1986, Page 7

 

 

 

 

 

Netters win,
await best

in Div. Ill

By LEIF UELAND
Staff Reporter

 

 

The Washington and Lee men’s
tennis team continued to play well
this week, and the good play was
finally rewarded with a victory.

The Generals, who had played a
couple of close matches against
Division I foes, got their first vic-
tory of the season on Saturday with
a very important 5-4 win over Divi-
sion I William and Mary. W&L
claimed its second victory of 1986 on
Tuesday, blanking Old Dominion
Athletic Conference opponent
Hampden-Sydney, 9-0.

Going into the William and Mary
match, the Generals knew they
could challenge the team that in the
past had usually had its way with
W&L squads.

Benefitting from singles wins by
freshman No. 3 Bobby Matthews,
sophomore No. 5 Jack Messerly and
senior captain No. 6 Scott Adams,

 

 

 

Andy White clears hurdle in 400 meters

= . ee
EE

Courtney Coyle hits a forehand in Tuesday’s Lynchburg match

Lady netters winless after three

 

By DAVID NAVE
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee women’s
tennis team lost to Lynchburg, 7-2,
Tuesday afternoon to drop its record
to 0-3.

The three losses have all come at
the hands of Old Dominion Athletic
Conference opponents, but Tuesday’s
effort marks the closest match of the
season for the women.

Head coach Bill Washburn said
Tuesday’s individual scores reveal
that the match itself was closer than
the final score indicates. The
Generals lost three three-set match-
es, including one in a_ third-set
tiebreaker.

Courtney Coyle posted a singles
win for W&L, while the team of
Valerie Pierson and Martha Chris-
tian scored a doubles victory.
Pierson-Christian claimed the No. 2

doubles match with a close 7-6 (7-3),
7-5 victory.

Coyle, who has the only singles
wins for the year, won the No. 5
singles flight after losing the first set
and then rallying in the second and
third sets. The freshman won 2-6, 6-2,
6-3.

“Courtney is a rather strong player
at the No. 5 position,’’ Washburn
said,

Concerning the entire team, Wash-
burn said, ‘‘I think they are learning
and are getting experience.”

Injuries pose the only major pro-
blem that Washburn has had to face.
He noted that his No. 1 player, Bitsy
Hopper, played Tuesday’s match
with a back injury, but added that
she should be healthy for the team’s
next matches, a two-day tournament
in Emory this weekend.

The young W&L team will gain
more experience at the Emory and

110 S. Jefferson St.
Lexington
463-3338

Hours:

Sunday 10am to lam

Mon.-Sat. 9am to lam

   

W&L entered the doubles matches
tied with the Tribe.

Adams teamed with Roby Mize at
No. 2 doubles and Matthews teamed
with Chris Wiman at No. 3 doubles
for the two wins that gave W&L the
match.

Head coach Gary Franke said he
was pleased with the win, but
thought the score could have been
more one-sided. ‘“‘We had oppor-
tunities to do better than we did in
the singles,” he said.

The Generals had little trouble
defeating Hampden-Sydney in a
match that gave W&L its first
reminder this season of what it’s
like to dominate a Division III oppo-
nent. Due to rain, W&L lost two
chances for similar opportunities
against Christopher Newport on Fri-
day and Emory and Henry on Wed-
nesday.

There is little chance, however,
that W&L’s weekend matches,
against Swarthmore and Claremont-
Mudd-Scripps (two of the best in the
nation in Division III), will bear any
resemblance to the Hampden-Syd-
ney match.

The weekend will undoubtedly
play a crucial role in the Generals’
hopes for a bid to the national
championships. The pre-season
rankings had Swarthmore fifth,
W&L sixth and Claremont seventh.

“They’re just real important
matches for us and they will set the
tone for the rest of the season,”
Franke said.

By Matt Horridge/The Ring-tum Phi

 

Have a
message
for that
special
someone?

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

Try The Phi
Classifieds.

Henry College Tournament, slated
for Friday and Saturday. In addition
to the host Wasps and W&L, the
round-robin event will also include
Randolph Macon College at. Ashland
and Bridgewater.

Next week, the Lady Generals will
play a home match against Mary
Baldwin on Tuesday

 

 

 

    
   
   
    
   
   
         
       
 
  
 
    
 
      
   
   
     

Finishing Touch

New location next to Shenandoah
Office Supplies!

All your typing and word processing needs
463-1622

Sandwiches (Eat In-Take Out)
Gourmet Items of All Nations
Cocktails@ Wine®@ Beer
Subs@Imported Cheeses
Catering

 
 

®
Lf

bn

 

 

BACK PAGE

Paul’s break options

 

By PAUL DAVEY
Social Critic

The second choice is the Florida vacation.
The types of things one sees in films such as “Spring

 

The Washington and Lee soil aeration brigade has
been out in full force this week, and in the same way
that the groundhog is a harbinger of spring, the ap-
pearance of this crew on campus hints at a long-
awaited phenomenon only weeks down the road: spring

break

The first step is deciding what to do for break. There
are, it seems, four categories of things to do:

*gohome

¢ goto Florida

¢ take an exotic vacation
¢ other.

Going home for break is always a popular choice.
The reasons for this are numerous: can’t find anyone to
go anywhere with, have to go home to get a summer
job, haven't been home since Christmas and ‘‘the
folks’ want to see you, or any of a number of other

Mid

A trip nome has its good points, though. The cooking
is better than what is generally found here, .and it is a
prime time to hit your parents up for stuff that you’ve
- staying around home instead of chas-
ing scantily clad women on dirty beaches makes your

been wanting

‘rents think highly of you.

Break”’ are not likely to happen. A more likely scenario
has one going to a beat, dirty bar and spending about
$20 an hour on watered-down drinks. And if one is
especially lucky, he will return, sunburned and alone,
to a bed that his friends have graciously peppered with
sand, so that he will be in pain all night long

The exotic vacation is the one that takes you to the

Caribbean, Mexico, Europe or some other out-of-the-
way place. These tend to have an inherent advantage

over the other categories because one is in a totally
new environment, that has not been captured in C-rate

movies

about them.

well.

The “‘other’’ category includes options available to
those students on athletic teams who have to remain in
town, those going to interviews, and others, I will not
discuss those in depth because they are not particularly
exciting, and I can’t think of anything humorous to Say

So, forget about the lack of Paulina Porizkova look-
alikes on the Lauderdale beach who were there two
weeks ago, as the bartenders invariably will tell you,
and concentrate on making the best of the situation and
think about spring term, for that will be a vacation as

The Ring-tum Phi, March 20, 1986

 

~ wee =
A le

 

Here’s a Violent

The Violent Femmes, a popular new music group
from Milwaukee, Wisconsin, perform at the student ac-
tivities pavilion Saturday night. Their set featured

Femme

the Naked.”

By Hank Mayer/The Ring-tum Phi

songs from their three records and was highlighted by
selections from their latest effort, ‘The Blind Leading

‘Wok’ offers ‘Chinese food, not-so-exotic drinks and a lei’

 

By JAMIE BERGER
and CHRIS KOMOSA
Food Critics

 

Picture yourself seated at a table
surrounded by lush, plastic palm
trees, large air ducts overhead and
“Don Ho and Frank Sinatra Sing
Christmas Carols’ wafting about
your ears. Is this some old MGM
film, you ask? Maybe Magnum,P.I.,
in Lexington? No, it’s the Aloha Wok.

Yes, “‘The Wok,’’ as Washington
and Lee sophisticates call it, is the
only place in Lexington where you
get authentic Chinese food, not-so-

exotic drinks, and a lei to boot. We
knew that it was a must to review the
repast of this Lexington legend. Un-
fortunately, Chris saw fit to execute a
late-night refrigerator raid that left
him crying uncle on the day of our
review. The only resort was to call
in Designated Relief Chowhound
Walter Devine, and thus we pressed
on.

The Wok’s menu is quite extensive,
with 10 appetizers, four soups and
more than 30 entrees. After survey-
ing our prospects we ordered. While
we waited for our appetizers, Walter
experimented with various lei posi-
tions while W&L alumnus Sparky
Anderson terrified Jamie with

Valley True Value Hardware

HARD

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

E. Nelson Street
463-2186

 
     
     

  
   
  

Redken

   
  
   

Phone: 463-3614

a—" Sm
eorge’s Hairstylis

since 1963

Walk in or phone for appointment

EAST LEX

US 11 North

Mon.-Sat. 8:30-6:00
Sun. 1-5

 

Nexus

463-3975

Open ‘til midnite

 

oo Cte O he O EWES

   

 

PIZZA SERVED HERE, TO GO,
OR DELIVERED

 

¢ Try our fresh baked Pan
Pizza, Thin ‘N Crispy®
Pizza, served anytime.

¢ Priazzotm Italian Pie,
served after 4 p.m. Mon.-
Fri., and any time Sat. &
Sun.

¢ Personal Pan Pizza for
lunch. Available from 11:00
am-4:00 pm (Mon.-Fri.).

¢ Plus...Pasta, Salad Bar,
Sandwiches, Beverages.

¢ Served to your table, or
delivered to your home, or
call ahead and we’ll have
your order hot and ready to

go.

 

 

¢ Each Wednesday night,
5:30 until 8:30 p.m., all the
salad, pizza, spaghetti, and
garlic bread you can eat for
only *3.49. Children under 6
years-9%

 

 

“Hut.

600 E. Nelson St.
Lexington
463-7000

 

 

$2. off any large pizza

or $1 off any medium. In-
cludes Pizza Hut® Pan
Pizza! Hurry; offer ex-
pires soon. One coupon
per party per visitat
participating Pizza Hut*
restaurants

 

Hi

 

rpo----------

yore Fy
Da

expires
600 E. Nelson St. .
Lexinatan, VA April
453-/000 20,

 

 

disgusting stories about the real
world.

Soon, our Flaming Puu Puu Tray
arrived, and we dug in. The Puu Puu
Tray (the name is so silly, you’re
almost embarrassed to order it),
consisted of barbecued rib, shrimp
tempura, fried wonton, chicken
wings and sliced barbecued pork.
The ribs were OK, but there wasn’t
much barbecue sauce and thus not a
lot of taste. The sliced pork tasted
about the same, but at least we did
not have to nibble around the bone.

Shrimp tempura was a large

shrimp fried in a batter. Unfortu-
nately, there was a bit more batter
then there was shrimp and when the

shrimp was finally found, it wasn’t
worth the search. The fried wonton is
a large noodle also fried in batter.
Jamie did not enjoy this appetizer,
but for those who like fried batter,
this is for you.

Last, there were the fried chicken
wings, which were a good argument
for Kentucky Fried Chicken coming
back to town. As a matter of fact, the
entire appetizer should have been
named the Flaming So-So tray,
because everything was just that.

After our soups we waited for our
entrees and took in the exotic at-
mosphere of ‘‘The Wok.’ At one point
Walter insisted he saw monkey
swinging among the gaily decorated

 

air ducts, but Jamie merely brushed
it off as a hangover-induced phan-
tasm. The point became moot as our
entrees arrived.

Walter’s chicken almond consist-
ed of diced chicken — fried with
peas, mushrooms, celery and top-
ped with almonds. The chicken was
rather bland, although the vegeta-
bles and rice were well-cooked.

Jamie’s beef Szechuan style was
also rather bland. There seemed to
be too much sauce that smothered
the taste of the tender beef.

Subtle taste is what Chinese food is
all about. A good restaurant can take
the conglomeration of ingredients
that makes up an average Chinese

dish and somehow allow the full
variation of flavors to come through.
It is this lack of subtlety that makes a
meal at the Aloha Wok one that is
easily forgotten, although reasonably
enjoyable at the time.

So what is the Aloha Wok? Well, it’s
something between Chun King and
New York’s Chinatown — which (cur-
prise, surprise) puts you somewhere
in the Shenandoah Valley. On the
whole, it’s about what you would ex-
pect, but less than you would hope
for. What does it matter, though?
Just wash that monosodium gluta-
mate down with a few Flaming Vol-
canos and you'll never kyow the dif-
ference.

 

Electric Phoenix, |. tor.: Runswick, King, Rees and Edwards

Man meets machine
for Electric Phoenix

 

Staff Reports

 

Human voice and electronic in-
struments combine to form the uni-
que sounds of Electric Phoenix, a
highly acclaimed contemporary
vocal group.

The group will perform Wednes-
day at 8 p.m. in Lee Chapel as the
final act of this year’s Concert Guild
series.

The group consists of four singers
and their sound technician, John

4

 

Summer or Fall 1986
Summer 1987

WASHINGTON
OR

LONDON
INTERNSHIPS

SUMMER SESSION ONLY
at Wadham College
of the University of

OXFORD

Accredited courses in government,
economics, journalism and pre-
law by an outstanding faculty.

 

 

 

Full Academic Year Programs at
the London School of Economics,
St. Andrews Universities, for
Qualified Juniors and Seniors.

All credits transferred through
Hampden-Sydney College, Virginia
(Founded in 1776)

Inquiries to:
Mrs. Janet Kollek, J.D.
Admissions Director
The Washington International
Studies Center
212-724-0804 or 0136
(EO/AA)

 

 

 

Whiting. ‘I'he vocal quartet is Judith
Rees, soprano, Linda Hirst, mezzo;
Darryl! Runswick, tenor; and Terry
Edwards, bass.

The group’s performances com-
bine new vocal techniques, theater
and electronics to create a sound
and approach that have earned
them widespread acclaim. Their
first record, released in 1982 on the
Wergo label, was voted “record of
the year’’ by the Sunday Times.

Electric Phoenix performs mater-
ial from composers as diverse as
Henri Pousseur, William Brooks,
John Cage and Luciano Beiro. Whit-
ing carries a sound system compris-
ed of mixers, amplifiers, speakers,
tapes and a relay system and
microphones. Four vocal synthesiz-
ers, controlled by the singers, add a
new dimension to their sound. The
sound system was custom-made for
the group by Soundcraft.

Electric Phoenix has performed
in the Warsaw Autumn, Holland
Festival, BBC Proms, Verlin Bein-

niele, Bergen Festival and the
Stockholm Electronic Festival.
The London Times said: ‘‘Eng-

land’s answer to America’s extend-
ed vocal techniques ensemble has
the smoothness of ABBA, the preci-
sion of the King’s Singers and a vir-
tuosic style of its own which is put
to the service of new, innovative
vocal music.”

Wednesday night’s concert will
feature the following contemporary
selections: ‘“‘Wondrous World’’ by
Eric Stokes, ‘“‘A-Ronne”’ by Luciano
Berio, ‘Songs of the Duke Horse-
men’’ by William Ducksworth, ‘‘Vox
3”’ by Trevor Wishart, ‘‘Madrigals’’
by William Brooks and other short
selections.

W&L Concert Guild performances
are free to the W&L community.
Generals admission is $5 for adults
and $2 for students

 

 

ONCAMPUS

Thursday, March 20
7 p.m. — POLITICS FILM: “Spartacus.”” Room 327, Commerce
School.
8p.m.— KOTO RECITAL: Kyoko Okamoto. Lee Chapel.
8 p.m. — TELFORD LECTURE SERIES: David P. Billington,
Princeton University. Northen Auditorium.

Friday, March 21
3:30 p.m, — MATH COLLOQUIUM: “Domain Constants of Injectivi-
ty.” David T. Calvis, University of Michigan. Room 6, Robinson
Hall.
8 p.m. — BUSINESS ETHICS INSTITUTE LECTURE: “Individual
Responsibilities in Business: Moral Dilemmas of Business Per-
sons.”’ Patricia Wehane, Associate Professor of Philosophy at
Loyola University. Room 221, Commerce School.
8 p.m. — CONCERT: W&L University Glee Club and the University
of Virginia Women’s Chorus. Lee Chapel.

Saturday, March 22
1p.m,— BASEBALL: Generals vs. Randolph-Macon. Smith Field.
9p.m.— BAND: ‘‘Wildgrass.’’ Cover charge $2. G.H.Q.

Monday, March 24
3p.m.— MEN’S TENNIS: Generals vs. Lehigh.

John B. Carman, director of the Center for the Study of World
Religions at Harvard University and acting dean of Harvard’s divinity
school, will speak Monday at 8 p.m. in Room 327 of the Commerce
School. The lecture, titled ‘Karma and Grace: Two Faces of God?” is
sponsored by the religion department under the auspices of the Philip
Fullerton Howerton Fund. The public is invited.

Tuesday, March 25
3p.m.— MEN’S TENNIS: Generals vs. Lynchburg College.
3 p.m. — TRACK: Generals vs. Newport News Apprentice and
Roanoke. Wilson Field.
3:15 p.m. — WOMEN’S TENNIS: Generals vs. Mary Baldwin.
4 p.m. — MATH COLLOQUIUM: ‘Some Unsolved Problems in In-
tuitive Geometry.” Victor Klu, University of Washington. Room 6,
Robinson Hall.
7:30 p.m. — CONTACT ’86 LECTURE: Marcus P. Neal, Jr., past
president of Southern Medical Association. C-School, Room 327.
7 & 9:30 p.m. — JOURNALISM FILM: ‘Dersu Uzala,’’ Room 203,
Reid Hall.
8 p.m, — LECTURE: ‘The Confucian Imprint on Modern China and
Chinese Life.’’ Dr. John R. Watt, Executive Director, American
Bureau for Medical Advancement in China. duPont Auditorium.

Wednesday, March 26
3 p.m. — LACROSSE: Generals vs. Notre Dame. Wilson Field.
3p.m.— MEN’S TENNIS: Generals vs. University of Evansville,

4 p.m. — CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT WORK-

SHOP. Job hunting techniques. University Center,

The Geology Department is- offering a three-day course titled
“Well Logging, Seis, and Geopolitics: Experiences of a Recent
Grad.” The course will be taught by John Dean in Howe 206 at 4:30
p.m. Wednesday and Thursday and at 2 p.m. next Friday. Any ques-
tions about the course should be directed to Dr. Spencer (463-8866).

7 p.m, — PANEL DISCUSSION: Student attitudes regarding
alcohol. Room 109, University Center.

The VMI Rod and Gun Club will be sponsoring a turkey hunting
seminar Wednesday at 7 p.m. in Mallory Hall on the VMI post. Bob
Davis, a representative of the National Rifle Association, will con-
duct the seminar. Reservations should be requested by writing:
Turkey Seminar, VMI Rod and Gun Club, VMI Box 5, Lexington,
Va, 24450.

8 p.m. — CONCERT GUILD: Electric Phoenix, Vocal Quartet. Lee
Chapel.

9 p.m. — WEDNESDAY NIGHT IN G.H.Q.: featuring ‘The Stains,”’
Sponsored by The Student Activities Board. Cover charge $2.50.

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

Costs

   
   
    

VOLUME 85, NUMBER 24

Speaker warns of
rising medical fees

 

Casts

 

Page 3

Student one-acts run
through Wednesday

pot)
1? f

Page 8

 

 

Your Easter weather

 

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Friday: mostly sunny
weekend: partly cloudy

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

MARCH 27, 1986

 

 

 

TOMMY MCBRIDE

EC rebuffs
protest of

class vote

 

By DANIEL BUNCH
Staff Reporter

 

~ What would you do if you ran for an
office and your name didn’t appear
on the ballot?

Sophomore Tommy McBride faced
this problem when his name didn’t
appear on the class of 1988 ballots in
Monday’s class elections.

Polls opened at 9 a.m. At 10 a.m.
the Voting Regulations Board noticed
the mistake and then handwrote
McBride’s name on the remaining
ballots. VRB co-chairman Lou
Mondello said about 30 votes had
been cast before the error was cor-
rected.

McBride wasn’t happy with the
VEB solution. ‘It looks bad with my
name just written in there,”’ he said.

At the VRB rule-setting meeting on
March 17, candidates were told they
should check the ballot posted on the
Executive Committee room door to
make sure their names were spelled
the way they wanted them. McBride
did not check the ballot.

McBride made a complaint to the
VRB and asked for a new election.
The VRB denied his appeal. He then
appealed to the EC which has the
final say in the matter.

At a special meeting Tuesday
night, the EC heard arguments from
both sides.

Mondello said that if the EC over-
turned the VRB decision, ‘‘We might
as well not even have a rule-setting
meeting!”’

McBride said he didn’t think there
was any need to check the official
ballot because his name appeared in
the list of candidates in the EC
minutes and in The Ring-tum Phi.

The EC decided to let the VRB
decision stand with a vote of 4-4.

EC President John Lewis said the
committee didn’t feel enough of the
uncorrected ballots were used to
make a difference.

McBride received 18 votes and
missed today’s run-off by 24 votes.

Freshman Michael Holifield suc-
cessfully appealed his defeat to the
VRB because of a shortage of fresh-

OSee Election, Page5

      

By Matt Horridge/The Ring-tum Phi

The University displays a car wrecked in an alcohol-related accident

Alcohol Awareness Week
gets a lukewarm reception

 

By PAUL FOUTCH
Editor

 

University Center secretary Caro] Calkins was a part-
time nurse at Washington and Lee’s Student Health Cen-
ter when she decided there was a need at W&L for more
awareness of alcohol’s effects.

She said that as a nurse for four years she saw students
who had put parts of their bodies through windows, got-
ten in fights, and become sick — all from drinking too
much alcohol.

After being hired to her present job earlier this school
year, Calkins became a member of the student-faculty
Alcohol and Health Awareness Committee and helped co-
ordinate this week’s activities for Alcohol Awareness
Week.

“Applying for the job I now have gave me the oppor-
tunity” to work on alcohol awareness, she said.

And what did it all get her?

The wrecked car she borrowed to illustrate the effects
of drunk driving was vandalized and had to be taken back
to its owner. The car, which was displayed in front of
Warner Center, still has salvage value. Its rear window
was smashed one night this week.

And the alcohol forum she organized Wednesday night

drew one student who wasn’t already a member of the
alcohol committee.

“TI just hoped that some people would be interested
enough to come and listen,”’ Calkins said.

Student attitudes. may have been to blame for the low
attendance, she added.

“T think the word ‘alcohol’ may have scared some peo-
ple off,’’ she said.

The committee’s purpose, she said, is not to fight drink-
ing but to fight irresponsible drinking. Calkins wants
drinking students to “think about the other guy”
— whether friends or fellow fraternity members have a
drinking problem and need help.

“Denial is a big part,” she said.

“W&L is not unique. College campuses have drinking
as a large part of social life. But there is a fine line be-
tween drinking and drinking problems.”’

Calkins said the alcohol problem was brought home to
W&L last year, when junior Chris Hunter was killed in an
alcohol-related car accident on the way home from a
fraternity gathering.

Calkins said the planned forum became a discussion on
how best to reach students with their message. She said
the alcohol committee, which is chaired by Associate
Dean of Students Michael A. Cappeto, may try to orga-
nize more meetings among a smaller number of students.

Omaha prof
named dean
of C-School

 

By SAMUEL FOLEY
and JASON LISI
Staff Reporters

 

A five-month search for a new dean
of Washington and Lee’s School of
Commerce, Economics and Politics
has ended with the selection of Larry
C. Peppers, chairman of the econo-
mics and finance department at
Creighton University in Omaha, Neb.

Peppers, 41, will succeed Edward
C. Atwood Jr., who is stepping down
after 16 years in the deanship. At-
wood will take a year-long sabbatical
before returning as a full-time pro-
fessor.

Peppers said in a telephone inter-
view that he was offered the position
last week, and on Monday the
University announced the appoint-
ment, which is effective July 1.

A book about business forecasting
that Peppers co-authored was
published in 1982 by Prentice-Hall. A
new book on managerial finance that
he co-wrote is scheduled for release
this spring and may be used in some
of his upper-level economics courses.

Peppers received a_ bachelor’s
degree in economics and mathe-
matics from lowa’s Grinnell College
in 1966 and a Ph.D. in economics
from Tennessee’s Vanderbilt Univer-
sity in 1970.

He taught at Knox College in Il-
linois and at Eastern Michigan
University before joining Creighton
in 1976. He was promoted to depart-
ment chair in 1981.

President John D. Wilson, who said
he chaired the search committee for
Peppers because it is ‘‘as crucial an
appointment as we will make,’’ said
in an interview that Peppers was
chosen from a field of approximately
125 applicants, including some
members of the W&L faculty.

That field was narrowed to the
seven who were interviewed, and
Peppers was “everybody’s first
choice,”’ Wilson said.

The 10-member search committee,
which consisted of professors from
all three of W&L’s colleges, was

formed in October, when Atwood an-
nounced his retirement.

The position was advertised for two
weeks in The Chronicle of Higher
Education, a professional journal.
Also, some candidates were nomi-
nated by members of the search com-
mittee.

Peppers, his wife and his two
children arrived in Lexington for a
visit last night. His 18-year-old son,
Todd, will interview this week for fall
admission to W&L. His daughter,
Susan, will be a junior at Lexington
High School next year and his wife,
Fran, teaches at the College of St.
Mary’s in Nebraska.

Peppers said that during his visit to
Lexington last month, he was pleased
by the ‘hospitality, warmth and
sincerity’’ of the people he met, in-
cluding Atwood.

“TI was impressed with him,’’ Pep-
pers said, adding that Atwood’s
reputation and role on campus are ‘“‘a
reflection of sound academic leader-
ship.’’ Peppers said he was chosen
because of his experience with other
small institutions and his _back-
ground in economics.

At Creighton, he said, the introduc-
tory economics courses are compos-
ed of about 35 students, a class size
similar to that at W&L. He noted that
as an undergraduate at Grinnell, he
also was involved in a low teacher-to-
student ratio.

“T had a lot of diverse experience
inside universities,’ he said. ‘‘I felt I
fit the job pretty well.”

He said he is leaving Creighton
because he saw the W&L post as an
advancement — ‘‘upward mobility,”’
he called it.

Peppers explained that he started
looking for another position last year
and applied only to W&L. He said he
was happy with his position at
Creighton and was not in a rush to
find a new job.

But when he came to W&L for an
interview last month, he knew of the
size and ‘excellent’ reputation of the
school. “I did my homework,”’ he

(See Dean, Page 5

Trustees discuss school policy on student felons

 

felons.

voted to award Dederick his diploma,

By JIM STRADER
Editor

 

In an effort to define a University
policy regarding the academic status
of convicted felons, the executive
committee of the Board of Trustees
met Sunday with representatives of
the Drug Policy Review Committee.

Psychology Professor Leonard E.
Jarrard, chairman of the drug com-
mittee, said he asked for further
response from the trustee committee
but that as of yesterday had heard
nothing. The drug committee oppos-
ed a blanket rule expelling convicted

No action was taken this weekend,
but the trustee committee is schedul-
ed to make recommendations to the
full Board of Trustees at their May
meeting.

The recent University concern with
drug use began several years ago,
Jarrard said, with the case of
William L. Dederick, a student ar-
rested on drug charges just prior to
commencement exercises in 1983. In
that case, Dederick had fulfilled his
graduation requirements, but ques-
tions arose over whether he should
receive a degree.

a decision that was overturned by the
trustees. The board suspended
Dederick’s degree until his probation
expires in eight years, at which time
they will reconsider whether to give
him a degree.

More recently, the drug conviction
of another student, Gene Girard, pro-
mpted the trustees to consider
whether Washington and Lee should
have a policy for dealing with con-
victed felons.

Girard was convicted of cocaine
possession in August and served six
months in jail. After completing his
sentence he was readmitted to W&L

 

After some debate, the faculty

Aitared states: Your Easter Sunday lineup

 

By MIKE ALLEN
Executive Editor

 

Listen up, ‘““C&E’’ folks: Christmas is, oh,
years away, but Sunday is Easter, and time to
find that house o’ worship that’s been so elusive
since Parents’ Weekend.

You know it’s Easter when for 57 cents at Max-
way you can buy a two-ounce bag of grass — that
nasty synthetic green kind. And even if you’ve
never actually seen a yellow rabbit, for a few
more days you can get a glob of marshmallow
ones at Kroger’s.

But besides the goodies, Lexingtonians in
search of a more serious celebration of Easter
have a whole basket of choices.

Lexington Presbyterian Church is sponsoring
a 6:30 a.m. Sunrise service for students at the
Liberty Hall Ruins. Students are invited to
return to the church for breakfast before the 11
a.m. worship service.

The church, located at Main and Nelson
streets, generally draws 25 to 30 Washington and
Lee students each Sunday, according to its

pastor of 11 years, Dr. L. Randolph Harrison,
who will preach Sunday on ‘“‘Back Home Amaz-
ed.’’

R.E. Lee Memorial Episcopal Church, which
adjoins the W&L campus at Lee and Washington
streets, will celebrate the Holy Eucharist on Sun-
day at 8:15 and 10:30 a.m. Rector Arthur Lee
Dasher will speak on ‘Where Is the Risen
Christ?”

Se. 4 auick’s Catholic Church at 221 W. Nelson
St. each weekend draws about 150 W&L students
and a similar number of Virginia Military In-
stitute cadets, according to the priest, Father
James M. Noto, who will speak about “The
Resurrected Christ’’ at the 8 and 10:30 a.m.
masses.

A student ‘‘Easter eve Fellowship”’ organized
by four students will be held on Saturday at 7:30
p.m. in Fairfax Lounge. Associate Law Pro-
fessor Samuel W. Calhoun and the Reverend
Paul R. Carter of Grace Presbyterian Church
will speak.

For after church on Sunday, Evans Dining

Hall is offering its usual brunch from 11:30 a.m.
to 12:45 p.m. for $4 or four slashes on that
charge-it-home point card.

But the main event, Evanswise, is Easter din-
ner, available from 5:30 to 6:30 p.m. for $4.50 or
442 points. University Food Service Director
Gerald J. Darrell said he’s temporarily depart-
ing from his usual focus on nutrition to fill the
six-foot salad table with $600 in candy for Easter
patrons.

Linda A. Russ, assistant manager of Evans
Dining Hall, chuckled at Darrell’s characteriza-
tion of the display as ‘‘the world’s largest Easter
basket.”’

“You can’t say it’s the world’s largest,
because I’ve seen bigger,’ she said. ‘‘Rock-
bridge County’s largest, maybe.”

The spread features stuffed cornish game hens
and will be set up as a buffet, giving the familiar
food-service lines the night off. The tables will be
set in advance and as a bonus will sport table
cloths

Beginning half an hour before mealtime, a per-
son dressed as an Easter rabbit will have treats
for waiting students

for the winter term, but several days
into classes the Student Control Com-
mittee suspended him for the re-
mainder of this year after a determi-
nation that he was guilty of posses-
sion of cocaine with the intent to
distribute it.

Jarrard said alumni displeasure
with Girard’s readmittance was an
important factor in raising the issue
before the trustees.

Because a blanket rule dealing
with felonies would not make room
for cases that involved special cir-
cumstances, Jarrard said his com-
mittee thought ‘‘it would be a tragic
mistake that any felony conviction

 

 

Daffodils bloom this week on Lee Avenue

would be grounds for expulsion.”’

To demonstrate his committee’s
position, Jarrard used the example of
two students convicted of drug
charges recently. In both cases, Jar-
rard said, the students received the
same jail sentence for possession of
cocaine. But, he continued, the SCC
imposed different sanctions on the
students, suspending one from school
for a term, and giving the other con-
duct and social probation.

What was most important to the
drug committee, Jarrard said, was
the nature of the crimes. In one case,

See Drugs, Page 5

By Perry S. Hayes/The Ring-tum Phi

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
   
 

 

OPINION
The rest

Concluding our three-part assessment of this year’s Ex-
ecutive Committee members, here’s a look at the seniors and
law students behind the horseshoe.

President John Lewis, who has brought as many ulcers to
the faculty as he has smiles to his fellow students, is a
remarkably multifaceted individual. When he was elected,
some students wondered how Lewis would do when con-
fronted with a copy of ‘“‘Robert’s Rules of Order.”’ He looked
very at home in the weight room or down the road, but how
would he do with the Board of Trustees or at an honor trial?
Those doubts were allayed quickly: Although not often
mistaken for an intellectual heavyweight, Lewis has
discharged his duties skillfully and with panache, proving
that he has character and is one. Lewis permits committee
and audience members to express their views on issues
under consideration and is careful not to temper the discus-
sion by injecting his own opinion too early. In fact, it was that
«onscientiousness about promoting debate that was his undo-

ing at his least successful meeting of the year. In an effort to
give a group of minority students and an accompanying ad-
ministrator the opportunity to air their views, Lewis at one
point seemed actually to have lost control of the proceedings.
Several members of the audience called on people, accusing-
ly interrogated committee members and even demanded
that Lewis put certain motions to a vote. Although perhaps
the chair should have put his boot down, no one could accuse
him of having stifled their views. Lewis’ greatest shortcom-
ing is his ineffectiveness with the faculty, whose initial skep-
ticism of him has changed to disdain as the year progressed.
Members of the faculty are offended by his views and in-
furiated by his candor, but Lewis has continued telling them
things they don’t want to hear and has managed to take the
resulting flak in stride. Although his frankness and conser-
wvatism have hobbled him with the faculty, those
characteristics have won him the respect of his peers. The
student body president has the uncomfortable role of being a
walking billboard for the Honor System, and Lewis’ nearly
fanatical devotion to the school’s traditions draws the ad-
miration even of those who disagree with him on other issues.
Lewis’ commitment to the school combined with his dazzling
personality have resulted in a student leader of extraor-
dinary appeal and effectiveness.
_ Many of his colleagues and classmates will tell you quite
candidly that they underestimated Secretary Pat Hayden
— he doesn’t strike you as a leader to whom students would
flock tor sage advice. It turns out, though, that Hayden has
been a real powerhouse on the committee, playing the role of
Mr. Levelheaded and Logical as a counterweight to Lewis’
Mr. Glib and Outspoken. During debates, Hayden’s calm,
precisely worded questions slice to the core of issues and
reveal the sort of mastery of detail that would make him a
brutal adversary in a real-world political negotiation. His
dedication to student government is evidenced by his perfect
attendance at all public meetings for the last two years and
by his near-memorization of the Student Body Constitution
and White Book. Hayden also has patiently assumed the
duties of secretary since January, proving to be a good sport
about a job that can be a real headache.

In the ‘‘great guy at a party’ department, just about
everybody would give senior representative Michael Black a
bid. But when it comes to being an effective leader on the EC,
he leaves something to be desired. He did the University a
real service with his diligent work on the Coeducation Steer-
ing Committee, but unfortunately that identification seems to
have undermined his credibility on the EC. He became such a
‘knee-jerk apologist for coeducation and his opinions were so
predictable that even when they were valid, they weren’t
given the weight they deserved. It’s refreshing, though, to
have a successful challenge of any sort to the conventional

~-wisdom mouthed and accepted by the committee’s majority.

Senior representative Tony McCann stepped into his posi-
tion gracefully this January after what we’re told was a
distinguished stint on the Student Control Committee. He
hasn’t said a lot at meetings — a shame considering he likely
would bring a new perspective to the committee — but seems
to take a sensible, no-nonsense approach to issues.

Most of the undergraduates display a keen sense of the fact
that they are representing their classes. No such awareness
appears to afflict first-year law representative Bill Senft,
who always seems to have an opinion, but never any logic or
input from his class to back it up. He always tells us how he
feels, but never gives us any idea of why or how his class-
mates feel. Also, he spends a lot of time accusing other mem-
bers of the committee of not making sense. Maybe he knows
what he’s talking about, but we sure don’t.

Despite a difference in age, third-year law representative
Joel Johnston seems willing and eager to work with the com-
mittee’s undergraduate members. You have to admire some-
one who’s well beyond the age that most people lose interest
in campus politics, but is still willing to serve the school.
Sometimes his points seem a bit whiney, but that’s
forgiveable when you think of how patient he is with his col-
leagues on the committee.

Che Ring-tum Phi

 

NEWS STAFF

BING NUE fo boos c's vam eceseUenpereeedsccecnerelsveces obMNNeLENVED Mike Allen
PN ars chances 00 ce REN Ceedarils COs boceessasagees teen Paul Foutch
Jim Strader
i RIE OE 65 cai eek eRe N Nee sete eee reedsecsecceseeeunubes Reade Williams
ME cheesy ere ccen seb cheb ede thkessccnccseeresecesertes Mike Stachura
PUES Tice Rao beh beac e ce noes reese eres cecvinedectechoncsseseue Jason Lisi
PRN NS IN iik sib hee 66 cere eesecdesesecctcneesceccnncect +0) (uetn Glee
WT CUNY ET hit ecceeccscaeccccccetcncoeecovcetbabey Matt Horridge
pe EE nee nr PRR Marshall Boswell
Assistant Sports Editer ..... Pesea Chass Loe KUAb err iedvcueevestheccas David Emrich

EDITORIAL PAGE
aR Ne 6 ik bk keke eVect ce ke lecdececcticedsssacdeae Nelson Patterson
Assistant Editorial Page Editor.............ccceecceceeceeceseeeses+ Marie Kothman
CN a i ak C40 Vi AAPG ON U RTC C OMEN OT ERM bbOL EL OObRaeR EA Chris Bowring

BUSINESS STAFF
Belnees MARRAGOT vcs ssa cence ssevecosccccepesccceecveserpopeeserese Jeff Kimbell
ARVETUAIARTRRRROIE sailies bs Nd ec ed ove escedecdeerevonncccercebiars Hank Greenberg
RE I ibid ods ci teocicecanciebeatenees Caroline Boone, John Feyrer,
Keri Hinrichs, Jay Reville, Greg Turley,
Ce iis ierciiccccecrcei¥iewberieerseediiin Matt Horridge

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia, Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The

i afions the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 200 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m, Tuesday of the week they are to be run, Or send them to The
Ring-tum Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, March 27, 1986

 

 

“Dear Mom and Dad,

Graduate school might not be such a bad idea....””

 

 

Contra aid: right idea, wrong reasons

 

MY VIEW
By Tom Maguire

 

Dear Nelson,

Well (as our beloved and
bewildered president might say),
here we go again. Once more we find
ourselves on opposite sides of an
issue. This cannot surprise either of
us, as over the past four years we
have agreed less frequently than Pat

Buchanan has voted a_ straight.

Democratic ticket. On this particular
occasion, though, your reactionary
rhetoric has gone too far. Your col-
umn last week (on aid to the Nicara-
guan contras) was filled with more
errors than the typical Reagan news
conference, and more ridiculous
statements than a meeting of the Col-
lege Republicans.

Before I turn to excoriating your
column further, I suppose I should
say that I agree with you (sur-
prise!!) about contra aid. We should
be sending aid to the contras.

However, I think you have missed the
main reason for doing so. You cor-
rectly point out that by helping the
contras we force the Sandinistas to
spend valuable manpower and
money on combating the contra
threat. This keeps the Nicaraguan
economy destabilized, and prohibits
them from exporting their Marxist
ideology to other Central American
nations. What you failed to mention
was that by preventing the stabiliza-
tion of Nicaragua’s economy we
force the Cubans to spend more of
their scant resources shoring up the
Nicaraguans. Now, Nelson, do you
know what nation pumps billions into
the Cuban economy? Why, it is our
good friends the Soviet Union, of
course. Thus, by keeping the contras
in the field, we keep the Soviet
economy, already overextended by
their never-ending campaign in
Afghanistan, stretched very thin in-
deed.

I have said that I support the idea
of contra aid, yet you know that I was
happy to see President Reagan’s con-

tra aid bill defeated. Also, it is ob-
vious that I take strong exception to
your pro- aid column. The reason for
this seeming contradiction on my
part is my resentment at the tactics
employed by you and some other sup-
porters of the Reagan plan.

Efforts to paint all opponents of
contra aid with the brush of com-
munism are ludicrous, and represent
a dangerous throwback to the days
when Americans were afraid to
speak freely on political issues lest
some slogan-happy conservatives
label them ‘‘fellow-travelers’’ or
“com -symps.”’

There are any number of ethical
and legal reasons why the United
States should not attempt to over-
throw the Sandinistas. Those who op-
pose contra aid are not “‘sniveling
professors spewing forth leftist
dogma’ or “‘sniveling knaves and
henchmen of Daniel Ortega’ (Nel-
son: Have you been studying at the
Markham Shaw Pyle School of Ir-
ritating Insults?) They are mostly
conscientious Americans who care

deeply about the moral direction of
our country.

I find poetic justice in the Reagan
administration’s defeat last week on
the contra issue. I think there can be
no doubt that, without the inflam-
matory rhetoric of Pat Buchanan and
other right-wingers (such as your-
self, Nelson), the contra aid bill
would have passed the House. By at-
tempting to bully Congress with their
arm-twisting, the bill’s supporters
sealed its doom.

I was glad to see the bill fail, at
least for the present, as its rejection
represented a repudiation of the kind
of rhetoric employed in your column,
Nelson.

I realize that my arguments pro-
bably have not swayed you. After all,
they never have worked before. I am
also sure that your column was writ-
ten in such a manner as to elicit the
most righteously indignant reply pos-
sible. I trust that this letter fits the
bill.

Your friend,
Tom

 

LETTERS

Voting Board, ballot mishap anger student

To the editors:

Tell me this! One, if a candidate for a class of-
fice turns his name in with his petition at the re-
quired meeting, then why should he be punished
because of the mistake of the Voting Regulations
Board? It is stated in the Student Body Constitu-
tion in Article XI, Section D. Paragraph 1, “Ina
general election, all persons properly filing peti-
tions for a particular position shall be placed on
the ballot for that position.’ Two, if the can-
didate’s name is printed in The Ring-tum Phi
and the Executive Committee minutes as run-
ning for an office, then why should he not assume
that his name is on the ballot? Three, if the VRB
makes and hands out rules at a “rule-setting”’
meeting, then why do they tell me that those
rules are not the right rules (just after I used the
rules as part of my defense in front of the EC)?
What kind of justice is this? Why can’t I have the
same chance of having my name printed fairly
and properly as all the other candidates? All I
asked for and still ask for is a fair election for the
office of junior class president.

Tommy McBride
Class of 1988

Reader defends EC member

To the editors:

By the time this letter reaches print, the
members of next year’s Executive Committee
will already have been elected, but I wish to
voice my shock and anger with The Phi’s
“analysis” of the performance of junior

representative Baltzer LeJeune. The conclusion
The Phi drew does not at all follow from the
“facts” that were presented. By now I ought not
to be surprised by The Phi’s enormous non se-
quiturs, but I think this time it has plunged to
new depths in illogic.

To wit: Why does the fact that one has ‘‘ram-
bling ... monologues”’ (the term ‘‘unfathomable”’
was also used, but I tend to think that this
reflects the intelligence of the listener as much
as it does the speaker) automatically indicate
that one is ineffective? Even if Mr. LeJeune does
have a tendency to ramble and thus seem inef-
fective at public EC meetings, surely we all
know that public meetings are only one part (and
to my mind the least important part) of the
duties of the EC. Since we can never know what

happens behind the EC’s closed doors, I think it
“tragically shortsighted” to call Mr. LeJeune
“the committee’s least effective member,” just
because The Ring-tum Phi doesn’t give him an
A-plus in public speaking.

The ability to listen well and analyze the facts
before making a decision, while still keeping the
entire student body in mind, characterizes Mr.
LeJeune’s past voting record. This is far more
important in an EC representative than the glib
tongue of a rhetorician.

Because there was _ no objective news article
on the candidates discussed in The Phi’s editor-
ial, it undoubtedly had a great impact in the elec-
tions. I wish that in the future The Phi would
refrain from expressing its unbalanced and in-

opinions when they have such import, unless it
also presents an objective account of past voting
records and philosophies of the candidates. Not
only is it unfair to Mr. LeJeune that he was thus
maligned, it is unfair to all students who had to
decide whether they wished to re-elect him and,
thus, to the entire Washington and Lee student
body.
Christopher R. Carter
Class of 1987

Patterson called a hypocrite

To the editors:

I read Mr. Patterson’s recent editorial,
“Liberal knaves crush hope of freedom,” with
much amusement, and would like to address this
letter to him specifically. Mr. Patterson, you,
sir, area hypocrite. You state correctly that ‘‘the
nicknames and charges that may be thrown
around are nothing more than clever rhetorical
methods of obfuscating the real issue.” And yet
you then proceed to refer to those who disagree
with you as “‘sniveling professors spewing forth
leftist dogma,” as well as “naive and pathetic
dolts.”’ If sarcasm or irony was your goal, your
writing has been found desperately wanting. If,
on the other hand, you are serious, I believe that
your journalistic style and wit would be more ac-
cepted in the rag-like tabloids that people peruse
mindlessly in the grocery store as they wait in
the checkout line.

Mark L. Farley
Class of 1988

 

 

 

A review of the Aloha Wok
restaurant in last week’s Ring-
tum Phi contained three errors of
fact and one judgment whose
source was unclear. A_ dish
described on the menu and in the
review as ‘‘sliced barbecued
pork” actually was Cho-cho,
which is sliced beef served on a
stick. Also, wonton is fried in deep
fat, not batter. In addition, a palm
tree described as plastic actually
is a preserved palm. A comment
@UUUL Ul LK at Lue restaurant Was

program.

Last week’s issue misidentified
the position held by Nancy W.
Hanna, who is the administrative
assistant for Society and the Pro-
fessions, the University’s ethics

The Phi of March 13 misidentif-

 

ed the length of time the Board of
Trustees has been considering
changing the name of the Student
Control Committee to the Student
Conduct Committee.
change has been discussed for
several — not seven — years.
Also, SCC Chairman Townes
Pressler now says his announce-
ment of the change was pre-
mature. Pending approval of the
change by the trustees, the body
will remain the Student Control
Committee and The Phi will iden-

CORRECTIONS

based on previous visits by the
reviewers, who did not order
alcoholic beverages during the
visit described in the review.

tify it as such.

The description in last week's
issue of a new system of register-
ing for classes that is under con-
sideration by the University may
have been unclear at one point,
according to Registrar D. Scott
Dittman. Under the plan, an
member of the registrar’s staff
would enter course schedules in
the school’s computer while con-
sulting the student. Students
would not use the computers.

Such a

 

 

 

 

 
NEWS

._Medium
. rare?

Students were out in force this
* week, sunning themselves to the first
strong tanning rays of the season.
Sophomore Hollins exchange student
* Suzanne Guarch, right, gets a tan
, with her homework on the back cam-
pus. Other students, below, found the
slope behind Warner Center to be
, very conducive to catching rays.

Photos by Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 

 

‘Ethics, costs to be

 

By BERT PARKS
’ Staff Reporter

 

The past president of the Southern
Medical Association warned Tuesday
that the time is fast arriving when
important ethical questions about
America’s medical profession will
have to be decided.

The public and the medical profes-
sion must learn to communicate bet-
» ter, Dr. M. Pinson Neal said, because
questions such as the right to die and
who will pay for the rising cost of
medicine for the elderly, will have to
be made by patients and their loved
ones and doctors.

Neal was the fourth and final
_ speaker in the Contact ’86 lecture

series on ‘‘Changing Values in
* America.’”’ He spoke in Room 327 of
the Commerce School to a crowd
which included Washington and Lee
’ pre-med students and senior citizens
, from the Lexington area.

“Do people have a right to die?”’
* Neal asked rhetorically. He said in
. response that many doctors feel the

Hippocratic oath taken by physicians

* prevents them from letting any pa-

’

*

>

~

s

,

big medical topics

tient die even though that patient
may be terminally ill and wants to
die.

Neal said 30 states presently have
laws allowing people to decide for
themselves whether to ‘“‘pull the
plug.”’

Neal characterized this situation
as a conflict that will have to be
resolved by the voting public and by
the medical profession. He added
that many of the final judgments will
probably be decided in the near
future by doctors who are now stu-
dents in medical school.

The people, the government and
business are all concerned about the
rising costs of medical care, Neal
said. But, he asked, how can these
costs be cut?

One solution would be to increase
competition. This would drive costs
down, Neal said, but too much com-
petition will force physicians into a
“‘fast-food”’ orientation in their care,
with patients being released ‘‘quick-
er and sicker.”

Neal said people need to realize
that quality care and research cost
money. One of the fundamental ques-
tions facing us today, Neal said, is

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, March 27, 1986

Visit to Nicaragua
points out problems

 

By CHRIS MUNSEY
Staff Reporter

 

Law Professor William S. Geimer
spent two weeks in Nicaragua in
December with a delegation from a
group called Witness for Peace.

This organization was formed by a
group of American Quakers and
Presbyterians in 1983, after a young
girl who left her family’s shelter was
killed during a contra mortar attack
on her village.

The organization sends Americans
into areas contested by the contra
rebels and Sandinista forces to try to
protect the people caught in the
crossfire by their presence.

The group has sent a total of 1,500
people to Nicaragua. Geimer was a
member of the 66th delegation to go.
He spent nine days in a town close to
the Honduran border, living with a
local family during his stay. The
town is located in a mountainous
region where the contras have been
active recently.

Geimer graduated from East Ten-
nessee State University in 1962 and
served for 742 years in the Army’s
82nd Airborne Division. He rose to
the rank of major before resigning
from the Army in protest of the Viet-
nam War in 1969. Geimer joined the
Washington and Lee Law School
faculty in 1980.

Geimer hopes to visit Nicaragua
again by the end of the year. He says
he has talked to different groups,
spoken at the R.E. Lee Memorial
Episcopal Church, and met with his
congressman to express his concern
about the situation.

© Did you find open criticism of the
Sandinista government? ‘“‘I en-
countered a lot of criticism of the
government. You can talk to anyone
you want to. It is not like a police

 

By Hank Mayer/The Ring-tum Phi

Dr. M. Pinson Neal speaks in the C-School Tuesday night

who — the young or the old — this
money will be spent on, and who will
pay for it.

“For just about everybody, the
most money spent on you will be
spent during your last week in the
hospital,’’ Neal said, implying that
this week would also be the last week
of life.

Another one of the questions, he
pointed out, is how much is to be
spent on the terminally ill. He asked

whether it is better to spend avail-
able money on improving life or pro-
longing it.

“‘T hope I’ve raised more questions
than I’ve answered, because that was
my purpose,’’ Neal said as he ended
his lecture. He reiterated that the
public, as well as doctors, must help
answer these questions of ethics.
Following his lecture, Neal fielded
questions from the audience.

A reception was held in the Fairfax
Lounge afterward. -

 

NEWS BRIEFS

 

 

 

WILLIAM S. GEIMER

state. We weren’t assigned an inter-
preter, and no one told us where to
go. We also spoke to some members
of the opposition groups to the
government, who were very critical
of the Sandinistas. But they didn’t
support the contras.”’

¢ What do most people do for a living
in Nicaragua? ‘Most people farm or
are in trades, coffee and subsistence
farming, with a few scrawny cows
and ducks. I ate beans, rice and
bananas for 13 days — what the peo-
ple eat. Coffee is the most important
crop in the mountains.”

© What did you talk about with the
people you lived with in the town? ““‘We
talked about things like how hard it
was to get flour for bread. We talked
about school. In that country, disease
is rampant, life is tough, and the
church is very important. They want-
ed to know about Ronald Reagan —
they don’t understand him. They are

 

able to separate Americans from
Ronald Reagan and be friendly. They
made a lot of jokes at my expense
about my use of the language.
They're proud of what they've done
to help themselves.”’

¢ What sort of press exists in
Nicaragua? ‘There is an opposition
newspaper, La Prensa. The govern-
ment is trying to make itself the sole
source of information by censoring
La Prensa, which is very stupid.”’

¢ What is the position of the Catholic
Church in Nicaragua with regard to the
government? “‘The church hierarchy
is very hostile to the Sandinistas, but
the local people from the church |
met wanted things to concentrate on
the local people and not politics.”’

© How did the Sandinista soldiers you
saw treat the local people? ‘I’ve seen
American soldiers behave much
worse in the bars of Fayetteville,
N.C., where I was stationed. The
government soldiers behaved very
well. The people in the town where I
stayed were not afraid of the
soldiers.”’

¢ What were the Sandinistas armed
with? “I saw mostly small arms, AK-
47’s. I’m sure they had mortars and
machine guns back at their posts. I
also saw tanks, although they seem-
ed to be using them as artillery.”

¢ What are the Sandinistas doing to
fight the contras? “They have an
agressive strategy, with a small
presence in most villages. I would
see patrols going out quite often.
None of the towns and villages I saw
had barbed wire. They didn’t seem to
be on the defensive, nothing like the
‘strategic hamlets’ you saw in Viet-
nam.”

¢ What evidence did you see of
fighting? ‘‘We saw a bus that the con-
tras had overturned and burned, and
a place on the road where some
mines had been laid.”’

Double duty barred
by EC rule change

 

By DANIEL BUNCH
Staff Reporter

 

Future top officers of the Student
Bar Association will be prevented
from advocating an honor case and
chairing an honor trial in the same
year.

If it receives final approval on
Monday, that will be the effect of a
White Book revision that the Exe-
cutive Committee tentatively passed
by a vote of 10-3 Monday night,

The motion, proposed by third-year
law representative Joel Johnston re-
quires the president and vice presi-
dent of the student bar association,
who chair ‘‘open’” or student body
honor hearings, must choose between
acting as advocates for defendants
and chairing the hearings.

This year the vice-president of the
SBA, Steuart Thomas, acted as both
chairman and advocate in separate
trials.

EC Vice President Andrew Caru-

| University advertises for new fraternity affairs dean

thers led opposition to the proposal,
calling it ‘‘hypocritical’’ because the
EC currently both investigates and
renders decisions on possible honor
violations.

Caruthers added that the proposal
was “the result of personality dif-
ferences.”’

The proposed amendment states:
“At the outset of their term in office,
both the president and the vice presi-
dent must each publicly declare
either that: 1) they will refrain as ac-
ting as advocates in honor proceed-
ings and, thus, retain the right to act
as Chair of a Student Body Hearing,
or 2) they intend to be available as
advocates in honor proceedings and,
thus, relinquish the right to act as
Chair of a Student Body Hearing.”

In other business the EC decided
against a proposal to add a provision
to the White Book concerning the har-
assment of participants in honor
trials. The EC said the Student Con:
duct Committee could take care of
such problems if they arose.

 

Staff Reports

 

Washington and Lee has placed advertisements in the
Chronicle of Higher Education seeking a new dean for
fraternity affairs to replace Dan N. Murphy, who cur-
rently holds that position. Murphy will join the staff of
the admissions office full-time during the summer.

Murphy, a 1973 W&L graduate, has held the job since
the 1977-78 academic year, he said. Since that time he
has divided his duties between the dean’s job and the
admissions office.

Two hearings rescheduled

The preliminary hearing for nine Washington and Lee
students arrested Jan. 12 on marijuana possession
charges has been rescheduled for April 22 at 2 p.m. in
Lexington General District Court. The proceeding was
to have been held last week.

Also rescheduled was the preliminary hearing for
freshman Burgess A. ‘‘Tommy” Thomasson on a rape
charge. Thomasson was to have been in court yester-
day, but instead will go April 23 at 10:30 a.m. He was ar-
rested Dec. 8 following an incident involving an 18-year-
old woman who was then a student at Hollins College.

Fruit flung in frat fracas

Zeta Beta Tau fraternity president Todd Harvey
reported that last Sunday, several Pi Kappa Phi frater
nity members fired oranges and grapefruits toward

the ZBT house with a “‘funnelator.’’ The police report
stated one window in the ZBT house and two windows in
the Kappa Alpha house were broken. Police estimated
each window’s value at $10.

eJunior Chris Lederer reported his car's license plate
was stolen sometime late Saturday night while the car
was parked in the lot next to Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity
house. The police have no witnesses or suspects in the
case.

eFreshman M. Warren Butler reported his gold
Bulova watch was taken from his unlocked dormitory
room sometime between March 13 and 16. The police
have no witnesses or suspects in the case.

—Matt Horridge

Senior awarded Fulbright grant

Senior Lawrence S. Anker of East Windsor, N.J., has
received a Fulbright grant to study for a year in West
Germany. Anker’s grant includes a two-month lan-
guage course at the Goethe Institute, and a year’s study
in analytical chemistry at the Universitaet Wuerzburg .

A triple major in chemistry, math and physics, Anker
was elected to Phi Eta Sigma, the freshman honor

society, and is the recipient of the Taylor Scholarship in
mathematics, the undergraduate award in analytical
chemistry, and the James Lewis Howe chemistry

award. He has been on the dean’s list every term at
Washington and Lee
Anker was elected to Omicron Delta Kappa, a na-

tional honorary fraternity, this year, and is a member
of Phi Beta Kappa. He was named to the 1986 Academic
All-America team and served as captain of the W&L
wrestling team.

Alcohol committee in motion

Members of the Washington and Lee Alcohol Policy
Committee met last week with a representative from
the Alcoholic Beverage Control Board.

Chairman Paul Youngman said his committee want-
ed information on ABC rules to help formulate the
University policy for drinking on campus next year.

The committee will meet again this spring to present
a plan to the faculty, which has to approve any such
plan before it can be put into effect.

—Simon Perez

Caps for nothing, gowns for free

Seniors will not have to purchase their caps and
gowns for commencement exercises this year. Instead
the W&L Bookstore will provide the garments free of
charge.

Helena W. Roller, bookstore manager, said a $30
deposit will be required before a student is issued his
cap and gown. The items may be picked up between
May 26 and graduation day, June 5. Roller stressed that
the deposit must be in cash. The deposit is refundable

only on June 5, Roller added, although seniors will still
be responsible for returning the cap and gown. Deposits
will be refunded only until 4 p.m. that day,

Graduation announcements will be for sale in the
bookstore starting April 1. Roller said Debbie Conner in
the bookstore will be able to provide details to seniors
interested in the announcements.

IFC elects new officers

Seven people were elected to Interfraternity Council
offices for next year at the IFC’s Tuesday night
meeting.

The results were: secretary, Walker McKay, a Pi
Kappa Alpha junior; treasurer, Will Esham, a Sigma
Chi junior; senior justice, Chris Lynch, a Beta Theta Pi
junior; two junior justices, George Early of Sigma
Alpha Epsilon and Jay Markley of Kappa Alpha, both
sophomores; Rush chairman, Jon Missert, a Chi Psi
sophomore; and public relations, Hugh Steuart, a Delta
Tau Delta sophomore.

In other IFC business, the council discussed “getting
a uniform time during Alumni Weekend for fraternities
to have open houses in order to improve relations with
alumni,” according to IFC President Jaimie Hayne.

It is hoped that a uniform, University-recognized
time for all fraternities would keep the fraternity open
houses from conflicting with other functions

—Sean Bugg

 

 

 
=

Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, March 27, 1986

 

Graffiti

Library elevator doors covered
with oil to reduce vandalism

 

By JASON LISI
News Editor

 

In what appears to be a successful effort at combat-
ting graffiti in the University Library, custodians last
week coated the insides of the library elevator doors
with oil

“The reason it’s on there is to prevent ball-point pen
or pencil mark from writing on the door,’’ said Jesse
Carter, foreman of library custodians. He added that
most writing instruments will slide on the oil and not
write on the doors.

Carter said he took this action to protect the women in
the student body and faculty from seeing the graffiti,
which he said was more evident than in anytime in his
seven years at the library. He said he belives that the
men in the student body were the cause of the graffiti.

“It looks so bad for the girls here,”’ Carter said. ‘I
don’t think it’s really becoming for a gentleman.”’

He said he heard several complaints about the graffiti
from students and faculty and compliments in response
to the doors’ cleaning.

Carter said he rubbed the oil on the doors Monday of
last week and has seen little graffiti since.

University Librarian Barbara Brown said she has
received complaints about the writing on the doors and
said it has appeared in “great quantities” lately.

‘I know a lot of it is comments on individuals that
have been involved in honor cases,” she said. “I don’t
think it’s limited to that, necessarily.”

Fire on the mountain

A forest fire burns trees on a mountain near Buena
Vista this week. The crew fighting the fire numbered up
to 140 for the first two days of the fire, Monday and Tues-
day. A fire service information officer said he expected

“IT know what kind of steam is being let off through
these means,”’ Brown said, ‘‘but I still don’t like to see it
there.”

“Sometimes it is fairly clever,’’ Brown conceded.

Brown added that she still considers the graffiti van-
dalism. If a person is caught defacing the elevator
doors, he will be forced to pay for the repair of the
damage and be reported to the Student Control Commit-
tee, she said.

Past efforts to combat the elevator door graffiti have
been cleaning and even repainting the doors, Brown
said.

“I think that the most successful would be for the
students not to write on the doors,”’ she said.

“It’s hard not to notice it,’’ she said. ‘It seems like
there are other ways for people to express their views
about things other than defacing University property.”

Reference librarian Peggy W. Hays said the oil has
stopped the graffiti on the doors.

“It makes it much more difficult to write on,’’ she
said. ‘‘It’s too bad you have to resort to that to cut down
on graffiti.”

Carter said someone with a sharp object scratched an
obscene message on one door, despite the oil.

He said that if the grafitti continues, he is at a loss for
a new solution. A possible remedy, he said, would be
covering the doors with large sheets of cardboard that
could be removed if they are torn or filled with writing.

Carter said there could be problems if people get the
oil on their hands or clothes. Soap and water can be us-
ed to clean hands, but clothes will probably have to be
taken to a dry cleaners, he said.

  
 

Fe
ms " r,

AL

By Cotton Puryear

the crew to be down to about 16 today as part of the ‘‘mop-
up” operation. The Virginia Division of Forestry report-
ed 33 fires Wednesday on Virginia-owned woodland. The
Buena Vista fire burned about 200 acres.

Journalists to assemble, discuss
media issues in Ethics Institute

 

By DUDLEY LEE
Staff Reporter

 

Tonight through Saturday, Washington and Lee is
hosting its 12th annual Journalism Ethics Institute, a
seminar that will give journalism students the opportuni-
ty to meet professional journalists and talk with them
about current issues before the media.

Everette E. Dennis, executive director of the Gannett
Center for Media Studies at New York’s Columbia Uni-
versity, will give the keynote lecture on ‘‘The Politics of
Media Credibility’ tonight at 8 p.m. in Northen
Auditorium in the University Library.

Journalism Professor Ronald H. MacDonald, assistant
director of the Institute, said the lecture would be the
highlight of the weekend.

Throughout the weekend, students and journalists will
discuss topics such as invasion of privacy, surreptitious
recordings and the role of press ombudsmen. Journalists
participating in the program are from major newspapers

and broadcast stations in Roanoke; Richmond: Philadel-
phia; Salt Lake City; Charlotte, N.C.; Nashville, Tenn.:
and Augusta, Ga.

The Institute is part of W&L’s program in applied
ethics, ‘‘Society and the Professions,’ directed by
Religion Professor Louis W. Hodges. The students who
will be taking part in the Institute are taking the jour-
nalism ethics course, Interdepartmental 344.

Other classes in the program include applied ethics
courses in law, medicine and business, each of which has
an annual institute.

Dennis’ speech tonight is the only part of this week-
end’s Institute open to the public. Dennis is the author,
co-author, or editor of 11 books, including ‘“‘The Media
Society,’’ ‘Justice Hugo Black and the First Amend-
ment,”’ and ‘‘Understanding Mass Communication.”’

Dennis received his bachelor’s degree from the Univer-
sity of Oregon, his master’s from Syracuse University,
and his doctorate in mass communication from the Uni-
versity of Minnesota. He has served as dean of the jour-
nalism school at the University of Oregon.

Lani SEABULL
TCAMP SEAPARER

CAMP COUNSELING — for those who love children. Sea
Gull and Seafarer are character and health development

camps on the coast of North Carolina serving children ages
7-16. Recruiting staff for sailing, motorboating, aquatics,
golf, tennis, riflery, archery, canoeing, basketball, lacrosse,
soccer, nature studies, arts and crafts, nursing, office, food
services and horseback riding (Seafarer only). Qualifica-
tions: interest in children, ability to instruct one phase of the
camps’ programs and excellent references. For further in-
formation write to Don Check, Director, Camp Sea Gull
(Boys) or to Judy Bright, Director, Camp Seafarer (Girls),
P.O. Box 10976, Raleigh, North Carolina 27605.

 

a

Koto photo

      

By W. Patrick Hinely/W&L

Kyoko Okamoto, a founder of the Washington Toho Koto Society, presents
part of her concert of traditional Japanese music last)week in Lee Chapel.
Okamoto’s visit was sponsored by the East Asian Studies Program.

Judge finds evidence
to send BB gun case

 

By MATT HORRIDGE
Staff Reporter

 

A case involving Washington and
Lee student J.P. Baehr will go to a
grand jury for a possible indictment,
District Judge Joseph E. Hess decid-
ed ina preliminary hearing Tuesday.

Baehr, a sophomore from Spartan-
burg, S.C., was charged with the
unlawful wounding: of John Ree, a
junior from Berlin, Md.,.after Roe
suffered an eye injury during a
snowball fight between members of
the Phi Kappa Psi and Sigma Alpha
Epsilon fraternities on Feb. 27.

Assistant Commonwealth’s At-
torney Richard J. Cabaniss called
several Phi Psi members to the stand
Tuesday, including Roe.

Senior Bill Bloom and Phi Psi
president Robert Calabretta both
testified they had been hit that night
by what they thought were BBs.
Calabretta said he went into the SAE
house to try to find who shot Roe and
saw ‘‘a pile of copper BBs outside the
door’ of the room from which he

Terminal case

4 for possible indictment

thought the shots came.

Roe said he was struck in the eye
when he turned to see who had called
out his name. Roe indicated the peri-
pheral vision in his right eye was im-
paired by the injury.

Eric L. Sisler, Baehr’s attorney,
argued there was insufficient evi--
dence to suggest Roe was struck by a
BB fired by Baehr or if Roe was, in

fact, struck by a BB at all. Sisler
pointed out that Roe:was standing in

a row of trees between the two frater-
nity houses and may have been hit by
a twig or snowball.

Cabaniss said there was irrefut-
able evidence that Baehr had been
firing a BB gun that night, including
Baehr’s admission he had fired a BB
pistol several times, and should be
held accountable for his actions.
Cabaniss pointed out that Baehr was
charged with unlawful wounding and
not malicious wounding because the
Commonwealth felt Baehr did not
purposefully shoot Roe but did, in
fact, hit him.

The next grand jury is scheduled
for May.

Students
go to ODK

convention

By DANATHA HOFFMAN
Staff Reporter

 

 

Three students representing
Washington and Lee at the 34th bien-
nial Omicron Delta Kappa national
convention at Louisiana State Uni-
versity two weeks ago came back to
Lexington with a wider understand-
ing of the functions of the leadership
fraternity.

Seniors David Lewis and Nelson
Patterson and junior Joe Krastel
were W&L’s delegates to the March
13-15 convention held in Baton Rouge,
La., which was attended by about 350
people representing approxi:nately
125 schools.

Meetings at the convention gave
the students the opportunity to meet
ODK members from across the coun-
try and to bring new ideas back to the
ODK circle at W&L.

Krastel said he would like to see
ODK involved in more activities at
W&L, but conceded that will be dif-
ficult since there will be only six
members on campus until next Jan-
uary’s initiation.

A highlight of the convention was a
seafood extravaganza the opening
night of the meeting that included
crawfish and shrimp cooked cajun-
style.

ODK is divided into 12 provinces
nationwide, and W&L’s circle
— Alpha Circle — is in the second
province, which includes 23 circles at
schools in Virginia, West Virginia
and North Carolina.

Lewis, who is president of the ODK
circle at W&L, where the organiza-
tion was founded in 1914, attended the
convention in the capacity of student
director of the second ODK province.

Student and faculty directors and
executive officers served on ODK’s
general council at the convention,
which met to discuss the budget and
to elect a new national president,
Ronald Roskins, president of the Uni-
versity of Nebraska school system.

Student directors also accompany
faculty directors on inspection tours
to various circles, and are responsi-
ble for starting new circles. Two new
circles have been started in the local
province during Lewis’ term: one at
Virginia Commonwealth University
and one at Bridgewater College.

On the last day of the conference,
Lewis and Patterson spoke before the
convention, summarizing their phone
conversation with W&L Emeritus
Politics Professor Rupert N. Latture,
the last surviving founder of ODK.

W&L’s representatives said the
convention was successful and en-
joyable. Krastel said he realized the
enormous nationwide prestige assoc-
iated with ODK, which he said had
not occurred to him until he was
‘‘around the people behind the scenes
who make it what it is.”

 

Junior Keith Pillow tries out one of IBM’s personal
computers at a fair co-sponsored by IBM and the Wash-
ington and Lee computer center. The purpose of the fair,

 

organized by microcomputer coordinator, Sue Ruley, ,

was to introduce students to IBM’s line of personal com- ;
puters and discount prices for W&L students and faculty. °

 

 

 

The Shop for
PAPPAGALLO

Would Like To Wish
Everyone A Happy
Easter

Shoes, Clothing
& Accessories

23 NORTH MAIN STREET
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

463-5988

 

 

 

 

 

Bring in the

springtime

with flowers!

165 S. Main

 

 

 

‘ ‘

é .
e ‘
« ’
A
« ] ‘
4 | ’
e | +
|
t | ‘
€ '
¢ ‘
t ,
€ '
« ’
4 '
‘ ’
€ ,
t +
‘ ‘
t ‘
t +
‘ '
4
nae

 
 

 

Night, weekend phone rates to rise

 

By DEBORAH HATTEs
Staff Reporter

 

Long-distance phone rates w
ing on in-state calls dy
weekends.

_ American Telephone and Telegraph is reducing
its night/weekend and evening discounts on Vir-
ginia in-state long-distance calls, effective April 8.

The current 40 percent discount for calls made
between 5 and 11 p.m. will drop to 20 percent, ac-
cording to Bill Jones, public relations administra-

 

 

 

JOHN M. GUNN JR.

 

Election

: ill increase this spr-
ring evening hours and on

 

0 Continued from Page 1

men ballots. Holifield, who originally
missed making the run-off by one
vote, said that at about 3 p.m., two
people who were planning to vote for
him stopped at the poll outside of the
Commerce School, which was then
out of ballots for about 15 minutes.
They went on to a 3 p.m. class, and
when their classes ended 4 p.m., the
polls were closed.

“I think the VRB made a very
judicious decision,” Lewis said

Of the eight freshman women run-
ning for office, only University Coun-
cil candidates Melissa Thrasher and
Carol Couch made it to the run-offs.

Of the eight original UC candidates
from the three classes, all made it to
the run-offs, as did six write-in can-
didates.

The senior EC run-off was between
Andrew Caruthers, Marshall
Eubank, Baltzer LeJeune and Rob
Merritt.

The results of the run-offs will be
posted on the door of the EC office in
the Student Center this evening.

Dean

O Continued from Page |

noted.

Peppers said the difference in size
between W&L, with 1,750 students,
and Creighton, with a student body
three times that size, will not make
the transition difficult because he
likes small schools.

Creighton, a 6,000-student Roman
Catholic university, has schools of
law, medicine, dentistry, nursing,
business, and arts and sciences. Pep-
pers compared it to Georgetown Uni-
versity, which he described as also
Catholic and small.

“I’m looking forward to the chal-
lenge,’’ he said.

 

 

tor at Centel in Charlottesville. The 60 percent
night/weekend discount, which applies to calls
made after 11 p.m. weekdays, all-day Saturday,
and until 5 p.m. on Sunday, will decrease to 40 per-

cent.

At the same time, though, the daytime (7 a.m. -5
p.m.) rates for in-state long distance calls will be
reduced by 7 percent. This is in addition to the
previous rate drop of 15 percent on Jan. 1, 1984,
when the AT&T monopoly was broken up by a fed-

eral court order, according to Marty Szostek,
AT&T spokesman for Washington, D.C.
The daytime rate decrease will apply to calls

that travel more than 23 miles, but Jones said the

rates for calls less than 23 miles will increase.
Szostek, who said that AT&T has “‘been losing

money in Virginia’ and is ‘just breaking even

now,”’ explained that AT&T has to pay local tele-

phone companies a fixed rate that does not vary
with the time of day, even though customers pay
reduced rates at low-demand times.

Szostek added that the ‘‘new adjustments” in
rates will “more accurately reflect the true cost of
providing that service.”’

Szostek said AT&T’s in-state long-distance rates
are among the lowest in Virginia.

Gunn to speak on trade imbalance

 

Staff Report

 

The effects of the burgeoning
deficit in the United States balance of
payments will be assessed by
Associate Economics Professor John
M. Gunn Jr. on Tuesday at 7 p.m. in
room 327 of the Commerce School.

“The United States, in just three
years’ time, of which we are now
nearing the end, has gone from being
the largest international creditor in
the world to being the largest inter-
national debtor in the world,’ Gunn
said yesterday. “We're not quite
there yet, but we will be in a few
weeks.”’

Gunn said the one-hour lecture,

In search of...

A replacement for Politics
Professor William Buchanan is
expected to be named shortly.

Politics Professor Delos D.
Hughes, chair of the department
and head of the search committee,
said the search is ‘‘early in the
final stage.”’ He said the commit-
tee is not highly structured and
will reach a consensus decision.

Buchanan is entering the Uni-
versity’s new Phased Retirement
Program, which calls for him to
carry half a class load next year
and -eventually retire. The full-
time position the Hughes commit-
tee is seeking to fill thus will pro-
vide the department with some
extra manpower.

 

 

 

 

 

ALOHA WOK

409 South Main St., Lexington, Virginia 24450
703-463-9342

   

 

Chinese and
American Cuisine

Exotic Cocktails

Carry-out Service
Available
Open Tuesdaythrough Sunday

Luncheon 11:30 - 2:30
Dinner 5 - 10

Saturday Open 4 - 10

Sunday Lunch Buffet 12 - 2:30

 

 

$.A.B. Fancy Dress
Memorabilia Sale

T-Shirts ¢ Cups ¢ Posters

Tuesday, April 1
2:00 - 5:00

Student Center
Room 109

 

after which he will stay to take ques-
tions, will be ‘fairly technical’’ but
may still be ui interest to non-econo-
mics students.

That’s because the balance of
payments — a summary statistic of
United States transactions with other
countries — affects currency ex-
change rates, which in turn influence
the price of imported consumer
goods.

As the yen has risen against the
dollar in the last two months, for ex-
ample, Gunn said there has been a
“perceptible” increase in the price of
Japanese automobiles and ap-
pliances. Also, for people going
abroad, Gunn said the value of the
dollar ‘‘very much affects” the price

of their trip.

In announcing the talk, Economics
Professor Bruce H. Herrick, the
department chair, said Gunn’s an-
nual lecture ‘“‘has grown in populari-
ty among students owing to the ex-
pertise of the lecturer and the cen-
trality of his topic’’ to introductory
economics courses.

The announcement said the speech
title, “The Surplus in the US.
Balance of Payments,” was borrow-
ed from monetarist economist Milton
Friedman.

Gunn, who said he’s given the lec-
ture for about the last 10 years, said
he thinks the only Economics 102
class not required to attend is his
own.

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

Andrew Caruthers, a candidate for EC representative, casts his ballot Monday

 

Drugs

0 Continued from Page 1

 

he said, the student was found guilty
by the SCC of possession with the in-
tent to distribute — what Jarrard
called a crime against the communi-
ty; in the other case, a possession
conviction, the student harmed only
himself. The difference in penalties
shows that the first student deserves
punishment while the other needs
help, Jarrard said.

Although the impetus for Sunday’s
meeting was concern over campus
drug use, Jarrard said the groups
discussed issues which went beyond
that topic, such as the role of the
University in student discipline.

Before this year there was a cer-
tain amount of frustration within the
SCC, Jarrard said, because members
felt they had no important powers;
all the “‘big”’ cases they handled were
ultimately decided by the Student Af-
fairs Committee. They were ques-
tioning the role of the SCC, Jarrard
said.

The solution to the problem was to
make a distinction between major
and minor conduct offenses, which
were instituted this year. The Girard
case was the first major offense the
SCC considered, Jarrard said, and
the fact that it was handled as a
crime against the community made
the drug committee members ‘‘jubi-
lant.”

“It suggested that the system was
working,” he said.

EAST LEX

Phone: 463-3614

US 11 North

Open ‘til midnite

 

Cigarettes
Natty BOcong necks

     
   
     

   

 

Fancy Dress
Party Pix
Are In!

Proofs will be in front of the
G.H.Q. Friday, March 28 thru
Friday, April 4.

 

4:00

 

  

9:00 -

 

 

- Cases Negres,”’

The Ring-tum Phi, March 27, 1986, Page 5

 

CLASSIFIEDS

 

GENERAL NOTES

 

“Hands Across Rockbridge,’’ a
county-wide event to raise money
for the needy.in Rockbridge Coun-
ty, is planned for May 4. Organi-
zers hope to recruit enough volun-
teers to form a hyman chain from
Lexington to Buena Vista. For fur-
ther information, contact Martha
Doss at the Visitor Center of Lex-
ington on Washington Street or
call 463-3777.

University Library hours dur-
ing break will be:

Friday, April 11: Close at 6 p.m.

Saturday and Sunday, April 12
and 13: Closed.

Monday through Friday, April
14-18: Open 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.

Saturday and Sunday, April 19
and 20: Closed.

Monday, April 21: Open at 8
a.m. and resume 24-hour
schedule.

The Washington and Lee Film
Society is pleased to announce the
presentation of ‘Sugar Cane Al-
ley” (Martinique, 1983), directed
by Euzhan Palcy.

Showings will be at 8 p.m.
tomorrow and Saturday in Class-
room ‘‘A’’ in Lewis Hall. There is
no charge for admission. The film
is in French, with English sub-
titles.

A stunning debut film directed
by a 28-year-old woman from
Martinique, Euzhan Palcy, ‘‘Su-
gar Cane Alley’”’ is a powerful, yet
endearing, look at life among
sugar-plantation workers in color-
ful Martinique under French col-
onial rule in the 1930s. The film
focuses on one young boy who,
with his grandmother’s guidance,
attempts to use his educational
opportunities to rise above his
shanty-town existence.

Based on Joseph Zobel’s auto-
biographical novel, “La Rue
“Sugar Cane
Alley” has been highly acclaimed
by critics and audiences around
the world. The film won the
French Cesar award for Best
First Film and the Silver Lion
Award at the Venice Film
Festival.

The W&L Film Society invites
you to attend one of the screenings
of this truly wonderful film, and
we hopé you will pass along our in-
vitation to your students and
friends.

“Fahrenheit 451,” a 1966 film
directed by Francois Truffaut and
adapted from Ray Bradbury’s
novel of the same name, will be
shown in Room 327 of the Com-

merce School next Wednesday
and Thursday at 7 p.m. The public
is invited and admission is free to
the term's last installment in-the
Politics FilmFest. The movie,
which stars Oskar Werner, Julie
Christie and Cyril Cusack, sketch-
es everyday ‘‘life’’ in a future
Orwellian superstate to broach
the limits of politics as we know
them, asking: What are the car-
dinal grounds for limited versus
unlimited politicization of all
social life?

A watch has been found behind
Tucker Hall. If you can identify it,
call 463-9667.

A Washington and Lee alumnus
will lecture on the humanitarian
law of war Monday at 4:15 p.m. in
Classroom E in Lewis Hall.

The Virginia district of the
Virginia-D.C.-Maryland chapter
of the American Public Works
Association (APWA) sponsors
three scholarship grants per
academic year; two $500 grants
for undergraduate students and
one $300 grant for part-time or
full-time graduate students. Ap-
plications and further information
are available in the Financial Aid
office in Washington Hall.

The United States Information
Agency (USIA) and the Institute
of International Education (IIE)
announces that the official open-
ing of the 1987-88 competition for
grants for graduate study or
research abroad in academic
fields and for professional train-
ing in the creative and performing
arts is scheduled for May 1. It is
expected that approximately 700
awards to over 70 countries will be
available for the 1987-88 academic
year.

Applicants must be U.S. citizens
at the time of application, who will
generally hold a_ bachelor’s
degree or its equivalent before the

‘ beginning date of the grant and, in

most cases, will be proficient in
the language of the host country.

Application forms and further
information for students currently
enrolled at W&L may be obtained
from the Fulbright Program Ad-
viser, Professor John M. Evans,
in Payne Hall (32-C).

Examination envelopes and in-
struction forms for winter term
exams are available in the
Registrar’s Office. The exam en-
velopes are to be turned in to pro-
fessors at the first class meeting
on or after Monday. Exams begin
Saturday, April 5, and end Friday,
April 11.

 

 

eee uiie

lee

   

'

4

 
     
  
   
    

Redken

Mon.-Fri.

   
 

a—" Sa
eorge’s Hairstylis

since 1963

Walk in or phone for appointment

| ERE EE ERA > RNR! Ca AD (ASR) IR > RNR ENA (aD

Join Us For Dinner At

Maple Kall

One of the Historic Country Inns
of Lexington
463-4666 for reservations
Open Monday, Friday and Saturday

Route 11 North
ER RE OER RR OSI CSR ARR: NR: et «RE SE

     

Nexus

463-3975

eee

NOTICE

Having a party? Why nota car bash?
Great fun and enjoyment for everyone

See Charlie or Ed at Nelson Street Gulf

463-3922
348-5748

Private

(2 blocks from campus)
Stress management depression
relationships anxiety
work overload loneliness

Call for information

Lorae L. McDonald, L.C.S.W.

463-4927 or
348-5020

BE ONE DINK AWE HAKONE HOEK, AO NOCHE NEC DONEC

 

Counseling

i
4
sal
 

 

 

 

SPORTS

Page 6, The Ring-tum Phi, March 27, 1986

 

On their way to L.A.?

Netmen have big weekend;
key match set for Friday

 

By LEIF UELAND
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee men’s
tennis team continued on a busy
schedule this past week, going up
against some powerful teams and ris-
ing to the occasion more often than
not with play that showed that its No.
6 pre-season ranking is well-deserved
and that plane reservations for Los
Angeles for the national champion-
ships might be in order.

The Generals traveled to Swarth-
more over the weekend to compete
with both the host Little Quakers and
California tennis power Claremont-
Mudd-Scripps. With Swarthmore
ranked No. 1 and Claremont No. 7,
W&L head coach Gary Franke had
commented that the weekend would
be crucial in terms of a bid to na-
tionals.

W&L met the challenge by defeat-
ing Claremont, 8-1, and giving Swar-
thmore all it could handle, before los-
ing 6-3.

The Generals, who were defeated
by Claremont at last year’s national
championships, won all six of the
singles matches. The only loss came
at No. 1 doubles, where the team of
David McLeod and Jack Messerly
was downed, 6-7, 7-6, 6-2.

Having soundly defeated Clare-
mont on Saturday, the Generals went
to battle Division III’s No. 1 team ina
match where six individual matches
went to the ultimate set.

Singles wins for W&L came from
Bebby Matthews at the No. 3 spot,
6-8, 6-3, and Messerly at the No. 5
spot, 7-5, 4-6, 6-3. The third team point
came from the No. 2 doubles team of
Matthews and Roby Mize.

Senior captain Scott Aaams cori
mented on the team’s emotional level
after the weekend: “It was a big
emotional high. Swarthmore was a
great match. Swarthmore knows that

thev wer , ot
the coaches of the two teams told us
that we were a team to be contended
with. In general, everyone came off
the weekend very pleased.”

Monday, the Generals continued
playing well, dominating Lehigh, 7-2.
The Generals won all six of their
singles matches. The only losses for
W&L came at first and third doubles.

On Tuesday, the Generals met lit-
tle resistance from Division III Old
Dominion Athletic Conference foe
Lynchburg, winning the match, 9-0.

Yesterday’s match against Divi-
sion I Evansville (Ind.) was a
familiar story for the Generals as
they lost another tight match to Divi-
sion I team. The Generals fell behind
3-2 after the first five singles matches
were completed. Adams, W&L’s No.
6 man, remained on the court for the
day’s longest match, falling in a
third-set tiebreaker. Evansville went
on to win the match, 5-4.

W&L got wins from Mize and
Messerly in singles and from Mize-
Matthews and Adams-Chris Wiman
in doubles.

Franke commented on the match:
“It was a disappointing loss for us.
We didn’t pull it out in a couple of
matches where I thought we could
have. That was really a heartbreak-
ing loss for Scott Adams.”’

Tomorrow, the focus returns to get-
ting that bid to the nationals when the
Generals face Washington College in
a match that greatly will effect the
rankings. The importance of the

 

ieee

isms shins

 

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

David McLeod returns a backhand during Evansville match

match is made clear by the
Showmen’s recent victories over
Emory, a squad that has defeated
both Claremont and Redlands, last
year’s third-place finisher at na-
tionals.

“Right now, we are just trying to
get a good ranking,”’ Franke said. He
said a supportive crowd would be im-
portant to the team.

Friday’s match is set to begin at 3
p.m.

Lax splits fourth quarters, now at 3-2

 

By DAVID EMRICH
Assistant Sports Editor

 

The fourth quarter decided
everything this week for the
Washington and Lee lacrosse team,
once against the Generals and once
in favor of the Generals.

W&L split games — and fourth
quarters — with Virginia and Notre
Dame, getting outscored 8-0 in the
final period against the Cavaliers
and shutting out a feisty Fighting
Irish bunch in the fourth quarter, 4-0.

Yesterday, the fourth quarter
surge and the outstanding play of
W&L netminder John Church proved
the difference in the Notre Dame
game. Church stopped 18 Irish shots,
“key, key saves,”’ according to W&L
head coach Dennis Daly.

“If John Church wasn’t ready to
play, we lose,”’ Daly stated.

Going into the game, Notre Dame
was an almost unknown quantity,
having defeated Virginia Military In-
stitute in its first game of the year.
By the end of the third quarter, they
had almost stolen the show. Almost.

The Irish, showing that spirit fam-
ed in song and legend, rallied from an
8-5 deficit and tied the game at 9 with
two goals in the final 1:03 of the third
quarter.

But the fourth quarter was all
W&L.

‘We proved we had the poise to win
the fourth quarter,’’ Daly said, refer-
ring to a similar situation the
Generals faced two years ago against
Denison when they could not stave off
the upset.

The Generals did not see their first
lead of the game until just 3:29 was
left in the first half. The W&L lead at
the half was 6-4.

The Irish fell silent after tying
things up at the end of the third
quarter, and after, 1:30 of the fourth,
W&L co-captain Bill Holmes scored
his third of four goals to give the
Generals the lead for good.

As for Saturday’s contest with the
Wahoos, although it may be a little
difficult, give this a try: Ignore the
first and fourth quarters of W&L’s

 

 

se a

gm

 

ho "a rT =
Ae) Perey:

ss TS ie . ‘
S  .s "et (aw
Tee aw
2 eo.

 

 

TS be

aa ene

Se Wa Sa he

 

 

 

By Matt Horridge/The Ring-tum Phi

W&L goalie John Church makes a save of a Roddy Marino shot in U.Va. game

16-6 defeat at the hands of U.Va. If
you do that, you'll see an excellent
lacrosse game with an excellent out-
come, rather than a_ excellent
lacrosse game with a dissappointing
outcome.

U.Va. Coach Jim Adams said of the
Generals, “They actually stayed
with us for three quarters.”

He was right. W&L did stay close
for three quarters. Unfortunately for
the Generals, the game lasts four
quarters. It was in the fourth quarter
that the Wahoos began to run away
from the Generals. They scored eight
unanswered goals, including two in
six seconds, to make the final score
16-6 in their favor.

Adams again complimented his op-
ponents’ efforts. ‘They fought like
the devil,” he said.

So, what exactly happened to the
Generals in that fourth quarter?

Daly had this to say on the fourth

GRAND OPENING

Stop by today and register for your student discount
card which entitles you to 10% off any service.

Hair Wates

18 Va. locations to serve you, including
College Square Shopping Center (next to Kroger’s)
Rt. 11 North
Lexington, Va.
463-1605

 

quarter breakdown, “I think what
happened was that we made one or
two mental mistakes that allowed
them to get a goal.

“They happened to get a fast-break
goal off of our faceoff, which was the
first time they got that all game
long,’’ he added.

Daly continued, ‘So now, rather
than feeling good, that we’re just two
goals down and maybe we're in con-
trol of the momentum, we see the
game leaving us at 10-6 and we
decide that we’ve got to try to get the
goals back,”’ Daly continued.

“Rather than just trying to keep
the game close, we went for the win,”
said Daly. ‘‘By going for the win, it

{U.Va.’s tally] built up to 13 and 14,

we missed some opportunities, but

that happens.”

While Daly termed the U.Va. game
more of a ‘‘dream”’ situation, he in-
dicated that Saturday’s contest with
Towson State is much more crucial to

the Generals’ season.

“T think the tournament comes in
at Towson,” he said. The Tigers
come into Wilson Field ranked 11th
and with 10 teams receiving bids to
the national tournament, a win here
would serve W&L well.

Daly said the Generals will not be
able to get away with the mistakes
they made against Notre Dame, a
game Daly called somewhat of a
“disappointment.”

“We try to play better in each
game than we have, and obviously,
we didn’t do that [against Notre
Dame],”’ he said.

Towson State and W&L have
played close games the last two
years and Daly said he expects
another close one this year.

‘We have to be sharp, ”’ he said.

Game time is 2 p.m. at Wilson
Field. Doug Chase and Ken Jacoby
will broadcast the game on WVLI (96
FM).

 

 

______

Lettuce
all hop down to

FANTASIES
for Easter.

baskets, stuffed animals,
jewelry, basket stuffers
For those you carrot all about.

One W. Washington Street

 

 

anol

 
   

 

i

S

ao

imilar, not

Consider Dale Brown, head
coach at Louisiana State, the how d-
they-do-that team of this years

 

TIME

 

“
* «| J NCAA hoops tourney. Bit of a Jekyll-
v<a Ol Tr; *** and-Hyde type of situation, don’t you
Pe think?
» Mik Months ago, before Dallas was
y oi on thought of as something more than a

¥Y city and the home of the Ewings,

Brown was doing his Savior of the
NCAA bit, ranting and raving about how college athletes were getting
some sort of raw deal and that we ought not look so negatively on the
young men who play the game of college basketball for the love of it,
as well as the free cars. Right annoying, that.

Heck, Brown even got himself on the cover of the nation’s sports
magazine in December and we all got to find out what sort of psycho he
was. You see, Brown’s philosophy is, ‘‘Do it my way, and if there are
any questions, I have all the answers.” =

Brown may have an abrasive manner, but he and his group of misf it
toys that try to play basketball are doing one thing right now that will
let you forget the fact that he thinks scholarship athletes ought to
receive a stipend for the hard work and good they do their respective
universities. He’s winning. And he’s winning where he and his team
have no business playing.

Funny thing is, Dale Brown and LSU are the underdogs now. You
know what that means. Ordinary people are going to start rooting for
the Bayou Bengals.

Now, Brown hasn’t been living the best of times all season long.
Here’s a basketball program that, if it were a city, it would make
Beirut look like Paris. We’re talking academic ineligibility (and that’s
always nice to hear), problems with would-be recruit Tito Horford
(the man without a team snubbed Brown first), an NCAA investigation
(which made me think of back stabbing, seeing as Brown’s self-
professed bedside bible is The NCAA Manual) and, on top of that, a
mid-season chicken pox epidemic that besieged Brown’s troops.

Which all makes us like him even more. But aside from the hurdles
LSU and Brown have overcome, they’ve been playing great basket-
ball. Like another team, I remember, that had no business advancing
to the Final Four a year ago, let alone winning the whole deal. LSU
needed two overtimes to get by Purdue in the first round. And that was
in Baton Rouge. But then the Tigers went out of their collective minds
and beat the third, second and first seeds in the Southeast Regional to
place them in Dallas for Easter. Again, sounds a little bit like last
year’s amazing Wildcats. But that stuff happens only once in a
lifetime.

Louisville by 14. Duke to winit all...

....Back home on the Colonnade, many compliments were turned my
way on the excellent turnout in Charlottesville. You, as the Generals,
are to be congratulated on the effort...Now, here is your next assign-

ment: This weekend is sort of a ‘‘go for the championship bid’’
weekend. Both Friday’s tennis match and Saturday’s lacrosse game
are crucial in that respect. Friday afternoon, make it a point to be
there en masse for the Generals’ men’s tennis match against
Washington College. After the netmen’s super weekend (an 8-1
shellacking of No. 7 Claremont and a tough-as-nails 6-3 loss to No.-1-in-
the-nation Swarthmore), a win on Friday over a ranked Washington
squad, of which you can be a part, would book these gentlemen on a
flight to southern California come the second week in May. Same deal
with lax and Towson, (see poll below for details). Again: Be
there...Tip of the cap to the W&L aquatics program, All-Americans
Jay ReVille and Elizabeth Miles.

....Well, Jimmy Connors certainly found a way to leave tennis with
all the class he brought to the game. (See recent $20,000 fine and
suspension. His career is done.) Get your CBS Sports jacket cleaned
and pressed, loudmouth...Joe Theismann is confused. Sure, he might
be able to recover from the injury. But he’s saying, ‘‘I want to finish
my career with an organization that says, ‘We want you on our team
because we think you’re someone special and that you can help us.’ ”
Unfortunately, Joe, that’s not the same thing as their wanting you on
their team because YOU think you're someone special....Guess what?
They did some booth-cleaningon Monday Night Football. Al Michaels
now will do play-by-play and the Giffer will be an analyst. O.J. and
Broadway Joe have been deep-sixed. I may start watching again.....

....Finally, Northwestern head football coach Dennis Green has
thrown in the towel and will escape to the pro ranks. After having his
Mildcats win 10 games in five years, Green, 37, must have decided he
was too young for gray hair, high blood pressure and terminal depres-

 

 

 

 

 

Ce > Se <a

eS <2 A Se ES ee a <a ee ee

DIVISION I LACROSSE POLL

CHARLOTTESVILLE (AP) — The United States Intercollegiate
Lacrosse Association’s first Division I poll of the season,
with first-place votes in parentheses and records through March 23
and total points.

Record Points
1. North Carolina (10) 4-0 150
2. Syracuse 4-1 139
3. Johns Hopkins 3-1 127
4. Navy 5-0 120
5. Maryland 5-0 104
6. Rutgers 2-1 94
7. Virginia 3-1 88
8. Army 2+1 72
9. Adelphi 2-0 65
10. Md.-Baltmore County 2-2 53
11. Towson State 2-1 50
12. Loyola (Md.) 3-0 27
13. Brown 2-2 24
14. C.W. Post 2-1 19
15. Massachusetts 1-0 13

SUNGLASSES

B&L - Vuarnet - Prescription - Plain

THE NEW OPTICIANS INC.

Lexington’s ONLY Licensed Optician

; Mon. Eve. By Appointment
203 N. Main arar Lowry, Optn. 463-7440

Se a | | 0 ee eee

 

len

 

 

    
   

The
Hi

WILLSON-.
WALKER) ¢
HOUSE ait ie

Restaurant #4 i 4

 

 

 

. 4
Celebrate Easter
at the
Willson-Walker House
with our
Special Sunday Champagne Brunch
12:00-2:30
Open Tuesday through Saturday
Punch 1:30-2:30, Dinner §:30-9:00
Resers ations requested for dinner
30 N. Main St. Closed Monday
Lexington, Virginia 24450 703-463-3020)
i OS a iin oR CREE

 

 

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi, March 27, 1986, Page 7

 

 

 

TIM STANFORD

 

 

JAY REVILLE

 

 

 

_

 

ELIZABETH MILES

Stanford, ReVille, Miles
capture laurels at nationals

 

By MIKE STACHURA
and LEIF UELAND
Staff Reporters

Page Remillard and his swimmers
concluded their season in the same
fashion that characterized the
previous four months in the pool: get-
ting all — and sometimes more
— than they expected from them-
selves.

Washington and Lee’s aquatics
director described the past two
weeks’ results first at the Women’s
and then the Men’s Division III
Swimming and Diving Champion-
ships as ‘‘a reward’ for a ‘very
pleasing’’ season.

“Nationals were great,’’ Remillard
said. ‘““Everything went well.”’

Leading the way for the men’s
team (who finished 22nd in the 73-
team field), was senior co-captain
Tim Stanford. Stanford finished sec-
ond in the nation in the 200-yard but-
terfly and third in the 100 fly. Stan-

ford garnered All-America honors
for his performances last weekend.

“Stanford’s being No. 2, that is
really impressive,’ Remillard said.
“That says that in head-to-head com-
petition, there is only one man faster
in the nation.”

Stanford set school records in both
events, clocking a 1:52.13 in the 200
and a 50.62 in the 100.

Two other W&L swimmers earned
national recognition for their efforts.
Jay ReVille’s 4:11.10 in the 400-yard
individual medley was good for 10th
place and honorable mention All-
America standing, while W&L’s first
woman swimmer, Elizabeth Miles,
also was named honorable mention

A-A for her 14th place in the 500- and °

15th place in the 1650-yard freestyle
at the women’s meet held March
13-15.

ReVille also swam in the 200 IM
and the 200-yard backstroke.

Remillard described the national
championships as a “‘learning ex-
perience”’ for Miles. Noting that the

freshman’s time in the 500 was three '
seconds faster than her best time, the
coach explained that “‘she’s a team
player. The more faster swimmers
we get, the faster she will get.

“She set some standards, which
was exactly what we wanted.”

The Generals turned in their best
performance of the season in the 400-
yard medley relay, setting a new
school record, but still were unable to
make the finals in the event. Swim-
ming for the Generals were Stanford,
Moose Herring, Marty Radvany and
Matt Brady.

But when it was all said and done,
Remillard — who handled the public
address chores during the women’s
meet two weeks ago — stressed that
his successful athletes were also suc-
cessful students.

“Of our swimmers at nationals,
they had a cumulative G.P.A. of 3.3
versus a 2.7 for the rest of the team,”
Remillard said. ‘I think that is very
impressive.”

Track runs over two more foes;
McLaughlin sets school record

 

By ROB MacPHERSON
Staff Reporter

 

Another week, another win. So goes
the season for the Washington and
Lee track and field team.

This week, the victims were New-
port News Apprentice and Eastern
Mennonite, who fell in a tri-meet at
Wilson Field on Tuesday.

Over the weekend, the Generals
competed at the Liberty University
Invitational, where the bright spot
for W&L was Jim McLaughlin’s
school record-setting throw in the
discus.

The Generals soundly defeated the
Apprentice School and Eastern Men-
nonite by amassing a total of 118
points to Apprentice’s 50 and EMC’s
7. The two wins raise the W&L mark
to a spotless 8-0.

Of the 17 events at Tuesday’s meet,
the Generals captured first place in
13 of them and took a first, second or

third in every event.

Tri-captain Chris Bleggi, returning
to full form after a bout with bron-
chitis last week, finished first in both
the 100 meters (11.42) and the 200
meters (23.15). In the 400-meter
relay, Bleggi teamed with Bill Rhine-
hart, John White and Kevin Weaver
to take first with a time of 44.72.

Andy White again turned in top
performances in the hurdles, winning
both the 110 meters and the 400
meters. Consistent Jamie Urso re-
peated last week’s performance by
capturing the 800 meters, and
Richard Moore’s 4:16.75 in the 1500
meters was good enough for first.

Ash Andrews gave the Generals
the first-place points in the 5000
meters, and the mile relay team
rounded out W&L’s successful after-
noon on what head coach Norris
Aldridge called a ‘‘slow”’ track.

In the field, John Carder was tops
in the pole vault with a 12-6 effort and
Townes Pressler and teammate Fray

McCormack shared first place in the
high jump with a 6-0 jump. Rhinehart
won the triple jump and McLaughlin
routinely won another discus event.
John Burlingame was first inthe long
jump.

‘Newport News Apprentice usual-
ly has good athletes,”’ Aldridge said.
“They usually give us a good meet.’
It’s been close the last two or three
years.”

He added that as a whole, the
team’s times weren’t as good as
previous meets, something he at-
tributed to Saturday’s Invitational at
Liberty University.

In the Lynchburg event, McLaugh-
lin threw the discus 148-6 to establish
anew W&L record. The senior placed
third in the event.

Burlingame and Carder garnered
thirds, in the long jump and pole
vault respectively.

No team points were awarded in
the meet, and no General athletes
came away with first-places.

 

 

v7

4 rN ae
t 8 - i

 

an!

-

 

By Matt Horridge/The Ring-tum Phi

Townes Pressler clears the bar in Tuesday’s high jump competition

Lady tennis wins first

Bats come alive as W&L wins two of five ODAC games

 

By CHARLES T. GAY
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee baseball
team finally broke into the win col-
umn last week, recording victories
over Eastern Mennonite and Hamp-
den-Sydney, despite dropping three
other games over the week, a pair to
Randolph-Macon and the second half
of the Hampden-Sydney double-
header.

The week’s action sets the
Generals’ record at 2-6-1.

Head coach Jim Murdock largely
credits the Generals’ relaxed,
ipositive attitude for the break-
through.

“Our tough schedule — early con-
ference games and academics — put
more pressure on us,” he said, “but

our guys are prepared and keeping
relaxed. They’re not down.”

The Generals’ bats came alive
against Eastern Mennonite. W&L
triumphed 10-4. Third-baseman
Milam Turner went three-for-four
with three runs batted in, and
outfielder-pitcher Carter Steuart
homered to fuel the W&L attack.
Hurler Bill Schoettelkotte picked up
the win.

W&L’s hitting attack fell silent
against Randolph Macon, however,
as the Generals were soundly defeat-
ed twice, 7-0 and 9-1.

The Generals managed to get only
seven hits in the two games. Murdock
admitted, ‘“‘We’re still fighting
ourselves at the plate.”’

Freshman Mike Temple and
Steuart absorbed the losses on the
mound for W&L.

Correction

The baseball player pictured in The Phi last week was incorrectly
identified. The player in the photograph was pitcher Carter Steuart.

 

 

The Generals erupted again on
Monday against Hampden-Sydney,
winning 9-1. Steuart went four-for-
five and scored four times. Catcher
Bill Curtiss hit a two-run homer and
drove in a total of four runs to lead
W&L to its second victory. Turner ad-
ded three RBI.

Pitcher Eric Acra went five in-
nings, allowing just three hits and no
earned runs in notching the victory.

The Generals dropped the second
game.

Murdock said the future is in the
batting rack. ‘“‘Hitting is our big ques-

tion mark; everything else looks
good,’’ he said.

“We've improved, more competi-
itive than last year. We’re just
waiting for that spark,’’ Murdock
said.

W&L’s next test is at home today
against Lynchburg, whom the
Generals upset in last year’s Old
Dominion Athletic Conference tour-
nament. The Generals face Emory
and Henry at home for two on Satur-
day, and play another twinbill at VMI
on Monday.

Golfers struggle with strange course at Elon tourney

 

_ By MIKE SHADY
Staff Reporter

 

_ It was a tough two rounds of golf
Monday and Tuesday for the Wash-

‘ ington and Lee men’s golf team at the

. Max Ward Invitational in Burlington,
N.C,

' Finishing 22nd out of 24 teams,

, W&L was hampered by their unfami-
liarity with the course and the lack of

‘ a practice round. Add to that the fact

that a majority of the teams com-
peting had already played on the
tournament’s course, and it was ob-
vious the Generals were in for a long
tournament.

“It was a new course, and without
the practice round, we had a tough
time of it,” senior captain Greg
Wheeler said. ‘‘It was especially dif-
ficult not knowing the distances on
each hole.”’

Wheeler, who carded a two-day
total of 162 (83-79), and sophomore

Valley True Value Hardware

HARD’

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

E. Nelson Street
463-2186

110 S. Jefferson St.
Lexington
463-3338

Hours:

Mon.-Sat. 9am to lam
Sunday 10am to lam

Mon.-Sat. 8:30-6:00
Sun. 1-5

John Gammage 168 (86-82) were the
only bright spots for the Generals as
the team was 21st after the first day
of competition on Monday. The squad
did bounce back with some more
solid play in the second round.

“Greg played well and John really
played well, too,” W&L head coach
Buck Leslie said. ‘‘I think our pride
was a little hurt after that first
round.”

The Generals also faced a course
that was not conducive to the chip-

and-putt style of play that character-
izes the W&L team.

According to Leslie, the team
hasn’t “had enough work with the
long clubs, such as fairway woods
and three irons”’ that the long-driving
course demanded.

The Generals next take on Bridge-
water and Longwood Monday after-
noon at the Lexington Country Club.
The match will be the team’s final
contest before exams begin.

Finishing Touch

New location next to Shenandoah
Office Supplies!

All your typing and word processing needs
463-1622

Sandwiches (Eat In-Take Out)
Gourmet Items of All Nations
Cocktails@® Wine@ Beer

Catering

Subs@Imported Cheeses

Wendell’s
Barber
Shop

| need

your head

for my business

 

matches of season;

Coyle still

By DAVID NAVE
Staff Reporter

 

 

The Washington and Lee women’s
tennis team broke into the ‘‘W’’ col-
umn twice this week, getting the
monkey off its back and also becom-
ing the first W&L women’s team to
have more than one victory in a
season.

The Lady Generals downed Ran-
dolph Macon (Ashland) and Southern
Seminary for their first wins. Losses
during the week came at the hands of
Emory and Henry, Bridgewater and
Mary Baldwin. The record stands at
2-5.

The first win ever for a W&L
women’s tennis team came Friday at
the Emory and Henry College tour-
nament, when a doubles victory gave
the team the win, 5-4.

Martha Christian, who won her
singles match 6-4, 2-6, 7-5, helped
lead the Lady Generals to victory
when she and her doubles partner
Valerie Pierson clinched the match
by winning the No. 2 doubles, 6-3, 7-5.

Dana Anstine, Courtney Coyle and
Benny Savage also won their singles
matches.

Referring to his team’s first vic-
tory, head coach Bill Washburn said,
“It was very nice, indeed. We are
very proud of the team for that win.”’

unbeaten

Pierson said, “It was really en-
couraging.’’ She added that the win
has allowed the players to relax,
knowing that they can win a match.

The Generals returned home on
Monday and picked up their second
win of the season against Southern
Seminary. W&L dominated the mat-
ch, winning 8-1.

The team did not enjoy the same
home-court success on Tuesday when
it lost to Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference opponent Mary Baldwin, 8-1.
Coyle again scored the only win for
the Lady Generals.

“Courtney seems to be our leading
scorer at the moment,’’ Washburn
said. Coyle, the No. 5, player has not
lost yet this season and has establish-
ed a 6-0 record.

Coyle attributed much of her suc-
cess to ‘‘the luck of the draw.” She
explained that among her well-
balanced teammates she has had the
advantage of playing No. 5 where the
competition is not as strong as it is at
the higher flights.

“T am also quite determined to
win,” she added.

The Lady Generals face Randolph
Macon Woman’s College today at 3
p.m. and Hollins College on Wegines-
day at 3:15. The matches will be
played on the W&L Footbridge
courts.

 

   

 

    

NEED LUbkul 103-463-1670
A CAR? WELLL Emergency
(iL: 103-377-6331
Students under 21
Must Have 2 5
prior Insurance Oo y
Approval \ Brian and Doris
Fredricksen
RFD7, Box 149, Rt. 60 East Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

CHRIST IS RISEN!
HE IS RISEN INDEED!

Lexington Presbyterian Church
Holy Week and Easter Services

Maundy Thursday, March 27 -..-.-..-

Holy Communion
Good Friday, March 28 --

seeeeeeeeerseeereeereeeseewesseeneeaeeeeeees 7:30 p.m.

 

Community Service

EASTER SUNDAY, March 30

12 noon

Student Sunrise Service - Liberty Halll] oe-seeesseesseeceeeenneeereecssesenes 6:30a.m.

Regular Sunday Service
Special Music and Message

11:00a.m.

 

‘—sadae
 

 

-BACK PAGE

The Stains aren’t ‘embarrassed’ anymore

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Entertainment Editor

 

 

What's ina name?
Well, for the Stains, Lexington’s premier blues-
rockers, there isn’t much

Senior Will Pearsall, the group's guitarist, singer and
spokesman, said he came up with the name completely
by accident

“I was out on the 45th St. Pier in New York one night
and spilled my cigarette ashes in my beer. That’s where
we came up with the name,”’ he said.

The Stains, a four-piece outfit of Washington and Lee
students and alumni, have been playing Lexington and
the surrounding women’s colleges for about two years.
The Stains one sees these days are quite different from
the outfit one might have chanced upon last year.

Pearsall and fraternity brother Bob Clark started out
three years ago as No Problem and the Purple Blues
Band. The name might have caused some confusion as
there was no one named No Problem, nor was there
even a band. But hey! No problem! Pearsall and Clark
played acoustic versions of songs that would later
evolve into Stains standards.

The two built a following out at Mary’s Restaurant in
Natural Bridge. They already had a drummer in senior
Stains these days, Pearsall jokes that they are ‘‘still
embarrassing.”

While Clark mastered his new instrument, another

thing happened.

“We were sitting at a Stevie Ray Vaughan and
Allman Brothers concert when it hit us: we would be the
Embarrassing Stains,” Pearsall said.

The trio honed their chops and began forming their
own sound. Although the group goes primarily as the
Stains these days, Pearsall jokes that they are ‘Still
embarrassing.”

When asked about the band members, Pearsall had

these observations.

‘Bob has gone from being an adolescent delinquent
rebel from Jersey to a fine, respected member of the
Lexington business community with the help of his new
answering machine,”’ he said.

As for drummer Nat May, Pearsall said:

“T think Nat May has a drinking problem.”’

This year, the Stains added W&L alumnus Tim Eddy
on saxophone und expanded their sound drastically.
Originally, Eddy was simply invited to play with the
band at Delta Tau Delta’s United Way benefit at the
General Headquarters. earlier this fall. But, Pearsall
said, Eddy saw the light that evening.

“Tim decided that attention from the girls was more
important than playing pentatonic scales,’ Pearsall
said.

When asked how Eddy expanded the group’s sound,
Pearsall replied, ‘‘He forced us to get a bigger stage
and to tape down all our cords. Give Tim Eddy a floor of
solid concrete and he’ll find a hole to trip over.”’

So what do the Stains sound like? Well, on a bad night,
they are very good. On a good night, they are terrific.
Pearsall was squeamish about pigeonholing the group’s
sound, merely saying it is “heavily blues influenced
with Zappa overtones.”’

Their repertoire mixes B.B. King with ZZ Top, Stevie
Ray Vaughan with the Ventures, Steely Dan with Al
Green. But all of its has the band’s own distinctive
stamp.

Pearsall has begun working on original material. He
said he writes in two ways: either the words come first,
then the music, or vice versa.

‘Neither has worked so far,” he joked.

What's next for the Stains? Well, they are looking for
anew drummer (Nat May is leaving the band at the end
of this year) and they hope to keep playing.

‘‘We just want to remind our fans: if you are drinking
and driving tonight, please don’t smoke,”’ said Pearsall.

The Ring-tum Phi, March 27, 1986

 

wr

4

’

’

 

 

By Perry S. Hayes/The Ring-tum Phi #

The Stains, left to right: Will Pearsall, Tim Eddy, Nat May and Bob Clark ‘

 

Left to right: Ned Richardson, Greg Stites and Delia Ford in ‘‘Fool for Love”

 

23 S. Main
Lexington, Va. 24450

Lexington Hardware
463-2242

 

 

 

 

VARNER & POLE

Furniture Dealers

115 S. Main Street 463-2742

 

 

 

“For your extra pieces of furniture’’

 

 

 

 

isa
accept the Colonnade
Tes ee ok

eee
PUKE h

te Tees

463-9588
Old Main St. Mall
Pati ati) mn an We es)

 

PIZZA SERVED HERE, TO GO,
OR DELIVERED

 

e Try our fresh baked Pan
Pizza, Thin ‘N Crispy
Pizza, served anytime.

¢ Priazzotm Italian Pie,
served after 4 p.m. Mon.-
Fri., and any time Sat. &
Sun.

e Personal Pan Pizza for
lunch. Available from 11:00
am-4:00 pm (Mon.-Fri.).

e Plus...Pasta, Salad Bar,
Sandwiches, Beverages.

* Served to your table, or
delivered to your home, or
call ahead and we’ll have
your order hot and ready to
go.

 

OR OY HF EH BOO w HY

 

e Each Wednesday night,
5:30 until 8:30 p.m., all the
salad, pizza, spaghetti, and

garlic bread you can eat for 600 E. Nelson St.

 

 

 

 

posters

 

only *3.49. Children under 6 Lexington
years-9% 463-7000
$9 oFF OFF
2 $por Offer

$2. offany large pizza
or $1 off any medium. In
cludes Pizza Hut® Pan
Pizza! Hurry; offer ex
pires soon. One coupon
per party per visitat
participating Pizza Hut*

restaurants
eer es essai intend aptencae a 1986

SS ee ee ee eee ee oe eee ee oe

I
|
Coed
expires!

600 E. Nelson St. :
ciation. Gh ' April
i
|
i

453-/000

 

Staff Report

 

 

The Boiler Room Theatre will be
the setting for four one-act plays
directed by Washington and Lee
students. The plays will begin Fri-
day. Two plays will be performed
each night through Wednesday.

“Fool for Love’’ and ‘‘God”’ will be
presented at 8 p.m. on Friday, Sun-
day and Tuesday. The other two
plays, ‘‘Master Harold and the Boys’”’
and “Sister Mary Ignatius Explains
It All For You,”’ will be presented on
Saturday, Monday and Wednesday at
8 p.m.

Sam Shepherd’s critically acclaim-
ed 1983 play ‘‘Fool for Love’’ will be
directed by junior Steven Sandler.
Set in a motel room in the Mojave

By Matt Horridge/The Ring-tum Phi

 

   
  

A ae Southern
on’t Sleep Through
Your Finals | nn
Study Hard! Study Late! bigs
; uden
| Have trouble getting up? Serving breakfast, lunch
| WAKE-UP SERVICE and dinner for over
| 463-1777 | 50 years
| Special Rates For Students » | Main Street, Lexington
P.O. Box $33 Lexington Virgin a 463-3612

 

 

 

"2000400886430 43 1

APRIL FOOL SALE
At The Bookstore

Books, Shirts, Posters
and more!

April 1, 2, 3

P.S. Open 8-2 on Saturday for exam books, etc.
Sees eetet ee tenn ft 8

WEST VIRGINIA
WHITEWATER
RIVER RAFTING

Sunday, May 4
on W.Va.’s lower New River

Day-long trip includes:
lunch, wetsuit and kegs.

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

     
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     

Sponsored by the
STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD

Organizational Meeting - 6:30 p.m.,
Tuesday, April 1
Rm. 109, Student Center.

Fraternity and individual groups welcome.

Drama students direct plays by
Woody Allen and Sam Shepherd

Desert, the play stars seniors Ned
Richardson, Eric Hager, and Greg
Stites and freshman Delia Ford.

“God,” written by Woody Allen
and directed by Greg Lunsford, is set
in Athens around 500 B.C. Cast
members are freshmen Dean Red-
ding, Elizabeth Fowler, Kevin
Struthers, John Boller and Susan
Crouse; Mathematics Professor Ver-
non Eagle; Natural Bridge teacher
Karin Price; senior Andy Shaffer;
sophomore Craig Smith; and junior
exchange student Jennifer Wise. Also
performing will be the Zeta Beta Tau
Chorus.

McDonough, the three characters
will be portrayed by senior Derrick
Freeman, junior Ronald Wilhelmsen,
and Lexington high school student
T.J. Ziegler.

Directed by junior Frank King,
“Sister Mary Ignatius Explains It All
For You,” by Christopher Durang,

Lady of Perpetual Sorrow, a Catholic
school somewhere in the U.S. Cast
members are exchange student Jen-
nifer Wise, junior Louis Cella,
freshmen Ellen Sigler, Monica

ington student Doug Johnson.

“Master Harold and the Boys,”
written by Athol Fugard, takes place
in Port Elizabeth, South Africa,

The Boiler Room Theatre is
located on Henry Street under the
Old Main Street Mall. For further in-
around 1950, in the St. George’s Park formation, call the theatre office at
Tea Room. Directed by senior Mark 463-8637.

ee

ONCAMPUS

Thursday, March 27
4:30 p.m. — GEOLOGY LECTURE (Part 2): ‘“‘Well Logging, Seis, and
Geopolitics: Experiences of a Recent Grad.” John Dean, Consultant,
Room 206, Howe Hall.
5 p.m. — CHEMISTRY SEMINAR: ‘Chemical and Physical Conse-
quences of Radioactive Decay in Transcurium Halides.”’ Dr. Josph
Peterson, University of Tennessee, Knoxville. Room 401, Howe Hall.
7-11 p.m. —- CHESS CLUB MEETING: Room 113, University Library.

Friday, March 28
2 p.m. — GEOLOGY LECTURE (Part 3): ‘Well Logging, Seis, and
Geopolitics: Experiences of a Recent Grad.” John Dean, consultant,
Room 206, Howe Hall.
3p.m.— MEN'S TENNIS: Generals vs. Washington College.
8 p.m. — FILM SOCIETY FILM: ‘‘Sugar Cane Alley.” Classroom A,
Lewis Hall.
8 p.m. — JOURNALISM ETHICS INSTITUTE LECTURE: Everett
Dennis, Executive Director of Gannett Center for Media Studies at
Columbia University, Northen Auditorium, University Library.
8 p.m. —ONE-ACT PLAYS: ‘‘Fool for Love” and ‘‘God.”’ Boiler Room
Theatre. For reservations, call 463-8637.

Saturday, March 29
1 p.m. — BASEBALL: Generals vs. Emory and Henry. Smith Field.
2 p.m. — LACROSSE: Generals vs. Towson State. Wilson Field.
8 p.m. — FILM SOCIETY FILM: “‘Sugar Cane Alley.” Classroom A.
Lewis Hall.
8 p.m. — ONE-ACT PLAYS: “Master Harold and The Boys.” and
“Sister Mary Ignatius.” Boiler Room Theatre.

Sunday, March 30
8 p.m. — ONE-ACT PLAYS: ‘‘Fool for Love” and ‘‘God.”’ Boiler Room
Theatre.

Monday, March 31
4:15 p.m. — LECTURE: ‘“‘Humanitarian Law of War, Past and Pre-
sent.”’ William T. Anderson, W&L ’72, civilian lawyer, USMC,
Washington. Classroom E of Lewis Hall.
8p.m.—ONE-ACT PLAYS: ‘‘Master Harold and the Boys” and
“Sister Mary Ignatuis.”’ Boiler Room Theatre.
8 p.m. — CONCERT: Glee Club, University Chorus and Southern Com-
fort. Lee Chapel.

Tuesday, April 1
7 p.m. — ECONOMICS LECTURE: ‘The Surplus in the United States
Balance of Payments.’ John M. Gunn, associate professor of
economics at W&L, Room 327, Commerce School.
7&9p.m.— JOURNALISM FILM: ‘Gallipoli.’ Room 203, Reid Hall.
8 p.m. —ONE-ACT PLAYS: “‘Fool for Love” and ‘‘God.”’ Boiler Room
Theatre.

Wednesday, April 2
3 p.m. — LACROSSE: Generals vs. VMI.
3p.m.— TENNIS (M): Generals vs. VMI.
3:15 p.m. — TENNIS (W): Generals vs. Hollins.
3:15 p.m, — PRESIDENT’S DAY ROTC AWARDS CEREMONY. Lee
Chapel.

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘

;

4

takes place in the auditorium of Our |

~

Burke, and John Boller, and Lex- .
  

y
‘

4

J
4

 

 

 

VOLUME 85, NUMBER 26

Spring cleaning
Lexington
looks at litter

 
     

    

Page 3

 

  

Spring forward

Set clocks ahead
Sunday morning

 

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Your Foxfield weather

Friday: Partly sunny;
fair through weekend

 

APRIL 24, 1986

 

Rape
charge
dropped

By JIMSTRADER
Editor

 

 

Washington and Lee freshman
Burgess A. “Tommy’’ Thomasson
has been cleared of a rape charge
that was filed against him after a
December incident in Graham-Lees
Dormitory.

Ina motion submitted yesterday in
Lexington General District Court,
Commonwealth's Attorney Beverly
C. “John” Read asked that the
charge be dismissed ‘‘at the request
of the complaining witness and her
family.”

Thomasson, a 19-year-old from
Mobile, Ala., was arrested Dec. 8 in
Graham-Lees after he was accused
of rape by an 18-year old woman who
at the time was a freshman at Hollins
College.

A press release signed this week by

‘ Read; Thomasson’s attorney, Eric L.

Sisler; and two Lexington police of-
ficers states that the woman now

' says that “the incident between

’ herself and Thomasson resulted from
a misunderstanding, that Thomas-

‘ son’s conduct did not constitute

’ rape.”’

The prosecutor’s motion said Lex-
ington Police Chief L.O. Sutton and
the investigating police officers join-

in the motion to have the matter

. Sinisa

‘

In the. statement, Thomasseon’s. at; .

torneys expressed confidence that
had their client gone to trial, he
would have been acquitted.
Proceedings against Thomasson
twice were delayed due to problems

' the Lexington Police Department

Offer of immunity
delays drug cases

é

+

\

had_ with
evidence.

laboratory tests of

 

By JIM STRADER
Editor

 

A prosecutor’s motion to grant im-
munity to two defendants in drug
possession cases has caused the
preliminary hearings for nine
Washington and Lee students to be
postponed.

Commonwealth’s Attorney Bever-
ly C. ‘John’ Read asked at a Tues-
day hearing that the two defendants
— Chris Reavis, a junior from New
City, N.Y., and 1985 graduate Greg-
ory Bryan Morcroft of Hollywood,
Fla. — be considered for immunity
from prosecution in exchange for
their testimony against the other
defendants.

The nine students and Morcroft
were arrested Jan. 12 at the 201 E.
Nelson St. apartment of seniors Bill
Michaud and Jim Culnane, who were
also charged in the incident. Michaud
is from Pearl River, N.Y., and Cul-
nane is from Fitchburg, Mass.

All 10 defendants are charged with
possession of marijuana. Michaud
also was charged with possession of

 

i
|

ir

i

si

 

  

By Reade Williams/The Ring-tum Phi

W&L student is said to have attempted credit card fraud at this bank branch

Student is suspect in credit fraud

 

By JIM STRADER
Editor

 

A Washington and Lee student is the primary suspect
in the fraudulent use this month of a Visa credit card in
an attempt to obtain $1,800 in cash from a local bank, ac-
cording to police.

“The person has been identified,’ Lexington Police
Chief L.O. Sutton said yesterday. ‘‘There’s just a couple
of loose ends being put together in relation to some other
charges...relating to the individual.”

“It’s coming,’’ Sutton said of an arrest in the case. The
individual likely will be charged with grand larceny and
fraudulent use of a credit card, the police chief said.

The police report for the case says that on the morning

identification two other credit cards issued in the same
name.

The teller then took those cards and then refused the in-
dividual’s request that the three be returned. At that
point, the individual left the bank, according to the
report.

The cards were identified as belonging to third-year

~ law student David M. Murray Jr. of Newport News, who

was unaware they were missing until police notified him
Murray subsequently filed a complaint with police,
Stating that the cards had been taken from his wallet
while it was in the locker room of the W&L gymnasium.

Nancy Plogger, branch manager of the U.V.B. office,
filed a complaint with police after the incident. She said
she would not comment on the case because she feared it
might ‘‘hamper’’ the police investigation.

of interferin
with police

 

By MIKE ALLEN
Executive Editor

 

The involvement of the Executive
Committee in a recent check-forgery
case caused a student suspect to flee
prosecution, according to Lexington
Police Chief L.O. Sutton, who warned
that in the future such action could
result in criminal liability for student
leaders or University administra-
tors.

EC President John Lewis said that
as a result of the incident, the com-
mittee now contacts law-enforce-
ment officials about a_ potential
crime as soon as possible after
charging the individual with an honor
offense.

Sutton said yesterday that former
Washington and Lee freshman Wil-
liam P. Martin II “skipped town”
just before his scheduled EC honor
hearing. The warrant for his arrest is
dated April 1; Martin withdrew from
W&L the next day

Lewis declined to confirm Sutton’s
account, saying he could not com-
ment on an individual case ‘‘for the
good of the | Honor| System.”’

Using the Lexington warrant
charging Martin with forgery of a
check with intent to defraud, police in

of. April,10,..an .individual,.attempted..to.make @ Withorss.....outtonsaid the other. possible charges against the W&l,..Martin’s hometown. .of...Chillicothe,

drawal from United Virginia Bank at its branch south of
downtown Lexington between the W.B. Harrison Mor-
tuary Company and the Virginia House of Lexington
restaurant.

A teller at the bank told police she knew the individual
who presented the card was not the person who owned it.
When she tried to call the credit card owner to verify the
use of the Visa, the individual at the counter produced as

cocaine after a small amount of the
drug was identified in a laboratory
test last month.

In addition to Reavis, Morcroft,
Michaud and Culnane, the following
students were charged: G.T. Cor-
rigan, a senior from Villanova, Pa.;
Fred Driscoll, a junior from Ded-
ham, Mass.; Brad MacCachran, a
junior from Sudbury, Mass.; Ned
Richardson, a senior from Holden,
Mass.; Scott Schreiber, a senior from
Williamsburg; and Bill Zola, a senior
from Sudbury, Mass.

Lexington lawyer Laurence A.
Mann, representing Reavis and Zola,
questioned the fairness of having one
of his clients testify in the case of the
other. He said it put him in a difficult
position as an attorney.

Lexington General District Judge
Joseph E. Hess agreed with Mann
and called Read’s motion ‘“untime-
ly” because he made it just as the
hearing was beginning. Hess added
that it had an “ambush effect”’ on the
four attorneys representing the ac-
cused because it presented them with

(JSee Drugs, Page 4

News Editor

 

 

By JASON LISI

student relate to the ‘‘use of the credit cards at other
places and fraudulently obtaining money and merchan-
dise with the cards.”’

Theft of the cards constitutes grand larceny and car-
ries a possible penalty of 20 years in prison, a $1,000 fine,
or both. Fraudulent use of a credit card for more than
$200 is a felony and carries a possible penalty of one to.
five years in prison, a $1,000 fine, or both.

 

These posters were part of a London anti-American protest

Professors differ on Libyan raid

Ohio, arrested him the morning of
April 14 “right here in front of the
police department ... he must have
been in the neighborhood,”’ said Eliza
G. Baum of the Chillicothe Police
Department.

Chillicothe officials also charged
Martin with being a fugitive from

 

 

 

E

By Jason Lisi/The Ring-tum Phi

   

A protester and her paper

must be both ‘neccessary and proportional.”

“It can’t be very exact,” he said

“There would be some question in this case as to

- New treasurer comes
from William & Mary

 

LAWRENCE W. BROOMALL

 

 

By MATT HORRIDGE
Staff Reporter

 

Lawrence W. ‘‘Larry’’ Broomall,
currently vice president for business
affairs at the College of William &
Mary, has been named treasurer of
Washington and Lee.

“I’m very excited about it,’’ said
Broomall, the replacement for E
Stewart Epley, who is retiring this
summer after seven years at W&L.

Broomall said the job was offered
to him two weeks ago by University
President John D. Wilson. He noted
that he and Wilson had worked
together occasionally while both

See Treasurer, Page 5

 

The United States may have violated international
law in last week’s air strike against Libya, according to
a Washington and Lee Law School professor. -

However, the U.S. took the only action possible in that
situation, says an ROTC professor

Another professor says that although the decision to
attack may not have been the wisest in view of world
opinion, the United States should have used more force
in its actions and killed Libyan leader Moammar
Khadafy

Dean of the Law School Frederic L. Kirgis Jr., who
teaches international law and has written two books on
the subject, said the United States might have gone
against the United Nations charter in the degree of at
tack last week.

The terrorist activities themselves, if sponsored by
Libya, are breaches of international law, Kirgis said
“The question under international law would be,
‘What's an appropriate remedy or response to those ac
tivities?’ "’ he said

Article 51 of the U.N. charter says that members of
the organization have an “inherent right to individual
or collective self-defense” if there is an attack on that
country. But, Kirgis added, the degree of retaliation

whether our actions met those tests, especially, I think,
the proportionality tests,’’ he said

‘We may have violated the United Nations charter
and customary international law by attacking Libya,”’
he concluded

Kirgis added that even if the attack could be justified,
the United States could be found guilty of breaking cer-
tain humanitarian rules by killing and wounding civil
ians in the attacks

However, the excuse that some civilians were killed
accidently in the raid on military bases could hold up,
Kirgis said. *‘Everybody realizes that a bomb can miss
its target,’ he said. ‘If it’s legitimate to be dropping the
bomb in the first place, that just becomes one of the
breaks of the game.”

Lt. Col. Luke B. Ferguson, a professor of military
science with special knowledge of international ter-
rorism, said the decision to attack was the only possible
solution left

‘I think the president did what he needed to do,’’ he
said. ‘‘I don’t think he had any choice

He added that ‘‘without a question” the raids were

See Libya, Page 5

justice. Martin is fighting extradi-
tion, according to Chillicothe Police
Capt. David M. Hough.

Virginia initiated extradition pro-
ceeding against Martin the day after
his arrest. The procedure should take
about two more weeks, Sutton said.

Sutton, who said the EC was ‘“‘very
cooperative after the fact,’’ contends
the committee should have notified
police when it became aware of a
possible criminal action involving a
student.

“They were trying it as an honor
violation prior to us even having
knowledge of it,’’ Sutton said.
“Because of them proceeding in that
manner, it caused him to escape us.
If they had notified us first before all
that, we would have picked him up
and had the charge filed prior to their
proceeding.’’

‘He was alerted by what they were
doing that there were criminal
charges [imminent] against him,”’
Sutton added.

When student or University of-
ficials handle a_ potential crime
— particularly a felony — as an
honor or administrative matter prior
to reporting it to civil authorities,
Sutton said, they ‘‘could become in-
volved in either [the] compounding
or misprisioning [concealing] of a
felony, or they could be in jeopardy of
possible obstruction of justice.”

Sutton said that if a University
body failed to cooperate with police
in the investigation of a possible
crime, the prosecution of students or
administrators on such charges is ‘‘a

()See EC, Page 5

European
programs
canceled

By BILL BLOOM
Staff Reporter

 

 

About 40 students came home
early from their European spring
term abroad programs after
Washington and Lee called the
students back to protect them
from possible retaliation for the
U.S. raid on Libya last week.

Dean of the College John W.
Elrod conferred with President
John D. Wilson, the faculty
members organizing the abroad
programs, and an _ unidentified
person in the State Department
before the decision was made to
cancel the programs.

“The risk of harm to our
students was too great,’’ Elrod
said this week. ‘‘We couldn't con-
clude that it would be safe for our
students.”

There are six spring term
abroad programs — five in
Europe and one in Taiwan. The
five that were canceled were
located in London, Paris, Madrid,
Athens and Bayreuth, Germany.

Students whose programs have
been in progress since the winter
term were not affected.

The 39 students who returned
are being allowed to register for
other classes without paying the
$5 drop/add fee

Music Professor Gordon P.
Spice, who was in Europe with the
Glee Club during break, said the
students he was with never felt
any danger and were received
well wherever they went.

Local travel agents said this
week that they aren’t receiving
many cancellations but are advis-
ing travelers that they might want
to consider areas other than
Europe

“Questions have been asked by
travelers,’ though, said Jane Pur-
vis of Travel Unlimited

 

 

 
OPINION
Think again

The University Council is designed to give students an involve-
ment in the University governmental process ... It serves as an of-
ficial intermediary between students, faculty and administration,
and as a sounding board for ideas brought by students and facul-
ty ... (It) serves as the highest authority over student affairs.”

— Student Handbook 1985-86, pp. 6-7.

 

“...(The Student Affairs Committee) is responsible for the
establishment of parietal rules in dormitories, for all matters
relating to fraternities and for the hearing of appeals from deci-
sions of the Student Control Committee. It acts upon recommen-
dations of the Judicial Board of the Interfraternity Council ... In
essence, the Committee has authority for all noncurricular mat-
ters affecting student life at the University.”

— Student Handbook 1985-86, p. 13.

The University Council’s desire to abolish itself seems on
the surface to be an idea whose time has come. Few students
know what the UC does, and even fewer try to get elected to
one of its 12 students positions. What purpose the UC serves
seems lost somewhere along the line.

Looks, however, can be deceiving.

The recent move by the UC to petition the faculty to
dissolve the UC and to restructure the Student Affairs Com-
mittee to incorporate some UC functions does not appear to
be the answer to the Council’s relative obscurity.

The UC was created to improve communication between
students and administartion at a time when suspicions of in-
tentions between the two groups were running high. ‘“They”’
never seemed to consider ‘‘our’”’ position, and ‘‘we’’ never
had a chance to argue ‘“‘our’’ points before ‘‘them,” the
arguement went.

The UC was designed to ease that breakdown in com-
munication. By meeting regularly, students and faculty
could make decisions with more ease. Over the years,
though, the UC began to take on fewer and seemingly more
trivial topics. The suspicions that existed began to crumble,
and the student interest in improving a system that was
already working never seemed to gel.

So when the UC proposes its own demise, we aren’t surpris-
ed. In an age when the existence of any organization is
prefaced by the need for it or the service it will provide, as
well as its cost-effectiveness, the UC would seemingly
deserve to fall by the way.

But should it? .

Looking at its purposes as described above, we would say
no. There is always some aspect of University business that
deserves student input, although ‘‘they” usually don’t want
to hear what ‘‘we”’ think. Outside of the Executive Commit-
tee and this newspaper, there are few, if any, other forums
through which ‘‘an exchange of ideas on critical issues facing
the University”’ may take place in an official forum. In that
sense, we ought to keep the UC alive. Its focus ought to be
redefined, allowing it to take on some of the long-term studies
that recently have been delegated to special committees set
up by the president to address a pressing concern. But to
abolish the UC out of hand is a drastic measure.

To follow the UC’s recommendation, however, and restruc-
ture SAC membership to allow for greater student participa-
tion in lieu of continuing with the UC seems inappropriate on
some counts. The current proposal for adding three elected
positions and dropping the seats by the president of the IFC,
chairman of the SCC and head dormitory counselor is a poor
suggestion for many reasons.

SAC stands primarily as a group to review the decisions of
the SCC regarding behavioral conduct offenses. They either
concur with the SCC’s verdict and sentence or they recom-
mend an alternative. To eliminate him or her from any such
discussion would not promote stability within an already
weak disciplinary process.

The same can be said for the elimination of the seat held by
the IFC president. He is there to explain the concerns of the
fraternities in certain decisions, and because SAC is charged
with reviewing all IFC Judicial Board decisions and matters
relating to the fraternities here at Washington and Lee, not to
have the IFC president would hardly result in a fair hearing
for the issue. His presence certainly seems invaluable.

The only person whose membership on the SAC seems ex-
pendable is the head dormitory counselor. His particular ex-
pertise in any given case before the SCC is minimal, given
the nature of his job and the experience it brings.

So why change these three positions to allow for ‘“‘at-large’”’
members? Some say that ‘‘factions’”’ (a codeword for frater-
nities, one might guess) within the University are currently
over-represented. Would ‘‘at-large’”’ elections correct that
imbalance? Three student offices currently elected by the
whole student body — EC president, vice-president and
secretary — are scheduled to be filled by three fraternity
members next year.

If the concern is that few students have input into faculty
and administration decisions, does a change in SAC member-
ship really change the voice with which students might col-
lectively speak?

The answer to the UC’s relative ineffectiveness does not lie
in merely doing away with the body. Changing, or at least
sharpening, its focus seems a much more rational move.
Broadening the area of its concern and opening its discus-
sions to include other more pressing discussions might, in the
future, render the UC a body with — at least — a purpose.

 
 

= =
e King-tum Phi

NEWS STAFF

BIIVOIIS ik iit ei lida Mike Allen

FRE gone ob cc seccestecsnteriouscriessyectanesescaneiiiecsves Paul Foutch
Jim Strader

te Reade Williams

eich sls Wi ini Mike Stachura

PON aiid abs cock caked oes 04s A aa Te dance tenis Jason Lisi

Photography Editor coeccessccccne cece Ove Baler

ee ee Matt Horridge

WOOTTON TRIE. goog ccc ccc cee hac encccsessrececsinerciss Marshall Boswell

ARUN 6c ies a GEG David Emrich

EDITORIAL PAGE

TEMP IAT OGG ANCE ow... ec ects ses inenscessies ccteccsces MOMGRPAUEIDOR

Assistant Editorial Page Editor... .... 2.0.6.6 6.60 c cee ceedeecccesees ++ Marie Kothman

err ee ee Chris Bowring

BUSINESS STAFF

MI nee 0a a ices Jeff Kimbell

ne ee Hank Greenberg

a a as ois iis oo tate vend John Feyrer, Keri Hinrichs,

Jay Reville, Greg Turley
Se Matt Horridge

 

Page 2, The Ring-tum Phi, April 24, 1986

 

 

 

(C73
I’ History...”

 

 

‘~~

qn

Libyan raid creates greater insecurity —

 

MY VIEW

By Tom Maguire

 

After last week’s air raid by the
United States on Libya, I am bother-
ed by a nagging question: What the
hell was the United States attempting
to accomplish? As far as I can tell,
the only positive effect has been to
make Americans feel that Khadafy
was finally getting some of his own
medicine.

Can Americans really think that
hitting a few Libyans will put an end
to Libyan-sponsored terrorism? This
is ostensibly what President Reagan
was trying to do, but anyone who
believes the raid will serve this pur-
pose is hopelessly naive. Already two
British citizens and an American
have been killed in retaliation for the
raid, and this is just the beginning.
Most observers expect terrorist in-
cidents in Europe to increase this
summer (this is why W&L decided to
cancel the ‘‘spring term abroad”’ pro-
grams this year), and I think 1986
will see more victims of terrorism
than any other year. The Libyan raid
will prove to have sparked many acts
of terrorism, and quelled none.

Americans should have another
worry brought on by the raid. For the
first time, we have been responsible
for the deaths of innocent civilians
(and no one can doubt that some vic-

tims of the raid were guilty only of
residing in Libya) on Libyan soil. It
would not surprise me if Colonel Kha-
dafy responded by moving his terror-
ist activities from Europe to Ameri-
ca. The American people will regret
last week’s bombs if LaGuardia and
O’Hare airports explode instead of
those in Rome or Vienna.

We have seen what America hoped
to accomplish, and what is likely to
be the result. If the bombing was a
mistake, what should we have done?
It seems to me the Reagan adminis-
tration had to decide whether Khada-
fy was (and is) a dangerous lunatic
who threatened world peace and the
national security of the United
States, or was/is he merely an annoy-
ing pest who should be swatted.
away? If Khadafy is just a pest, why
bomb Libya? If he is a dangerous
lunatic, why not attempt some mili-
tary measure guaranteed to remove
him from power? One could claim
that the American raid was intended
to remove Khadafy, but if so, the raid
can only be viewed as a miserable
failure.

If the United States believes that
Khadafy threatens American na-
tional security, it must go into Libya
and get him. Either we would arrest
him or he would end up on the much
talked about “Ex-dictators Island”
(where presumably he could remi-
nisce on the good-old-days of repres-
sion and Swiss bank accounts with
Baby Doc Duvalier and the Mar-
coses, )

ing), or he could drop a few bombs (a
few symbols, if you will) on Libya,
just to show that ‘America can’t be
pushed around.”’ These bombs serv-
ed to aggrandize Ronald Reagan’s

Of course, an attempt to arrest
Khadafy would require a full-scale
invasion of Libya which might prove
more costly than Americans would
tolerate. Ronald Reagan has obvious-

ly not yet amassed the requisite for- personal prestige, boost his ratings in

titude to order a drastic action such the popularity polls and give the

as this. American people the impression that
the United States had acted decisive- |

Not wishing to expose his ad-
ministration to the risks an invasion
would entail, President Reagan was
left with a choice. He could continue
his old policy (calling Khadafy
names, but essentially doing noth-

ly to halt Libyan terrorism. The Li-
byan raid was an ineffective exercise
of~ America’s military might and
Ronald Reagan’s ego. Anyone who
sees it otherwise is _ tragically

mistaken.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘Prairie Panic’ at W&L peeves law student

To the editors:

The grimly funny resemblances between
Washington Hall and the U.S. State Department
have long been a source of wry amusement to
me. Both are, as a rule, confused, self-righteous,
leaderless and totally bereft of any sense of
history. But only last week did Washington Hall
finally confuse itself with the Foggy Bottom
Boys. On Tuesday or Wednesday of last week,
the Midwest Mafia issued, over President Wil-
son’s signature, a ‘‘traveler’s advisory” for W&L
citizens — sorry, students — traveling in Europe.
Well, really, isn’t this pushing it just a bit?

In the first place, despite Third World reaction
to the Navy and Air Force’s program of urban
renewal for downtown Tripoli, there is nothing
yet to suggest that Americans abroad are in
greater danger than before. If there were such a
suggestion, the Department of State would have
done something about it. But it is emphatically
the province of the Department of State to make
these decisions — certainly not that-of the in-
tellectually cloistered Cornhuskers who now
work at W&L. Moreover, the whole purpose of
U.S. action against the (mis)government of
Libya was to prevent future terror, regardless of
its sponsor state, by demonstrating the truth of
its consequences, It is too early to say that this
has worked, true; but it is also too early to say it
must, inevitably, backfire. Yet this is precisely
what the Prairie Panic means. Having long ob-
served, with horrified fascination, the workings
(or otherwise) of the liberal academic mind, I
rather wonder which was more firm: the panic
of those who ordered the students back, or their
refusal to accept the notion of deterrence simply
because it was the Reagan administration's no-
tion.

But more worrisome is the element of compul-
sion. Let us assume the noblest motivations in
the “‘return order.’’ Let us assume a true con-
cern, on the part of those who issued it, for the
safety of students for whom they feel responsi-
ble. Even so, it was wrong to use the academic
credit system to force students to return against
their wishes, The State Department after all, has
not required their return. And it’s philosophical-
ly incommensurate to suggest that students who
may be trusted to manage this Honor System
cannot make their own decisions as to foreign
study. But that, of course, is the problem. There
are those in Washington Hall who do not yet re-

cognize that they are no longer at some State
University on the Platte; nor does their ideology
predispose them to learn the distinction. And so
we stumble on, and another link to past princi-

ples snaps. Harumph.
Cordially,
Markham S. Pyle ’84, ’88L

Chairman Guerriero calls
SAB stories misleading

To the editors:

If we are to take the three latest articles on the
Student Activities Board as an indication of the
journalistic quality and accuracy of The Ring-
tum Phi, then you might as well distribute your
publication at Safeway next to The Globe, The
Star and The National Enquirer.

In the Jan. 30 article, The Phi apparently judg-
ed unfair a policy of admitting board members to
SAB events that they worked on. The March 30
report alluded to all of the ‘“‘problems’’ that sup-
posedly plagued Fancy Dress. Finally, the most
recent account discussed the grave ‘‘losses”’ the
SAB had incurred on Fancy Dress and the Vio-
lent Femmes concert.

Now if one were to review these articles, one
would surely come away with a misconception of
what the SAB has accomplished this year. In
each of the articles your supposedly reputable
reporters have taken casual interviews with SAB
board members and notes from EC meetings and
edited them to fit your own misconceived views
of the SAB. The Phi has taken quotations out of
context and dramatized standard events and
policies, creating a form of “Fairy Tale Jour-
nalism.”’ And quite frankly, I’m fed up with it.

If your reporters had taken the time to recog-
nize what are very traditional admission policies
and minor problems, as well as standard losses
inherent in the operation of the SAB, and then
given them due importance, you could have

never misrepresented our organization.

To set the record straight to faculty; students
and alumni, the SAB, has had one of its best
years recent history. We have had numerous and
well-received concerts, on top of what was con-
sidered a very successful Fancy Dress, and plan
to have two more concerts in the spring.

Financially, due to much more efficient man-
agement of both the organization and its funds,’
we are expecting to return to the student body
funds in excess of $10,000.

I hope in the future the Phi staff will portray
events surrounding the SAB in their proper light
and contexts.

Mike Guerriero
Chairman, Student Activities Board

UVa students want apology

Reprinted by permission of the Cavalier Daily.

An open letter to Washington and Lee Univer-
sity and President Wilson:

As spectators attending the Virginia-
Washington and Lee lacrosse game this past
Saturday [March 22], we were shocked and
disgusted by the vulgarity displayed by certain
members of your student body.

Throughout the game, these extremely drunk-
en, obnoxious young men verbally abused both
Virginia players and fans with a vocabulary of
certain four-letter words which obviously show-
ed the breadth of their learning. After the game
was over, we and the others around us were
treated to their urinating as a group on the Scott
Stadium field.

We truly feel sorry for those parents in the
crowd with children who no doubt received a
wonderful and enlightening education from your
students on this memorable afternoon. The im-
pression of your university we all now have is un-
forgettable. It was without question the worst
afternoon of our lives.

We feel we speak for the whole University
community in demanding an apology for this
thoroughly deplorable series of incidents. In the
future, if your students cannot conduct them-
selves in a proper manner, please have them
stay on that side of Afton Mountain.

Marc A. Hogan

Scott A. Sandridge

Graduate School of Arts and Sciences I
University of Virginia

 

 

a &

“a =
gy amma
a
A®
¢

NEWS

The Ring-tum Phi, April 24, 1986

 

‘Lexington to clean itself up Saturday

 

By DANATHA HOFFMAN
Staff Reporter

 

A city-wide effort to clean up Lex-
ington will take place on Saturday,
but previous engagements may keep

‘ many Washington and Lee students
. from participating in the event,

~

gy 4

according to some of its organizers.

The Clean Lexington Committee,
part of the Downtown Lexington
Association, is sponsoring the first
“Clean Lexington Day,” according to
Chairman Trish Roberts.

But Bobby Fitts, a W&L senior who
has helped organize a canned food
drive for the area poor, says many
students are already planning to go
to the Hollins College Cotillion or the
Foxfield races this weekend.

‘What I’m going to do is call all the
fraternity presidents and get them to
clean up all around their houses Sat-
urday morning,” Fitts said yester-
day.

He is also planning to leave his
Cotillion date at Hollins on Saturday
to organize W&L’s effort in the event.
Students can gather at the Lexington
Visitors’ Center at 2 p.m. to march
through town and pick up litter.

Fitts is urging students to par-
ticipate, not just to clean up the com-
munity, but to give something back
toit.

“I have an infatuation with Lex-
ington,”’ Fitts said, adding that there
might be some resentment among
Lexingtonians for W&L_ students,
who are seen as part of the litter pro-
blem.

‘“They’re very serious about it, but
they’re not irate,’’ he said.

According to Roberts, the general
intent of the day is to clean up the
community and to make Lexington-
ians aware of the litter problem.

The committee is funded by the
Department of Virginia Litter Con-
trol and annually receives a $3,000
grant for community projects.

This local effort is part of a state-
wide program for April titled ‘Keep
Virginia Clean’’ and the national
Clean America Program.

Members of the committee took a
litter survey by walking through Lex-
ington. They concluded that “im-
properly contained trash’’ was the
most prevalent problem.

Roberts cited Lee Avenue as a ma-
jor problem, noting that there are
several fraternities and some student
housing along this road.

‘A general feeling is definitely that
W&L students contribute a major
part of litter to the city,’’ she said.

Many students aren’t conscious
about the amount of litter they
generate, Roberts said, addding that

Guerriero: SAB

may return $10,000
to EC at end of year

“=== —§- Moreover, Guerriero said the SAB

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Entertainment Editor

 

Student Activities Board Chairman

» Mike Guerriero said the SAB is doing

“very well’ this year, despite the
$10,000 loss on student events that his
organization reported to the Ex-
ecutive Committee three weeks ago.

The SAB reported a loss of $5,460 on
Fancy Dress weekend and $4,900 on
the March 15 Violent Femmes con-

, cert.

a

“2

Guerriero said this loss was to be
expected because the job of the SAB
is to subsidize entertainment, not to
fund it completely.

‘* ‘Subsidize’ is a good word,”
Guerriero said. He explained that the
SAB received $44,000 from the EC at
the beginning of the year to help pay
for expenses.

‘That was how we can afford to br-

‘ ing in above-normal, quality enter-

~

—_=

tainment — like R.E.M. or the Ro-
mantics,’’ Guerriero said.

Since it would be impractical, ac-

* cording to Guerriero, to charge $15
_ for a concert ticket at Washington

and Lee, the SAB is able to sign big-
name acts and charge a low ticket

, price by subsidizing the extra ex-
/ pense with the money received from

student taxes.

He used the R.E.M. show as an ex-
ample. It cost $21,000 to put on the
show, yet the SAB could sell only
2,000 tickets. Since these tickets were
$10 each, there remained about $1,000

. to cover. This is where the extra SAB

mone 's used

should have enough money at the end
of the year to pay back the $10,000
lost by last year’s SAB.

“We're going to have $10,000 left
over,” he said. ‘‘Normally, we could
just blow it, but we decided that we
are going to put it back into the
reserve fund,’’ Guerriero said.

This year the SAB has been keep-
ing careful records and budgeted the
year properly, according to Guer-
riero. They originally planned on
breaking even at Fancy Dress, but
ran into a series of unexpected ex-
penses.

Guerriero maintained, however,
that in the past, no decent records
were kept, which meant that each
new SAB staff had to guess how much
to spend on Fancy Dress and other
SAB-sponsored functions. Now that a
budget has been attempted, he said,
“Next year they shouldn’t lose
anything.”

Again, Guerriero emphasized that
the $5,000 loss incurred at Fancy
Dress was an expense the students
didn’t pay for directly, but rather
was covered by EC money.

In addition, Guerriero said the SAB
has been putting on the right concerts
and attracting people.

“Everything that came our way
that was good and that we could af-
ford, we got,” he said.

The process of signing acts is sub-
ject to what bands are touring in the
area, Guerriero explained. His book-
ing agent normally signs the acts in
conjunction with performances at

 

 

 

 

Trash piles up outside a building in Lexington

it was hard getting the message
across to the students and motivating
them to participate in community ac-
tivity.

Lorraine Ennis at the Chamber of
Commerce remarked that the basic
idea was awareness and to encour-
age clean-up.

The committee is hoping that the
first day will encourage and inspire
the community. The committee is a

 

MIKE GUERRIERO

Jame" Madison University in Har-
risonburg; and the’ University of
Virgittia in Charlottesville, among
other area schools. Thus, the artist
might play one or more schools in the
same area on the same weekend.

“I’m called by my booking agent
and he tells me, ‘They're coming
through,’ ’’ Guerriero said. ‘‘We talk
to people around campus to get an
idea how the band would go over and
then we either put in an offer or bag
it.’

Guerriero said that, due to sched-
uling problems, the SAB has had to
turn down offers from acts such as
Modern English, the Alarm and Sim-
ple Minds. Others, such as John Caf-
ferty and the Beaver Brown Band,
were rejected due to lack of student
interest.

Upcoming events include a spring
concert on the Colonnade set for May
17 featuring Heinsohn and Day. In
addition, efforts are underway to
schedule a fall concert during frater-
nity rush in order to bring the whole
student body together.

“The first semester, we budgeted
roughly half ($20,000) of the money
given us, and only spent $15,000. So
we're doing well. We're making
money while providing diverse enter-
tainment. All that comes from is
good budgeting,’ Guerriero said.

long-term one, and the Lexington
Chamber of Commerce will most
likely be overseeing the state grant,
she said.

On Saturday the city will be divid-
ed into groups, and volunteers will
spend an hour or so picking up the

garbage. In addition to W&L
students, volunteers will be the Boys
Club, Boy Scouts, Brownies, Girl
Scouts and VMI cadets.

 

By SIMON PEREZ
Staff Reporter

 

 

What makes a sane man pay hun-
dreds of dollars for a hammer?

A panel discussion on the defense
procurement practices to be held in
Lee Chapel all day tomorrow will try
to answer that question.

The importance of the topi¢’Ties

mainly in the fact that procurement -

consumes over 1% of the $300 billion
Department of Defense budget, ac-
cording to the Congressional Budget
Office.

“Scandals in the last four to five
years have shown that the procure-
ment process has gotten out of
hand,’ Journalism Professor Clark
R. Mollenhoff said.

Mollenhoff, who has investigated
problems of the procurement pro-

=

Pe

 

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

Improperly contained trash is one of the problems

Procurement called
top budget concern

cess, added that ‘‘disregard for con-
flict of interest laws made it difficult
for the DOD to get effective bidding
processes.”’

The discussion panel comprises
seven men who Mollenhoff said he
thinks will present a “good, balanc-
ed’’ discussion of the topic and allow
students to “hear every view of the
procurement problem.”

Among ‘those panelists will be
Undersecretary of the Army James
R. Ambrose, Assistant Secretary of
the Navy Everett Pyatt and US.
Reps. Denny Smith, R-Ore., and
James Kolbe, R-Ariz.

A spokesman for Pyatt, Lt. Col.
Jose Alonzo, said the discussion will
give the Navy a ‘great opportunity to
present its views to a different au-
dience.”’

Alonzo agreed that the procure-
ment issue is the ‘‘most important

Faculty vote to decide

 

By DANIEL BUNCH
Staff Reporter

 

The University Council passed a
motion at its April 2 meeting that
may lead to its dissolution. The facul-
ty will have to approve the decision
at its May 5 meeting.

Some confusion resulted from the
UC vote because some members, in-
cluding Executive Committee Presi-
dent John Lewis and Vice President
Andrew Caruthers, thought the UC
had the power to dissolve itself and
didn’t need faculty approval.

According to UC Chairman David
Sprunt, changes have to be made in

 

NEWS BRIEFS

the makeup of the Student Affairs
Committee before the UC can be
disbanded.

Last year’s SAC was given what us-
ed to be the UC’s responsibility of
hearing appeals from the Student
Control Committees and the Inter-
fraternity Council.

SAC is currently made up of the
presidents of the student body, the
Student Bar Association President,
the chairman of the SCC, the presi-
dent of the IFC, the head dormitory
counselor, two deans and _ three
elected faculty members.

The proposed changes would
replace the heads of the IFC, SCC
and the dorm counselors with three

Senft defeats Pyle to become first woman EC member

item as the budget process is being
scrutinized by Congress.”

Alonzo said the ‘‘taxpayer is get-
ting his or her money’s worth
through the Navy,”’ and that all the
bad press the Defense Department
has gotten about $500 hammers and
$700 coffee pots actually only
represents a ‘small percentage”’ of
the spending the department does.

While Alonzo added that the Navy
is “trying to get the most out of its
money,”’ Mollenhoff countered by
saying that ‘‘conflicts of interest be-
tween the defense industries and the
DOD have permeated the whole
system.”

A 10:30 a.m. discussion tomorrow
will inspect the problems in the pro-
curement process, and a 2 p.m. dis-
cussion will exploreX\possible solu-
tions in the future. The public is in-
vited.

UC’s fate

elected members.

At Monday’s EC meeting, Sprunt
said the heads of the SCC and the IFC
now have the power to vote twice on
cases: when they come before their
committees and again when they are
appealed to the SAC. According to
the UC proposal, the SCC chairman
and IFC president would remain on
SAC as non-voting members.

Sprunt said of the UC, ‘‘When it
was first started, it was pretty vital,
but recently it’s had powers dele-
gated away from it.”

Other problems that Sprunt noted
were that ‘‘not too many of the people
on the committee want to be there’’
and ‘‘the committee is too large.”’

 

Staff Reports

 

First-year law student Louise P. Senft defeated
classmate Markham S. Pyle in an election for next
year’s law school Executive Committee representa-
tives, becoming the first woman to serve on the com-
mittee.

Second-year law student James N.L. Humphreys de-
feated incumbent representative William D. Thompson
for the post of third year representative next year.

Second-year student Dayton P. Haigney III of Way-
land, Mass., was elected president of the Student Bar
Association, the official who presides over student body
honor hearings, commonly known as ‘open honor
trials.”’

Senft lives in Lexington with her husband, William W.
Senft, this year’s first-year law representative to the
EC. He did not seek re-election but was voted SBA
treasurer.

Pyle, from Crosby, Texas, graduated from the Com-
merce School in 1984.

Student Bar Association President Julie L. Gregory
declined to release a numerical breakdown of the April
11 runoff vote.

Humphreys, of Wise, Va., graduated from the Com-
merce School in 1984 and was a member of Chi Psi
social fraternity. Thompson, of Boca Raton, Fla.,
graduated from the College in 1984 and was a member
of Phi Kappa Psi.
election results, student

In other second-year

Cartledge of Lexington was voted SBA vice president
and classmate David N. Baker of Baltimore was
elected SBA secretary.

Wendy’s reports sign theft

A sign was taken Sunday from the Wendy’s fast food
restaurant on East Nelson Street. A Wendy's employee
reported that a man who appeared to be a student took
the sign, valued at $100, on his way out of the
restaurant.

Ring-tum Phi editors win awards

Ring-tum Phi Executive Editor Mike Allen and
Sports Editor Mike Stachura recently won two jour-
nalism awards.

Stachura received a $300 scholarship for a sixth-place
award in the Hearst Foundation’s Sportswriting com-
petition. A matching grant has also been awarded to
Washington and Lee.

Allen won second place in the spot news category at
the Society of Professional Journalists’ Region 2 Con
ference last weekend.

Former senator to teach at W&L

Former U.S. Sen. William B. Spong Jr. will teach a
course next fall on the subject of law and society with
special attention to legal ethics

The seminar, which will be open to juniors and
seniors, will cover such topics as the history and

de ‘opment of professional codes for lawyers, exter-
nal pressures on the American legal profession and
alternatives to adversary systems for resolving
disputes.

Spong retired this year from the deanship of the
Marshall-Wythe School of Law at William and Mary. He
was appointed dean in 1976 following a career of public
service in the Virginia House of Delegates and the U.S.
Senate.

He has taught at the Woodrow Wilson Center of the
University of Virginia School of Law and at the Univer-
sity of Richmond, and he serves on the Board of Visitors
of the U.S. Air Force Academy and the Naval Academy

A graduate of Hampden-Sydney College and the Uni-
versity of Virginia, he is a member of Phi Beta Kappa,
the Order of the Coif, Phi Alpha Delta, and Phi Kappa
Alpha.

SAB to show rafting slides

A slide presentation on whitewater rafting will be
shown tonight as a preview to the Student Activities
Board’s May 4 rafting trip, which can be signed up for
at the presentation.

Thomas Wagner, general manager of North Ameri
can River Runners, which will guide the rafters on their
trip down the New River, will make the presentation
tonight at 7 in the Student Center.

The normally $68-per-person trip will cost $44 per per
son and is open to anyone. Senior John McCaffery, who
is organizing the trip with the SAB, said about 20 people
have expressed interest in the trip, and a tentative limit

of 35 has been set, although that could be increased to 70
if there is enough interest.

Interested students must attend tonight's slide show
to pay a deposit fee, McCaffery said.

A bus will leave for the New River at 7:30 a.m., Sun
day, May 4, and will return around 9 p.m. Lunch will be
provided, as will wet suits if the water is cold. Kegs will
be offered after the rafting. No rafting experience is
necessary.

Eight-person rafts will make the 15-mile trip down the
New River with one professional guide per raft

Seniors receive ROTC honors

Art Kandarian, a senior from Cumberland, R.1., was
awarded the university saber as the recipient of the
Washington and Lee Corps of Cadets Outstanding Cadet
Award as elected by the members of W&L’s ROTC unit

Kandarian received the saber from University Presi
dent John D. Wilson during the annual ROTC Presi
dent’s Day Awards Ceremony in Lee Chapel on Wednes
day, April 2

Senior Ken Lindeman of Atlanta, Ga., won the Major
Ronald O. Scharnberg Memorial Award, presented to
the cadet who most nearly typifies the Washington and
Lee tradition of the citizen-soldier-scholar. The award
is presented in memory of Maj. Ronald Oliver Scharn
berg, a 1963 W&L graduate who was killed in action

Senior P.J. lerardi of Philadelphia, Pa., received the
George C. Marshall ROTC Award as the cadet who de
monstrates the leadership and scholastic qualities that
epitomized Gen. Marshall's career

 

 
Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, April 24, 1986

 

Worldwide
discussion
to air here

 

Staff Report

 

A former member of the National
Security Council, the director
general of the International Atomic
Energy Agency and a defense ad-
viser to the British government will
be among the panelists in five coun-
tries for a live, satellite video con-
ference that will be shown at Wash-
ington and Lee Saturday.

The program, which was organized
by The Christian Science Monitor in
an effort to identify and discuss “the
major issues confronting mankind in
the remainder of the 20th century,”
can be seen from 1 to 4 p.m. in the
Northen Auditorium of the Universi-
ty Library.

Called ‘‘The Role of the Broadcast
Media in Reporting Major World
Issues,” the symposium will include
presentations on East-West rela-
tions, terrorism, relations between
the two hemispheres and the impact
of technology on the future.

Following the satellite program, a
discussion will be moderated by
Journalism Professor John K. Jen-
nings, the chairman of the Jour-
nalism and Communications Depart-
ment, which is sponsoring the pre-
sentation.

Anchoring the video conference
from Boston are Rob Nelson, the
Monitor's editor of television broad-
casting; Earl Foell, the Monitor’s
editor in chief; Richard Nennemann,
the Monitor’s director of publishing;
and John Parrot, the Monitor’s ex-
ecutive producer of radio broadcast-
ing.

From Vienna, “The East-West
Confrontation” will be discussed by:
Elizabeth Pond, the Monitor’s Bonn
correspondent and author of a book
on the Soviet Union, where she for-
merly was stationed; Dr. Hans Blix,
director general of the International
Atomic Energy Agency; and Richard
C. Hottelet, long-time CBS News
United Nations correspondent.

From Ditchley Park, England,
‘Ambient Violence, Low-Level Con-
flicts and Terrorism” will be covered
by: David Winder, the Monitor’s
United Kingdom correspondent; Lin-
coln Bloomfield, political science
professor at the Massachusetts In-
stitute of Technology and former
deputy assistant secretary of state
and former member of the National
Security Council; and Brigadier Ken-
neth Hunt, defense commentator for
the British Broadcasting Corporation
and defense adviser to the British
government.

In Brasilia, Brazil, ‘‘Relations Be-
tween Countries of the Northern and
Southern Hemispheres”’ will be the
topic for: David Willis, the Monitor’s
senior international television cor-
respondent and former Monitor
Third World correspondent, and
Georgie Anne Geyer, a syndicated
columnist, ‘‘Washington Week in
Review” panelist and former cor-
respondent in Asia, Latin America
and Africa.

And Kyoto, Japan, will be the site
for a discussion on “‘The Uses and
Misuses of Science and Technology”’
among: Takashi Oka, a Monitor
overseas correspondent stationed in
Tokyo and formerly based in Peking,
Moscow, Paris and London; former
NBC News correspondent Edwin
Newman; Eugene Skolnikoff, MIT
political science professor and direc-
tor of the school’s Center for Interna-
tional Studies and former White
House science policy adviser; and
Tokyo University sociology professor
Chie Nakane.

Private Counseling
(2 blocks from campus)

relationships
work overload

Call for information

Lorae L. McDonald, L.C.S.W.

7 463-4927 or
i 348-5020

i
: Stress management
4

 

NOW

J

 

 

 

 

 

By Hank Mayer/The Ring-tum Phi

Students in the recent phonathon attend a thank-you party

Contributions above average
yet lagging behind leaders.

 

By TIM RICHARDSON
Staff Reporter

 

The percentage of Washington and
Lee alumni who contribute to the
University’s Annual Fund lags
behind schools recognized as leading
the nation in alumni contribution
rates as well as at two neighboring
women’s colleges. But W&L’s par-
ticipation rate is still above the na-
tional average, according to W&L
development officials.

In any single year, an average of 38
‘percent of W&L alumni make a con-
tribution to the Annual Fund. An
advertisement in the Janu-
uary/February issue of the alumni
magazine lists eight schools with
over 50 percent contribution rates.
Five of those had percentages over
60.

Of the other schools listed, the
percentages of alumni contributing
to similar funds ranged from a low of
52 percent at Middlebury College to
Williams College’s high of 66 percent.
Also included were Amherst, Bow-
doin, Hamilton, Pomona and Swarth-
more colleges and Wesleyan Univer-
sity. ;

The Annual Fund accounts for
about 10 percent of the University’s
operating budget that pays for day-
to-day expenses. Money in the fund
comes from contributions not only
from alumni, but also from parents
and friends of the University.

Mollenhoff studies Soviet media

 

By PETER BOATNER
Staff Reporter

 

While the rest of us were sunning in
Florida or sitting at home with the
parents, Journalism Professor Clark
R. Mollenhoff spent the break in a
different climate — the Soviet Union,
where he was part of a group looking
into the role of the news media there.

“Everyone should plan a trip to
Russia before April 15, because then
you'll pay your taxes willingly,’’ jok-
ed Mollenhoff, who returned from his
12-day trip on April 14.

Although the climate in the Soviet
Union is as cold temperature-wise as
it is for a free press, Mollenhoff said
he thinks the system has become a
little more open in recent years.

Mollenhoff visited Russia as a
member of the Georgetown Group,
an international organization of
editors, publishers and reporters,
most of whom are politically conser-
vative.

Other members of the group in-
cluded former U.S. ambassador
Douglas MacArthur II and former
Washington governor Dixie Lee Ray,
as well as various television and
print journalists from several coun-
tries.

Mollenhoff is a former Pulitzer
Prize-winning investigative reporter
for The Des Moines Register.

The Georgetown Group met in

 

Drugs

 

0 Continued from Page 1

a situation for which they: were un-
prepared.

Mann said later that motions such
as Read’s and one Mann made ear-
lier in the day are more common in
district court, where proceedings are
less formal than they are in higher
courts.

depression
anxiety
loneliness

BEING

= ACCEPTED

  

FPO 0 0 DD ao

for

Moscow with the heads of the Soviet
news agency Tass, the newspaper
Pravda and Moscow Radio and TV.

The group also spoke with
American officials at the embassy in
Moscow, traveled to Leningrad for
discussions with American officials
there, and traveled to Tbilisi, the
capital of Soviet Georgia near the
Caspian Sea. Mollenhoff was escort-
ed by a travel guide at all times,
though he could have traveled by
himself.

Mollenhoff was in the Soviet Union
for one month in 1961 and thinks that
“things had improved just a little
bif.”’

He also thinks new Soviet leader
Mikhail Gorbachev has not really af-
fected the system there.

“Gorbachev has changed the
rhetoric, but his basic goals and
views are the same. He came out of
the system. He is, though, a little
more open, a little more articulate.”

This new openness, Mollenhoff
thinks, is reflected in the fact that
Soviet media leaders will now talk
openly with the Western press. This
represents ‘‘a step forward.”

The Soviet journalists, including
one man introduced as ‘‘the Russian
Walter Cronkite,” openly admit that
their country has no freedom of the
press, says Mollenhoff.

“They view their role as an in-
strumentality for the government,
and they feel a responsibility to help

Mann entered a motion to suppress
evidence obtained by the Lexington
Police Department in what Mann
said was a “warrantless search”’ of
the apartment of Michaud and Cul-
nane. Mann said Hess agreed to hear
that motion as part of the prelimi-
nary hearing.

Lexington police officers had
several bags in court Tuesday con-
taining evidence in the case that
earlier had been identified as a
plastic bag containing less than half
an ounce of marijuana and drug par-

FED EE ED ED 0 ED ED ED) EP () EP () ED)

-Students-

Don't forget your moms on their
Gift boxes
homemade candies (1 lb.) can be
sent to your mom and arrive in
time for Mother’s Day along with
a card signed by you. May 2nd is
the last day to order.

special day.

| | | | | | EM

make its programs work. This means
not criticizing, but praising every
program to keep up public morale.”

This is exactly opposed to the
American media’s view of their duty,
says Mollenhoff.

“These people are not lacking in in-
telligence, but they have seen that to
rise in the system, there is one line to
take and anything else would be self-
destructive and futile.”’

As an example of the party line,
Mollenhoff noted that his tour guide
in Tbilisi announced that Svetlana
Alliluyeva, former Soviet leader
Josef Stalin’s daughter, who return-
ed to the Soviet Union in 1984 after 17
years in the United States, gwas
perfectly happy in Russia and living
with her family. Only a few days
later, though, Alliluyeva returned to
the West, partly, she said, because
she was unable to get along with her
family.

As for the conditions in Russia,
Mollenhoff noted, ‘“‘You don’t see
anyone who is spontaneously happy,
except for the children. Leningrad is
a little more relaxed than Moscow,
and Tbilisi is a great deal more relax-
ed .... There you would even see a few
smiles.”’

Mollenhoff says the insights he
gained from the trip will be used in
his classes, and as background for a
book he is currently writing on the
British press.

aphernalia, which police have said
includes ‘‘a couple of bongs and a
couple of pipes.”

No date was set Tuesday for the
continuation of the preliminary hear-
ing, which was postponed twice from
the original date of February.

The misdemeanor charge of mari-
juana possession carries a possible
penalty of up to 12 months in jail, a
fine of up to $1,000, or both.

Cocaine possession carries a max-
imum penalty of 10 years in jail.

of

463-8602 - Anne
463-8604 - Lucy

ge A << A am <a am <a

 

“Participation is not poor. It’s
above average,’ said Carter
McNeese, author of the ad and direc-
tor of the Annual Fund. “It’s not
where we want it to be. We have one
of the better alumni funds in the
country and we are on the threshold
of being one of the best.”’

Calling W&L an “ambitious and
competitive school,’ Farris Hot-
chkiss, director of development,
said, “In our minds, we are the
academic peers of the schools listed
in the ad .... We are challenging our
alumni to support Washington and
Lee in percentages similar to the
schools listed.”’

Comparisons with surrounding
private colleges show W&L trailing
Sweet Briar College and Randolph-
Macon Woman's College. Both had
participation rates in the middle 50s.
W&L ranked higher than Roanoke
College and Mary Baldwin College.
Figures for Hollins College, Hamp-
den-Sydney College and Lynchburg
College were unavailable.

Nationally, Washington and Lee
ranks above average for all private
schools. Figures compiled by the
Council for Financial Aid to Educa-
tion for 1983-84 show that the national
average is 20 percent. For schools of
similar size, the national percentage
is 27.

In terms of average gift, W&L
alumni donated an average of $215.

Manie i Hain
Only Hairstylist to

accept the Colonnade
Card

ee
PUKE el

 

Robin ¢ Peggy ¢ Marie « Sherry

Nationally, the average gift was
about $113. The gift at schools of
similar size averaged $112.

Hotchkiss warned that participa- |

tion figures are not the best ones to

make comparisons with because of ,

differences in just whom each schoo]
solicits. W&L solicits almost all its

alumni. Other schools, for various -

reasons, do not.

“The participation thing is

something that can be manipulated.” °

he said.

This year, contributions and the ,

number of donors participating in the
Annual Fund are headed toward a
record. As of Monday, the fund stood
at $1.25 million, about $210,000 ahead

of last year. The number of donors is _'

up by about 700, to 5,122.

That money has been solicited by
class agents, alumm who volunteer
to raise money from their class-
mates. The recently completed stu-
dent phonathon raised $125,700, up 13
percent from last year. With the fund
drive nearing its June 30 deadline
and $1.4 million goal, a direct mail
campaign will begin soon.

Increases in the numbers of givers
and in total gifts indicate that this
year will “undeniably represent pro-
gress toward our goal’’ of joining the
nation’s best, Hotchkiss said.

He is convinced that the most cru-
cial factor in fund-raising is the loy-
alty of alumni, he said.

Sigler

463-9588
Old Main St. Mall
Lexington, VA 24450

 

For Rent
Large House In The Country
Call

463-2518
Contacts!

Check our Replacement Costs.

THE NEW OPTICIANS INC.

Lexington’s ONLY Licensed Optician

203 N. Main
463-7440

College Square
In March

 

 

 

 

   
   

NEED Lito 103-463-1670
? sJ ‘
A CAR? | Utktul icbeaie
703-377-6331
Students under 21
Must Have
prior Insurance
Approval Brian and Doris
Fredricksen
RFD7, Box 149, Rt. 60 East Lexington, Virginia 24450

  

 

 

HAROWARE STORES

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

E. Nelson Street
463-2186

Mon.-Sat. 8:30-6:00
Sun. 1-5

 

 

 

115 S. Main Street

 

 

VARNER & POLE

Furniture Dealers

“For your extra pieces of furniture”

463-2742

 

 

 

 

EAST LEX

Phone: 463-3614

US 11 North

Open ‘til midnite

 

editors and business managers of
_ the student publications:

Ring-tum Phi: editor and business manager
Calyx: editor and business manager

Political Review: editor
Ariel: editor

Applications are due in Carol Calkins’
office in the University Center by
noon, Friday, April 25. Applicants
should be available for interviews Sun-
day and Monday, April 27 and 28.

 
~

Ei Ro alia 8,

 

“

&

 

Oil cheaper but not easier to buy

By The Associated Press

 

AUSTIN, Texas — With crude oil prices down to about
$12 or $13 a barrel, why not buy one?

The steep drop in oil prices seems to offer a cut-rate
chance to become a Texas oilman or oilwoman, albeit in
asmall way.

Black gold. Texas tea. Your own barrel of it.

, aa anybody buy a single barrel of oil? Apparently not
or $12.

This is an exercise for people who are, let’s say, oil il-
literate — those who believe that gasoline pumps sprout
where oil has been struck and that leaded and unleaded
gushers are found side-by-side.

The first lesson is that a barrel of oil does not include a
barrel. It is simply a measurement — 42 gallons. Oil is
not loaded into barrels.

“That was something out of the 19th century,” said
John Cassel of the Texas Oil Marketers Association.

So, the first step is to get a barrel.

But, you can’t get into the oil-buying business unless
you sign in at the Texas Railroad Commission as an oil
purchaser.

“You'll probably have to hire a lawyer,” said John
Leonard, an Austin oil producer.

Once you fill out the forms, you have to notify the com-
mission about your intended purchase. Commission
spokesman Brian Schaible said you could either file in
writing or attend the-monthly “‘oil allowable” hearing at
which the big oil companies announce how many thou-
sands of barrels per day they intend to buy.

“The law and our rules say you have to tell us when you
are going to buy oil and how much. If it’s a one-time, one-
barrel thing, we would probably not be overzealous in

rushing out to advise you of your rights,”’ Schaible said.

Step 2 is finding your oil.

Contrary to popular belief among the oil illiterate,
crude is not sold at West Texas roadside stands the way
watermelons are sold in East Texas.

“Really the most practical thing would be to go to a
refinery and buy a barrel before they refine it,’’ Schaible
advised.

Who would be willing to dish up a single barrel?

‘We'd be happy to sell you 100,000 barrels. Would you
like to buy 100,000 barrels?”’ Conoco Inc. spokesman Tom
DeCola replied.

“You could talk to an independent producer but he
wouldn’t have the means of metering one barrel to you. I
would think it would probably cost you a lot more than
$12,”’ said Spencer Falls at JM Petroleum Corp. In
Austin.

Austin producer J.A. Spiller also tried to help.

“To buy one barrel of oil? You can probably buy a bar-
rel from anybody in the field, if the lease is not under con-
tract to sell to somebody else,”’ he said.

Most of it apparently is under contract.

The best advice, from Julian Martin, executive vice
president of the Texas Independent Producers and Roy-
alty Owners Association, was to call a ‘‘reclaimer’’ who
refilters dirty oil, to see about a single barrel. Buying
fresh crude would be a ‘‘rather substantial problem,” he
said.

“It’s going to cost you about $300 to get going with it,”
Martin said.

Charles Ratliff, an Austin oil producer, said the process
could be simple — if you know where to go.

“You go right to the wellhead where they have the big
tanks, stick your barrel under the little spigot and they'll
turn it on,”’ he said.

But he added: ‘‘Nobody would do it for 12 bucks.”

‘advertised
‘Higher Education, Epley said.

 

 

 

GENERAL NOTES

 

Students who fail a course in the
spring term of their graduating
year are not permitted a re-exam-
ination during that term. Such a
student is entitled to a special ex-
amination during the subsequent
fall session on not more than two
courses. Unless enrolled as a stu-
dent during the subsequent ses-
sion, the student taking such a re-
examination is required to pay a
special fee of $10. The course
grade upon re-examination can-
not exceed “D,” according to
Registrar D. Scott Dittman.

“Bridge Over the River Kwai,”
a 1957 U.S. film, will be shown

 

tonight at 7 o’clock in Room 203 of
Reid Hall. The cinemascope spec-
tacle, a winner of seven Oscars,
has Alec Guinness portraying a
British military leader’s trans-
mogrification of national into per-
sonal strategic goals.

“A Summer To Remember”, a
1960 film from the Soviet Union,
will be shown at 7:30 tomorrow
night in Commerce School Room
327. The film marks the Soviets’
first major ‘‘pure’’ entertainment
film for the foreign market. It
reconstructs social reality from a
five-year-old’s viewpoint as he ad-
justs to difficult changes in family
roles.

The United Daughters of the
Confederacy has two scholarships
available to Washington and Lee
women for $1,000 and $300 for next

CLASSIFIEDS

school year. The $300 scholarship
is also open to men. Applicants
must be lineal descendants of Con-
federate veterans. Information
and applications are available in
the Financial Aid Office in Wash-
ington Hall.

The University Library has
raised its fine for overdue books
that have been recalled from 25
cents a day to $1a day.

FOR RENT

FOR RENT: 2-bedroom duplex
in good condition. Stove and
refrigerator furnished, eat-in kit-
chen. Large closet in living room
and each bedroom. Call Mrs. Dun-
lap - Office-463-8482 or home-
463,7289. Rent-$285.00 monthly.

Lids

 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, April 24, 1986, Page 5

 

Libya

1 Continued from Page 1

 

justified.

Ferguson said that with the changing world and in-
creased terrorism, the United States has to make a
change in the way it thinks and acts toward terrorism.

“Terrorism is no longer a small faction trying to
sway the local government or to change some minor
issue,”’ he said.

“Terrorism as a whole has fully emerged as a defini-
tive weapon that can enable nations with inferior
military forces to gain a degree of strategic equality
with the world’s major industrial powers,” he said.
“Terrorism is an alternative to the acquisition of
nuclear weapons.”’

He added that despite last week’s attack on Libya,
terrorism will increase and will most likely occur in the
United States itself.

“I think we’re naive to think that it’s not going to hap-
pen in America,” Ferguson said. ‘“‘There’s going to be
more and more.”

Yet, he feels the attack will create a struggle within
Khadafy’s government that will topple him from power.

“In the long term, what we’re hoping for is that
Khadafy’s officers and people within Libya will see that
he is not the great man that he would like to be,”’ he
said. ‘‘The last thing we want to do is kill him — that
was not part of the plan — because then he becomes a
martyr.”

Ferguson said the United States had exhausted all
other possibilities available after support for economic
and diplomatic sanctions against Libya was denied by
many European countries.

Ferguson made it clear that his statements were his

 
  
 

Sony and Sierra Club. Choose your own
hours. Good experience and great money!
For more information call,
1-800-426-5537 9-5 pm.

(West Coast time)

Representative Program
American Passage
500 Third Ave West
Seattle, WA 98119

CHICAGO DALLAS LOSANGELES NEWYORK SEATTLE

SERVIGTAR.

23 S. Main
Lexington, Va. 24450

Michelin

 

 

 

 

463-2242

 

 

 

 

Treasurer

 

© Continued from Page 1

were at Virginia Polytechnic In-
stitute and State University.
Epley said Wilson was mainly

: responsible for Broomall’s selection.

Besides sound business skills,
: Epley said, a successful treasurer

‘must also be a good personnel man-
ager and be able to ‘‘get along with
‘students, faculty and colleagues.”

“There were 120 people who ap-
‘plied”’ for the position, which was
in The Chronicle of

Five of the candidates were asked

to the campus for interviews with

 

EC

C) Continued from Page 1

 

definite possibility — absolutely.”

“That’s something we want to
avoid, but it’s a fact of life,” he said,
adding that no such charges are be-
ing considered in the Martin case.

“T use the fact of compounding,
misprisioning and obstruction of
justice not as a threat,’ Sutton ad-
ded, ‘‘but rather to emphasize the
seriousness of such acts.”’

The police chief said that other in-
cidents involving the EC in recent
years may have raised similar con-
cerns, but he declined to be specific.

Obstruction of justice is a misde-

meanor carrying a possible penalty :

of a year in jail, a $1,000 fine or both,
and concealing and compounding a
felony are both misdemeanors
punishable by up to six months in
jail, a $500 fine or both.

Lewis said that until this month, if
an honor case carried criminal im-
plications, the student was charged
before authorities were notified ‘‘so
that the policies of the White Book
can be followed closely.”

In the wake of the Martin case,
Lewis said, ‘‘we now turn over the
evidence simulataneously”’ with
charging or as soon thereafter as

possible.

“Tf a law has been broken, when a
student is charged with an honor
violation, copies of all materials are
immediately given to the police after
charging,’’ Lewis explained.

“In many cases, the proper
authorities already know [about a
criminal case] — in many cases, they
come to us,” he continued. ‘‘Usually
when a law has been broken, it’s
brought to our attention by [Univer-
sity or law-enforcement] officials
rather than students.”

Epley, Wilson and several other ad-
ministrators.

Epley called Broomall ‘‘an ex-
perienced, mature person” and said
he will do a good job.

Broomall said he will come to Lex-
ington in mid-June and will work for
several weeks with Epley to get ac-
quainted with the system at W&L.

Broomall said he announced last
fall that he was leaving William &
Mary and was excited when he saw
the opportunity to work at W&L. He
said that after working in several
public institutions, he wanted to
move into the private sector.

Describing himself as ‘‘team-
oriented,’ Broomall said he enjoyed
meeting Epley’s staff and is looking
forward to working with them.

 

» WILLIAM P. MARTIN II

On what basis was the change in
procedure made? “To be perfectly
honest, it was the personal feeling
that I did not want to impede the pro-
gress of our criminal justice sys-
tem,”’ the president said.

“We enjoy an outstanding relation-
ship with the police,’’ Lewis added.
‘‘We have cooperated as fully as
possible, and they in turn have
helped us a great deal. They are ina
much better position because of their
resources to help us out with com-
plicated cases.”

Sutton said police department rela-
tions with the EC indeed are improv-
ing from previous years. ‘‘I think our
communication is getting better, es-
pecially the awareness of each
other’s problems,” he explained.

‘Apparently up until 18 months or
two years ago, we had no communi-
cation at ail,’’ said Sutton, who
became chief in May of 1983. ‘I think
it has improved considerably since
then.”’

Martin, 19, said from his Ohio

home that he withdrew ‘‘for personal

— a a et at

ke ale aS Ea Oe see ae

“T don’t want to upset anything”’ by
altering W&L’s system right away,
he said.

Broomall has his bachelor’s and
master’s degrees from Glassboro
State College and a doctorate in
educational administration from
Virginia Tech.

Broomall worked at Virginia Tech
from 1974 to 1982. Prior to that he was
the registrar at Gloucester County
College in New Jersey and the acting
director of computer services at his
alma mater. He also served six years
in the United States Air Force.

Broomall and his wife, Donna,
have two sons, Jeff, 17, a junior in
high school, and Todd, 11, who is in
fifth grade.

reasons” and that although he has no
plans to return to W&L, he is “‘in the
process of continuing [my] educa-
tion.”

The check, according to the arrest
warrant, was written by Helen J.
Sandridge to Graham L. Moore Jr.,
whose signature Martin is accused of
forging on Jan. 12.

Moore, a Rockbridge County resi-
dent, explained that the check was
for services he rendered this winter
on behalf of his employer, the Maury
River Oil Co., a county heating
business.

When Sandridge continued to be
billed for the job after she had paid,
she submitted her canceled check to
the oil company. “I looked at it; it
had been forged,” Moore said.

The heating firm then contacted
Dominion Bank in Lexington, on
which the check was drawn.

“The only thing I was interested in
was that Maury Oil Co. got their
money,’’ Moore said, adding that the
bill now has been paid.

Sandridge, a Raphine resident,
declined comment on the incident,
and the Dominion branch manager,
Robert W. Meador, said that because
of customer confidentiality, he could
not say how Martin obtained the
check.

Forgery of a check with intent to
defraud is a felony carrying a poten-
tial sentence of one to 10 years in
prison, a fine of up to $1,000 or both.

Meanwhile, Dean of Students
Lewis G. John says the University
has no general policy on handling
disciplinary matters that involve
possible criminal actions, but instead
decides on cases individually.

He said the school does not ‘‘try to
conceal’’ any evidence, and usually
acts “‘after the trial is held so the in-
formation is better available.

“The real question,’’ John added,
“is the timing of it and who should
act first.”

2h mace

precwoesequssesesareseoorssoees

: :

CAMPUS :  ReadThe ;

ADVERTISING REP |} Classifieds

Be responsible for placing advertising | Peeceacscceeccccccocooocccoccoe”
materials on your campus bulletin boards.
Work on exciting marketing programs for
clients such as American Express, AT & T,

 

1 St. » Suite 1-C
NY. NY 10023 - (212) 769-1170

x Alignment x
* Brakes «
* Radiator Repairs «x
* Swim Tubes «

Hileman Tire & Radiator
Lexington Herdwere 536 E. Nelson St

463-2146 : |

views and not necessarily the opinions of the ROTC
department or the U.S. Army.

Politics Professor Milton Colvin contends that
although the attack may have been a blunder in terms
of world opinion, the United States should have done
more damage to military bases in Libya

Colvin said the United States is hurting itself political-
ly by taking action which displeases its European allies
under the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.

“The first goal of the Soviet Union is to separate
America off from its European allies,’ Colvin said
“Therefore, every policy position in the United States
should avoid playing into the Russian hands.”’

“The decision to attack may have been the wrong
decision because it runs the risk of further alienating
our European allies,’’ Colvin said.

“On the other hand, you can’t become so totally host-
age to European allies that you are unable to move,”’ he
added. ‘You cannot surrender your sovreignty, nor can
you surrender your manueverability to an alliance.”

Colvin added that although the United States should
not single out Khadafy for assassination, there should
be increased strikes against military bases in Libya. If
Khadafy is killed in one of these attacks, he said, that
would be a consequence of the action.

“I wish we had gone in with more force and destroyed
the bases and killed Khadafy,”’ Colvin said.

Colvin said the air raid on Libya will increase ter-
rorism because ‘‘terror begets terror, violence begets
violence.”’

“T would think it’s fairly likely that we will see some
sort of terroristic activity against Americans in Europe
or perhaps right here at home,”’ he added.

“I believe that the president was justified in doing
what he did,”’ Colvin concluded.”’ “‘I believe probably it
was the best thing he could do, even though I think we
will get more terrorism rather than less terrorism,”’ he
said.

 

 

 

 

 

The Shop for
PAPPAGALLO

Spring Shoes
25% OF F

B.F. Goodrich Through Saturday

Shoes, Clothing
& Accessories

23 NORTH MAIN STREET
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

463-5988

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

PLUS $400

It’s Easy To Qualify

@ You must receive at least a
bachelor’s degree or a state RN
license between October 1,
1985 and September 30, 1986.

@ You must have verifiable
employment that begins within
120 days of your qualifying
vehicle purchase at a salary
sufficient to cover ordinary liv-
ing expenses and your vehicle
payment.

@ Your credit record, if you

have one, must indicate pay-
ment made as agreed.

Cougar

Ford Motor
Credit

Ford

2019 Forest Ave.
Buena Viste

Company

 

 

GRADUATES

COURTESY

Ford ¢ Mercury
HAS YOUR

PRE-APPROVED
CREDIT FROM
FORD CREDIT

THE PURCHASE OF A NEW FORD

These Vehicles Are

Included In The Plan

Ford: Escort, Escort EXP,
Tempo, Mustang, Thunderbird

Ford Truck: Aerostar, Bronco II,
Ranger, F-150 & F-250

Mercury: Lynx, Topaz, Capri,

The amount of your pre-
approved credit is determined

    

Mercury

 

TOWARD

by the qualifying vehicle you buy,
and you are eligible for the $400
directly from Ford even if you
don’t finance your purchase.
Make your best deal and you can
use the $400 toward your down
payment or get a check from
Ford after the purchase or lease.

Hurry. If a vehicle is not in
dealer stock it must be ordered
by June 1, 1986, and delivery of
all vehicles must be taken by
August 31, 1986. See your par-
ticipating dealer for complete
program details.

  

 

261-2112
DL 1916

 

 

 

 

 
SPORTS

The Ring-tum Phi, April 24, 1986

 

Lax flip flops;
top D-III foe next

 

By DAVID EMRICH
\ssistant Sports Editor

 

Washington and Lee lacrosse was
in a good mood heading into exams
and its spring break schedule of three
games

It took them until the end of break
before the Generals got back in that
good mood, as W&L lost two of three
games to put its record at 5-4

When last we spoke, the Generals
had just trounced our Lexington
neighbors, VMI, by the score of 20-2.
lhe victory put the Generals’ record
at 4-3, and head coach Dennis Daly
felt the team was playing very well.

At that point, every W&L student
was stocking up on suntan lotion and
finalizing their travel itinerary. Well,
almost everyone

The Generals’ spring athletes
spent their break not in some exotic
location improving their tan, but
rather in the familiar surroundings
of Lexington, Virginia improving
their games

W&L’s first contest, against the
Virginia Lacrosse Club, was played
on April 12, 10 days after the
Generals’ defeat of VMI. The Gen-
erals lost the contest 11-9, but it did
not count toward the season’s record.

Four days later, W&L traveled to
Ithaca, N.Y., to play the Cornell Big
Red. It was not a pleasant exper-
ience.

Playing in the cold rain, Cornell
scored on nine of their first 11 shots,

and jumped to a 18-0 halftime lead
enroute to a 26-2 trouncing of the
Generals, the worst defeat in W&L
history

But, according to Daly, the game
was not without its bright spots. He
pointed out that the teams played
evenly in the third quarter

After the disappointment in Ithaca,
it must have felt good to return to the
security of Wilson Field, where the
Generals are 4-1 this year. Make that
5-1.

W&L rebounded from the Cornell
loss ina convincing manner, blowing
out Radford, 21-2, on Saturday.

This win marked the third time this
season that the Generals have defeat-
ed their opponent by a margin of 18
goals or more, the other two being
the 28-1 thrashing of Virginia Tech,
and the VMI victory.

On Saturday, the Generals face the
Shoremen of Washington College to
begin a tough four-game stretch
against ranked teams from both
Division I and Division III.

The Shoremen are ranked No. 2 in
Division III and hold an 8-3 record.
But a closer look tells just how tough
this team could be for the Generals.

Of the three losses that Washington
College has suffered, two have been
to Division I foes. They lost to No. 1-
ranked Johns-Hopkins and No. 6-
ranked Navy. The third loss was to
the No. 1 ranked team in Division III,
Hobart, a 16-13 winner over Division
I’s second-ranked team.

Last year, at Chestertown, Md., the
Generals lost 14-13 in double over-
time, reportedly one of the most ex-
citing games in which the Generals
have ever been involved.

 

 

|
|
|

By Skip Bertram/The Ring-tum Phi

Valerie Pierson returns forehand in yesterday’s match

Track: another title?

3y ROB MacPHERSON
staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee track
eam, which came into this season as
hree-time Old Dominion Athletic
‘onference indoor champions, will
1ead to Roanoke College on Saturday
n an attempt to duplicate its winter
»erformance outdoors.

In preparation for the ODACs, the
yenerals competed in two non-con-
erence meets, the Mt. St. Mary’s
telays on April 19 and the Division II
ind Ill meet metween Virginia
schools at Hampton University on
\pril 12.

Individuals who placed at the Mt.
st. Mary’s meet were Jim McLaugh-
in (second in the discus) and Tom
Murray (sixth in the shot put). The
nile relay team took sixth place with

time of 3.25.2, the best time in the
)DAC this season.

At the Division II and III meet, the
Generals experienced more _in-
dividual success. Of the 11 W&L
representatives, six scored.
McLaughlin and Murray again plac-
ed, taking second in the discus and
fourth in the shot, respectively. John
Carder was third in the pole vault
and teammate Rob Williamson was
fourth in the same event. Richard
Moore placed fourth in the 1500.

The Generals will go into Satur-
day's ODAC Championships _ less
than healthy. Injuries to Bill
Rhinehart and John Burlingame,
while not debilitating, will leave the
team at less than 100 percent. Both
Rhinehart and Burlingame said they
expect to compete.

Aldridge called the meet a ‘‘toss-
up,”’ but said that he likes W&L’s
chances. He added that Lynchburg
and Bridgewater are also capable of
taking the title.

 

cn

 

W&L’s John Ware shoots past Radnor goalie Tony Salamone

Southern trip readies women for ODACs

 

By DAVID NAVE
Staff Reporter

 

After training for a week at Hilton
Head, S.C., the Washington and Lee
women’s! tennis team finished its
regular season by’ splitting a pair of
matches this week.

W&L’s record now stands at 3-8
overall and 1-8 in the conference.

Yesterday, W&L defeated South-
ern Seminary for the second time this
season to earn its third win of the
year. The Lady Generals downed
Southern Seminary, 6-3.

The win offset Monday’s loss to

Bridgewater, in which the women
were shutout, 9-0.

The Lady Generals had faced
Bridgewater earlier this season at
the Emory and Henry Invitational
and despite losing 7-2 they avoided
the shutout. Head coach Bill Wash?

burn explained that the team might:

have been a bit too tired from their
tough spring break practice shcedule
to match the performance that they
registered earlier this season.
Although last week might have
temporarily slowed the Generals on
Monday, Washburn described last
week as “‘perfect.’’ Washburn said
that his players ‘‘got up early, work-

 

Jim McLaughlin is not short on effort in discus

 

 

ed hard, and really did a good job.”

“T can tell that a lot of people im-
proved,”’ said the team’s No. 1 sin-
gles player Bitsy Hopper, referring
to progress that she and her team-
mates made last week.

After waking up at 6 a.m. the team
was running on the beach by 6:45 and
on the courts by 7:15. Following
breakfast, a tennis pro offered in-
struction and drilled the team. Wash-
burn said the women are now using
many of these drills in their daily
practices.

Rain forced the cancellation of the
Generals’ scheduled match against
Armstrong College in Savannah, Ga.

By W. Patrick Hinely/W&L

The team, however, did play several
pick up matches against area play-
ers,

While Hopper admits that the in-
tense training has boosted the team’s
confidence, neither she nor Wash-
burn say that they can accurately
predict how the team will perform
this weekend at the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference tournament this
weekend at Hollins College.

Washburn did say that he does not
expect the tournament committee to
seed any of his players but he
believes that the women will play
better at the tournament than their
season record indicates.

Linksters take second, win match,
on a roll as ODAC tourney nears

 

By MIKE SHADY
Staff Reporter

 

With the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference tournament just around
the corner, the Washington and Lee
men’s golf team had some impres-
sive performances this past week.

The Generals began their prepara-
tions for the ODAC championships
with a second-place tie in the George-
town Hoya Open over the weekend.
W&L finished in a tie with ODAC
rival Randolph-Macon. Both. schools
finished with two-day totals of 647,
six strokes behind the winner,
George Washington. Roanoke,
Lynchburg and Bridgewater — all
ODAC squads — finished 15, 36 and 77
strokes behind the Yellow Jackets
and Generals.

W&L was led during the weekend
by John Gammage’s two-round total
of 158 and Chip Gist’s 160.

‘“‘We were happy with the way we

played, especially coming off of the
break,’’ head coach Buck Leslie said.
“It was just a super golf course.”’

The Generals continued their fine-
tuning by easily defeating Bridge-
water 322-334 yesterday on the road.

According to Leslie, it was ‘‘not a
good scoring day’’ due to the temper-
atures, but this did not deter W&L.
Captain Greg Wheeler and Gist (79)
tied for scoring honors as the
Generals gained even more momen-
tum going into next week’s all-impor-
tant championship.

“That’s been our goal all season
long, to win the ODACs, and although
at the start of the season I didn’t
think we could do it, I feel we have a
chance,”’ Leslie said.

The tournament will be next Mon-
day and Tuesday at the Ivy Hill Golf
Club in Lynchburg.

“Golf's a streaky game, and right
now I feel that with the way we are
playing, we have a shot at winning it

 

CORNELL UNIVERSITY, BOX 96, B12 IVES, ITHACA, NY 14853

Cornell

University
has a place for you
this summer.

Wonderful courses, great professors, magnificent
environment, people from everywhere

lots of good things happening

Name
Address
?

City/State/Zir

(

 

come enjoy it all

607/255-4987

 

 

17 S. Main St.

 

  

(763) 463-2323

 

 

cicddacddacaaadadadaaaacaaacadadacacaaadddddde

 

Wdciacidthcccdieccccccrecceecdccccccdeddacecdcacaaccccdccdaccaadaaacecacddcccccacccdccdcdddd de>

Wn

Z

Self Defense
For Women

Saturday, May 3
10 AM- 12 NOON

$20.00

Common Sense

Self Defense Seminar
with

THE BODY SHOP

648 Waddell Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
To Register:
463-5852
Monday - Friday
After 3 PM

Acddddsdchitibdbdditdddddddddddddadiaaadaadiadddddddaaadaaaaaaddddaccaddddadaacdaaddddddddadaadadddddaddddddi

         

       
     
        
          

   

WELLL ea

WE

WV eaaaaccacacaiaddia

   

WZ

 

Southern
Inn

Welcome
Students
Serving breakfast, luncn
and dinner for over

_ _ 0 years
Main Street, Lexington

463-3612

 

 

 

Wendell’s
Barber
Shop

| need

your head

for my business

 

* -—

_

tt lh

ili

il \
 

  

wn

Nip

“gg

The Ring-tum Phi, April 24, 1986, Page 7

 

 

Sl

2

 

By LEIF UELAND

‘eI Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee tennis
team gave further evidence this past

= 4 week on its annual trip to Florida
i

that the Generals are an improved
team from a year ago, and they will
be a team to be contended with at the
national tournament.

The Generals, whose record now
stands at 13-7, have moved up in the
Division III national rankings, jump-
ing up to No. 5in the latest poll.

In Florida last week, W&L routed
both Stetson and the University of
Central Florida by 9-0 margins. The
Generals’ third win came in their 7-2
victory over the Florida Institute of
Technology.

The losses for the Generals came

..| from National Association of Inter-

 

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

, W&L No. 2 singles player Roby Mize launches into a serve

*®

“~

“

”

%

~,

 

So

 

By W. Patrick Hinely /W&L

In shape?

ROTC sponsors
May triathlon

The third annual Washington and
Lee Triathlon, sponsored by the W&L
Army ROTC department, has been
set for Saturday, May 17, Armed
Forces Day.

The triathlon, which features a
three-quarter mile swim in W&L’s Cy
Twombly Pool, a 13-mile bike ride,
and a 3.1-mile run, will begin at 9
a.m. In case of rain, the triathlon will
be rescheduled for Saturday, May 24.

The triathlon is open to all mem-

collegiate Athletics power Flagler
(5-4) and Division II Rollins (6-3).

In the tight match with Flagler, the
NAIA’s seventh-ranked team, W&L
was unable to get the fifth win, which
would have given the Generals the
overall victory. Both sophomore
Chris Wiman at No. 4 and the No. 1

doubles team of sophomores David .

McLeod and Jack Messerly came up
short in three-set losses.

Against Rollins, a squad that
defeated W&L last year by an #-!
score, wins in singles came from
freshman Bobby Matthews at No. 3
(0-6, 6-3, 6-4) and Messerly at No. 5
(6-3, 5-7, 6-3). The Generals third vic-
tory came from the No.’ 2 doubles
team of Matthews and junior Roby
Mize.

Though head coach Gary Franke
expressed disappointment over the
close losses, he said, ‘I thought we
got some good individual play. We
had super performances from Jack
Messerly, who went 5-0 on the trip,
and Bobby Matthews, who went 4-1.”’

Messerly commented on _ the
team’s two losses, ‘‘We were in both
matches and we definitely could have
beaten Flagler. Last year we weren't
even in the match with Rollins — this
year we definitely were.”

On Wednesday, the Generals de-
feated Division I George Mason, 8-1,
a team that handed W&L a 6-3 defeat
a year ago. No. 1 singles player
McLeod suffered the only individual
loss.

In addition to the team’s No. 5 na-
tional ranking, singles players
McLeod, Mize and Matthews were
placed among the top 50 Division III
players. McLeod is 16th, Mize is 36th
and Matthews is 45th.

» ‘Disappointed’

EMC loss clouds baseball playoff picture

 

By CHARLES T. GAY
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee baseball
squad dropped a 7-6 decision to
Eastern Mennonite yesterday in Har-
risonburg and in the process may
have also lost its chance at a home-
field berth in the upcoming Old
Dominion Athletic Conference play-
offs. ,

The loss drops the Generals to 6-8
in the conference, 6-11-1 overall, and
basically tarnished the effects of
Saturday’s doubleheader sweep of
Maryville, one of W&L’s best outings
of the year.

The Maryville wins came after a
pair of close defeats conference-
leading earlier in the week (a 7-6 loss
to ODAC No. 2 team Lynchburg and a
6-4 loss to conference leader Bridge-
water) and put W&L in fourth place
in the ODAC,

A victory over Eastern Mennonite
would have guaranteed the Generals
the home-field advantage for the first

round of the ODAC championships.

The Generals must now await the
outcome of Saturday’s Emory and
Henry-Hampden-Sydney twinbill to
determine whether they will still
finish fourth. A win in one of the
games by Emory and Henry will
keep W&L in fourth place.

Head coach Jim Murdock was un-
derstandably frustrated by the loss to
EMC. “We're very upset and disap-
pointed,’’ he said. ‘‘We hit the ball
well enough to win, but not when we
needed to.”’

The Generals amassed 14 hits
against the Royals but stranded a

staggering 15 runners on base, leav- ~

ing the bases loaded twice. Murdock
also blamed poor defense for the loss.

Carter Steuart was tagged with the
loss for the Generals.

Bill Schoettelkotte led the
Generals’ scoring punch with a two-
run homer.

The W&L loss was a surprise in
light of last weekend’s events against
Maryville. Eric Acra picked up the
win in the first game of the double-
header with the Scots. Steuart, play-
ing centerfield, contributed two hits
to the W&L cause and also scored the
winning run. Steuart was just as
strong on defense, throwing out the
tying run at the plate.

Chris Cunningham picked up the
save for W&L.

In Game 2, Schoettelkotte hurled
the Generals’ first shutout of the
season, a 3-0 whitewashing. The win
raised his record to 3-3. Shortstop
Harry Halpert and third baseman
Milam Turner each picked up a pair
of hits for W&L. Tom Mack added a
run-saving, diving catch in right field
to preserve the shutout.

Murdock assessed the Generals’
chances at the upcoming ODAC tour-
nament in this way: ‘‘We’ll have to
regroup and be ready for whatever
happens. We know we can beat any-
body in the conference.”

Here’s two chances to prove it

bers of the Lexington, Washington
and Lee and Virginia Military In-
stitute communities. Each partici-
pant must bring one support person
with him or her in order to compete.

A non-refundable registration fee
of $8 for students and $10 for adults is
due on or before May 6. Applications
can be picked up at the Warner Cen-
ter or the ROTC building at Washing-
ton and Lee.

All participants will receive a
Washington and Lee Triathlon T-
shirt and all finishers will earn a cer-
tificate. Division awards will be
presented to the top man and woman
in each category.

 

 

    
  

  

ve you, including
College Square Shopping Center (next to Kroger’s)
Rt. 11 North
Lexington, Va.
463-160.

18 Va. locations to ser

  

‘

 

 

 

 

   

Cancer Run ’86
set for Sunday

The American Cancer Society’s
Cancer Run ’86, which includes races
of five kilometers, 10 kilometers, and
a one-mile fun run/walk, is set to
begin on Sunday. Registration for the
event, billed as “‘A Run with George
Cunningham,” will be at noon that
day at Wilson Field.

The fee is $6 for the five-kilometer
or the 10-kilometer run; there is no
cost for the fun run/walk. The run
will be held rain or shine.

The ‘“‘fun run/walk” will begin at
1:30 at the W&L Law School and will
run a half mile down the Woods
Creek Trail and back to the Law
School.

The five- and 10-kilometer races
will begin at 1:45 at the Law School
and will cover the Woods Creek trail,
some paved roads through Lexing-
ton, the W&L campus, and the Vir-
ginia Military Institue post, and will
finish at Wilson Field.

Maps and information for the
Cancer Run 86 are available from
Patti Ryan-Mandel at 463-9432 or Jim
Dittrick at 463-3779.

In doubles, the W&Ll teams of
McLeod-Messerly and Mize-Mat-
thews are ranked 15th and 22nd,
respectively.

This weekend the Generals wiil
serve as host for the 10th Old Domi-
nion Athletic Conference tennis
championships. The Generals. who
have won six of the nine previous con-
ference crowns, are the defending
champions, having won eight of nine
flights at Lynchburg a year ago.

=| Netmen look for second straight title;

W&L returns four singles cham-
pions: McLeod, Messerly, Mize and
captain Scott Adams. Also, all four
plus Wiman were part of champion
doubles teams.

“We hope to be successful in all

uights, Framle said.

The preliminary rounds will take
place Friday and the semi-final and
final round play in all nine flights will
be set for Saturday. Play begins both
days at9a.m.

 

 

Money (again):
the root of evil

....With all the hubbub about how
much Joe College Athlete is getting
paid to attend the university/foot-

 

TIME

 

ball team of his choice, one has to

< OUT. *** wonder why so much of those in the

? sportsworld now are praising the
: prize money that the Boston Athletic

y - _. Association paid to its winners and

 

 

various runners-up in Monday's
Boston Marathon.

One has to wonder what purpose the word ‘‘amateur’”’ serves today,
when the International Olympic Committee is content to classify ten-
nis players under the age of 21 as ‘‘amateurs.”’

One has to wonder — when Rob de Castella waltzes off with 60 grand
and a new Mercedes for running a race that used to be run for little
more than a laurel wreath and a pot of baked beans — if the amateur
athlete is dead as far as international competition is concerned.

What’s the big deal? you ask. We all know these guys and ladies
were getting all sorts of payoffs under the table. Why not legitimize the
questionable practice?

The Boston Athletic Association had been belligerent about not of-
fering prize money for its amateur race. But that feistiness got a reali-
ty come-uppance when everybody in the marathoning world began to
forego Beantown for London or Chicago or Los Angeles, international
marathons that were offering the big bucks.

Quoted in Monday’s Washington Post, BAA administrator Guy
Morse said the pressure to switch rather than fight became too great.

“There were signs out there — the [elite] athletes weren’t coming
here. There was media pressure. I think if everybody [in the BAA] had
their druthers and the world was the way it once was, there wouldn't
be prize money.”

‘But there was just no way.”’

I’m going to have to be the misguided dreamer and say that it’s a
crying shame that Mr. Morse and the BAA thought there was just no
way, or rather not because they thought that, but because amateur
prize money is the only way it can be.

Somewhere along the way amateur sports — just like sports in
general — has become a bit too self important. Somehow the old
athletes were better athletes. Sure they couldn’t run as fast or jump as
high. But then they didn’t need to have someone dangle a Mercedes 190
in front of them just to get them to show up ata race.

Now, I’m not saying everything was sweetness and light in the old
days. But the athletes then were something more akin to what we all
used to call amateur athletes than anything Rob de Castella could ever
be. Can you imagine de Castella having to work at a steel mill just to
afford his sport? Yet, that’s how it used to be.

My point is that the change in attitude that allowed the Chicago Big
Bucks Marathon to exist and others to follow suit — thus establishing
marathon-running as a legitimate occupation for the 1980s career man

or woman — is a detrimental one, detrimental because when one goes
looking for that athlete who’s just competing for the fun of it, one has
to wonder if such a thing exists independent of the dollar sign
anymore...

....Back home again on the Colonnade, it’s ODAC championships
week for men’s tennis, women’s tennis, track and field, golf and
baseball. I'll be bold and say all but women’s tennis have legitimate
shots at conference crowns, especially given baseball’s late-season
heroics a year ago... The lacrosse debacle in Cornell over break was a
bit scary for this corner. Saturday’s contest with the No. 2 Division III
team in the nation (No. 1, if you disregard the Hobart program, which
may as well be Division I) Washington College should be the best
(read: closest) game of the season. In any case, what happens Satur-
day and during the rest of the season speaks volumes about the future
of lacrosse at W&L....

....Finally, can you help me out on this one? Something called the
Birmingham Stallions is thinking about drafting Heisman Trophy win-
ner Bo Jackson. Oh, now I remember, they’re with that cancelled ABC
mini-series ‘‘The USFL.”’ I knew it was a joke of some kind....

 

 

 

0 Lex talon

ryina.* Q

HISTORIC

COUNTRY
INNS

 

 

Maple Hall

' New Hours
Wednesday-Saturday: 5:00-10:00
Sunday Brunch: 11:00-2:00

NEW EXPANDED MENU
Ala Carte Pricing

Reservations Suggested—

 

CAMP SEAFPARGA

CAMP COUNSELING — for those who love children. Sea
Gull and Seafarer are character and health development
camps on the coast of North Carolina serving children ages
7-16. Recruiting staff for sailing, motorboating, aquatics,
golf, tennis, riflery, archery, canoeing, basketball, lacrosse,
soccer, nature studies, arts and crafts, nursing, office, food
services and horseback riding (Seafarer only). Qualifica-
tions: interest in children, ability to instruct one phase of the
camps’ programs and excellent references. For further in-
formation write to Don Check, Director, Camp Sea Gull
(Boys) or to Judy Bright, Director, Camp Seafarer (Girls),
P.O. Box 10976, Raleigh, North Carolina 27605,

 

 

Call 463-6693

   
    
   
  
  
   

YOUR PARIS APT...
WAITING FOR YOU WHEN YOU
STEP OFF THE PLANE!
™ yout 7ame address & $45 tee

STUDENT HOUSING SERVICE
70 West 71 St + Suite 1-C
NY. NY 10023 - (212) 769-1170

 

 

 

Ap ! Spring - Summer 1986

 

 

LEXINGTON SHOE

 

 

HOSPITAL

Expert Shoe Rebuilding
4

We have a complete
stock of golf shoes and
heels for spring and
summer.

3 W. Nelson St.

‘

   

~~ Tired of Ho-Hum
______. Hairdos?

—— Check out our ‘‘Caper Cuts’ ‘‘Uptown Look’ for men and women. °

Cap er 5

   

Apt Spring - Summer 1986

We'll razor cut it, blunt cut it, taper it, shape it, layer it, undercut it,
bob it, bi-level it and style it just for you.

 

     

 

 

—— Have it your way at Caper’s
———— Shampoo & Cut
-Washington and Lee Students ‘7°

sgeo

 

When Only The
Best Will Do

 

 

 

 

25 N. Main St., Lexington 463-2566

 

 
‘BACK PAGE

The Ring-tum Phi, April 24, 1986

 

 

 

 

 

Talk of the Town: Susie Gott, Eddie Adcock, Martha Adcock and Missy Raines

Artist Sally Johnson takes

 

 

By MARK TRAINER
Staff Reporter

 

“Planes and Passages,’ an exhibit
by artist Sally Johnson, will be
featured in the duPont Art Galley un-
til Mav8

Johnson describes her use of large
panels of handmade paper with cop-
per wire configurations as a com-
bination of Western science and
Eastern aesthetics. Her synthesis of
iputer graphic technology and the

it art of handerafting paper

-as the subject of a public television
cumentary, “Tradition, Techno-
iogy and Transformation: Works by
!y Johnson,” that aired through-

 

out her home state of Alabama last
year.

Johnson visited Washington and
Lee Tuesday for a slide presentation
and reception in the duPont audi
torium.

The techniques that Johnson uses
in the crafting of her paper have been
used in Japan for the last 1,300 years.
After receiving a grant from the
University of Alabama at Birming-
ham, she began to apply the modern
art of computer graphics to this an-
cient practice. The result is work that
emphasizes the basic elements of ex-
istence and the harmonious balance
of the universe.

Johnson currently teaches paper-
making and printmaking in her Bir-

‘ast and mixes with West

mingham studio and at the Birm-
ingham Museum of Art. Her work is
included in that museum’s collec-
tions as well as those of Auburn

University, the University of
Alabama and the University of
Arkansas.

Johnson cites the work of Carl G.
Jung and his theories of the collective
unconscious, as well as primitive art
and ancient mythology, as the
strongest influences on her work.

The duPont exhibit will be open
from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday
through Friday, 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. on

day.

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Entertainment Editor

 

Nashville-based bluegrass group
Eddie Adcock and Talk of the Town
will be featured at the first Lime Kiln
Spring Festival this Saturday. The
festival will take place at the Lime
Kiln Road near Liberty Hall and will
get underway at noon

In addition to Talk of the Town will
be performers Heinsohn and Day,
Wildgrass and the Spring Group Hell-
benders. Mike Seeger, brother of
legendary folk singer Pete Seeger,
will join the Hellbenders.

The festival is being sponsored by
Lime Kiln Arts, a non-profit organi-
zation dedicated to the promotion of
the arts, and Phi Alpha Delta law fra-
ternity of Washington and Lee. Burr

Saturday and from 2to4p.m.on Sun- ‘This work appears in the duPont Gallery exhibit ‘Planes and Passages’’

Japanese war views featured in film series

 

Staff Reports

 

A series of Japanese films produc-
ed between 1946 and 1968 depicting
the Japanese views of World War II
will be shown during the spring term.
The film series, titled ‘World War II
Through Japanese Popular Films,”
is sponsored by the East Asian
Studies Program and is made possi-
ble by a grant from the Mellon Foun-
dation

The six films, which started Mon-
day and will continue on consecutive

Monday evenings, will be shown at 7
and 9:15 p.m. in Room 327 of the
Commerce School. They are tree to
the public.

The first film, on April 21, was
“Twenty-four Eyes,’ a 1954 film
directed by Keisuke Kinoshita. One
of the most popular of all Japanese
films, ‘Twenty-four Eyes’ chroni-
cled the effects of the restrictions of
government and war on the promis-
ing career of a schoolteacher from an
Inland Sea village.

On April 28, ‘No Regrets for Our
Youth,’ (1946, directed by Akira

Kurosawa) depicts the story of the
daughter of a university professor in
the 1930s who is courted by two of her
father’s students.

The third film, ‘‘Hoodlum Soldier”
(1965), directed by Yasuzo Masumu-
ra, deals with the unusual relation-
ship of a tough Tokyo gangster and
an intellectual who share their
hatred of the army.

On May 12, ‘‘Human Bullet” (1968,
directed by Kihachi Okamoto) deals
with the effects of the war upon the
common man.

A soldier disguised as a Burmese

priest comes face to face with war's
consequences in the moving film
“Harp of Burma’’ (1956, directed ‘by
Kon Ichikawa), which will be shown
on May 19.

The last film of the series, on May
26, ‘‘Women of the Night” (1948,
directed by Kenji Mizoguchi), deals
with the evils of prostitution and the
harsh conditions many women faced
in the years just after the war.

These films are also being shown
as part of History 379, Seminar on
Japan in World U, by Professor
Roger B. Jeans Jr.

 

 

 

 

 

|

 

165 S. Main

 

| bffmorE [hire Florist

Welcome Back,

| Students!
Come see us

| for your

_ Special occasions!

463-9152

 

 

 

<<

 

Campus

 

117 W. Nelson St.

 

 

Music

Come Check Us Out...
...We’re Moving Up!!!

The area’s largest selection of classic rock-n-roll

Over 100 LPs by these greats alone:

The Beatles The Eagles Bob Marley
Chicago The Grateful Dead Pink Floyd

Eric Clapton Jimi Hendrix The Rolling Stones
The Doors Journey The Who

Plus over 100 titles with more on the way
including classical and jazz

463-4544

 

 

a _

 

Student Activities Board

presents

The White Animals

and

The Voltage Brothers

Friday, May 2 at the Student Pavilion
Tickets $5 on sale Monday in

the Bookstore

 

 

 

Summer Fall Spring

WASHINGTON
OR LONDON
INTERNSHIPS

OXFORD ‘SUMMER

Full Academic Years In

* Oxford University
°L.S.E.
e St. Andrews, Scotland

U.S. credits will be transferred
through Hampden-Sydney
College, founded in Virginia by
James Madison in 1776.
Graduate work is an option.
The Director of Studies for the
Center for Quality Education
Abroad (in Britain) is the Rt.
Hon. The Lord Beloff, D.Litt.
(Oxon,), Fellow of the British
Academy, Professor Emeritus
of Government and Fellow of
All Souls, Oxford.
INQUIRIES TO:
JANET KOLLEK, J.D.,
Admissions Director CQEA/
WISC, Rm 53, 188 W. 81 St.,
NY,NY, 10024.
(212-724-0804/7 24-0136).
(EO/AA)

 

 

 

 

Datz, assistant proctor and member
of Wildgrass, helped organize the
festival and hopes to make it an an-
nual event.

Talk of the Town features strong
three- and four-part harmonies led
by the vibrant lead vocals of Martha
Adcock; wife of band leader Eddie
Adcock. Eddie's banjo and lead
acoustic guitar work is complement-
ed by Susie Gott’s fiddle playing and
Missy Raines’ driving acoustic bass
lines.

Eddie Adcock has been a renowned
name in the Bluegrass world since
the 1950s. He played with Bill Monroe
and Max Wiseman but is probably
most noted as the catalyst of the
ground-breaking original Country
Gentlemen.

In addition, Adcock was the first in-
ternationally acclaimed five-string

Bluegrass sparks Lime Kiln Arts Festival

bluegrass banjoist to appear at
Carnegie Hall.

Beginning in 1971, Eddie and his
wife began II Generation, an innova-
tive progressive bluegrass group
which lasted for nearly a decade.
Later, Eddie served as band director
for country singer David Allen Coe.

The Adcocks added Raines, for-
merly of the Virginia-based group
Cloud Valley, on acoustic bass and
Gott, the 1985 Bluegrass Fiddle
Champion of Fiddler’s Grove, N.C.,
on fiddle and vocals to form Talk of
the Town.

Tickets are $5. Festival-goers are
invited to bring lawn chairs and
blankets.

A rain date of April 27 has been set.
Proceeds fromthe festival will go to
Lime Kiln Arts and a local charity
yet to be announced.

 

 

ONCAMPUS

Thursday, April 24
5 p.m, — CHEMISTRY SEMINAR: “Energy and Entropy: Are We
Living in Thermodynamic Sin?’ 14th Annual Alumnus Visitor: Dr.
Kurt Seidman ’70, Chairman of Chemistry Dept. R-MWC. Room 401,
Howe Hall.
7 p.m. — POLITICS FILMFEST: “Bridge over the River Kwai.”
Room 203, Reid Hall.

Friday, April 25

Law School Classes End.
ALL DAY — MEN’S TENNIS: ODAC Tournament. W&L Courts.
ALL DAY — CONTACT ’86 SYMPOSIUM: “The Procurement of
America’s Defense: 1986 and Beyond.”
10:30 a.m. — CONTACT SYMPOSIUM: ‘‘The Present State of Af-
fairs.’ Lee Chapel.
2 p.m, — CONTACT SYMPOSIUM: ‘“‘Prospects for the Future.”’ Lee
Chapel.
7:30 p.m. — RUSSIAN FILM SERIES: ‘‘A Summer to Remember.”
Room 327. Commerce School.
9 p.m. — BAND: ‘“‘The Stains” General Headquarters.

Saturday, April 26

Law School reading days begin.
ALL DAY — MEN’s TENNIS: ODAC Championships continue at W&L
Tennis Courts
1 p.m. — JOURNALISM TELECONFERENCE: Northen Auditorium.
2 p.m. — LACROSSE: Generals vs. Washington College. Wilson Field.
8 p.m. — FAIR CONCERT: The Rockbridge Orchestra. Jackson
Memorial Hall. VMI.

Sunday, April 27
1:30 p.m. — BASEBALL: Generals vs. Christopher Newport. Smith
Field.
1:30 p.m, — ROCKBRIDGE CANCER RUN: Wilson Field. (Registra-
tion begins at noon. )
3 p.m. — ROCKBRIDGE CONCERT-THEATRE SERIES: USAF TAC
Band. Lee Chapel Lawn.

Monday, April 28
4 p.m. — MATH COLLOQUIUM: ‘Turing Machines.’’ Trevor Evans,
Emory University. Room 6, Robinson Hall.
7 & 9:15 p.m. — WWII THROUGH JAPANESE FILM SERIES: ‘‘No
Regrets for Our Youth.’’ Room 327, Commerce School.

Wesley Volk of the University of Virginia medical school will be the
second speaker in Washington and Lee’s Robert Lee Telford Lecture
Series. Volk will give a talk titled “Viruses, Cancer, and AIDS”’ Mon-
day at 7:30 p.m. in Northen Auditorium of the University Library. A
reception will follow. On Tuesday at 3 p.m., Volk will deliver a
seminar on ‘‘Molecular Biology of Bacterial Virulents”’ in Room 305 of
Parmly Hall. Refreshments will be served at 2:30 p.m.

8 p.m. — LECTURE: “Rockbridge Artisans.”’ Royster Lyle and Bar-
bara Crawford. duPont Auditorium.

Tuesday, April 29
3p.m.— MEN’S TENNIS: Generals vs. Radford.
3 p.m. — BASEBALL: Generals vs. VMI Smith Field.
3 p.m. — SEMINAR: ‘Molecular Biology of Bacterial Virulents.’
Wesley Volk, U.Va. Room 305, Parmly Hall.

Wednesday, April 30
3:30 p.m. — WOMEN’S SOCCER: Generals vs. JMU. Smith Field.
6 p.m. — PASSOVER DINNER: Evans Dining Hall. Reservations re-
quired by April 23. For information call 463-8788.
7 p.m. — POLITICS FILMFEST: ‘The Bedford Incident.’’ Room 327,
Commerce School.
9 p.m. — BAND: ‘‘Wild Kingdom” GHQ. Sponsored by the Student Ac-
tivities Board.

Thursday, May 1
Dr. Edward J. Drea, a member of the faculty of the U.S. Army War
College and Assistant Director for Historical Services at the U.S. Ar-
my Military History Institute, will present a slide lecture next Thurs-
day, May 1. Titled “Life in the Japanese Imperial Army,”’ the slide
lecture will be in the University Library's Northen Auditorium and is
open to the public free of charge.

By Hank Mayer/The Ring-tum Phi

 

 

 

 
 

ag eg

a a eee ae ea

e

Move

 
 

 

VOLUME 85, NUMBER 27

Betas help

new library
Page 4

Ghe King-tum Phi

   
  

 

 

 

  

 

 

Groove

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

White Animals
play Pavilion

 
  
 
 

 

Page 8

  

 

Your Old South weather

 

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Fri: sunny, high of 75
Weekend: breezy, cooler

 

MAY 1, 1986

 

 

 

 

 

Trucks and construction equipment at the site of the
Francis P, Gaines Residence Hall during work this week
(above). The dormitory is scheduled to be occupied in the
fall of 1987. A sign on Washington Street (right) between
Graham-Lees Dormitory and the Baker, Davis, Gilliam
quad warns passersby of possible danger from dynamite

used during construction.

‘It blew me out of my bed’

 

By TIM RICHARDSON
Staff Reporter

 

Blasting at the construction site of
the Francis P. Gaines Residence Hall
will last for about two more weeks,
continuing to inconvenience those in
the Davis, Baker and Gilliam dor-
mitories.

The early-morning explosions have
disrupted students’ studying and
sleeping in those dormitories,
according to Dean of Freshmen H.
Robert Huntley. Thursday an explo-
sion scattered rocks and debris into
the freshman quad, broke a second-
floor window in Davis and ripped a
hole in the contractor’s trailer.

Huntley said the explosions are a
distraction, but that the company do-
ing the blasting, Charles W. Barger

 

 

By Hank Mayer/The Ring-tum Phi

    

and Son of Lexington, is doing every-
thingitcan to minimize the noise.

The company has already delayed
its starting time in the morning by
one hour and is taking advantage of
the good weather by “accelerating
the building process’’ to finish the
blasting as quickly as_ possible.
Huntley added that much of the dril-
ling and blasting is now done in the
afternoon in response to students’
complaints about being awakened by
early morning explosions.

“We are asking the students to be
reasonable,’ Huntley said. ‘(The
blasts) are something we have no
control over.”’

Frank Parsons, executive assis-
tant to University President John D.
Wilson, said the school had to
balance the construction schedule
with the needs of students. He sug-

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

The jukebox features oldies and Top 40

Detectors

 

By JOHN KALITKA
Staff Reporter

 

A money saver, a safety device, an
equalizer — call them what you like,
but if you're driving with one in
Virginia, you're probably breaking
the law.

Police radar detectors. They're a
booming $200 million-per-year in-
dustry. Last year, sales reached the 2
million mark nationwide for the first
time.

The devices have evolved from
simple $100 black boxes that mount
on a car’s dashboard, to advanced
$300-plus, cassette-sized remote units
that are easily concealed from
thieves and the police.

Radar detector use increased ra-
pidly after the national 55 mph speed

illegal but

limit was instituted over a decade
ago. Yet despite their popularity the
units are legal in only 48 of 50 states.
There are laws against the devices in
Virginia, Connecticut, and the
District of Columbia. In 1982, the
Michigan State Supreme Court over-
turned a prior ruling and legalized
the devices. Indiana and Kentucky
have recently done the same.

“T see them as a flagrant violation
of traffic safety,’ said Virginia State
Trooper J.L. Hines, ‘‘They let people
drive at their own chosen speed.”

Hines, who has served nearly 20
years with the state police, called the
use of detectors “discouraging.”

He explained that police radar is
Significantly slower than detectors
since it must put out a signal and then
wait to receive it. Radar detectors,
on the other hand, simply ‘‘sense

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

gested that students fit in their work
and sle€p around the construction.

“Our experience with the Law
School and the library has shown the
need to keep on schedule and not
make concessions to convenience,”’
he said.

The 249-bed dormitory is scheduled
to be occupied in the fall of 1987. Cur-
rent blasting is to clear rock for the
installation of drain and sewer lines
and the foundation. It is also being
used to clear a level parking area.

As for student safety, W. Scott
Beebe, assistant superintendent of
buildings and grounds and director of
special projects, said, ‘All precau-
tions are being taken to protect life
and limb.”

Following

Thursday's _ incident,

C) See Blast, page 5

Juke box: ‘Nice break’ or ‘Joe’s Disco Palace

munching on some M&Ms and swallowing a re-
freshing carbonated beverage.

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Entertainment Editor

Police seek senior
-fraud case

in card

=
By JIM STRADER
Editor

 

Former Washington and Lee senior
Roger L. Dunnavan Jr. is being
sought for questioning about a credit
card theft and fraud case police have
been investigating for three weeks,
according to Lexington Police Chief
L.O. Sutton.

Dunnavan, an economics major
from Longwood, Fla., withdrew from
the University this week.

“We are conducting an investiga-
tion, and we do wish to talk to him in
reference to this investigation,’’ Sut-
ton said, adding that although Dun-
navan has not been arrested, if he
could be located, ‘‘I’d be happy to ac-
commodate him.”

Sutton said “other jurisdictions”
also are involved in the investigation.

On Friday at 5 p.m., Dunnavan and
several others were scheduled to
meet at the police station for an
“interview,’’ but Sutton said Dun-
navan did not show up.

“He called from Charlottesville or
somewhere and said he couldn't
make it,’ Sutton said.

The group invited to the Friday

' meeting included witnesses and sus-

pects, the police chief said, but he

drops from

The grade market was mixed
winter term, with the freshman
and junior classes scoring gains
from their fall scores and the
sophomore and senior classes
declining from their efforts the
previous term.

Women, on the average, again
outperformed men, with the
average male grade-point aver-
age standing at 2.669 and the
female tally at 2.842.

Registrar D. Scott Dittman
noted a ‘‘significant decrease”’ in
the number of students on acade-
mic probation after last term

 

declined to identify them. Sutton ad-
ded that some appeared as scheduled
and others did not.

Sutton said last week that a W&L
student is the primary suspect in a
case involving grand larceny and
fraudulent use of a credit card.

He said yesterday that the in-
vestigation is not yet complete and
that he has net decided whether to
issue a warrant for the individual’s
arrest or seek indictment of the per-
son when the Rockbridge County
grand jury meets Monday.

Police reports say that on April 10,
an individual using a stolen Visa
credit card attempted to make an
$1,800 withdrawal from a local bank.
Police determined that the Visa and
two other credit cards the individual
possessed had been taken from a
third-year W&L law student.

Dunnavan enrolled in W&L in the
fall of 1981 and was away from school
for the 1983-84 academic year.

He was his social fraternity’s rush
chairman in 1984, played football for
three years and participated in the
University Federation's Big
Brother program. He graduated
from the Lawrenceville School in
New Jersey and plans a career in
financial management.

University Registrar D. Scott Ditt-

ae ee eee
Students on probation House scores

last winter

compared to winter of 1985.
Students eligible to participate in
only one extracurricular activity
number 23, down from 49 for last
year.

The grade-point average for
seniors was 2.799, down from fall’s
2.913; juniors scored a 2.765, up
from 2.610; sophomores checked
in at 2.528, a slight decline from
2.532; and freshmen chalked up a
2.677, a gain from 2.562.

The winter grade-point average
for fraternity members was 2.618,
compared to a 2.812 scored by non-
fraternity students and a 2.686
average for all students.

 

ROGER DUNNAVAN

man said that on Tuesday he receiv-
ed a letter from Dunnavan asking to
withdraw from school.

A relative answering the phone at
Dunnavan’s house in in Florida said
he did not know where Dunnavan can
be reached. His phone in Lexington
has been disconnected.

Fal
Fraternity G.P.A. Rank
1. Zeta Beta Tau 2.801 14
2. Sigma Chi 2.751 10
3. Phi Delta Theta $78
4. Kappa Sigma aie
5. Sima Nu 2.692 9
6. Pi Kappa Alpha 2664 5
7. Lambda Chi Alpha 2.654 12
8. Phi Kappa Psi 2646 7
9.Sig. Alpha Epsilon 2641 8
10. Kappa Alpha 2.639 6
11. Chi Psi 2615 1
12.PhiKappaSigma 2.549 13
13. Pi Kappa Phi 2.539 11
14. Sig. Phi Epsilon 2.492 4
15.PhiGamma Delta 2.485 15
16. Delta Tau Delta 2.472 16
17. Beta Theta Pi 2.370 7

 

 

 

The song selection, however, is quite bizzare.

?

“Next they could add a disco ball and strobe
lights,”’ said freshman Jeff Kelsey.

George McDowell said, ‘‘I like it. It makes for a

You asked for it and you got it.

Or at least that is the reason Jerry Darrell,
Director of Food Services, gave for the addition of,
of all things, a jukebox at the Washington and Lee
snack bar.

Darrell said the machine was added in response
to suggestions by several students and was install-
ed during spring break.

According to Darrell, the jukebox has proven to
be quite popular, although it can be operated only
at night.

Darrell said University Treasurer E. Stewart
Epley said the jukebox could not be played during
the day.

“This might rival the GHQ on Wednesday
night,’’ quipped junior Andrew Caruthers.

As one might expect, it only costs a quarter to
have that favorite song waft through the air while

helpful for ‘running’ |

The jukebox features Steppenwolf’s ‘Born To Be
Wild,’ Ted Nugent’s ‘Little Miss Dangerous,”
Wild Cherry’s ‘‘Play That Funky Music,” Captain
and Tennille’s ‘Love Will Keep Us Together,” and
the Rolling Stones’ ‘When The Whip Comes
Down.” In addition, there are recent selections
from Sting, Dire Straits and Whitney Houston.

“The students said they wanted mostly oldies,
but we added some current top 40 also,”’ Darrell
said.

Darrell said he will put whatever music the
students want in the jukebox.

“If you want a particular song, I can order it.’
he said.

Student response to the contraption was mixed.

Freshman Chris Crosby said, “I think it pretty
well parallels the radical atmosphere of the snack
bar.”

good break from studying.”
Junior Jeff Marks was not so fond of the new ad-
dition, however.
‘T think the jukebox ruined the snack bar. It us-
ed to be a good place to go and hang out and waste
time; now it is Joe’s Disco Palace.”

Sophomore Ted Williams agreed.

“T think they're trying to make this place a
hang-out and it doesn't seem to be working. A
friend of mine wanted to know if there was some
way to insert a quarter for silence *' =

Williams also said he felt sorry for the snack bar
staff, who must listen to the jukebox all night.

Cashier Barbara Johnson, however, said she lik-
ed it

“We're the ones putting all the money in it, I
think,”’ she said.

Darrell said he could not guarantee that there
will be a dance floor any time in the future

 

 

the signal and therefore provide the
user a slight advantage. Still, Hines
isn’t sold on the infallibility of radar
detectors. “I'd say we're still cat-
ching a lot of them though,” he said.

Ronnie Loy, a 28-year trucking
veteran from Winchester, dosn't see
the need for a radar detector since he
does most of his driving in Virginia.
“‘T used to dread driving in Virginia,
now it’s got to be one of the easiest
states torun [speed] in,” he said.

“Up around the Winchester area
you can do about 68 before they'll pull
you,”’ said Loy

In fact, State Police Superinten
dent R.L. Suthard has instructed
State troopers to provide a ‘5 mph
tolerance”’ for speeders to allow for
speedometer error, according to
Hines. ‘‘We start ticketing at 61.”
said Hines

If you’re caught with a radar detec-
tor in Virginia, you may be subject to
a fine of not less than $25 nor more
than $100. The arresting officer
needn't prove the device was in use.
merely that it was readily accessible
and that it had a power source.
according to Virginia state law.

Hines has caught his share of
detector users, ‘‘The speeder usually
slams on his brakes when I know he
cant see me — that’s when I know
he's got a radar detector.” This is
especially true at night or when he’s
caught a speeder from behind Hines
said.

“Our old radars used to bleed out a
lot of radar signal even when they
were shut off, that’s what warns most
detector users. The new [policel

See Radar, page 5

 

 

   

 

  

By Perry S. Hayes/The Ring-tum Phi

An Escort radar detector that sits on the dashboard
OPINION
Bungled

The recent foo-foo-rah between Lexington Police Chief L.O.
Sutton and the Executive Committee over the handling of two
cases involving both a potential felony and a possible honor
violation reflect poorly on all involved, especially the local
police.

The working relationship between the police and the EC
traditionally has been a smooth one, with each body helping
the other on cases of mutual interest. Not all EC cases, cer-
tainly, are criminal proceedings worthy of police action, and
certainly not all police investigations involve honor viola-
tions. But in recent years, that working relationship has been
strained by poor communication, poor investigative work by
the police and lots of finger-pointing. If the Honor System is
to remain a viable institution in the community and on the
campus, the police and the EC need to cooperate to a greater
degree. i

Neither side is blameless in the affairs discussed on the
front page of last week’s Phi. Consider the case of Will Mar-
tin, the freshman charged with forgery. The investigation of
the matter was begun by University Proctor Charles F.
‘‘Murph”’ Murray. As noted ina letter on this page from Mur-
ray and Assistant Proctor William C. ‘‘Burr’’ Datz, the police
were notified by University officials of the case against Mar-
tin once the EC had received information and scheduled a
hearing. Martin, one might logically assume, realized the
police could not be far behind and left town soon thereafter.
But the police — given evidence and 36 hours’ notice — some-
how managed to bungle the arrest.

But why and how did the police manage to miss Martin?
Why didn’t they go to his room and arrest him there, knowing
that he would probably withdraw from W&L? And with 36
hours’ notice, is it possible that a student could outsmart the
Lexington police? What did the Lexington police do during
this period to track down Martin? Where are Buster Keaton
and the Keystone Kops when you need them?

Equally serious, perhaps, is the glibness with which Sutton
discussed the Martin case with a Phi reporter. An honor in-
vestigation is supposed to be a confidential matter; when the
honor violation is also being considered by the local authori-
ties as a criminal offense, certain rules of conduct ought to be
followed. Sutton’s flagrant disregard for the confidentiality
involved muddied the waters tremendously. Would he, in
turn, like the EC to discuss a sensitive criminal investigation
in public before any action is taken?

And Suttton’s complaint that the EC ‘‘tipped off’’ Martin
before the police could take action seems like sour grapes
when adjacent to the story on the Martin case the reader
found Sutton discussing a current credit card fraud in-
vestigation of another W&L student — before the EC was able
to complete an investigation and before even the police were
able to arrest the suspect. Is it any wonder that the suspect
did not keep an ‘‘appointment”’ with Sutton last Friday after-
noon and subsequently left town before legal or honor pro-
ceedings could be taken?

If Sutton’s concern is that people are tipping off suspects,
why did he talk about the credit card fraud case?

Most seriously, perhaps, why hasn’t Sutton ever spoken
directly to an EC member about the alleged problems? Did
any member of the EC ever consider speaking (or respond-
ing) to Sutton about problems with the Martin case? While
the EC may be the target of complaints, that does not pre-
clude them from at least trying to clean their own house,
whether the mess is their fault or Sutton’s.

It is certainly in the community’s best interests for the
police and the EC to work closely together. The EC should
help Sutton to as great an extent as possible, while maintain-
ing the integrity of the White Book. We do not, however, want
EC members to be the campus chapter of the Lexington
police, nor do we want EC members to be witnesses at a
municipal legal proceeding. As for Sutton, it is certainly
misleading for him to blame everything on the EC, consider-
ing it is not the first time his department has failed to catch a

suspect, despite having had sufficient warning from the EC
to get a warrant. Has no lesson been learned?

I hope that future relations between the EC and the Lex-
ington police will not run amok because of poor communica-
tion or an attempt by either side to cover poor handling of any
given case. The EC must not and should not compromise its
unique position in honor matters in dealing with the police,
but, whenever possible, cooperation should be the rule and
not the exception. As for Sutton and the local police, a higher
standard of professional conduct seems the least the W&L
community — as well as Lexington — should expect.

—NRP

[Correction |

 

 

"TW just wait uxtil he’s
found, arocent at his
honor rial...”

C eetanne
—

The Ring-tum Phi, May 1, 1986

Alive and kicking,

 

 
   

 

 

 

or just kicking out? :

 

By MARIE KOTHMAN
Assistant Editorial Page Editor

 

If the number of people leaving
school because of honor violations is
any measure of the usefulness and
health of the Honor System, the
system is indeed alive and kicking.
But the disturbing fact is that these
dismissals have resulted from illegal
activities that warrant heavy fines
and prison terms in a court of law.
Each week The Phi headlines stories
about credit card fraud, check
forgery, alleged rape, vandalized
frat houses, and students shooting
other students. Alumni, bewildered
by what they read, write letters begg-
ing students to “‘please be gentle with
our University.’ What’s going on
here? It seems the W&L student body
is the sole cause of the crime rate in
Lexington.

The attitude of the majority of
students seems to be not ‘‘Let’s try to
do what’s honorable,’ but ‘‘Let’s see
how much we can get away with.”
With such an attitude, the Honor
System becomes a farce. Some sug-
gest it may be occurring because
many students who come to W&L at-
tended public or private schools that
didn’t have an honor system.

I transferred to a private school
halfway through my high school
career. In public high school, I’m
now ashamed to say, I wrote a term
paper for another student as a favor.
At the time I thought nothing of it, for
my loyalty to that student was far
greater than it was to the school or
administration. I seriously doubt the
student would have passed senior
English and graduated without my
help.

When I transferred to the private
school, honor became something one
didn’t try to get around. It was
always first and foremost in every
student’s mind, and students were
scared stiff of the Honor System.
There was the ‘‘direct question”’ rule.
If a teacher asked you a question, you
had to answer truthfully or face ex-
pulsion. Protecting a friend by lying
was dishonorable. If a teacher asked

who set off the bottle rockets in the
bathroom and you said you didn’t
know, and you knew it was your
roommate, you were guilty of lying
and could be kicked out. Students
turned themselves in more often than
they turned in one another. The
wrath of the disciplinarian was far
less horrible than an honor offense
and expulsion.

After my experience at private
school, I wouldn’t even say ‘“‘I forgot
my homework” if I knew it wasn’t en-
tirely true, much less write a term |
paper for another student.

When the EC gave its big talk on
honor for the freshmen at the begin-
ning of the year, they made the
Honor System out to be too soft. They
should have put the fear of God into
the students. A particular student
asked if using a fake ID was an honor
violation. The EC member responded
by asking ‘Do you think it could be
considered lying?” The ‘‘student
generation” deciding what con-
stitutes lying, cheating and stealing
didn’t give me an impression of
fairness, but as a loophole through
which many offenders could escape.
In order for the system to work, one

has to know the rules. If sucha cause |

and effect method of administering
the Honor System were implement-

ed, it would eliminate much of the |

gray areas of “how much a student
can get away with.”’ I’m for a stricter
adherence to the Honor System jn
which precedence does matter, an
for a stronger disciplinarian system.
Finally, a side note: The EC was so
concerned that details of honors

trials might be published (and thus ~

spread outside the W&L community)
that they added a section prohibiting
such actions to the White Book. They
want to present a good public image
to those outside the W&L community.
Yet a bad image is broadcast by the
behavior of students at away spor-
ting events (U.Va./W&L lax.) as well
as the weekly charges of illegal con-
duct reported in The Phi. I’d rather
people outside the W&L community
know what is being done to deal with
these miscreants at honor trials than
only hear of their misdeeds.

   

%

G
‘
®
*
e
.
y nd

&

®

4%

1

¥
¥

¥
2
¥
*
,

¥
)

-

 

(

;
t

> |

Student’s achievement, work praised 3

 

MY VIEW

By Steven Pockrass

 

“T Want You, I Want You, I Want
You.”’

No, Uncle Sam was not asking me
to join today’s Army. Nor was some
voluptuous blonde whispering sweet
nothings in my ear.

It was after midnight on a Tuesday
morning, and I was staring at a
slime-green computer screen (ac-
tually, I was looking at the keys
because I still don’t know how to
type). All I could hear were the
words, ‘‘I Want You,” over and over
again.

The cassette player was no longer
turned on, but in my mind I could
hear the hypnotically haunting key-
boards and grinding guitars, the
grand and glorious sounds of student

achievement. I could hear the voice
of a good friend, who, guided by his
heart beats and aided by some other
student musidicans, recently had
recorded what should be a hit song on
WLUR.

Last Friday, the words and music
in my head were different, but the
song remained the same, John Falk,
21, a W&L senior from Great Falls,
transformed his study of waste,
fraud, mismanagement and corrup-
tion into one of W&L’s greatest stu-
dent success stories.

“Waste, fraud, mismangement
and corruption.”” Those were the
words I was hearing over and over,
the first words that would come to
mind if Uncle Sam were to tell me
that he did want me for today’s Ar-
my.

Last summer, Falk was research-
ing defense issues for Rep. James T.
Kolbe, R-Ariz, and decided to
organize what was to become one of

the most balanced and diverse panels
of military experts ever formed.
After about eight months of prepara-
tion and organization, Falk last Fri-
day brought seven procurement ex-
perts together in W&L’s Lee Chapel
to talk to each other, rather than at
each other. And he did it for less than
a third of what it cost Contact to host
James Watt a couple of months ago.

The defense of our nation is one of
the most important issues facing us
today. Our defenses are down. If we
are paying $400 for hammers and
$600 for ashtrays, then by how much
are we being overcharged on billion-
dollar submarines? We contract for
weapons that don’t work, such as the
Sgt. York gun. Specifications and
packaging regulations are outdated
and excessive.

Just as we allow ourselves to be
abused by military contractors, we
are being ripped off when we do not
attempt to unlock our mental and

LETTERS

physical potential, when we do not
partake of other students’ achieve-
ments.

If W&L truly is a liberal arts in-
stitution, faculty and administrators
must encourage students to attend

_ their peers’ projects, performances

and competitions. Students must look
for ways to express themselves crea-
tively and contribute to this institu-
tion and this community.

In a year when notices of honor
convictions seem to wallpaper the
Colonnade and incidents such as the
Ariel photo escapade indicate our
own ineptitude, it is heartening to
know students learn and grow by go-

ing beyond what they have been

taught in the classroom.

Be it on a cold day or a summer's
night, isn’t it wonderful to bask in the
warmth of student achievement? We
must grab hold of it and never let it
go, for in it lies the future of our
generation.

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi incorrectly
reported last week that first-year
law student Louise P. Senft is the
first woman elected to the Ex-

ecutive Committee. Jacquelyn
Kay Boyden of Lexington was the
first-year law representative for
the 1977-78 academic year.

 

NEWS STAFF

EDITORIAL PAGE

BUSINESS STAFF

is otherwise independent.

definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

oes Feta sewer id iteieiiices 0s eae
eNO EAE hse os bur earecees Paul Foutch

Executive GG... 66. cesee ss
RAMOS 6 ois Hise crsee cer cerseeeees

Managing Editor ..................500..
Sports EGMOF .... oc ccccccccscccnscccesens
ee...
Photography BGO? «0. csc ccctcesccscecsns
Oiiel Copy BME oc crc cercciescscesies
Entertainment Editor...............00006
Assistant Sports Editor ...............4.

SiN aAlisti Reade Williams
Sele tba cia bbe saps Mike Stachura
pee re eg ee ae ee Jason Lisi
Pore ee Tape pee ova ear Steve Sadler
Si CIN ele ee cibias Matt Horridge

SeEVET Cs Cee te Re certestieee David Emrich

ee ctacsedarcessceses cs NOMOR Pattoregn
ee ee eee
60 ET CFE Fea ctr eves Chris Bowring

Editorial Page Editor ..............-.0005
Assistant Editorial Page Editor............
COPUOONINE 5 occ ccs

Se kbs bck phe cskiiedyecedes Jeff Kimbell
o US58 1 5 500d 04 Fi tegen . Hank Greenberg
cE eis eeees John Fey-er, Keri Hinrichs,

Business MauaQe?. igs ccs cccccccceciss
Advertising Manager ................6005
Advertising Salesmen.................++.
Circulation MandQe?. 6556 cedis cece tes ta csctcccicetas Te ilLiestess Matt Horridge
The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year ai
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia, Funding for The Ring-tum )’ti
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. ' he
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi

Letters te the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 200 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run. Or send them to The
Ring-tum Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450. This newspaper observes current court

Jim Strader

Marshali Boswell

Jay Reville, Greg Turley

 

 

Reader deplores current student behavior

To the editors:

In 1946 we arrived at Washington and Lee
University, where my husband began a post-war
career. That is a lot of Ring-tum Phis ago.

During this past academic year, while on sab-
batical leave in Europe, we have received about
10 copies of The Phi (thanks to a thoughtful
secretary). Our view from abroad of the Univer-
sity through the eyes of The Phi makes it read
like a cheap scandal sheet.

We have been in Europe for eight months try-
ing to help the armed forces deal with morale
problems. W&L students are “safe” in their
bailiwick while their military counterparts, by
choice, are defending their freedoms. They have
the same problems of DUI, suicide, bad checks,
and drug abuse, but there is no soft judge to put
them on probation for being “bad boys.’’ The
majority of soldiers are not educated beyond
high school, but they are taking all kinds of risks
and abuses from adversaries abroad and accept
this as part of their job. Fortunately, we have
been lucky to be at the right place at the right
time, but we have had our share of “hair-
raisers.’’ You have no idea what the soldiers, in-
cluding many W&L alumni, are going through to
protect your interests.

The main part of our project was going to
remote sites along the East German and Czech
borders to see how morale could be improved, It
put everything in perspective! Many of the
soldiers are the ages of W&L students, but their
priorities are different and more responsible.

College is “supposed” to be an institution of
higher, learning where responsibility and
discipline are required. So, what gives W&L
students license to be destructive in the library,
dorms, fraternities and even to their fellow
students by driving drunk! ?!

Millions of alumni dollars have been spent to
make historical W&L a prestigious university in
academics and a campus of beauty to be proud
of. W&L has been our second home for 40 years,
We have met several W&L graduates as Army
officers in our travels over here, even at the East
German and Czech. border sites, All fondly in-
quired how things are at W&L. Should we have
told them what we had read lately in The Phi —
drug abuse, rape and vandalism for starters?

The old cop-out that ‘‘boys will be boys’’ should
go out with high school graduation. This adage
does not apply wben one is old enough to own a
car and finally be away from parental supervi-
sion — privileges and responsibilities that in-
dicate maturity.

Not long ago, we remember that W&L students
were labeled “‘gentlemen.’’ Also, the Honor
System really worked and every aspect of the
“eode’’ was respected without being redefined to
suit one’s own needs.

Our soldiers are putting their lives on the line
on a day-to-day basis to preserve our freedom,
culture and national heritage. But back home,
certain students are literally destroying tradi-
tion and property in our lovely town and univer-
sity by degrees. Can we look rorward to return-

ing to a better atmosphere in September? We
hope so!
Mrs. Norman F. Lord

Proctors give clarification

To the editors:

We would like to clarify our role in the check-
forging case reported on the front page of last
week’s Ring-tum Phi. In no way was our in-
vestigation meant to undermine the Lexington
Police Department's case against the accused,
and because of the confidentiality of the Honor
System, we refrained from giving the evidence
to the police until the suspect was charged by the
Executive Committee. Thus, the police had at
least 36 hours to issue warrants and arrest the
suspect, and we do not feel that his subsequent

“escape”’ is our fault or that of the Executive
Committee.

ironicaily, aujacent to the “interference arti-
cle’’ was an announcement by {Police Chief L.O.
Sutton] that an arrest of a W&L student
suspected of credit card fraud was “coming.”
That suspect has apparently left school and has
yet to be charged.

We have a deep respect for the Honor System
and the student body of Washington and Lee and
will continue to work for the principles set forth
in the White Book.

Charles F, Murray
Proctor

William C, Datz
Assistant Proctor

 

 

ta

wr Oe of |

;  ®

.-eeeeeteuwna * He *

 
NEWS

The Ring-tum Phi, May 1, 1986

 

EC

 

 

 

‘ LOUISE SENFT

' By JASON LISI
s ee Editor

-

 

» _ Is there a place for Boy Scouts at
? Washington and Lee?

: Junior Steve Pockrass, who is the
yv driving force behind the establish-
; » ment of a chapter of a national ser-
+” vice fraternity, thinks there is.

 

 

Pockrass is working to obtain a
» « charter for a chapter of Alpha Phi
i _, Omega, a coeducational fraternity
that promotes community and school

t service throughout the United States.

& “It’s a national service fraternity
based on the ideals of leadership,

' 3 friendship and service,’ Pockrass
® said.

| & The group plans to do community
i 4 work at W&L and throughout Rock-
+ * bridge County while provinding the
‘ * opportunity for social activity as
, well, Pockrass explained. This type
of group is sorely needed by both the
* W&L student body and the communi-

« ty around it, he said.

“Tt will be an alternative to for

students who feel there’s more to life

* than just drinking beer,” he said. ‘‘It

provides an outlet which apparently
has not been here for 240 years.”

“This is the most important thing
*. I’ve worked on at Washington and
¢ Lee,’’ he concluded.

Some members have already re-

presented Alpha Phi Omega in the

# community, primarily by working in
last weekend’s ‘Clean Lexington
Day” and “Cancer Run ’86.” This

4 weekend, the group has plans to par-

, ticipate in the “‘Hands Across Rock-
bridge’’ project for the needy and to
help with parking at an upcoming
Boy Scout gathering.

Pockrass said one of the major
goals of starting the Alpha Phi
Omega fraternity is to improve the

, relationship between the W&L stu-
dent body and the surrounding com-
* munity, which he calls ‘‘one of the
most needy communities in the state
x of Virginia.”

%

 

By DANIEL BUNCH
Staff Reporter

 

Newly elected Executive Commit-
tee representatives Jim Humphreys
and Louise Senft both say they're
committed to strengthening the
Honor System among law students.

Humphreys said his “goal is to
build the same kind of participation
in the Honor System as the under-
grads have.”

He added, ‘‘A lot of people perceive
law students as not having an in-
terest in the Honor System.’’ Hum-
phreys said that was untrue.

Humphreys proposed that honor
hearing procedures be changed so
that the accused could contact
witnesses prior to a closed hearing so
the defense advocate could prepare a
cross-examination.

Junior starting
service fraternity’s
campus chapter

 

 

 

He would also like procedures
changed so that the chairman of an
“open” honor trial would not have to
admit improper evidence that was
used at a closed hearing. Under cur-
rent rules all evidence presented at a
closed hearing is admissable.

Humphreys has acted as a defense
advocate and said he perceived these
problems when he was working with
the Honor System. But he feels his
suggestions will be an ‘‘improvement
in the system in general and not pro-
defense.”’

Humphreys also said there should
be a more comprehensive orientation
to the Honor System for first-year
law students. He said he has been
talking with president-elect Shayam
Menon about that.

Senft listed her two primary goals

 

The APO emblem

He did scouting and community
work in high school and was surpris-
ed by the lack of that type of action on
W&L’s campus. “‘I found it very odd
to think that a high school of 250
students could do at least 10 times as
much community service as what is
supposedly a nationally recognized
college of 1,300,” he said.

He added that Alpha Phi Omega
“will help to instill a social con-
sciousness or social awareness on the
Washington and Lee campus, which I
think is very needed here.”’

Alpha Phi Omega was founded in
1925 at Lafayette College by a former
Boy Scout who wanted to continue
with the principles of scouting at the
college level. The chapter at the
University of Virginia, as are most
chapters, is run like a social fraterni-
ty, complete with rush, bids, and
even a pledge education program.

Pockrass said the Scouting aspect
of Alpha Phi Omega has been dimin-
ished over the years, however.

 

“While groups often work with Scout
groups, they try to work throughout
the community,”’ he said. ‘‘There’s
no need at all for anyone to have had
any contact with scouting before.”’

Pockrass said that anyone in-
terested can participate in the com-
munity projects and come to the
meetings, which are every Tuesday
night in the University Center.
Members can be male or female, in-
dependent or associated with a social
fraternity.

The group’s major project right
now is to show the national organiza-
tion of Alpha Phi Omega that W&L’s
chapter deserves a charter. To do
this, Pockrass said, the group will
have to exhibit an ‘‘ongoing”’ calen-
dar of community service and have a
membership of at least 15 people.

Pockrass says the possibilities for
a charter are very good. There is in-
terest for more community projects
within the 18-member group.

The fact that Alpha Phi Omega is a
coeducational fraternity will offer
women on campus an activity other

as improving the knowledge that
first-year law students have of the

Honor System and of lessening ten-

sions between the EC and defense ad-

vocates. She said some law students

have little idea of what the Honor
System is

Senft said she and Humphreys had

not worked together in planning their
agendas but she was happy to see

that they had similar goals.

Both Senft and Humphreys agreed
with most of the EC’s major deci-
sions this year.

Humphreys gave full support to the
EC’s decisions not to allow a woman
or minority ad hoc member on the

Student Control Committee. He also
supports the decision not to allow

press coverage of ‘open’ honor

trails.

However, Humphreys opposed the
White Book revision that forbids the
president or vice president of the Stu-
dent Bar Association from acting as
defense advocates during their term
of office. Students involved in honor
cases can be fair regardless of their
other activities, he said.

Senft supported the EC’s decisions
but acknowledged that they were
hard decisions and there are good
arguments on both sides.

Humphreys is a Washington and
Lee graduate. This was the first time
he had run for the EC.

Senft, is a University of Virginia
graduate, was vice president of the
Women’s Law Student Organization
and is married to current first-year
representative Bill Senft, who was
elected treasurer of the SBA.

’s new law members emphasize honor

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Steve Pockrass leads Tuesday’s meeting of Alpha Phi Omega

than the sometimes “‘very cliquish”’
sororities that could appear at W&L,
Pockrass said. “I think that when
sororities come, women will need an
alternative,” he said. There are cur-
rently three female members of the
group.

Freshman Elisabeth Fowler said
she became interested in Alpha Phi
Omega because she was interested in
community service. ‘‘In high school I
always did service-type projects,”
she said.

Although she has been to only a
couple of meetings, she said she is
planning to participate in a number
of the upcoming projects such as the
‘Hands Across Rockbridge.”’

‘‘T really want to do the Big Sister
deal,’ she adds. ‘‘Anything with
children would be great. I love kids.”

Another member of the group,
junior Bob Slappey, seems to share
the pleasure in doing community
work that the other members exhibit.
“It’s mostly for people who are look-
ing for a way to serve the communi-
ty, serve Lexington ... to get W&L in-
to the community,” he said.

 

NEWS BRIEFS

 

By Paul Foutch/The Ring-tum Phi

“We think that there are a lot of lit-
tle groups and a lot of larger groups
that we can help,”’ Slappey said. ‘“‘We
want toserve as muchas we can.”

He said that through Alpha Phi
Omega, he can give something back
to the school and community where
he has lived for the past three years.

Slappey noted there is a social
aspect to the group as well. He said
the U.Va. chapter strongly empha-
sizes social functions, something that
W&L’s chapter is trying to do.

“We try to get the social and the
service project together,’ he said,
adding that before the ‘Hands
Across Rockbridge’ project, the
group will hold a small party.

University Center Secretary Carol
A. Calkins, W&L’s alcohol committee
program coordinator, has benefited
from the service of Alpha Phi
Omega. During Alcohol Awareness
Week, members of the group put
small plastic garbage bags printed
with “I Cruise Without Booze’’ on
cars around campus.

“Their help was greatly apprecia-
ted,’ Calkins said. “I really think
they would help in the future.”

 

JIM HUMPHREYS

Lion to be
next year’s
Baby Dean

By MATT HORRIDGE
Staff Reporter

 

Chris Lion, a public policy major
from O'Fallon, Ill., was named
“Baby Dean” last week, replacing
1985 Washington and Lee graduate
Bob Tomaso, who will pursue a law
degree next year at the University of
Virginia.

The Baby Dean job is an admis-
sions counselor position offered to a
graduating W&L senior for one or
two years.

Tomaso said the job entails quite a
bit of traveling and interviewing, but
“the bulk of the job is to read applica-
tions,”’

A successful Baby Dean is one who
has ‘‘some sort of experience of how
the University runs,’’ Tomaso said,
and is able to appreciate the different
backgrounds of people applying for
admission.

Tomaso said another important
facet of the job is serving as a “‘liason
between students and ‘the Hill.’ ’’ He
said he felt like he was ‘‘in limbo’,
between being a student and being an
administrator.

Both Tomaso and Lion said one of
the reasons they took the job was to
take a year to look at what they want-
ed to do with their post-college lives.

Tomaso said he would give himself
a B-minus for his work this year, ad-
ding that he ‘‘found the type of work
to be very, very interesting.”

Lion said he is looking forward to
traveling around the country talking
to high school students and inter-
viewing applicants here.

“W&L’s at the point where you
don’t need to be a salesman,”’ Lion
said, because the school’s strong
reputation sells itself. Lion said he
would be responsible mainly for
answering students’ questions about
the University.

Lion called the Baby Dean position
“a good job’’ and is looking forward
to starting work July 1.

Lion is a member of the Lambda
Chi Alpha social fraternity and co-
editor of the Washington and Lee
Political Review.

 

Novelist to speak Tuesday in Glasgow lecture series

 

Staff Reports

 

Novelist and short story writer Ernest J. Gaines will
present a reading from his works in the University
Library’s Northen Auditorium on Tuesday. Sponsored
by the Glasgow Endowment Lecture Series, the reading
will be at 4:30 p.m.

Born in 1933 on a plantation in Louisiana, Gaines
worked in the fields along with his father until the fami-
ly moved to California in 1948. His fictional subjects
center on black life in rural Louisisana and the effects
of racism on his characters. His novels include ‘‘Cath-
erine Carmier’’ (1964); ‘‘Of Love and Dust’’ (1967);
“The Autobiography of Miss Jane Pittman’ (1971);
‘Bloodline’ (1968), a collection of five stories; and ‘‘In
My Father’s House”’ (1978).

His most recent novel, ‘‘A Gathering of Old Men,”
published in 1983 by Knopf, has been acclaimed by
“Booklist” as ‘‘a poignant, powerful, and earthy novel
of southern racial confrontation.

Gaines received his bachelor of arts degree from San
Francisco State College. He did graduate study with
emphasis on the writing of fiction at Stanford Unviersi-
ty, where he received the Joseph Henry Jackson Liter-
ary Award in 1959.

Gaines currently divides his residency between San
Francisco and the University of Southwestern Loui-
siana in Lafayette, where he is a visiting professor in
creative writing.

 

The Glasgow Endowment Program was established
at W&L in 1960 by Arthur Graham Glasgow ‘‘to promote
the art of expression by pen and tongue.”

Washburn wins citation

William C. Washburn,
associate director of
development and former
alumni secretary at
Washington and Lee,
received the Lynchburg 7
Citation last Thursday dur- }
ing a banquet in Lynch-
burg.

The citation is presented
annually by the Lynchburg [7
alumni chapter. It is
generally regarded as the
most important honor a
W&L alumni chapter can
confer.

A 1940 graduate,
Washburn succeeded the
late Cy Young as alumni secretary in 1958. Under his
leadership, the number of alumni chapters more than
doubled and the University’s reunion programs were
greatly expanded

During Washburn’s tenure, W&L. instituted a Special

 

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN

 

Alumni Conference, an annual three-day program
designed to keep alumni informed about University af-
fairs; a series of awards annually given to distinguish-
ed alumni; and the W&L Alumni College. Washburn
was named associate director of development at W&L
in 1982 following his retirement as alumni secretary.

Oxford fellow to give lectures

Christopher Pelling, fellow in classics at University
College, Oxford, will present three lectures during the
spring term at Washington and Lee. The lectures are
sponsored by the W&L history department.

Pelling is teaching a course on the classical influence
on Shakespeare’s work during the W&L spring term. He
is also tutoring students in Roman history.

Last night, Pelling discussed ‘‘Antony and Cleopatra
in History and Legend.” Two weeks later, on May 14,
Pelling will speak on ‘‘Ancient Medicine: Magic, Super-
stition, and Science.”’ Pelling’s final lecture, on May 21,
is titled “Ancient Historiography: Truth, Fiction, and
Something in Between.”

All lectures are at 8 p.m. in Northen Auditorium in the
University Library. They are free and open to the
public

Pelling, a specialist in the work of the ancient
biographer, Plutarch, is a graduate of Balliol College,
Oxford, and is a former research fellow at Cambridge.
He is the author of a commentary on Plutarch’s bio-
graphy of Marc Antony and is writing the chapter on the
Roman Triumviral Period for the Cambridge Ancient
History. He has written a variety of articles on Plutar-
ch, Caesar, Horace, Tacitus, and on other topics of
Roman history. Pelling also serves as editor of the
Journal of Hellenic Studies.

New date for drug hearing set

The preliminary hearing for the nine Washington and
Lee students charged with drug possession has been
rescheduled for Tuesday May 13 in Lexington General
District Court.

The proceedings were put off after Commonwealth's
Attorney Beverly C. ‘John’ Read motioned to offer im-
munity from prosecution to two of the defendants in ex-
change for their testimony. This move took other at-
torneys by surprise and Judge Joseph E. Hess decided
to reschedule the hearing.

The nine students were arrested Jan. 12 on marijuana
possession charges. One of the nine subsequently was
charged with cocaine possession. This is the third time
the hearing has been postponed

 

 
 

Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, May 1, 1986

 

Betas help
move books

 

By SIMON PEREZ
Staff Reporter

 

Beta Theta Pi social fraternity
helped the Rockbridge Regional
Library move its books to its new

location at 138 S. Main St. last
Thursday

Sarah Wiant volunteered to be
the chairperson to organize the

move and said, ‘‘We couldn't have
done it without their help.”’

She said the project received
“extraordinary support’ from
both Washington and Lee and
Virginia Military Institute

The move, which went on from
Thursday through Tuesday, was
undertaken by rotating crews of
30-35 people per day and included-
not only transporting all of the
library's books and any other
library materials, but also the
shelving

Beta member John Aleman said
approximately 45 members of the
fraternity volunteered.

Although the work was ‘“‘ted-
ious,’’ Aleman added that the fra-
ternity enjoyed performing the
community service.

Beta president Kirk Breen said
he was glad the fraternity could
help because, in addition to pro-

 

“bad
some
ment

  

PF i t;
TEE. |!

Wkdae

 

 

viding a service, it alleviates the

rap” he said fraternities get
times. This type of involve-
in the community shows that

fraternities are not just social

Benjamin L. Chapman (left) and Farris P. Hotchkiss move books

clubs, Breen added.

Library Director Linda Krantz
said the old Woody’s Chevrolet
building was converted into the
new library because the old build-

  

 

By Skip Bertram/The Ring-tum Phi

ing was too small.
The present building ‘doubles
the size of the library,” she added.
The new library will open Mon-
day morning.

 

 

 

 

What horses?

 

aah my :

By Matt Horridge/The Ring-tum Phi

 

Freshman Alexa Salzman and senior Mike Guerriero try to get a better
vantage point to ‘‘see the horses” at the Foxfield races last Saturday. The
twice-yearly event, held near Charlottesville, usually attracts a good

number of Washington and Lee students.

Bartles & James
Wine Coolers

Cabana Potato C

hips

Buy One Get One Free

Busch or

Natural Light Beer.......................

Fresh Deli
rs...

Fresh Ripe
Cantaloupes

Congressmen and Pentagon faulted ©
at defense procurement symposium

 

By CHRIS MUNSEY
Staff Reporter

 

Complicated, obsolete technology
and an officer corps drained of
talented combat leaders are among
the results of the defense buildup of
the past five years, contends defense
consultant Pierre Sprey. Sprey made
his remarks during a Contact '86
symposium on defense procurement
held in Lee Chapel on Friday.

The morning session of the sym-
poisum, after a brief address by each
member of the seven-member panel,
began with a discussion of the steps
involved in the development of a ma-
jor weapons system.

Sprey, who helped design the F-16
fighter plane, compared the methods
used to develop two different fight-
ers, the F-16 and the F-15. The F-15
was designed by the Air Force, while
the F-16 was desinged by a small
team of outside engineers. Sprey said
the fighter developed by the Air
Force was loaded down with techni-
cal gadgetry, and didn’t perform
nearly as well as the smaller, lighter
F-16.

Sprey said weapons developed by
the defense establishment are pro-
ducts of a complex interaction
among factions within the military.
The resulting weapon often is need-
lessly encumbered with technology
asa result, Sprey said.

Sprey continued to criticize the
weapons developed by the defense es-
tablishment, citing the case of the M-
1 battle tank. Developed by the Ar-
my, Sprey said the weapon was filled
with fancy techonology.

Under Secretary of the Army
James R. Ambrose said the Army
was “trying to keep with the actual
Soviet threat’’ by continuing to
develop the tank. Ambrose said the
technology is necessary for survival
on the modern battlefield.

 

E. Nelson St.,

463-3146

 

Rep. Denny Smith, R-Ore., criticiz-
ed the practice of buying weapons
that have not been subjected to pro-
per testing or developed by two firms
competing for a contract. Smith said
the DIVAD (Division Air Defense)
was a good example of this problem.

DIVAD, also known as the ‘Sgt.
York” gun, was developed to defend
troops and tanks from enemy air-
craft. The weapon consists of a 40mm
cannon mounted on a M-48 tank
chassis, and cost about $5 million
each. Smith said he could throw a
heavy machine gun on an armored
pickup truck and have just as effec-
tive a weapon. DIVAD was plagued
by serious technical problems and
was cancelled before pr a
could begin, but not before $1.6 billion
was spent on research, Smith said.

Other defense procurement pro-
blems discussed were the complexity
of today’s weapons, the need for
more thorough testing of weapons,
and the lack of competition in expen-
sive weapons systems.

Wolfgang Reuter, a naval archi-
tect, emphasized the complexity of a
modern ship and noted that overhaul
costs may be more than the original
price of the vessel. Smith said the
services should go back to a “‘fly-
before-you-buy’’ testing philosophy.
Sprey said the defense bureaucracy
ensures that certain defense contrac-
tors will never go bankrupt, destroy-
ing the idea of a free market and
competition.

Another possible problem in the
weapons procurement process was
brought up by Charles C. Thompson,
senior investigative producer for the
ABC News show ‘‘20/20.’’ Thompson
said weapons producers weren't
thinking about the users of their pro-
ducts — the servicemen who have to
fight with the equipment.

Sprey said “operational people
rarely get listened to.’”’ Sprey again
criticized the emphasis on complex
weapons with the example of U.S.

Racin’

 

By MARGUERITE AYERS
Staff Reporter

 

Several Washington and Lee pro-
fessors and staff members are trans-
forming themselves into pavement-
pounders, river rats, and road-racers
in preparation for the 11th Annual
Lexington Road and River Relay this
Saturday.

The two faculty teams from W&L
are competing in a record field of 50
teams in the 16-mile running, canoe-
ing and bicycling relay sponsored by
Domino’s Pizza and The Rockbridge
Weekly.

The ‘‘U-Relators,’”’ consisting of
W&L Sports Information Director
Mark D. Mandel, Associate Alumni
Director Leroy C. “Buddy” Atkins,
University Editor Jeffery G. Hanna,
and religion Professor Harlan R.
Beckley, were persuaded by team
captain Brian D. Shaw, Director of

 

 

Added cable channels
get favorable reaction

 

By DUDLEY LEE
Staff Reporter

Are you tired of watching the same
old TV stations? The same rerun
movies and syndicated shows? Cheer
up, because the Lexington Cable
Company has recently announced
that it is expanding its service to in-
clude six new stations, a new movie
channel and the Disney channel.

Although it is uncertain whether
the new movie station will be
Showtime or Cinemax, the new TV
stations are confirmed as MTV, USA,
Nashville Network, C-Span, Arts &
Entertainment and the Health Sta-
tion.

Juanita Hamm of Lexington Cable
said there were no problems getting
the music video channel or any of the
other stations. ‘“‘The parent company
at Winchester formulated the pro-
gram,”’ she said, ‘‘ and city council
passed it.”

Lexington City Council member
Taylor G. Woody said, ‘‘Everything
met the requirements; it was OK so
we passed it.”’

Hamm said the new stations will be
added over the summer, in plenty of
time for the new school year .

With the added service, sub-
scribers can expect to pay an addi-
tional two dollars a month for basic

service and about $10 per special ser-

Navy ships off the coast of Lebanon
in 1982. Sprey said the ships would
have no way to destroy a Piper Cub
airplane making a low-level suicide
attack.

The role of the news media also
was discussed during the sympo-
sium. Thompson said people want a
strong national defense but feel that
money is being wasted. Smith said
unfavorable test results of certain
weapons systems have been classi-
fied to hide the program’s bad poor
performance from the public.

Smith gave Congress a share of the
blame for the state of defense pro-
curement. “‘Congressmen try to pro-
tect their interests by keeping jobs in
their districts,’ he said. Sprey
criticized the employement of politi-
cal action committees to advance the
causes of defense contractors, and
the practice of spreading subcontract
work throughout many congressional
districts in order to win votes for
weapons programs.

John Falk, a senior politics major
from Great Falls, thought of the idea
for the symposium this summer.
Falk worked as an intern for Rep.
James Kolbe, R-Ariz., and helped
draft legislation dealing with pro-
curement issues. Falk gained sup-
port for the symposium last fall, and
asked Kolbe to moderate the debate.
Smith, the co-chairman of the
Military Reform Caucus, was asked
to participate around that time. Both
Kolbe and Smith are members of the
group.

The caucus was formed in 1981 by
Sen. Gary Hart, D-Colo., and Rep. G.
William Whitehurst, R-Va., John
Huebusch, legislative director for
Smith, said the group has 133 mem-
bers at the present time, and is split
evenly between Democrats and
“Republicans. Huebusch said the cau-

‘cus is trying to ‘‘increase the national
defense capability of the United
States at reasonable cost.’’ The
group has sponsored legislation to in-

Faculty, staff sport two teams
for 16-mile road and river relay

the News Office, to enter the relay.
“Our only goal to finish and not em-
barrass ourselves,’’ Shaw said.

“Diminishing Faculties’ team
members include Robert E. Danford
of the University Library, history
Professor J. Holt Merchant, English
Professor James P. Warren,
economics Professor Car! P. Kaiser,
and team captain, Associate Dean of
Students Michael A. Cappeto.

Athletic Director William D. Mc-
Henry and Assistant Lacrosse Coach
Darren F. Lawlor were planning to
have a team this year but fell short
on manpower.

McHenry has competed in the race
three times, and three years ago he
completed the entire relay on his own
for his 50th birthday with his wife,
Joan, helping in the canoe.

The race begins at 11:30 a.m. on
the Virginia Military Institute foot-
ball field. One team member makes
the three-mile run to Bean’s Bottom
where he is met by a bicyclist who

allan

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 

vice channel.

Hamm said the cable company will
offer a student discount for summer
service. If students do not want to
disconnect their cable over the sum-
mer, they will receive one free month
of basic cable. She said that Lex.
ington Cable will also offer a $15 dis-
count for Home Box Office during the
summer.

Student reaction to the announced
increase in service has been very
good. People have especially been
pleased with the additional movie
channel and the increased choice the ;
new service will bring.

According to Mike Guerriero, a
senior economics major, “Dean At- :
wood has taught us that everything is
based on supply and demand; there »
is definitely a demand.”

Junior Graham Loomis expressed
his hopes for evening television.
“There are just some slow nights
when you want adult entertainment,
and HBO doesn’t start adult pro- ,
gramming till nine,” he said. ‘Shows
like Fragglerock are sometimes not *
what I want to watch.”’

Sophomore Phil Sherril sain. “1
just want more John Wayne.” '

Some students said they believe the ,
increased programming will help
cable sales. Freshman Johnny Sar- *
ber explained, “If Lex Cable offers ,

me a wider selection of channels, I
would bea Lex Cablesubscriber.” +

- +

ad

 

 

JOHN FALK

  
  
   
 
 
 
 
    
    

crease testing, competition, and start
cost analysis on weapons systems.

Sprey, who helped develop several
important weapons systems, is a
leader. in the military reform move-¢
ment. The movement is a widely var-
ied group of dissenters drawn from
the defense establishment. Sprey @
said the movement is trying to,
change what it sees as the American
fixation on the ‘‘attrition’’ method of #
warfare. 9

Writers within the movement have
criticized the officer education —
system, the structure and equipment }
of the military. The reform move-
ment has al to determine what stra-
tegy the United States needs to adopt
to preserve its national interests.

Capt. Robert C. Peniston, director
of Lee Chapel, also participated in
the discussion, substituting for
Everett Pyatt, assistant secretary of
the Navy, who cancelled his ap-
pearance. Peniston is a retired U.S.
Navy officer who commanded sever-
al vessels during his career.

~~ _ —_—

  

rides a ten-mile loop. One or two" |
other team-members then will pad-s |
dle a canoe down the Maury River to t '
Jordan’s Point, where the final run-~ |
ner will travel the Woods Creek trail #
to the VMI tennis courts and back to w |
Jordan’s Point for the finish of the |
relay. vy]

|

The race was started in 1976 in con- .
junction with the America Bicenten- * |
nial festivities in Lexington and has » |
grown steadily in popularity. This
year for the first time the number of “
entries has reached its limit of 50% | *%
teams.

Some of the professors indicated’ | °
they were intimidated by the influx of ,
competitors from outside the Rock-
bridge County area, but all plan to |
finish their leg of the race. a)

According to chairman of the race *
committee, and Andy Hunter of the, | ,
Lexington Bike Shop, the relay has
two parts, the sweating and splash- ° |
ing of the actual race, and the contes- | ,
tant’s

beer party that follows. mi,

q

a

~—s
     

a
y
+

“

-_ Se

_*

¢

 

 

 

Fiery oratory

This week is 30th anniversary

of death at Mock Convention

By BRIAN D. SHAW

‘ W&L News Office

 

Alben W. Barkley, vice president
under Harry Truman and two-time
U.S. senator from Kentucky, was

* known for his fiery oratorical skills.
, “The old firehorse,” as he was call-

ed, could stimulate any crowd with
his deft combination of down-home
wit and inspiring pronouncements.
Barkley was at his oratorical best
30 years ago this week, when he
delivered the keynote speech at

"Washington and Lee’s Mock Conven-

tion. The Kentucky Democrat drew
loud applause and shouts of approval
from the predominantly Republican
crowd as he chastised Dwight
Eisenhower and the Grand Old Party
for its lack of reforms and progress.

The 78-year-old senator then re-
counted his political career, and how
he moved from a county attorney in
rural Kentucky to junior senator to
vice president and back to junior
senator. He told the students he
wasn’t interested anymore in gaining
political power.

“‘T would rather be a servant in the
house of the Lord,’’ Barkley intoned,
pausing for effect, ‘‘than sit in the

seats of the mighty.”’

Then he collapsed. A short time
later, Barkley was pronounced dead
by Dr. Robert Munger, a Lexington
physician who was summoned to the
scene.

Barkley’s collapse and death stun-
ned the packed hall at Doremus
Gym. John K. Jennings, a senior
journalism major in 1956, was cover-
ing Barkley’s speech for a local radio
station. On Jennings’ tape of the
speech, the sound of Barkley’s col-
lapse is loud and noticeable, then the
obviously nervous young man began
his commentary in a halting voice.

“Senator Barkley has just collaps-
ed,” Jennings said. ‘‘He is being fan-
ned ... A doctor is being summoned ...
There is just an air of disbelief.’’

Today, Jennings is head of the
W&L journalism department. He vi-

vidly remembers that sweltering day
30 years ago.

“Barkley had really gotten the
students worked up in a way you
wouldn't expect from a largely
Republican student body,’’ he said.
“He was responding to their en-
thusiasm. Then, he turned ashen and
slumped down,”’

The students, both around Barkley
and in the hall, were ‘‘scared to
death,”’ Jennings said.

As a doctor arrived at the platform
and started to administer oxygen, the
media in attendance began scram-
bling to get photos and footage of the
fallen senator. That, Jennings said, is
when the “taste vigilantes” took

over.
Students in the audience, he said,

physically restrained photographers

from taking pictures of Barkley as he

was slumped on the floor of the stage.

Jerry Bartmess, a photographer

from WDBJ-7 in Roanoke who is still

employed at the station, remembers

the scenario.

“It was pandemonium,” Bartmess ”
recalled. ‘I was across the hall. I had
my camera shut down because I had
only about a minute’s worth of film
left. I shot some footage of the
students fanning Barkley, then they
held up their banners and placards in
front of the camera.

_ “John Gilbert, from WSLS [the
NBC affiliate in Roanoke] was pin-
ned against the wall by some stu-
dents and prevented from taking
photos. When I think about it now, I
understand why the students kept us
from shooting footage, but it was dis-
concerting to us because we were
just trying to do our job. After we
calmed down we understood it was a
natural response.”’

All that remains of the event is Jen-
nings’ audio recording of the speech

and collapse, and some film of Bark- -

ley speaking before he was stricken,
and students fanning the senator
when he was prone on the floor.

The confrontation between stu-
dents and the media touched off a
debate on the rights of the media and

the question of taste in covering such
an unusual event. In an editorial that
appeared shortly after Barkley’s
death, the Roanoke Times criticized
the students for their censoring ac-
tions,

“The interference appeared not to
be the result of restrictions imposed
by school officials,’ the Times said.
“Rather it was the action of self-ap-
pointed censors among the students.
We believe their zeal exceeded their
judgment and that this sort of censor-
ship is not condoned by the majority
of W&L students.”

Letters to the student newspaper,
The Ring-tum Phi, indicate other-
wise.

“Any difficulties experienced by
the press were, unfortunately,
brought upon themselves by their
own lack of discretion and callous
behavior,” one student wrote.

“Our action in restraining the
photographers is commendable,”
wrote another.

The Mock Convention was suspend-
ed for a week following Barkley’s
death. At Mrs. Barkley’s urgings, it
was resumed, with Adlai Stevenson
and Frank Clement receiving the
nomination. Truman dedicated a pla-
que commemorating Barkley’s death
in Doremus Gym when he visited
Lexington for the 1960 Mock Conven-
tion.

Aside from the commotion follow-
ing Barkley’s collapse, Jennings best
remembers Mrs. Barkley’s control
and aplomb throughout the ordeal.

“T remember someone suggesting
to Mrs. Barkley after his collapse
that the senator was probably sitting
at the right hand of the Lord,”’ Jen-
nings said. ‘‘ ‘No,’ she replied. ‘He’s
probably standing at the gate telling
St. Peter stories.’ ”’

Brian D. Shaw was the Shenandoah
_ Bureau Chief for the Roanoke Times &

World-News and an education writer for
the Greensboro (N.C.) Daily News
before becoming W&L’s News Office
Director in the summer of 1985.

 

 

GENERAL NOTES

 

An Interfraternity Council pie-
eating contest, with all proceeds
benefitting Multiple Sclerosis, will
be held at halftime of Saturday’s
home lacrosse game against Loy-
ola College. Fraternities are re-
minded that $25 entry fees
(checks made out to Blue Ridge
Chapter, NMSS) should be turned
in to Janet Goad at Evans Dining
Hall or to Chris Saxman by tomor-
row at noon.

The Washington and Lee aqua-
tics program is offering swim-
ming lessons to area residents
three years of age and older dur-
ing the weeks of May 5 to 9 and 12
to 16. Two classes will be offered
each day, from 4 p.m. to 4:25 and
4:35 to5.

Registration and water evalua-
tion will be Saturday at 10 a.m. at
W&L’s Cy Twombly Pool in the
Warner Center.

The cost is $15 per program, and
the program include Beginners
(three levels), Advanced (three
levels), Mommy and Mee (ages 3
to 5 with mother), Aquatic games-

 

CLASSIFIEDS;

Gold Card Program (swimmer
level and above), and Life Saving
(depending on interest).

For further details, contact
Page Remillard at 463-8693.

The Washington and Lee Film
Society’s final program of the
1985-86 season will be a double
feature.

The program will begin at 8
p.m. Friday and Saturday in
Classroom “A” in Lewis Hall.
There is no charge for admission.

The feature attraction will be
Woody Allen’s extraordinary
“Zelig” (1983), a work that is best
categorized as a kind of fictional
documentary. Woody Allen por-
trays Leonard Zelig, a ‘“‘human
chameleon’’ who is so insecure, so
neurotic, that be becomes a mir-
ror of people and events around
him. Set in the 1920s and ’30s, the
film is a technical tour-de-force,
as Zelig/Allen appears in
newsreel footage in the company
of celebrities from Babe Ruth to
Adolf Hitler. This film is very
original and, as are all of Allen’s
works, very entertaining.

The opening film will be an
award-winning “short subject’’
titled ‘“‘Hardware Wars.”’ This

popular parody of ‘Star Wars”
(the film, not the high-tech
defense system) uses ordinary
household appliances to create its
“‘special effects.”’

The United Daughters of the
Confederacy has two scholarships
available to Washington and Lee
women for $1,000 and $300 for next
school year. The $300 scholarship
is also open to men. Applicants |
must be lineal descendants of Con-
federate veterans. Information
and applications are available in
the Financial Aid Office in

‘Washington Hall.

The University Library has
raised its fine for overdue books
that have been recalled from 25
cents a day to$ia day.

FOR SALE

1982 HONDA PASSPORT CY-
CLE. $450, excellent condition,
1,000 miles. Gets great mileage
and requires almost no mainte-
nance. Price includes front and
rear baskets and helmet. Call
463-3962.

 

 

    

 

The Finishing Touch

For All Your Typing Needs

463-1622

Old Main Street Mall

 

165 S. Main

 

paffmaE [hit Florist

Make Your Mother’s Day,
Send A Big Bouquet!

Don’t forget: May Ll

463-9152

 

 

be sinictaniheoe ne abt A thts tei Cini iN eos

q

 

 

Summer Fall Spring

WASHINGTON
OR LONDON
INTERNSHIPS

OXFORD ““36"

Full Academic Years In

© Oxford University
°L.S.E.
e St. Andrews, Scotland

U.S. credits will be transferred
through Hampden-Sydney
College, founded in Virginia by
James Madison in 1776.
Graduate work is an option.
The Director of Studies for the
Center for Quality Education
Abroad (in Britain) is the Rt.
Hon. The Lord Beloff, D.Litt.
(Oxon.), Fellow of the British
Academy, Professor Emeritus
of Government and Fellow of
All Souls, Oxford.
INQUIRIES TO:
JANET KOLLEK, J.D.,
Admissions Director CQEA/
WISC, Rm 53, 158 W. 81 St.,
NY,NY, 10024.
(212-724-0804/7 24-0136).

(EO/AA)

 

 

 

 

 

Blast

©) Continued from Page 1

 

warning sirens were added to pre-
vious safety measures. Those sirens
now sound a minute before an explo-
sion as a signal for students in the
dormitories to back away from win-
dows.

Beebe called the flying debris a
“freak thing’ because blasting pads
are being used to muffle the explo-
sions.

Meanwhile, students have found a
variety of ways to escape the noise.
Many are now studying in the libr-
ary, and some have moved in with
friends in quieter areas, Huntley
said.

Students are still not used to the
blasts.

“We've been shell-shocked," said
freshman Bill Crabill, who lives in
Davis. ‘‘It shakes the whole ground.
It literally blew me out of my bed one
morning.”

Radar

() Continued from Page 1

 

 

radar devices are completely off
when shut off and have several dif-
ferent bands,” Hines explained.

Detectors are not fault proof. Many
have been known to give false warn-

ings when interfered with by other _

detectors, security systems, micro-
wave signals, and even garage door
openers.

And use of the detectors is certain-
ly no guarantee that you won't
get a speeding ticket. Sometimes
they just don’t provide sufficient
warning, although the newer multi-
band models with their longer ranges
and ability, in many cases, to receive
radar signals around corners and
over hills are significantly more
reliable.

Still Hines doesn’t consider radar
detectors as much of a threat. New
advances in radar technology have
given the state police ‘‘an equal shot”
he said. The development of laser
radar systems shows promise as
well.

The Ring-tum Phi, May 1, 1986, Page 5

 

 

 

 

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

Extra long?

Senior Class President Townes Pressler tries on a jacket at the Alvin-
Dennis clothes store on Washington St. during a sale for Washington and Lee
seniors. Both Alvin-Dennis and the College Town Shop on Nelson Street have
held the annual sales for 10 years. The sales, held at the same time at the
competing stores, were Monday, and another will be held on Monday, May
26. Alvin Carter, owner of Alvin-Dennis, said the sales have been a ‘‘very
successful tradition.”

 

PRE-

It’s Easy To Qualify

@ You must receive at least a
bachelor’s degree or a state RN
license between October 1,
1985 and September 30, 1986.

@ You must have verifia‘le
employment that begins within
120 days of your qualifying
vehicle purchase at a salary
sufficient to cover ordinary liv-
ing expenses and your vehicle
payment.

® Your credit record, if you
have one, must indicate pay-
ment made as agreed.

Ford Motor
Credit

 

 

 

Mercury: Lynx, Topaz, Capri,

approved credit is determined

Ford

2018 Forest Ave.
Buena Viste

GRADUATES

COURTESY

Ford ¢ Mercury

HAS YOUR

PROVED

CREDIT FROM
FORD CREDIT

PLUS $400
THE PURCHASE OF A NEW FORD

TOWARD

These Vehicles Are
Included In The Plan
Ford: Escort, Escort EXP,
Tempo, Mustang, Thunderbird
Ford Truck: Aerostar, Bronco II,
Ranger, F-150 & F-250

by the qualifying vehicle you buy,
and you are eligible for the $400
directly from Ford even if you
don’t finance your purchase.
Make your best deal and you can
use the $400 toward your down
payment or get a check from
Ford after the purchase or lease.

Cougar ; :
¢ Hurry. If a vehicle is not in

dealer stock it must be ordered
by June 1, 1986, and delivery of
all vehicles must be taken by
August 31, 1986. See your par-
ticipating dealer for complete
program details.

The amount of your pre-

 

 

Mercury

261-2112
DL 1916

 

 

 

 

Oo

 

 

 
SPORTS

The Ring-tum Phi, May 1, 1986

 

Netmen take another title,
jump to fourth in nation

 

By LEIF UELAND
Staff Reporter

After completing its eighth week of
play, which included winning its sec-
ond straight Old Dominion Athletic
Conference crown and moving up in
the national rankings from fifth to
fourth, the Washington and Lee
men’s tennis team has taken further
steps towards the NCAA Division III
national championships.

In addition to winning the ODAC
championships, the Generals lost a
close 5-4 match to Virginia, on Mon-
day, and defeated Radford, 9-0, on
Tuesday

Generals doubies teams sopho
more David McLeod and Messerly at
No. 1, Mize and Matthews at No. 2
and Wiman and Adams at No. 3
were crowned champs. Head coach
Gary Franke was named ODAC
Coach-of-the-Year

“Obviously, we would have prefer
red to take all nine flights,’ Franke
said, “but I think we handled the
pressure of being expected to win
well.”

On Monday the Generals were a
doubles match away from beating
their Charlottesville rivals. After
singles competition the match was
all tied up, 3-3. The Generals could
pick up only one doubles victory at

4, for the offical word on nationals
Team members will be awaiting the
decision with much less consterna
tion than last year, when the
Generals were ranked eighth, and
knew that they had only a slim
chance at making the tournament
Given that the Generals do get the
bid, they will undergo two more
weeks of intensive training

‘We look forward to the challenge
of nationals,’ Franke said. ‘hopeful
of the bid. We'll be working real
hard over the next two weeks to im
prove our games and get ready for
that tournament.’

The Generals powered their way the No. 2 slot of Mize and Matthews. _ Results
through eight of the nine singles The match went down to the wire, a Singles
‘ No. 1 — Pete Moran (Lynchburg) def. David

flights that they won at the ODACs,
not losing a single set and winning a
total of 24 matches. W&L won the ti-
tle with a total of 71 points, followed
by Hampden-Sydney (52), Lynch-
burg (48), Emory and Henry (47),
Randolph-Macon (44), Roanoke (28),
Bridgewater (19) and Maryville (15).

Singles champions for the Generals
included No. 2 Roby Mize, No. 3 Bob-
by Matthews, No. 4 Chris Wiman, No.
5 Jack Messerly and No. 6 captain
Scott Adams. All three of the

three-set match at No. 3 with the
Cavaliers victorious, 6-3, 6-7, 6-3.

Coach Franke commented on the
match saying, ‘“‘We came real close
to beating a good Virginia team. We
had real nice wins from Matthews,
Mize and Scott Adams.”’

Against Radford on Tuesday the
Generals had little trouble obtaining
the shutout victory.

The Generals must now wait until
the conference call on Sunday, May

=

McLeod (W&L) 6-4, 61, No. 2 Roby Mize
(W&L) def. Fred Lawson (LC) 6-3, 6-4. Bobby
Matthews (W&L) def. Brad King (Hampden-Syd
ney) 6-0, 6-4. No. 4 — Chris Wiman (W&L) def
Scott Heidler (H-S) 6-0, 6-0. No.5 — Jack Messerly
(W&L) def. Jon Looney (Emory and Henry) 6-0
6-1. No. 6 — Scott Adams (W&L) def. Kirby Arnall
(H-S) 6-1, 6-1
Doubles

No. 1 David McLeod-Messerly (W&L) def
Geoff Koslow-Pete Adeson (Randolph-Macon)
6-1, 6-1. No. 2 — Mize-Matthews (W&L) def. John
Donelson-Heidler (H-S) 7-5, 6-1. No. 3 — Adams
Wiman (W&L) def. Harry Thompson-Jack von
Maur (H-S) 6-3, 6-1

By Paul Foutch/The Ring-tum Phi

David McLeod returns oyerhead in the ODAC No. 1 doubles championship

Division III’s best hand lacrossers two tough defeats; W&L now 5-6

 

ted

W&L’s Keith Scott and Chris John (32) sandwich Washington’s Brian Kelleher

Thinclads short of crown
despite taking five firsts

 

By ROB MacPHERSON
Staff Reporter

 

It came down to the final event, but
when it was over the Washington and
Lee track team came up a step slow
and an inch short in finishing second
to Lynchburg in the Old Dominion

Athletic Conference championships. senior Chris Bleggi, who competed was the disqualification of the mile W&L soccer coach Rolf Piranian ticipation. may se out the club’s equip-
while suffering from a fever. He took relay team. urges fauhd ment which includes tents, back-

nm 4 : ‘ vee : : ges everyone in the Washington ; ; .
The Generals piled up 138 team first in the 100 meters with a time of | After finishing second to Lyn- and Lee community to stag The first trip that the club has packs, stoves, cooking utensils,

points to Lynchburg’s 152. The rest of
the field was Roanoke (90), Bridge-
water (70), Emory and Henry (62)
and Eastern Mennonite (9).

 

Aldridge said there is no NCAA row. overnight trip to St. Mary’s Gorge the club’ ae ak
“] thought we could have won it,” Sophomore Andy White set a school ule regarding such incidents, but he . flay : fee tie eee :
head coach Norris Aldridge said. record witha time of 14.8 seconds in did not file a protest because it would One does ms have to bea club on ~ ee genie y erst Piranian at his office on the fifth ‘
“There were some areas where we the 110-meter hurdles, good enough not have changed the outcome of the member to check out equipment ing to Piranian, the club has no floor of the Warner Center, ¢
meet
. So eerccccccccccccccvccccccesees ¥
SERVIITAR. toc ie i
« e
23S. Main Large House In The Country : Read The $ 4
Lexington, Va. 24450 Ee uu : :
ETM hy.) Call ° ace ifi e -
Lexington Hardware rey) OP TERM Pl : Classifieds :
463-2242 tn TT eo Lexington, VA 24450 463-251 8 rccsnebubbsebtaadabbabdensaceil

 

 

 

did what we should’ve done and some
where we didn’t.”

One of the good areas was on the
track, where the Generals took first
in five of 10 events, the most W&L has
ever won at the championships.

“We had some outstanding perfor-
mances,’’ Aldridge said.

One of those was turned in by

10.7 seconds and second in the 200
meters with a personal best of 22.4
seconds. He also anchored the first-
place 440-yard relay team

for first place. He also took first in
the 400-meter intermediates

Freshman Jamie Urso took first in
the 800 meters with a time of 1:51.8

On the field the Generals came up
with only one first place junior
Matt Steilberg’s 13-foot pole vault.

Freshman Fray McCormick took
second in the high jump with a per-
sonal best of 6 feet, seven inches. The
winner cleared that height also, but
McCormick had more misses and
was awarded second.

One incident that added to the
disappointment but not to the loss

chburg, Chris McGowan threw his
baton, causing the judges to give the
victory to Lynchburg

 

‘tha .
‘é ep

 

By Perry 8. Hayes/The Ring-tum Phi

By DAVID NAVE
Staff Reporter

 

By DAVID EMRICH

 

 

 

All those interested in the great
outdoors, take heed.

The Outing Club’s supervisor,

vantage of the three scheduled
spring trips and the recreational
equipment that anyone can bor-

 

finally got it back and then we lost it ’

 

Assistant Sports Editor again.”
W&L did get close, scoring Six 4
Last week was one best forgotten unanswered goals of its own down the :
by the Washington and Lee lacrosse stretch. But the Maroons got a late %
team. They began the week with a 5-4 goal to close out the upset. a.
record, and two games against rank- Saturday, at Wilson Field against
ed Division III foes in store. The out- ‘he Washington College Shoremen, r
come of the games was not as they he Generals fell just a single goal
hoped. short of victory against Division III’s =~
_. second-ranked team, 11-10. 4
Yesterday, for the second time in The Generals came up with some «

four days, W&L lacrosse lost to a
Division III opponent, this time the
defeat was at the hands of crossstate
rival Roanoke, by the score of 17-14.

“We LOST the game,”’ said Gen-
eral’s head coach Dennis Daly after
the game, the second consecutive
loss to Roanoke, the nations eighth-
ranked Division III team.

The turning point of the game may
have come in the second period.
After W&L had built a 5-3 lead early
in the second period, one of the
Maroon’s players was called off-
sides.

Roanoke Coach John Pirro dis-
agreed with the close call and pro-
tested so loudly that he earned a one-
minute unsportsmanlike conduct
penalty.

The result of all this was one
minute of extra-man offense for
W&L, the first thirty-seconds of
which would be with a two-man ad-
vantage.

The Maroons managed to kill the
entire penalty, and the effort ap-
parently got them fired up.

Roanoke, following their effort on
the penalty, outscored the Generals
13-1 to build a 16-6 lead early in the
third period before W&L began to get
back into the game.

“We lost our composure for a good
part of the game,” said Daly. “We

or go on trips. ‘‘We do not have a
set membership,” Piranian said.

He said that the club’s leader-
ship, President Eric Faber and
Vice-Presidents Noor Ampssler
and Mark Churchill, organize
trips that will attract student par-

scheduled this spring will be a day
hike at Shenandoah National
Park. The club has planned a
canoe outing for May 17 and an

great individual performances. Fore-
most were efforts by goalie John

Church and attackman Caulley Der- *

inger. Church had 22 saves and,
along with defenseman Chris John,
was named Defensive Player-of-the-
Game.

Caulley Deringer, co-awarded Of-
fensive Player-of-the-Game honors
with midfielder Todd Briedhaupt,
scored three goals. Deringer added
five scores against Roanoke.

“T expected that type of a game.
You make mistakes in the game of
lacrosse,” said Daly. ‘‘In that par-
ticular one both teams were good
enough to find 21 mistakes on each
other, so it was an 11-10 game ... it
was a good lacrosse game.”’

The Generals play host to Loyola
on Saturday at Wilson Field. W&L
knocked Loyola out of contention for
a Division I tournament bid last year.
The stage is set for a repeat perfor-
mance this year as Loyola enters the
game as the 11th-ranked squad in the
nation.

But Daly admitted the Roanoke
loss would pose a tough mental hur-
dle for W&L, ‘‘because it was disap-
pointing, not that we lost but how we
lost.”

canner ee eee rece aa

Outing Club offers trips back to nature,
plus hiking gear on loan at no charge

decided upon any specific costs.
He did say that the university will
provide transportation when pos-
sible and that any cost that a stu-
dent might encounter will be mini-
mal.

Anyone in the W&L community

sleeping bags and a limited supply
of rock climbing equipment, free
of charge.

Anyone who wants to check out

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

+

eeoe*aig¢ete# &

[eh 6S

a
yg ny

“~eenr= - &

> aA (AN porrraits! :

In Living Color

10 Resumes $599

2-9x7
2- 8x10 Couples Welcome!

Expires May 11, Mon.-Sat., 10-6, Sun, 12-5
7S Se el eM ee C0 01) a ae Se eH Re Ste

Valley True Value Hardware Geiser Maple Hall ;

New Hours
Wednesday -Saturday: 5:00-10:00
Sunday Brunch: 11:00-2:00

NEW EXPANDED MENU
Ala Carte Pricing

Reservations Suggested—

Call 463-6693

       
  
 

 

\ ie
COUNTRY

HAROWARE STORES rine

All
For

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

Mon.-Sat. 8:30-6:00
Sun, 1-5

E. Nelson Street
463-2186

 

 

 

Rcihernnmnanesniicinea

 

 
   

 

Olympic help

U.S. water polo coach barnstorms for sport at W&L

 

By MATT HORRIDGE
Staff Reporter

Former United States Olympic water polo coach
Monte Nitzkowski conducted a seminar for water
polo players from Lynchburg College and
en and Lee yesterday at the Cy Twombly
pool.
Nitzkowski, a former Olympic backstroker, was
in Lexington as part of a 60-school tour, to “na-
tionalize the sport” and teach players fundamen-
tal water polo skills, he said.

Nitzkowski said he has been on the road since
early February, touring schools on the West Coast

_ and in the Midwest. He took 10 days off and has

¢
r
¢
4

*

 

 

been on the East Coast since April 2nd.

Working with over 1500 players — from third-
graders to 40-year-olds — Nitzkowsi said his cam-
paign has been successful.

He said since starting his trek, six schools have
joined the ranks of NCAA water polo. Nitzkowski
said the success of U.S. teams in future years
depends on getting ‘‘as many schools as we can in-
tothe NCAA.”

Being able to offer a $6,000 grant for teams who
join the NCAA has been a boon to his efforts, Nitz-
kowski said. Schools joining get $3,000 the first
yee they play, $2,000 the second and $1,000 the
third.

The six teams that joined the NCAA raised the
number of participating schools from 51 to 57,
Nitzkowski said, and added tha* he expects
several more to join before the end of May.

Because there were so few schools playing
water polo in the early 70’s, the U.S. lost a great
chance to capitalize on the bronze medal the U.S.
team won in the 1972 Summer Olympics, Nitz-
kowski said.

California schools have been perennial water
polo champs because “‘they really got it rolling in
the [high] schools,’’ Nitzkowski said.

Washington & Lee water polo coach Page Rem-
illard said Nitzkowski’s tour is helping to solidify
the existing water polo organizations as well as
adding new schools.

Nitzkowski said he has worked with schools

vo

where there is ‘‘pure grass-roots development’,

 

 

 

 

 

Ws

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi ~

 

Nitzkowski and Remillard show players at yesterday’s clinic how to do it

like Wake Forest, to established teams like
W&L’s.

Remillard said another important aspect of
Nitzkowski’s trip is that there will now be ‘one
person who can speak an represent what is hap-
pening nationally”’ in water polo.

In addition, Nitzkowski’s efforts to establish
regional championships like those in NCAA Divi-
sion I basketball would provide ‘‘the goals and ob-
jectives’’ coaches need to produce high-quality
teams, Remillard said. Such regional champion-
ships would bring polo powerhouses like the Uni-
versity of California-Long Beach and the Univer-

sity of Southern California to the East Coast to
play.

Nitzkowski’s seven-hour clinic yesterday cover-
ed many basic strategies of the game.

Sophomore Simon Perez said the game plan
Nitzkowski taught was ‘‘the same type of thing”
Remillard uses.

“T know it helped out a lot with our freshmen’’
who have had one season under their belt, added
junior Kevin Lederer.

But Nitzkowski’s mission is more than in-
dividual improvement.

“It is critical that the universities of this nation
play the Olympic sports,”’ he said.

 

By MIKE SHADY
Staff Reporter

 

They have nothing to be ashamed
of.

In athletics, most people feel that
winning is everything and that sec-
ond-place is for losers. The Washing-
ton and Lee men’s golf team couldn’t
have proved them more wrong.

The scoreboard says that Hamp-
den-Sydney took the championship in
this week’s Old Dominion Athletic
Conference tournament by three
strokes over W&L, 644-647, but it

Ninth-inning rally ends

 

By CHARLES T. GAY
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee Baseball
team blew a 3-1 ninth inning lead in
dropping a 4-3 decision at Hampden-
Sydney in the quarter-final round of
the Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference Tournament yesterday.

The Generals are thereby knocked
out of the single-elimination playoff
tournament.

Head Coach Jim Murdock’s reac-
tion to the defeat was one of disgust.

‘We stank,” he asserted, ‘we
played horrible in the clutch and
made a bunch of mental mistakes,
too.”

Murdock praised the pitching of
Bill Schoettelkotte, who went eight
strong innings. He cited inexperience
for the absence of clutch play.

W&L had a chance to put the game

Lady netters win respect, gain consos at

By DAVID NAVE
Staff Reporter

The Washington and Lee women’s
tennis team concluded its inaugural
season last weekend at Hollins Col-
lege with a ninth place finish in the
Old Dominion Athletic Conference
tournament.

The Generals finished ahead of
Roanoke in the 10-team conference
tournament while Emory and Henry
and Hollins tied for first place.
Emory & Henry is contesting the tie

doesn’t tell the whole story. The
Generals were leading through most
of the second round of the two-day
tourney when the Tiger’s Sam Wal-
lace took matters into his own hands
and single-handedly defeated W&L.
Finishing with a 75, Wallace, who
was named ODAC Player-of-the-
Year, came through in the clutch and
dampened some of the great individ-
ual efforts made by the Generals.
Seniors Greg Wheeler (78-78) and
Jeff Kimbell (83-79), who both cap-
tured All-ODAC honors, led the way
for W&L. The Generals got off to a
slow start with a first round total of

out of reach in its tworun eighth, but
opportunities to add to its lead came
up short. First, on a fake squeeze
play, Harry Halpert was gunned
down at the plate. Later that same
frame, Bill Curtiss popped into a
double-play on an attempted
squeeze-play. Hampden-Sydney
came back to score three the follow-
ing inning on a walk, a double, a tri-
ple and a bases loaded bunt single.

Earlier in the week, the Generals
had closed out their regular cam-
paign by losing two out of three
games.

Radford topped W&L on Saturday
by a 3-1 score. The Generals rebound-
ed Sunday to whip Christopher New-
port 5-2, led by Milam Turner’s four-
hit effort. Kirk Breen went the
distance to record his first mound
victory of the campaign. The Gen-
erals were then shellacked on Tues-
day by VMI, 28-17.

with a protest to the NCAA. the pro-
test concerns a technicality surroun-
ding the draw.

The Generals did not post a very
strong record during the regular
season — 3-9 overall and 1-9 in the
ODAC — but head coach Bill Wash-
burn said that his team won much
respect after it performed better at
the tournament than most expected.
“Even though we lost, we were no
‘push over,’ ” Washburn said.

W&L won most of this respect when
several team members made it to the

The Sandwich Shop
Old Main Mall
Featuring Dieter’s Specials

DAILY
We Appreciate Your Business! !

Open 11-5 P.M.
Mon. -Sat.

T0-GO
463-2595

 

331, leaving them in fourth-place,
seven strokes back. But W&L came
out determined in the second round,
firing a conference-low 318 which
seemed good enough until Wallace
ruined things.

“We were disappointed that we
didn’t win,’’ said head Coach Buck
Leslie, ‘‘but we made a run at it. We
didn’t expect to be this good at the
beginning but we made good pro-
gress during the course of the
season.”

The excellent play of Kimbell, a
four-year participent, was a pleasant

‘Golfers miss ODAC title by three strokes;
‘Wheeler, Kimbell earn All-ODAC honors

surprise for the team.

“We anticipated using Jeff so we
took him to the Bridgewater match
(last week),’’ said Leslie. “I think it
is a nice touch after four years in the
program for him to make All-
ODAC.”

“Greg did a nice job with leader-
ship this season,” said Leslie. ‘I feel
Wallace’s 75 was the determining
factor.”

Wheeler, who Leslie felt would
have won ODAC Player of the Year
had it not been for Wallace’s heroics,
still has a chance to make nationals.

baseball season

 

 

 

 

Overall, the Generals finished the
regular season 6-8 in the ODAC, 7-13-1
overall.

Murdock called it, ‘‘a frustrating
year,’ commenting, ‘‘we didn’t have
enough leadership or character. It’s

final round of the consolation bracket
and earned fourth-place honors at
their respective flights: Valerie Pier-
son at No, 3 singles, Benny Savage at
No. 6 singles, and the team of Pierson
and Martha Christian at No. 2 dou-
bles.

Washburn labeled his team’s first
season as “‘very positive.’’ He added
that the experience that the all-fresh-
man starting line-up gained this year
will contribute greatly to next year’s
program.

Other players and coaches agreed.

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi
Adam Yanez watches a pitch go in the dirt

difficult to be consistent with a young
team. Perhaps this (year) provided
the experience they need.”

“‘T hope we get some kids who want
to play next year.”’

ODACs

Women’s Athletic Director Cinda
Rankin commented that she was ex-
tremely pleased that the first-year
program could not only compete with
the other well-established ODAC
teams but also beat some of them.
‘‘We have the start for a successful
program,”’ she said.

Savage said that given the cir-
cumstances, the season was a suc-
cess. She cited team spirit, dedica-
tion, and good coaching as providing
the solid foundation for next year.

“We are just starting,” she said.

 

   

 

   

NEED Libul 703-463-1670
A CAR? GEL TUL Emergency
(Gti: 703-377-6331
Students under 21 A
Must Have
prior Insurance
Approval Brian and Doris
Fredricksen
RFD7, Box 149, Rt. 60 East Lexington, Virginia 24450

    

 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, May 1, 1986, Page 7

 

A matter
of behavior

It’s a matter of behavior and,
campers, it’s getting out of hand
I’m not sure all of this has very
much to do with bats, balls, sticks or
rackets, but a wise man told me it’s
just as bad as the sin to leave such
y By Mike oe or at least un
7 Stachura Three things:

Thing 1: Last week’s reprinted let-
ter trom one of the University of Virginia’s newspapers has this
gentleman wondering where all the rest of his ilk — that much bally-
hooed characterization of the pre-coed W&L student — have gone. As |
remember, The Phi was rather gung-ho (this body being the chief
hung-goer) about the U. Va.-W&L lacrosse game. Now, I’m wondering
if the whole thing might have backfired. Seems Mommy can't trust
you children away from home. Is it asking all that much of you non-
athletes to remember that you represent the school as much as those
wearing jerseys and helmets? Unnecessary word choice and urinating
on the field are acts worthy of the character and intellect of roller der-
by fans or their kindred spirits, Hampden-Sydney students, but cer-
tainly not of those who purport to be doing something with their lives
I'd like to think pride in your school would not necessarily exclude
pride in yourself. But, then, things have changed, haven't they?

 

TIME
OUT....

¥.5

 

 

 

 

Thing 2: Found it interesting the other day at the ODAC tennis
coaches’ pre-tournament meeting that the assembled gents discussed
court conduct for about half an hour. As the tournament went on, not
all that much was done about the occasional outbursts of misbehavior
(That’s becoming somewhat of a theme this week, not all that much
being done.) But returning to our saga, isn’t it a bit sad that in the
gentleman’s game there is such an overriding concern to do something
about the terrible behavior of the children playing the game? To their
credit, the W&L players acted like the champions they are. Still, in all,
there were enough scenes of rackets being thrown, balls batted wildly
around the court and vocal displays of immaturity to give this inno-
cent bystander — and I’m sure countless others — food for thought.
Just because John McEnroe gets to do it on TV, doesn’t mean that it’s
OK to do. For all their talk, the coaches really didn’t do all that much.
But then I guess it’s really more galling that they even had to talk
about it at all. I don’t think they have to have such talks about these
things in Sweden, and it’s good to see that country’s players’ good
behavior rewarded.

Thing 3: I don’t know where this thing belongs, but since it happened
at the lacrosse game Saturday, we're going to file it in this space. One
of W&L’s finest fans in attendance at the game decided this would be
as good a time as any to display his new spring wardrobe. Unfor-
tunately, his finery included a T-shirt that had a picture of TV
character Buckwheat with a slash through him and the inscription
“NO BUCKWHEATS.”’ Now, this incident might seem like so much
fun and games to you, but then that’s assuming you're not black
That’s an assumption the T-shirt wearer must have made — either
that or he’s a blatant racist pig. It’s also an assumption you don’t get to
make. Race relations at W&L are rather tenuous to begin with. The
situation doesn’t need any help from misguided clods who have a great
deal of trouble thinking beyond their own noses.

Thing 4: (Yeah, there were supposed to be only three, but a funny
thing happened on the way to the printing press. Yesterday's Roanoke
lax loss brought us a fourth in the form of a late-game, on-the-field
brawl.) There is no question losing is a frustrating thing. But what
makes a champion in my book is not so much the wins and losses, but
the way one chooses to handle both. Yesterday, some W&L lacrosse
players let frustration get the best of them as time ran out on their
comeback attempt against the Maroon. (To set the record straight.
Roanoke’s athletes were not models of sportsmanship, either. But then
I was never of a mind to set Roanoke athletes as models of anything. )

The sad thing was that I was embarassed to be associated with W&L
athletics as I watched a lacrosse game become a boxing/wrestling
match. And when you get embarassed in Roanoke, brother, you’re
scraping pretty low.

I watched W&L lose something a lot more valuable than a piddling
lacrosse game yesterday afternoon. It’s called composure. It’s called
self-respect. And you ought not ever lose that.

I know this group is not as bad as Wednesday's brawl might make
them out to be. Not by any stretch. Point is, it didn’t have to happen.

The point to these three, er four things? I’m not sure, but it seems to
me they might serve as food for thought, if you’d like. If nothing here
bothers you, well then, that may be the problem...

.... rying to find a parking place on the Colonnade, Dennis Daly said
in a release this week that the Generals played to potential against
Washington College. No doubt about that and no reason to be disap-
pointed, either, Only question is where, divisionally speaking, playing
to potential puts W&L lacrosse. I'll leave an attempted answer for
another day and perhaps another, wiser, person... Congrats to track
(second), golf (second), women’s tennis (ninth — they did beat
Roanoke) and men’s tennis (first. what else?). Re: Men’s tennis. This
group, if the positive attitude holds out, will turn more than a few
heads in Claremont, Calif., during the second week of this month...

...Finally, speaking of the Golden State, if Snow Chief doesn’t win
the Derby, Bold Arrangement will...

 

‘Florist to the Homestead

103 N. Jefferson
Lexington, Va. 24450
(703) 463-9841—

 

 
“BACK PAGE

The White Animals are just ‘regular guys

The Ring-tum Phi, May 1, 1986

 

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Entertainment Editor

 

When the White Animals hit the
stage tomorrow night at the Student
Activities Pavilion, they will be doing
exactly what they enjoy doing most:
taking their distinctive brand of
psychedelic shock ‘n’ roll straight to
the people

‘We're a people's band,”’ keyboar-
dist and soundman Tim Coats said in
a telephone interview this week.
‘We're just regular guys — not ex-
traterrestrials. That's why people
like us.”’

And, evidently, a great many peo-
ple do like them. The group has been
touring the southeastern United
States for seven years now and has
carved out quite a _ following.
Moreover, the Animals have broken
attendance records at clubs such as
the 688 in Atlanta, the 40 Watt and
Mad Hatter in Athens, Ga., and the
Antenna Club in Memphis, Tenn.
Hey, there’s even a ‘White Animals
Day” in Phoenix, Ariz.

And if that weren’t enough, the
mighty Animals have just released
their third full-length album, titled,
“The White Animals.”

None of this seems to faze the band,
though. The new record is being
released on their own Dread Beat
record label. This might hinder the
band’s chance at the big time since
Dread Beat does not have the in-
fluence and promotional budget of a
major label, but the White Animals
seem to like it that way.

‘We talked to the major labels but
they didn’t know what to do with us
since we aren't ‘25-words-or-less.’ We
won't be pigeonholed,”’ said Coats.

Indeed, it is a bit hard to say exact-
ly what the Animals are all about. On
one hand their musie is deenly
rooted in the R&B and pop music of

article

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Entertainment Editor

 

 

Remember Johnny Rotten?

Those early pictures certainly
were disarming, if I can recall. There
he was, 17 years old, orange hair
pointing straight up, and all the ar-
rogant nihilism he could muster. He
was scary, annoying and quite popu-
lar. ‘‘I’m a lazy sod!” he wailed with
glee. Good heavens ....

But the Sex Pistols simply could
not keep it together, could not keep

Ride the bus

The Interfraternity Council will
sponsor free round-trip bus ser-
vice to and from tomorrow night's
White Animals concert at the Stu-
dent Activities Pavilion.

There will be five stops. First
will be at Zeta Beta Tau and Kap-
pa Alpha on Nelson Street. Second
stop will be at Sigma Alpha Ep-
silon on East Washington Street.
Next, the shuttle van will go to
Sigma Nu and Phi Delta Theta on
Henry Street. Finally, it will ar-
rive at Graham-Lees Dormitory
en route to the pavilion.

There will be four departure
times: 8:30, 9, 9:30 and 10.

Return service will begin after
the concert.

 

 

 

the ’60s. (‘‘We’ve been doing that
psychedelic stuff for years,’ said
Coats.) On the other hand, though,
they have a strong affection for
modern dub sound effects (thanks to
‘“‘Dreadmaster”’ Coats.) Just listen to
their nine-minute ‘‘treatment’’ of
Van Morrison’s garage-band classic,
“Gloria.” This '60s relic is revved-up
and wrapped-up in a wash of modern
sound effects to produce an exhilara-
ting rock and roll ‘“‘soundgasm..”’ that
has become one of the band’s live
trademarks.

Or steal a listen to their new record
in order to get an idea of what the
Animals are all about. Produced by
“Big-Bad’ Buster Jones (who has
played bass with Talking Heads and
Gang of Four, among others), the
record has a thoroughly modern
sound. Yet all the ’60s influences are
there, as well.

According to Coats, ‘“‘Most of the
songs are about girls.’’ Which sounds
all right by me.

Sid Vicious awake and could not keep
their sprawling anger from getting
out of control. So with only one
album, a handful of classic hard rock
singles, and an outlaw legend never
to be matched in rock history, the Sex
Pistols crumbled amidst their own
self-proclaimed chaos.

But what happened to the bantam-
voiced child who led the whole thing?
Well, Public Image Ltd. answers that
question. He is a bit older, is now Mr.
John Lydon (his Catholic name) and
a bit richer (he just received $1
million in royalties earned during his

EAST LEX

Open ‘til midnite

Phone: 463-3614

US 11 North

 

Cigarettes
Natty BO ong necks

Wendell’s
Barber
Shop

| need

your head

for my business

 

 

 

 

Nelson Street

Service Center
424 E. Nelson St.

463-3922

 

Anyone that needs
to sell their
car this spring,
call Kenny Potter
or Ed Kibler.

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Beatles
Chicago
Eric Clapton

The Doors Journey

 

117 W. Nelson St,

Campus

Music

Come Check Us Out...
...We’re Moving Up!!!

The area’s largest selection of classic rock-n-roll
Over 100 LPs by these greats alone:

The Eagles I
The Grateful Dead Pink Floyd
Jimi Hendrix

Plus over 100 titles om Compact Disc with
more on the way including classical and jazz

 

 

Bob Marley

The Rolling Stones
The Who

 

 

i

 

White Animals, left to right: Stephen Boyd, Ray Crabtree, Rich Parks, Tim Coats and Kevin Gray

The record features more
keyboards than usual, as well as a
modern, crisp drum sound. Jones
even showed bassist Stephen Boyd
how to “thump” the bass for the
‘‘funk”’ breaks on the record.

The album’s first single is a rock
ballad called ‘‘She’s so Different”’

backed by a piece of “ritual dance
music” called ‘Help Yourself,”’
which singer Kevin Gray described
as ‘‘sort of King Kong meets Molly
Ringwald at a dance in Oxford,
Mississippi.’”’

The modern feel of the new record
should not change things one bit for

 

a

Binnie) Srvritscesconciatines
PiL album

Pistol days), but he is still ‘‘rotten’’
to the core. I assure you.

Public Image — or PiL, as they call
themselves — has a new record out
and it is loud, obnoxious and enter-
taining. And utterly ‘‘rotten.’’ The
LP is called ‘‘album,”’ the cassette is
called ‘cassette,’ and the compact
disc is called — you guessed it
— ‘compact disc.’’ The group has
even been running ads that simply
show Lydon sitting among generic
food products with one word in the
corner: ‘‘ad.”’

So what is all this clever, preten-
tiously unpretentious packaging all
about? Well, let’s see here. PiL’s first
album was slick punk rock, their sec-
ond was brooding death-disco, their
third was Eastern drum music, and
their fourth was psychopathic rhy-
thm and blues. So what is ‘‘album?”’

Well, it’s a rock and roll record.

Produced by Bill Laswell (Mick
Jagger, Material), the record’s
seven cuts are loud, ferocious hard
rock featuring Ginger Baker (of
Cream fame) on drums, Robby
Shank on violin, and an amazing
Steve Stevens soundalike on guitar.
(Since there are no credits on the
sleeve, I have no idea who this is. )

But the star and focus is Lydon, of
course, and he hasn’t sounded this
hacked-off since his Pistol days. He
shouts, he snarls, he spits and he
rages. It is wonderful.

In “FFF” (‘‘Farewell, my Fair-
weathered Friend!’’), Lydon snarls,

 

 

 

 

PiL poster

“Logic is lost in your/Cranial ab-
botoir ..."" over the track’s driving
music. In ‘Fishing,’ he intones,
“People who need people/Are the
stupidest people.”’ And in “Bags,”
Lydon describes a clean suburban
neighborhood while he thrills at the
beauty of his ‘own terror.’’ The
chorus, a rhythmic eenre of the
words ‘‘Black Rubber Bag,’’ evokes
the ironic image of a suburban street
lined with garbage bags hiding all the
dirt.

Now the question is whether you
want to hear some self-righteous
“‘sod”’ rage for 40 minutes. Well, I for
one do like it. As Lydon sings on
“Rise,” the record’s evocative
single, ‘‘Anger is an energy!’’ And he
sings it like a believer.

Duran Duran’s John Taylor once
said the Power Station wanted to be a
cross between the Sex Pistols and
Chic. Too bad they ended up being a
cross between Queen and Duran
PiL’s new album is closer to
what Taylor was looking for. The dif-
ference between the Power Station
and Public Image, however, is (as
Lydon once said in his more ‘‘rotten’’
days), ‘‘We meanit, ma-a-a-n!”’

ONCAMPUS

the Animals, however. Coats
describes the band’s attutude as
“unattitude,”’ or that is to say, a lack
of any false pretenses.

“We played in a club in L.A. once
and everybody in the club looked like
they should be in a band but us,”
Coats joked.

Coats said the only movement he
feels the Animals are a part of is a
“Bandism’’ movement.

“We're interested in a band’s at-
titude, how they react to a crowd,
how long they’ve stayed together,”
he said. ‘‘A band, to me, is a bunch of
guys who like to play together.’’

Band cancels at GHQ

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Entertainment Editor

 

Last night’s Wild Kingdom perfor-
mance at the General Headquarters
was canceled because the group’s
van broke down en route to Lex-
ington.

Student Activities Board Chairman
Mike Guerriero said the vehicle,
which contained all the group’s
equipment, broke down in Charlot-
tesville.

When the band arrived at 8:45 p.m.
without their equipment, Guerriero
decided to cancel the show rather
than wait for them to arrange to get
their equipment another way.

“It would simply take too much
time to load them in, set up and pre-

sent a quality show,’’ Guerriero said.

He estimated that it would have
taken between one and two hours to
get the band’s equipment set up.

“The decision was [whether] to put
on a short, low-quality show versus
waiting to have them sometime
later,” he said.

The SAB paid a $250 deposit to the
group, but Guerriero said he doesn’t
plan to lose that money.

“T’ll call their booking agency and
see if we can’t just apply it some-
where else,”’ he said.

Guerriero said he wasn’t angry
about the cancellation.

“Sometimes things go beyond their
control,” he said. “‘If it were faked I
might be angry, but I confirmed it, so
there is no problem. There was no
need to put them through any extra
burden.”

Senior directs thesis

By MARK TRAINER
Staff Reporter

 

“That Championship Season,” a
senior thesis by drama major Greg
Stites, will be presented at the
University Theatre May 8 to 10.

The play revolves around the 20th

‘reunion of four members of a state

champion, high school basketball
team. It concentrates on each of the
men’s separate failures and the in-
creasing decay in their relationships
with each other.

Stites said he chose the play for his
thesis because the small cast appeal-
ed to him. A rapport will be neces-
sary between the players that will
make seeing the play very different
from reading it, he said.

Two sentimental reasons for the
play are its all-male cast — a fitting
tribute to the last all-male class at
Washington and Lee — and the reu-
nion theme, which will blend well
with activities at W&L’s Alumni

 

Weekend.

All the senior drama majors are in-
volved in the play: Chris Carmouche
plays the coach, and Ned Richard-
son, Mark McDonough and David
Marsh play three of the teammates.
Freshman Barney March, in his
W&L acting debut, plays the fourth.
teammate.

The biggest challenge in rehear-
sals was fleshing out the complex
relationships between the charac-
ters, Stites said.

Stites has directed two previous
plays, a W&L one-act and a Lex-
ington High School production. This
effort will be graded by the drama
department. Professors Joseph D.
Martinez and Thomas J. Ziegler
acted as advisers on the play.

Shows will begin at 9 p.m. at the
University Theatre on Henry Street
Thursday through Saturday. A Satur-
day matinee at 2 p.m. has been ad-
ded. Reservations can be made by
calling 463-8637.

 

 

463-4544

 

 

 

 

By Thursday, May 1

7 p.m. — POLITICS FILMFEST: ‘‘The Bedford Incident.’’ Room 327,

Commerce School.

8 p.m, — SLIDE LECTURE: ‘“‘Life in the Imperial Japanese Army.”’
Dr. Edward J. Drea, U.S. Army War College. Northen Auditorium,

University Library.

Friday, May 2
Law School reading days end.
Noon— Memorial Service for Arthur Silver. Lee Chapel.
4 p.m. — WOMEN’S SOCCER: Generals vs. Hollins. Smith Field.
8 p.m. — FILM SOCIETY FILM: ‘‘Zelig”’ Classroom A, Lewis Hall.

Saturday, May 3
2p.m. — LACROSSE: Generals vs. Loyola. Wilson Field.
8 p.m. — FILM SOCIETY FILM: ‘‘Zelig.”’ Classroom A. Lewis Hall.

Sunday, May 4
2 p.m. — Hands Across Rockbridge.

Monday, May 5
7 & 9:15 p.m. — WWII THROUGH JAPANESE FILM SERIES:
‘*Hoodlum Soldier.’’ Room 327, Commerce School.

Tuesday, May 6
3p.m.— BASEBALL: Generals vs. Clinch Valley.
4:30 p.m. — GLASGOW ENDOWMENT LECTURE SERIES: Reading
by Ernest J. Gaines, novelist and short story writer. Northen
Auditorium, University Library.

Wednesday, May7

The Lexington/Rockbridge chapter of the Archaeological Society ot
Virginia will meet on Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. in duPont Auditorium.
Leon Doyon, a Ph.D. candidate in archaeology at Yale University, will
present a lecture titled: ‘‘Fifty Feet Under the Equator: the Chiefs of
Quito at the Time of Christ.”

9 p.m. — BAND: “‘Covacus.”’ Sponsored by the Student Activities
Board. Cover charge $250.

Thursday, May 8
Alumni Weekend begins.
5 p.m, — CHEMISTRY SEMINAR: 12th Annual Department Fry.
Howe 401. Tea at 4:30.in Howe 402.
7 p.m. — POLITICS FILMFEST: ‘Behold a Pale Horse.”’ Room 327,
Commerce School.

8 p.m. — PLAY: “That Championship Season.” Directed by Greg
Stites, Drama major. University Theatre,

 

 

 

 

soo a ne re eee ae gee gente nastier

 

 
Palms
‘| Early closing

miffs students
Page 3

 

 

rt

+

, VOLUME 85, NUMBER 28

w

 

 

Poems

Poet to read
from works

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Page 5

INIVERSIT® Pr

 

 

2Nz VA.

9 1986
Your Alumni Weekend weather

Friday: Partly sunny, cooler
Weekend: Fair, highs in 70s

 
  
    

 

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

 

LE UNIV

APRY

ERSiT>

FALSE

 

—s Che Ring-tum Phi

MAY 8, 1986

 

Survey finds attitudes on coed changed

‘

 

By STEVEN POCKRASS
Special to The Phi

,

». Two years ago, the students who now are juniors and
seniors raised a pretty big fuss about the possibility of
‘undergraduate women enrolling at Washington and Lee.
But now that coeducation is a reality here at W&L, it is
the current male freshmen and sophomores who are least
‘satisfied with the change, according to a poll taken dur-
,ing winter term by a sociology research class.

“Overall, the student body seems to think coeducation
‘is going fairly well,” said Associate Sociology Professor
;David R. Novack. The discontent among the freshman

and sophomore men, however, prove to be a future pro-
Yblem, he said.
, . The poll found that 71 percent of the students con-
sidered the Honor System to be the school’s most impor-
‘tant tradition, that 45 percent enrolled in W&L mainly
ybecause of its high academic reputation and that 45 per-
cent thought the school needed more social outlets.
Of the 890 men and 94 women surveyed; a majority
ythought coeducation was in the University’s best in-

 

y

*

terests; and three-fourths thought the administration
handled the transition well. But a majority of the
students also thought the administration had given too
much attention to women this year and had treated them
better than male students.

The 39-question survey, was administered last winter
as students registered for spring classes, was answered
by about 75 percent of the undergraduate student body.

Novack said the most surprising result of the poll aws
was that freshman and sophomore men tended to be
much more anticoed than the juniors and seniors. Of the
men polled, 45 percent of the freshmen, 40 percent of the
sophomores, 34 percent of the juniors and only 29 percent
of the seniors said they now oppose coeducation.

Novack said that one of the most fascinating results
was the students’ self-reported view of the role of women
in society, which tended to serve as a yardstick for their
views on coeducation-related questions. Students with
more traditional views on the role of women tended to be
less supportive of coeducation and less satisfied with the
administration’s handling of it.

Sophomores tended to have the most traditonal views
on the role of women in society, with 41 percent respond-

ing that their views were very traditonal or somewhat
traditional, compared to 35 percent of the freshmen, 34
percent of the juniors and 33 percent of the seniors.
Female students tended to have much more non-tradi-
tional views on the role of women in society than did
males

To a question on the treatment of women in the class
room, 37 percent of all men and 6 percent of all women
said they thought women received better treatment than
men from the faculty. But divided by class, 42 percent of
the sophomores, 33 percent of the freshmen, 28 percent of
the juniors and 31 percent of the seniors said they thought
the faculty treated feniale students better than male
students

Novack said the survey showed that those students ‘‘fa-
voring coeducation tended to see the faculty as treating
males and females the same,’’ but those who were oppos-
ed thought the women were being treated better. A ma-
jority of the respondents said they thought both sexes
were treated equally

Of the sophomores surveyed, 71 percent said they
thought the administration had done well in handling the
transition to coeducation, compared to 82 percent of the

freshmen, 74 percent of the juniors and 79 percent of the
seniors.

Almost 95 percent of the women said they thought the
administration had done well in handling the transitiun,
although 31 percent thought the administration had given
them too much attention. More than 60 percent of the men
thought the women received too much attention

When asked their opinion of sororities at W&L, 48 per-
cent of the men and 46 percent of the women were in
favor, while 33 percent of the men and 41 percent of the
women were undecided. The rest were opposed. Former
fraternity members seemed to question sororitiss more
than did current fraternity members or independent
men.

Half of the freshmen tended to view W&L’s former all
male status as a positive factor for enrollment, compared
to 48 percent of the sophomores, 40 percent of the juniors
and 31 percent of the seniors.

Although 43 percent of the men and 24 percent of the
women indicated that they had considered transferring
from W&L, 86 percent of the men and 94 percent of the

(See Poll, Page 6

 

 

Grand jury indicts two in W&L cases

 

By MATT HORRIDGE
Staff Reporter

 

A former Washington and Lee
freshman has been arrested on
charges of forgery and uttering in-
volving another freshman’s
check.

John M. Wright, of Dunwoody,
Ga., was arrested April 23. Wright
withdrew from school Apri} .25, ac-
cording to the registrar’s office.

A police report stated that a
check for $150 in the name of
freshman Dirk van Assendelft of
Atlanta was cashed at the Domi-
nion Bank on Main Street March
12,

On March 17, van Assendelft
signed an affidavit at the bank
saying that his check for $150 had
been forged.

A handwriting analyst examin-
ed the signature on the check at
the request of W&L security of-
ficials, according to the report
The analyst said the signature ap-
peared to be in Wright’s hand-
writing.

 

 

Freshman charged with check-forging

 

 

 

 

JOHN VM. WRIGHT

Both charges are felonies and
carry fines of up to $1,000 and jail
sentences of more than one year

Wright denied any knowledge of
the case, the report said

 

 

 

By Hank Mayer/The Ring-tum Phi

%
, Junior Roby Mize returns a shot in action from last week

‘Ranked fourth in nation,
‘tennis heads to nationals

 

By LEIF UELAND
*Staff Reporter

* ‘Sunday night, it became official.

‘The fourth-ranked Washington and
« Lee tennis team is on its way to
Claremont, Calif., to compete in the
"NCAA Division III national cham-
", pionships, the second year in a row
the Generals have reached the team

' championships.

4 While W&L just learned of its selec-

tion, the road to nationals began

"months before the official season
« started, commencing almost immed-
, iately with the arrival of students on

campus, and it increases in intensity

* as it goes along.

The Generals began play in the fall
with the enviable position of having
‘ five of six lettermen returning from
«last year’s team, which finished

eighth in the national championships.
“ W&L competed in the W&L Invita-
+ tional and the JMU Invitational

There also were squad challenge
matches. Both served as a means of
* establishing team line-up but not
, especially improving team play
According to coach Gary Franke
* fall play exists ‘‘mainly for evalua
tion, as opposed to high emphasis on
performance.”’
4 The Generals found the sixth
« starter they were looking for in
freshman Bobby Matthews. Ranked

 

4

123rd in the nation as a junior, Mat-
thews played his way up the team’s
ladder until finding his niche in the
No. 3 spot. While not always the case
— as shown last year — Matthews
along with the rest have all remained
in those spots which were established
in the fall.

When fall play was over the line-up
set, the Generals did not lie dormant
for the winter. Instead of succumbing
to the elements, the team chose to
raise the funds to acquire team and
player memberships at the Staunton
Racket Club. With such access to
courts, the players were encouraged
to log in playing time prior to the
Feb. 1 season opening. Team mem-
bers also participated in weight
training and arunning program.

As of Feb. 1, the team’s season
wasted little time kicking into high
gear. The Generals’ first three
matches, all losses, brought them up
against three Division I teams, Penn
State, James Madison and Virginia
Tech. Playing such formidable op-
ponents, though mentally taxing,
served to prepare the Generals for
ranked Division III teams that often
determine whether a team is invited
to nationals

The year’s deciding matches in-

See Tenms, Page 8

 

By JIMSTRADER
Editor

 

A Rockbridge County grand jury
Monday indicted a former Washing-
ton and Lee student on credit card
theft charges and a sophomore on an
assault and battery charge.

Former W&L senior Roger L. Dun-
navan Jr. was indicted on two felony
charges involving the theft and at-
tempted use of three credit cards.

Sophomore J.P. Baehr had assault
and battery reduced from a felony
to a misdemeanor in the charge of
shooting another student with a BB
gun.

The grand jury charged that on
April 9, Dunnavan stole three Visa
credit cards from third-year law stu-
dent David M. Murray Jr., and the
next day tried to use one of the cards
to withdraw $1,800 from a branch of
United Virginia Bank.

Lexington Police Chief L.O. Sutton
said there is no specific indication as
to Dunnavan’s whereabouts and that
his name has been sent to the Na-
tional Crime Information Center,
which by computer alerts law en-
forcement officials nationwide of
wanted individuals.

Cappeto resigning at end of year

By JASON LISI
News Editor

 

Associate Dean of Students
Michael A. Cappeto will leave Wash
ington and Lee at the end of this year
to become a dean of students at a
Southern California college.

Cappeto, who has been at W&L for
11 years, submitted his resignation to
Dean of Students Lewis G. John on
Monday. He will take a job with
Harvey Mudd College, a 550-student
school in Claremont, Calif.

“TI didn’t really choose to leave
Washington and Lee, just an oppor-
tunity for a better job came up,”’ Cap-
peto said Tuesday. ‘My career ambi-
tion was always to be a dean of
students.”’

John expressed regret over Cap-
peto’s resignation but saw the move
as a good opportunity for him
“We're very sorry, of course, from
our point of view here to lose such a
capable colleague, a good profes-
sional and a very good friend,’’ he
said,

He said the University hasn’t had
time to plan for a replacement.

Cappeto said he had been looking
‘seriously’ for a new job since the
first of the year and has had offers
from other colleges. He turned them
down because he ‘always decided
that Washington and Lee was a bet-
ter alternative to the option available
tome.”

He said he took the deanship at
Harvey Mudd because the status of
that position was appealing

“There are some schools where the

dean of students is not a very good
job — you never know that until you
get to look at the situation,’’ he ex-
plains. ‘‘There are a lot of schools out
there where the students didn’t like
the dean of students, and Mike Cap-
peto didn’t want one of those jobs.”’

Cappeto said the job he will be tak-
ing will be ‘‘almost identical’ to the
position that Dean John now holds.
“It's one of those career oppor-
tunities that you just can’t turn
down,’’ Cappeto said.

“The one difference between Dean
John and Mike Cappeto is that I don’t
own green pants,”’ he noted.

Cappeto, W&L’s director of place-
ment, said there is a lesson to be
learned from his experience in look-
ing for another job. “If I have a

See Cappeto, Page 6

“He is now a fugitive,’’ Sutton said.

Sutton added that if Dunnavan is
located, he would be arrested and
held for the Lexington police

Dunnavan, of Longwood, Fla.,
withdrew from school April 29. He
enrolled in W&L in the fall of 1981

Lexington police are working with
another jurisdiction on a ‘‘potential
charge” in the case, Sutton said, but
would not comment on what the
charge might be.

, Commonwealth’s Attorney Bever-
ly C. ‘John’ Read called the charges
“very serious’’ and added thet he
was-“‘concerned as a prosecutor
about the amount of money that was
involved.”

Read said he was ‘‘very suspicious
about what that money was to be us-
ed for,” but would not elaborate.

Baehr, of Spartanburg, S.C., was
arrested following a Feb. 27 snowball
fight between his social fraternity,
Sigma Alpha Epsilon, and the house
next door, Phi Kappa Psi. Baehr said
after the incident that he fired a BB
pistol at a group of Phi Psis

Phi Psi junior John D. Roe, of
Berlin, Md., was wounded in the right
eye by a BB.

Farris P. Hotchkiss, director of
University relations and develop-
ment, was foreman of the grand jury.

 

 

 

 

MICHAEL A. CAPPETO

Alumni Weekend: Not for graduates only

 

Council.

Southern Comfort that features selections from

Staff Report

 

As 10 reunion classes gather in Lexington for
Saturday’s annual meeting of the Alumni Associa
tion and a weekend of catching up and partying
down, current students are invited to mingle with
them beginning tonight at a speech by former pro
fessional football coach Walt Michaels.

What a promotional brochure called ‘‘Minks
young and old’’ from undergraduate and law
classes ending in a one or a six going back to 1936
will enjoy their quintennial bashes while the
Alumni Board of Directors meets to do business

Michaels, a 1951 Washington and Lee graduate
who played with the 1950 football team in the
Gator Bowl, is the former coach of the NFL's New
York Jets and New Jersey Generals

His speech, ‘‘A Fullback’s Flashbacks
at8 p.m. in Lee Chapel

On Saturday, the Student Activities Board is
sponsoring a concert by Heinsohn and Day on the
Colonnade lawn from 1:30 to 4:30 p.m. Each
fraternity will have an open house for alumni from
4 to 5 p.m. ina new plan arranged by the Inter

} +1 st } ' ‘

fraternity Connell anc

From 9:30 to 12:30 that night, the Alumni
Association is hosting a Dixieland Jazz concert by
Rusty Nichol’s Dixieland Band in General Head-
juarters — formerly the Cockpit, for those who’ve
been out of town this year. There is no cover
charge for the performance by Nichols, the
former trombone star for Jimmy Dorsey and
Charlie Spivak.

The Alumni Board meets all day tomorrow, and
on Saturday University President John D. Wilson
will speak on ‘Washington and Lee: The Years
Ahead’ at the Alumni Association weekend

In addition to tonight's and Saturday’s events,
here are half a dozen other chances to bump into
alumni at which no ticket (or jacket) is required:

*A plaque will be dedicated at 2 p.m. in Lee

hapel tomorrow in honor of James H. Monroe of
the class of 1966, the only W&L alumnus to receive
the Congressional Medal of Honor. Monroe was
killed in action in the Vietnam War and was
warded the medal posthumously. The ROTC Col
or Guard and Ranger Company and the Glee Club

!l participate in the ceremony

Phat will be followed from 2:30 to 3:30 p.m. bya

by the Glee Club, Chorus and

their European Concert Tour during spring break.

elf you can tear yourself away from Heinsohn
and Day, Jason Miller's ‘“That Championship Sea-
son’’ will be performed in the Troubadour Theatre
at a special 2 p.m. matinee on Saturday. Reserva-
tions may be made by calling 463-8637.

eAt noon tomorrow, the class of 1961 will present
a special gift ina ceremony at the site of the plan-
ned new admissions office at 32 University Place,
next to the Alumni House

eA trio of exhibitions is available for the
culturally inclined. The porcelain and paintings in
the Reeves Center will be on display tomorrow
from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. and on Saturday from 10
a.m. to noon. ‘Letters from Famous Writers
Years of Shenandoah Correspondence’ is on con-
tinuous display in the Boatwright Room of the
University Library, and ‘‘Le Sport et l’Affiche.”’
traveling collection of posters from the
Museum of Paris, can be seen out the
Northen Auditorium

eThe Co-op (i.e., snack bar) will be open on
Saturday from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. For those who are
driving, the May special is a 69-cent milkshake

35

a

Sports

ASSEN ERE N REN Ao aN it ee oe nats ne
 

 

 

 

 

 

OPINION
Ol’ boys

At Monday’s faculty meeting, several faculty members
presented a petition to abolish the University Council.
Although the faculty decided to table the issue for final ap-
proval until next fall, they did ask the Executive Committee
to consider the matter. That night’s EC meeting included a
lively 45-minute discussion, but not on the issue of whether to
dissolve the UC.

The controversy stemmed from a disagreement among
members over whether they should recommend a change in
the composition of the Student Affairs Committee as propos-
ed in the faculty motion.

Several EC members wanted to change the recommenda-
tion of three members elected to the UC by the student body
to three members appointed by the EC. It seems certain EC
members feel that they could do a better job of choosing peo-
ple representative of the student body than the student body
itself! (Who elected the EC, anyway?)

Suppose the University Council is dissolved, as appears in-
evitable. What would be the best way to get representatives
on the SAC who would embody student opinion? Certainly it
would seem that election by the student body would be best.
So why does the EC, or at least several EC members, have so
little faith in the students they represent?

The members of the EC surely must see some people who
have been elected to a position in our student government
come into office totally clueless (perhaps by personal ex-
perience) as to their jobs and responsibilities. Maybe it
would be easier to appoint someonewho knows the job inside
and out, who is a fraternity brother, (and thus readily avail-
able for consultation), who is willing to report back to the EC
(and make it easier for the EC to keep an eye on what’s going
on). The EC seems to like to delegate authority, but it also
likes to keep looking over the shoulders of those it appoints.
Perhaps the EC doesn’t trust those it appoints any more than
it trusts the student body.

The EC did pass the proposal as a whole, thus consenting to
the notion that the three new SAC member be elected. But the
reasoning was the the EC knew the faculty would never agree
to more EC-appointed positions. Of course, there was also
that familiar line about a “‘perception of fairness.’’ The EC
seemed to accept the proposal because it didn’t think it could
get away with what it wanted. Not the most reassuring news,
huh?

The EC doesn’t seem to be the only organization on campus
that favors appointment over election. Why does it always
seer that the same half-dozen ‘‘sweethearts’’ are on all the
committees and boards and involved in many activities? I
can’t believe that these are the only students on campus who
are interested in leadership positions. I know there are many
students who would like to serve and become involved. It is
frustrating to these students because many positions are fill-
ed by appointment, as seems to be the EC favorite method of
doing business.

The ‘‘good ol’ boy network”’ is not limited to the EC. In fact,
the entire University seems to run on it. The Women’s Forum
also seems to be employing the ‘‘buddy system”’ of choosing
leaders. Many women who have worked all year on one com-
mittee or another are trying to help “‘lay the groundwork” for
the forum. Yet the leaders of the committees seem to have
been hand-picked long before the committees were actually
formed.

We all know that many of these committees, titles and
leadership positions are resume fodder. Yes, there is work in-
volved but often the title conveys a grander image than the
actual job warrants.

While the buddy system isn’t the most fair to everyone, it
isn’t as dangerous as the EC appointing members to the SAC,
for these committees have the power of the recommendation
at best. The SAC, though is the body to which a student ap-
peals a decision of the Student Control Committee. Students
would certainly want to have elected representatives in such
an important and powerful group that would also serve as a
voice of student opinion (a duty of the current University
Council).

The EC, by some stroke of luck, realized there was no alter-
native. Making itself responsible for appointing members
to the SAC would be similar to Congress voting to give itself
more power. Like checks and balances, there is an equally
good reason the EC couldn’t get away with it. However, it
was not the students the EC was worried about, but the facul-
ty. Too bad the EC doesn’t realize that the student body — the
one they don’t seem to trust — is where the real power begins
and ends.

 

—By MEK

ORRECTION

Director Gerald J. Darrell. The
comments were actually given by
Snack Bar Manager Richard L.
Armstrong.

In last week’s Ring-tum Phi,
quotations in a story about the
new Co-op jukebox were incor-
rectly attributed to Food Service

  

    
   
        

 ” npt
“yyy

The Ring-tum Phi, May 8, 1986

CONTAINMENT STRUCTURE
FOR NUCLEAR ACCIDENT,
UNITED STATES:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CONTAINMENT STRUCTURE
FOR NUCLEAR ACCIDENT, 7
SOVIET UNION: Me

 

Y

 

weer)

 

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

   

NEWS STAFF
Bommbutive BOUIN ooo iicse sacs ccs eeid bee) cemccee cates tedetdenceceeesess Mike Allen
Pr er rr rr rey Paul Foutch
Jim Strader
Managing Editor .... Reade Williams
eg er 0 oC oe eee Mike Stachura
a I av iooi5a0 6 bi keds Vitis) 650 ee I Hbisieeienes Jason Lisi
Photography E@UOF..... 2... ccceeececsceercreeseeseeseressees sereees Steve Sadler
PINE TIN 5 55. bo 50 oc LE in 5 ihc ods cca teaseicsauesves Marshall Boswell
ee ee eC CC David Emrich
EDITORIAL PAGE
Editorial Page Bditor .... 0... 5c ccc cece cer ccessccccecscsccccceces NEMS Pattern
Apaiainnt erist Pama WONG «5 ose ich nic vin nd side bee) cieeivecvcnes Marie Kothman
TBR rn mea Tape ee Tye reer ar re eer ITT T Tee Tree rT TL Chris Bowring
BUSINESS STAFF
ee ge Jeff Kimbeli
Perera I aii in ee acids . Hank Greenberg

MOvertining GRIGINER, 0 nic cele been ecetoweecae John Feyver, Keri Hinrichs,
Jay Reville, Greg Turley

CMa PERE i isos ca aie El ee Matt Horridge

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Pbi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. ‘he
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 200 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run, Or send them to The
Ring-tum Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

 

 

ae

Pd

New species detected on Colonnade -

 

MY VIEW
By Mike McAlevey

 

There comes a time in the tax-
onomical history of every group or
species when membership reaches
critical mass, when the previously ig-
nored and loosely defined set of en-
tities finally make itself known and
open to classification by simple vir-
tue of numbers. According to infor-
mation published in the September
1985 volume of ‘‘Evolution Monthly,”
scientists working out of the Love
Canal Center for Anomolous Human
Development have made a major
breakthrough in their ongoing at-
tempts to accurately define a type of
being once restricted to living in in-
consequential populations in beach
regions of Lake Erie, New Jersey
and Southern California. Pervis
‘‘double-helix’’ Noggenheimer,
director of the Love Canal center,
stated in a recent press conference
that ‘due to sudden and rapid
reproduction and subsequent pro-
liferation of ‘being X’ throughout the
continent,’ he and his crack
research team have been able to
definitively classify the aforemen-
tioned being as occupying the species
Homo hammerheadus, a close fac-
simile in physical appearance to the
Homo sapiens, despite its somewhat
mallet-shaped cranium, and whose
behavior, quite predictably, is social-
ly defective.

Now, to be honest, I seldom read
scientific journals because they are
just too provocative. But much to my
dismay, I began thinking and in short
order I concluded with the assistance
of a failsafe wallet-sized list of tests
for hammerheadism that we, in fact,
have a swelling population of this
species on campus which is easily
distinguished from the jar heads,
buzzheads, blockheads and hokum-
heads already here. If this university
can ever be safe for the cultivation of
Renaissance men, like Scott Hender-
son, we must, in a coordinated effort,
eradicate this scourge afflicting
civilized life everywhere. In order to
make the hammerheads bite the big
one, however, the student populace
must be educated in how to identify a
“double H.”’ Here, fhen, are some of
the pointers on the Noggenheimer
handout.

Both genders of the species Homo
hammerheadus exhibit certain
behavioral characteristics. They are,
without variation, darkly tanned
because they spend every daylight
hour lying out in Speedo meat suits or
revealing Sports Illustratedesque
swim garb on the Collonnade. Occa-
sionally two or more male and some-
times female hammerheads will
prance about like fairies (with shak-
ing genitalia) chasing frisbees and
nauseating the casual passerby.
Hammerheads generally have an in-
satiable desire for attention and are,
therefore, willing to make a fashion
statement at any time. From ludi-
crous haircuts to outrageous rai-
ments, the double-H’s defy good
taste.

In the classroom hammerheads
fortunately seldom comment, and
when they do they exhibit a keen
sense for the obvious. The only thing
they. manage to take away from the
Hill is a voluminous collection of
phrases, quotations, and polysyllabic
words which when misused in the
certain way only a hammerhead
knows, can evoke sexual arousal
from any hammerheads of the op-
posite sex.

In the social context the male ‘‘dou-
ble H” is certain to do anywhere
from $50 to $200 in damage to a
fraternity house on any particular
Wednesday or weekend night. They
also maintain a ‘‘meat-on-the-seat-
or-feet-on-the-street’’ attitude
toward women which when combined
with their overt-reference to their
own erotic prowess insure thus the in-
terbreeding of the species because

only female ‘double Hs’’ fall for the °

routine.

Speaking of female hammerheads,
they think that every man, ham-
merhead or not, is looking at them
and desiring their bodies. Every ac-
tion is interpreted as seduction, and
often in their view; approaching
rape. Further, the female hammer-
head must, due to the nature of her
species, pump iron in order to
strengthen muscles necessary for
carrying the inordinately heavy
hammerhead fetus. Using excessive
weight and low reps, every set is
worked to failure.

Undoubtedly, both genders have a
natural inclination for untruths.
Although superficially confident, for

example, they often project their _
neurosis on the world. Rumors are
the ticket at a hammerhead gather-

ing, and contests are commonly held t

to determine who can fabricate the «
most outlandish story which when ut-
tered, pacifies their
minds like heroin the addict.

Y
inadequate «

Hammerheads also love sophomor- *
ic bathroom jokes. As a matter of

fact, this is the fool-proof test.
Carefully approach a group of sus-

‘

pected ‘“‘double H’s”’ and tell your «
best summer-camp cabin joke; who-
ever laughs is a hammerhead. The ~~’
not so bold hammerhead investigator ~~

might prefer to track the species. For —
as with wild turkeys, hammerheads °
leave a trail of droppings. Empty ©

‘

beer cans and fast food wrappers are
a definite sign that could lead to their ”
gathering spot. : _

While open-minded scientists like
Dr. Noggenheimer anxiously await

the chance to systematically study -

the species homo hammerheadus, |
anxiously anticipate their removal
from this planet.
seems to think that, similar to a

Noggenheimer ‘

virus, hammherheads might mutate ~
into an innocuous strain, but I don’t |
think we can wait that long. There- .

fore, I implore you to support the

Fund for the Deportation of Ham- *-

merheads (John Thunder, Treasur-
er). We have already scheduled a
beach music festival, so that we can

take the hammerheads’ money on .
ticket sales and exile them with their .

own good dollars.

we.

No bad news is surely not good news:

 

By NELSON PATTERSON
Editorial Page Editor

After American warplanes bombed
Libya last month, the Libyan press
published varied accounts of the at-
tack, each of which portrayed the Li-
byan defense as better than the rest
of the world was led to believe. As far
as Libyans were concered, every
American warplane was shot down,
the American traitors were captured
and the imperialist aggressors were
defeated by the people’s jamahiriya.
All was content on the inside of
Libya.

Similarly, we saw last week how
the Soviet press operates during a
political — and potentially fatal —
crisis. Despite radiation levels suffi-
cient to brown anyone’s pale skin
within a hundred miles of the Cher-
noby! plant, the Soviet masses were
treated to footage showing contented
(and slowly roasting) children play-
ing soccer near the disaster site and
plump peasants planting their spring
wheat crop near Kiev. Everything
was made to appear as near to nor-
mal as possible. There was no melt-
down, no reason to fear radiation.
The headaches and nausea citizens
as far away as Poland felt must have
been caused by bad food or poor
hygiene. Switch shampoos if your
hair is falling out. The fear of an
uprising, many believe, prompts the
Soviets to portray the ‘‘everything is
normal’’ facade regardless of the in-
ternal crisis.

Both the Soviets and the Libyans
know how to handle the press to keep
the internal discomfort to a mini-
mum. Any news contrary to the offi-
cial lines was viewed as a desperate
lie, an attempt to disrupt the control
over the sweaty masses, an attempt
to create chaos out of the proletariat

pipedream. If we keep the bad news
away from the people it affects, we
can sustain this mirage of normalcy.

That attitude of shielding the
masses from the harsh reality is as
ridiculous as it is dangerous. And I
fear it isn’t limited to the Libyan or
Soviet or East European media.

The same desire to present normal-
cy can be seen among students and
faculty and administration on this
campus.

It is limited, I suppose, in the
number of people that it affects. And
their intentions surely are not the
same as those of the Soviets or the Li-
byans.

But I believe their concern is the
same. For the past two weeks, The
Phi has had what most people might
call “‘heavy’’ news on the front page.
Two weeks ago, the top three stories
(those ‘‘above the fold’’ on the front
page) dealt with students and their
involvement in rape charges, credit-
card fraud and check forging. Last
week, the lead story reported that
police were seeking a senior for infor-
mation about fhe credit card fraud.
The stories certainly did not portray
the W&L most students like to re-
member. Nor do I believe the stories
necessarily reflect the behavior of
the majority of students at this
school.

Why, then, many students (school
“cheerleader’’ types) and admini-
strators ask, did we put those stories
in the paper, much less on the front
page? What will the alumni think?
(As a percentage of Phi subscribers,
I assure you, the alumni are indeed
the vast minority.) Why portray such
a ‘‘poor’’ side to the school? Don’t the
Phi editors like W&L?

As one Phi editor, I like W&L. And I
like it enough to admit there are pro-
blems with the school as it now ex-
ists. It is not that I am thumbing my

nose at the alumni (after all, in four
weeks, I will join their ranks). Nor do
I believe that it is the responsibility
of the paper to present an ‘‘all’s fair”
account of a school and an honor
system threatened by internal weak-
ness.

I would prefer that the disapprov-
ing Phi readers leave the ‘‘all’s well
that appears well” to the W&L’s
alumni magazine, a slick, four-color
publication that serves the Universi-
ty and alumni well. Every alumnus
receives a copy, and rarely — the ex-
ception being if annual giving has
fallen — is ‘“‘bad’’ news reported.

The inference is not that the alumni
magazine is deceiving. Rather, every
publication serves a different pur-
pose and a different readership.

The problem with the argument
that we should not report the ‘‘bad
news” is evident. Keeping ‘bad’
news off the front page does not mean
it fails to exist; just because Phi
readers wouldn’t see that a student
— considered ‘‘honorable”’ by faculty
and peers alike — has been indicted
for fraud or rape or intent to distri-
bute narcotics does not mean the
school would be any better or
stronger or the Honor System any
more dependable. Keeping unfavor-
able news from readers is, in its sim-
plest form, deceit, an art the Soviet
and Libyan presses seem to have per-
fected.

So, the next time a ‘‘bad’’ news
story appears on the front page and
your prepare to write a fiery letter
disparaging the Phi’s negative re-
porting, think about why the article
was written. Most likely, that news
appears because it involves W&L stu-

‘dents and directly affects our reputa-

tion in the community. It appears, in
part, to give incentive to the student
body to re-examine the Honor Sys-
tem and the ramifications it sup-

posedly brings with it (gentlemanly
demeanor, et al.). It appears as war-
ning to other potential offenders that
maybe ‘‘they’’ will also befall the °
same fate.

Above all other factors, the story
appears to set the record straight, as
best we at The Phi know that record.
At times, our knowledge may be li-
mited, but what we print we do so

aes

‘

with the belief that facts serve the ’

students better than rumor. ‘
Besides, ignoring the problem, or‘

trying to keep community attention

from it, won’t make the problem dis-

appear. We, as students, are often ac-

while we are at college. Such report-:
ing surely reminds us that reality
even follows us here at school.

‘Wing-ding’ stings,
embarasses trio

To the editors:

We have been advised to point
out the serious dangers massive
funnelators present. Having been }
involved with the fragmentation
of a Graham-Lees’ window as the
result of flinging water balloons,
we are very aware of the potential

mend that spring term fun not in-

volve ballistic devices such as the |’
renowned ‘‘Winger.”’

John Ryle Lawson III

Class of 89

Anthony J. Onorato

Class of '89

Craig Love

Class of '89

 

 

 

for serious injuries. We recom- |"

i
cused of living in a dream world, "
|

7)

 

——

|
NEWS

 

UC probably won’t
disband until 1987

 

By DANA BOLDEN
and DANIEL BUNCH
Staff Reporters

 

, The Executive Committee voted
unanimously Monday night to recom-
end to the faculty that the Universi-
ty Council be disbanded, but it’s not
likely that will occur until the end of
rext school year.

‘ The UC had voted to dissolve itself,
,but the faculty has the power to do
‘that. Commerce School Dean Ed-
ward C, Atwood said the faculty
won't be able to vote on it until its
first meeting next year, in October.

, Students and faculty have already
been chosen for next year’s commit-
tee, he said, so any vote to dissolve it
probably won’t take effect until the
énd of next year, Atwood said.

: Religion Professor Harlan R.
Beckley said at last Thursday’s UC
meeting, “If we do decide to dissolve
the UC, its powers must be delegated
te some other body, namely the Stu-
dent Affairs Committee.”

To achieve that, a proposal was of-
fered to remove the president of the
¥nterfraternity Council, the head dor-
mitory counselor, and the chairman
of the Student Control Committee
from the SAC, and replace them with

three members elected at large by
the student body.

That would leave the student body
president and Student Bar Associa-
tion president as the only members of
the SAC appointed because of their
positions.

The student EC passed that recom-
mendation, 6-5, after considering a
proposal to turn the three elected
representatives into members ap-
pointed by the EC.

Townes Pressler, chairman of the
SCC, one of the positions that would
be removed from the SAC, argued
against elected representatives last
Thursday.

“What worries me is what type of
people could be elected,”’ he said. “If
we have a general election, it may
not attract enough qualified people.”

Junior EC representative Baltzer
LeJeune, who changed his vote to ap-
prove the faculty recommendation of
elected SAC members, said he realiz-
ed that with the dissolving of the UC,
there would be 15 fewer UC members
who might want to run for a seat on
the SAC.

LeJeune, freshman representative
Matt Bryant, senior law represen-
tative Joel Johnston, President John
Lewis, senior representative Michael
Black and Secretary Pat Hayden
voted for the faculty proposal.

Last call!

«

-

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Entertainment Editor

 

* A pitcher or two at the Palms can
de as much a Washington and Lee
tradition as the Honor System and
the post-Fancy Dress hangover. But
tradition or not, the fun is over at
}1:30 p.m., because at 11:30 it’s
“Last call!”

"Many W&L students think that
policy is unwise.

“It’s too early,” senior Sam
Svalina said last night at the Palms.
“They’d make plenty of money if
they still served drinks after 11:30.”

4

, Wade Leslie, who owns the Palms
with his wife, Sue, said the 11:30
policy is not “concrete,’’ but can
change according to the crowd.

» “Last Saturday we stayed open un-
til 10 minutes to 12. It really depends
dn how rowdy the crowd is,” Leslie
said.

*“That last half hour, people don’t
qrder much anyway,” he said.

™, Jayne Plogger, deli supervisor at
Spanky’s, says that’s because every-
ly is ordering drinks at her place.

>

“We definitely get the Palms’
Susiness after 11:30,” she said. ‘We
asually have to kick them out after a
while. They do order a sizable
amount of alcohol.”

 

Palms’ early closing
- gets Spanky’s swarming

Plogger said Spanky’s serves
alcohol until 12:45, and it is usually
between 1:30 and 2 a.m. before the
last customer has left. :

What do the students think about it
all?

Senior Brian Oliger was well aware
of the situation.

“I think the Palms is being stupid
because they’re giving up a lot of
business to Spanky’s,”’ he said.

Neil Rankin, Chris McGowan and
Mike Cannon all admitted that they
frequently go to Spanky’s after clos-
ing time at the Palms.

Senior Ricky Lail said the Palms
could do several things instead of
closing at midnight, such as serving
only sandwiches after a certain time.
This would ease the burden of having
to keep the whole menu open to ac-
commodate the law that requires
food to be available whenever drinks
are.

“They could keep it open late on
some nights when they know they’ll
have a lot of business. There are a lot
of things they could do and it
wouldn’t cost them much money,”
Lail said.

But Leslie is sticking to his 11:30
policy.

“We're not going to stay open until

The Ring-tum Phi, May 8, 1986

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ex-president
of W&L dies

 

By MIKE ALLEN
Executive Editor

 

Fred C. Cole, the former
Washington and Lee president
who bought the school’s first com-
puter and once proposed adding a
women’s college to the Universi-
ty, died Tuesday at the age of 97 in
Chapel Hill, N.C., after an illness.

Cole, president from 1959 to
1967, was the 18th person to hold
that post andthe 6th successor to
Robert E. Lee. While he was in of-
fice, Lee Chapel was renovated,
student financial aid was tripled
and a variety of campus buildings
were constructed.

Edgar F. Shannon of Charlottes-
ville, a W&L alumnus and trustee
emeritus who was president of the
University of Virginia during
Cole’s tenure at W&L, recalled
yesterday that “it was a time
when education in this country
was very much in the fore-
ground.”’

Shannon said Cole “kept W&L
abreast with its development of
the faculty, and the students im-
proved under his presidency”’ in
terms of admissions selectivity.

William W. Pusey III of Lex-
ington, dean of the college during
most of Cole’s term, said yester-

day that Cole proposed to the
board of trustees a plan under
which a women’s college would be
built out by the athletic fields,
“but nothing came of it.”’

Pusey said Cole purchased the
first W&L computer, which was
housed in a temporary building on
the site of the present University
Library and was used for admini-
strative data-processing work.
“That was pretty unusual back in
1960," said Pusey, who began
teaching at W&L in 1939 and
retired in 1981.

“He had a dry sense of humor,”’
Pusey added. ‘‘He appeared, pos-
sibly, to be a little bit reserved,
but he really was a warm person
once you got to know him.”’

Born in Franklin, Texas, Cole
received his bachelor’s, master’s
and doctoral degrees from Loui-
siana State University, where he
edited several publications about
Southern history.

Before joining W&L, he was a
Tulane University history pro-
fessor, dean of its college of arts
and sciences and an academic
vice president at the school.

From 1968 until his retirement
in 1977, Cole was president of the
Washington-based Council on
Library Resources, an organiza-
tion he helped found in 1956.

 

 

Students eat and drink at the Palms restaurant on Nelson Street

2 o'clock like Spanky’s,”’ Leslie said.

Senior Bobby Fitts, a Palms
waiter, said part of the reason for the
policy is the restaurant’s staffing.

“Keep in mind that these waiters
and waitresses come in at 5 o’clock,”’
Fitts said. “‘They’re here for seven or
eight hours, serving drinks and run-
ning around. If they had to stay up
any longer, we would probably have

 

a few bartenders commit suicide.”’

Rankin said the staff can be slow at
times.

“T got here once just in time to
order one drink and then I had to
chase it down. It took a long time for
it to get here. I think their staffing is
inadequate,” Rankin said.

Leslie said there usually is not
much of a problem with the Palms’

 

NEWS BRIEFS

 

By Skip Bertram/The Ring-tum Phi

clientele, “a mature

crowd.”

“Basically, we very seldom have a
problem. The reason is that we try to
let the people know that we aren’t go-
ing to let it get out of hand,” Leslie
said.

He emphasized that since the
Palms is a student-frequented bar, it
is watched closely by the Alcoholic
Beverage Control Board.

calling it

 

‘Cable Nine to broadcast three students’ programs

   

Robertson
to give VMI

baccalaureate

Television evangelist and Washing-
ton and Lee graduate Pat Robertson
will present a personalized bible to
each member of the graduating class
at Virginia Military Institute’s bac-
calaureate service next Thursday at
8p.m.

Robertson, whose Virginia Beach-
based Christian Broadcasting Net-
work reaches 30 million households
nationwide, will speak to the mem-
bers of the graduating class and their
families, but due to space limitations
in Jackson Hall, it is anticipated that
there will be limited seating for the
general public.

A native of Lexington, Robertson is
a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of W&L,
the Yale University Law School and
the New York Theological Seminary.
A Marine Corps veteran who served
in Korea and a former Golden Gloves
boxer, his late father was U.S. Sen.
A. Willis Robertson.

Re-establishing a tradition of the
early years of VMI, bibles have been
presented to graduates on a volun-
tary basis since 1980. Beginning in
1981, they have been purchased
through an endowment established
by CBN. Cadets who are members of
other faiths receive the book ap-
propriate to their religion.

As host of CBN’s ‘700 Club,”
Robertson has gained national ac-
claim for his ‘Operation Blessing,”
which claims to be one of the nation’s
largest private organizations serving
the poor. He has predicted that by
1988 there will be 80,000 churches na-
tionwide assisting in the program. He
is mentioned frequently as a poten-
tial candidate for the 1988 Republican
president nomination.

 

Staff Reports

 

Washington and Lee’s Cable Nine TV station will
broadcast six programs next week on a variety of
topics, including painting demonstrations, panel discus-
sions on coeducation, a feature on rugby at W&L and
the hospice program in Lexington.

The 30-minute programs are being produced and di-
rected by journalism students. _

The first two programs, ‘‘Introduction to Chinese
Brush Painting: The Orchid,” and “Introduction to
Chinese Brush Painting: The Peony,” will be shown at
7:30 and 8 p.m. on Monday and will feature painting
demonstrations by Art Professor I-Hsiung Ju. The pro-
ducer/director of this series is Earl Glazier.

“‘Coeducation: The Beginning of an Era, or the Begin-
ning of an Error,” and ‘‘Coeducation: Some Faculty
Views,” produced and directed by Dave Johnston, will
be shown at 7:30 and 8 p.m. on Tuesday.

“Rugby at Washington and Lee,” produced and di-
rected by Nick Berents, and “The Hospice in Lex-
ington,” produced by Will Browne and Sam Foley, will
air at 7:30 and 8 p.m. on Wednesday.

Women report stolen items

Three visiting students from area women’s colleges
reported more than $350 of possessions stolen to Lex-
ington Police last week.

Two Randolph-Macon Woman’s College students re-
ported their purses stolen from their car while it was
parked on Randolph Street between 12:30 and 2 a.m.
last Thursday. The women, Katherine and Linda Hock,
valued their purses, wallets and credit cards at $225.

Hollins College student Catherine Compton reported
that $130 worth of cash and merchandise was removed
from her car on Randolph Street last Friday.

In other police news:

eA custom-made car cover valued at $120 was taken
from a 1984 Datsun 300ZX belonging to freshman Wil-
liam Bottoms. The cover was taken between April 28
and May 5in the freshman parking lot.

eA wallet belonging to freshman Daniel Bunch was
taken from his unlocked locker while he was in a
physical education class last Thursday. Bunch said he
later found the wallet outside the gymnasium, but $4
and his United Virginia Bank card had been removed

Astronomer to deliver lectures

Laurence W. I redrick, professor of astronomy at the
University of Virginia, will deliver two lectures on
Tuesday.

The first, ‘‘Space Telescope: The Observancy of the
Future,” will be at 3:30 p.m. in Room 201 of Parmly
Hall. Fredrick will discuss his involvement with the
Space Telescope project since 1963

Fredrick’s second speech, ‘‘Ancient Monuments and
the Game of Checkers,”’ will be at 8 p.m. in the Univer-
sity Library’s Northen Auditorium. He will discuss the
validity of the argument that ancient monuments, spec-
ifically Stonehenge, were used as a predictor for lunar
and solar eclipses.

Fredrick received his bachelor’s and master’s
degrees from Swarthmore College and his Ph.D. in
astronomy from the University of Pennsylvania. From
1963 to 1980, he was chairman of the department of
astronomy at the University of Virginia, where he is
currently the Hamilton Professor of Astronomy.

Senior to study in Germany

Rob Treat, a senior from Manchester, Vt., has receiv-
ed a Fulbright grant to study for a year in West Ger-
many.

Treat will use the grant to take courses in biology and
physics at the Johann Wolfgang Goethe University in
Frankfurt, and to conduct cancer research at the Paul
Erlich Institute, also in Frankfurt. The grant also
covers a two-month language course.

A biology and physics major. Treat is a member of
Alpha Epsilon Delta professional fraternity for
premedical students. He was elected to Phi Eta Sigma,
the freshman honor society, and to Phi Beta Kappa. He
is the recipient of the James McDowell scholarship, a

member of the International Club, the Intervarsity
Christian Fellowship and the track team.

Sophomore to study in Oxford

Chris Wiman, 8
sophomore from Abilene,
Texas, is the recipient of a J
$500 scholarship award
from the Lexington branch
of the English-Speaking
Union,

The scholarship, which
was established in 1985, is
given annually to a
Washington and Lee stu- Fg
dent or Virginia Military
Institute cadet for study in
England. The award was
presented to Wiman by
Capt. Robert C. Peniston,
president of the Lexington
branch of the English-
Speaking Union.

Wiman, an English major, will be studying at Oxford
this summer under the auspices of the Virginia Pro-
gram at Oxford.

Wiman is an All-America tennis team member and a
member of Phi Kappa Sigma social fraternity.

 

 

 

CHRIS WIMAN

 

 
 

 

t
l
I
t
k
f

{
i

1

Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, May 8, 1986

 

 

 

 

!

|

;

 

,

 

a

Steeple chase

Workers on the end of a crane paint the steeple of the R.E. Lee Memorial
Episcopal Church on Washington Street this week. Marion Delong, chair-
man of the church’s Property Committee, said the steeple has to be painted
every four or five years to keep it from rusting.

|U chooses
freshman for

head position

By DANIEL BUNCH
Staff Reporter

 

 

John Maxwell, a freshman from

. Waynesboro, Pa., has been chosen to

head the Independent Union next
year.

Maxwell said he was chosen by this
year’s officers, who also will pick the
other officers at a later time.

Maxwell characterized this year’s
IU as a success but said some areas
for improvement include more
female participation and more social
events.

With regard to the women, Max-
well said their participation was ‘‘not
very much, but it was proportional to
the men.’’ He said a woman may be
appointed to an office to increase

 

JOHN MAXWELL

events, saying ‘‘if a guy wants social,
he can go toa fraternity.”

Maxwell said the most important
services of the IU are its academic
offerings, such as its cold-test file
and tutoring services, and intra-
mural sports which he said “always
hover near the top.”’

Maxwell said that since indepen-
dents are an increasingly big block
on campus, they should be able to put
ample representatives in student
government.

 

By Perry S. Hayes/The Ring-tum Phi

Members of
Glee Club
sell record

 

By JOHN PIPKIN
Staff Reporter

The University Glee Club and Southern Comfort have
released a new album featuring performances in Eng-

land, California and Lee Chapel.

Glee Club members Christopher Carter, George Mc-
Dowell, Bruin Richardson and James Williams, compiled
the recordings and negotiated the production of the

album on their own initiative.

According to Glee Club Conductor Gordon P. Spice,
performances are recorded ‘“‘whenever and wherever

possible.”’

The recordings on the album were made by members
of the Glee Club and by Spice himself, who added that he
still is waiting for a recording of the group’s recent Euro-
pean tour, during which a number of the new albums

were sold.

The album is called ‘‘ ‘A-Rovin’ with the Washington
and Lee University Glee Club,” and takes its name from

 

 

The Glee Club record

 

 

By Perry S. Hayes/The Ring-tum Phi

a song featured on the album. The record contains 13
pieces by the Glee Club as well as four performances by
Southern Comfort, recorded from 1983 to the present.

Work on the new album began in the fall of 1985 and it
was released just before spring break. Both albums and
cassettes are available for $7 in the Bookstore, Lee
Chapel Museum and from Spice.

Seniors fund scholarship to honor
attributes of student killed in fire

 

Staff Report

 

Seniors and their parents are being
asked this month to participate in the
Class of 1986 Tom Fellin Scholarship,
a fund planned by class officers.

Townes Pressler of Houston, the
class’s president for all four years,
said the scholarship apparently will
be the first gift in recent years by a
graduating class to the University.
Most gifts, he explained, have been
‘‘a lot farther down the road.”

To endow a scholarship, the class
must raise $25,000, a goal Pressler
hopes to accomplish in five years,
meaning the first scholarship would
be awarded for the 1991-92 school
year.

Thomas J. Fellin, an honor student
from Weston, Penn., who was presi-
dent of the Phi Gamma Delta social

Senior paints
D-Hall mural

 

By CLARE KAYE
Staff Reporter

 

The new mural of Washington and
Lee buildings behind the serving line
at Evans Dining Hall evolved without
any specific plan, its creator says.

Senior Wes Boatrwight of Newport
News said the work, which is un-
finished, came about by drawing
sketches for the mural of buildings
around campus that stood out and
were recognizable.

The dining hall has not had a new
mural since 1975, when alumnus Tab
Brown painted the nutritional scene.
Food Services Director Gerald J.
Darrell stressed the importance of
the dining hall’s appearance, noting
that when he came to W&L in 1969,
the area behind the food lines was

fraternity, died in a fire that gutted
the fraternity’s house in April of 1984.

Each senior will be approached by
one of about 15 class representatives
who have already pledged to the
fund. A minimum contribution of $50
is suggested for the first year. A stu-
dent who chooses the “‘working plan”
will contribute $600 over six years,
while the “graduate school plan”
recommends $325 in giving over the
same period.

Any money collected by the class
before the end of June goes directly
to the gift fund. Later contributions
will be divided between the scholar-
ship and the University’s Annual
Fund, which funds about 10 percent
of the school’s operating budget.

Parents, who received a mailing
about the project this week, already
have begun contributing to the

scholarship, and Pressler’s goal is to
raise $10,000 by graduation on June 5.
He said the emphasis, though, is in-
volving the whole class as much as on
monetary targets.

“Even if people are only going to
give $25, I hope to have 90 percent”
participation, Pressler said. ‘I don’t
know if that’s realistic. I’d like to
have 100 percent.”’

Athletic teams, fraternities and
other groups also are being invited to
contribute to the fund.

It was appropriate to name a
scholarship for Fellin because Fellin_

was “‘kind of the W&L man” and ‘‘the
kind of person we want to come
here,”’ Pressler explained.

“‘He was somebody that’s going to
be remembered for the attributes he
possessed while he was here: a
leader, a scholar and an athlete.”

Islamic
course to .

be taught «

 

By CHRIS MUNSEY
Staff Reporter

.

 

¢

The revolutionary Islam of Iran’s «
Ayatollah Khomeini and Libya’s
Moammar Khadafy that currently is *
rocking the Middle East will be stu ,
died in a new religion course taught
by Richard G. Marks, a religious ¥
scholar hired two years ago by the,
Washington and Lee Religion De-
partment. \

The course, Religion 225, will focus ,
on modern Islam and then study the

traditional teachings of the Koran, * J

Islam’s holy book.

Jewish philosophy, literature and
mysticism are examined in three ‘
courses developed in the fall of 1984.
Marks said the purpose of those ;
courses is to show what is common
and unique in the Jewish response to
the basic problems and questions of
life. .

Traditional Jewish life and relig-
ious practices are studied in Religion |
204. The philosophy of the existen-
sialist Martin Buber is discussed in
course 205. Marks said that Judaism ‘
has been influenced by every culture +
and all intellectual currents it has ,
come across, from the time of Aristo-
tle to the German philosopher Im- \
manuel Kant.

The historical and religious crises '
of modern Jewish life, from the Holo-
caust of World War II to the estab-,
lishment of the Israeli state, and the
fragmentation of Jewish culture in‘
America are examined in a spring ,
seminar course, Marks said.

Minor A. Rogers, religion pro-'
fessor at W&L, said the courses ced}

\

long overdue here. ‘Christians need
to understand what has been con- |
tributed by the Jewish tradition.”
Rogers also said that W&L tradi-,
tionally had a significant Jewish
presence, and that Jewish alumni *
were very concerned with the declin-:

ing number of Jews at the school.

 

 

 

 

 

The mural of campus buildings appears behind the serving line in the dining hall

Darrell when he was visiting the

7,
Hedtettes. gaa

By Sean Connolly /The Caiyx \

 

 

and decided it would be a perfect

plan in exchange for his work, which + | :
theme for the new mural in Evans.

‘*. participation. he says should be finished within a ‘

“They haven’t recognized the completely bare. University of Maryland. He saw a

 

  

          
        
   
     

    

   

Maxwell stressed non-social power they have,” he said. The idea for the new muralcameto similar mural with campus scenes Boatwright is receiving a free meal few weeks. +
4)
“i —— Nike
’ e . Lubkul 103-463-1670 S 7 pD
ts eorge’s Hairstylis A CAR? | WkituL 3 apie ra
: Pan ted a New Hours
: since 1963 103-377-6331 HISTORIC
¢:: ce COUNTRY Wednesday-Saturday: 5:00-10:00
: Students under 21 -71-00.9-
V marys INNS Sunday Brunch: 11:00-2:00
t Redken —_— Nexus prior Insurance NEW EXPANDED MENU
C Walk in or phone for appointment Approval Biton ond Shesls ie
3 Fredricksea Ala Carte Pricing
Mon.-Fri. 463-3975 Reservations Suggested—
ae RFD7, Box 149, Rt. 60 East Lexington, Virginia 24450 :

 

 

 

 

 

Welcome Alumni
WE’VE MISSED YOU

Take a minute and pay us a visit.

Great Goodyear

TAWAY SALE!
TIES.

 

Get your car ready for some great
driving days ahead with new tires you
wont have to worry about. Some of
our most popular tires are on sale now!

Sale Ends Saturday, Mugu

 

TALe Price
Wipes Wo trade
needed

 

iad
P165 75R13
P175 B0R13

e Tassel Foot Joys | nv a
¢ Duck Heads e Gitman Shirts e ‘ ma
¢ Unbelievable e Crest Ties—W&L ) zim eam |

Short Selection | A’ ‘ane oc (i

lege “lown Shop

SRIS| $86.65
111 W. Nelson

e Ruff Hewn

$55.75
$59.95
$60.90
$66.45
$66.10
$69.20
$73.25
$77.35
$71.68
$76.15

 

 

 

 

H&J Tire Co., Inc.

Siete
vasa:

S. Randolph St
Lexington

463-2178

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi, May 8, 1986, Page

 

Writer, poet provide insights into Southern life, racism

By MARGUERITE AYERS
Staff Reporter

Praised by The New York Times
for his ‘‘sense of place” within his
focus on the Southern black novelist
and short story writer Ernest J.
Gaines presented a reading from his
latest work, “A Gathering of Old
Men,” Tuesday afternoon in Northen
Auditorium.

Gaines was born in Lafayette, La.,
and raised on a farming parish that
had been in his family for six genera-
tions. His contact with the black
farming communities in the area
enabled him to capture the subtle
distinctions of southern culture and
black life in rural Louisiana against a
backdrop of racism.

“A Gathering of Old Men’ takes
place in a black farming parish in the
late 1970s after the younger black
men have gone into the army during
the Vietnam War and the younger
black women have migrated to the
cities to work.

The older generations have been

left to work the land, planting cotton,
sugarcane and tobacco.

Gaines presents the work from
each character’s point of view,
dividing his chapters between the dif-
ferent personalities he creates. He
says this style was influenced by the
works of William Faulkner and
believes it draws the reader deeper
into the story.

His work is vivid and colorful,
reflecting the Cajun/Creole language

of his characters and the intricacies
of their mannerisms and lifestyles.

Gaines relays the strong religious
ties of the southern black, the singing
and praying in church and the con-
stant appeals to God in times of
crisis.

Gaines has written five novels, in-
cluding ‘‘The Autobiography of Miss
Jane Pittman,’’ which was recreated
on film for public television.

His visit to Washington and Lee
was sponsored by the Glasgow En-
dowment Program, established in
1960 by Arthur Graham Glasgow ‘“‘to
promote the art of expression by pen
and tongue.”’

Gaines was available to sign copies

of his work yesterday morning in the
bookstore.

 

 

 

 

GWENDOLYN BROOKS

 

 

Brooks to read ‘people poems’

Gwendolyn Brooks, Pulitzer Prize-
winning poet and currently poetry
consultant to the Library of Con-
gress, will present a poetry reading
next Thursday at 4:30 p.m. in Nor-
then Auditorium

Brooks, who received the Pulitzer
Prize for Poetry in 1950, was the first
black writer to be so honored. She
also succeeds Car] Sandburg as Poet
Laureate of Illinois.

A native of Chicago, Brooks began
writing poetry as a young girl. Her
poems have portrayed the lives of
impoverished blacks, and the univer-

sal implications of their experiences
Brooks describes her works as “peo-
ple poems.” She ‘depicts their lives
and feelings. They are all part of put-
ting on paper a picture of life.”

At 68, Brooks spends much of her
time from September to May visiting
campuses all over the country.

Brooks is the author of 15 books, in-
cluding ‘“‘Annie Allen’’ (1949), a se-
quence of poems tracing the maturi-
ty of a Bronzeville girl, which won
her the Pulitzer Prize in 1950. Other
titles include ‘‘In the Mecca’ (1968)
and ‘‘To Disembark”’ (1981).

 

alter ee
>

ac

 

Whistleblower
to speak here

next week

A. Ernest Fitzgerald, who made
headlines during the 1970s as the
most famous contemporary ‘“whis-
tleblower,” will deliver a lecture
Monday.

PP aL,

Only Hairstylist to
accept the Colonnade

gy*MariesSherry _Card

SUR Shs.

Old Main St. Ma
Lexington, VA 244§

Pe UL
er E AT)

uaa

   

Tt.

WILLSON-
WALKER
HOUSE =_}=

Restaurant

Mother’ s Day
Champagne Brunch

Complimentary Carnations
for Mothers

Open Tuesday through Saturday
Lunch 11:30-2:30, Dinner 5:30-9:00
Reservations requested for dinner
Closed Monday
30 N. Main St.
Lexington, Virginia 24450
703-463-3020

   
   
    
 
 
    
  
     

  

While in Lexington, Fitzgerald will
also receive Sigma Delta Chi’s First
Amendment Award. The award, pre-
sented annually by the Washington
and Lee chapter of the Society of Pro-
fessional Journalists, is given to an
individual who embodies the prin-
ciples of the First Amendment.

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

Fitzgerald’s lecture, ‘Pentagon
Procurement Pollution,’’ will be at 8
p.m. in Room 221 in the Commerce
School building. The lecture is free
and open to the public.

 

 

Fitzgerald was fired by the Air
Force in 1969 after citing cost over-
runs of about $2 billion on the C-5A jet
transport plane being constructed by
Lockheed. He was reinstated after a
15-year battle in the courts and cur-
rently works as management sys-
tems deputy in the office of the secre-
tary of the Air Force.

By W. Patrick Hinley /W&L

Across America

Three Japanese cyclists, all students at Rikkyo Universi-
ty in Tekyo, talk with a friend on the front lawn recently
en route from Los Angeles to Richmond. The cyclists
— from left to right, Eiichi Shimoda, Tatsuo Kanoh and
Yoshiharu Kamoshita — speak with Yukie Kurihara,

an exchange student at Washington and Lee. The three
students arrived in Los Angeles Feb. 17, and began their
trip a few days later, averaging 50 miles a day. They
traveled to Richmond to visit the grave of Bishop Chann-
ing Moore Williams, the founder of Rikkyo University.

GRADUATES

COURTESY

Ford ¢ Mercury
HAS YOUR

PRE-APPROVED
CREDIT FROM
FORD CREDIT

PLUS $400 TOWARD

Last year, Fitzgerald donated his
papers to the W&L library.

 

 

 

Alumni Reunion
Weekend Special Event

The W&L Alumni
Association

proudly presents
The

     

itn

i eo ees
‘

eo
Wate

ue
eee ee eee

% te ee
oeeee

EE EAE EOL ee ee

vs 's's eee ee eee bes a yea aD DD DD RTE ERRANS

ee

 

THE PURCHASE AS OF A NEW FORD

It’s Easy To Qualify

@ You must receive at least a
bachelor’s degree or a state RN
license between October 1,
1985 and September 30, 1986.

@ You must have verifia le
employment that begins within
120 days of your qualifying
vehicle purchase at a salary
sufficient to cover ordinary liv-
ing expenses and your vehicle
payment.

@ Your credit record, if you
have one, must indicate pay-
ment made as agreed.

 

Ford Motor
Orr -tel)

Company

 

Ford

2019 Forest Ave.
Buena Vista

These Vehicles Are |
Included In The Plan
Ford: Escort, Escort EXP,
Tempo, Mustang, Thunderbird
Ford Truck: Aerostar, Bronco Il,
Ranger, F-150 & F-250

Mercury: Lynx, Topaz, Capri,
Cougar

The amount of your pre-
approved credit is determined

 

by the qualifying vehicle you buy,
and you are eligible forthe $400 ~
directly from Ford even if you
don’t finance your purchase.
Make your best deal and you can
use the $400 toward your down
payment or get a check from

Ford after the purchase or lease.

Hurry. If a vehicle is not in
dealer stock it must be ordered
by June 1, 1986, and delivery of
all vehicles must be taken by
August 31, 1986. See your par-
ticipating dealer for complete
program details.

OURTESY

Mercury

261-2112
DL 1916

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

at
G.H.Q.

Rusty Nichols
Dixieland Band

Saturday, May 10, 1986
9:30 p.m. - 12:30 a.m.

NO COVER CHARGE

Students, faculty, staff and guests
are all welcome.
<a qsnue

ee ee

Page 6, The Ring-tum Phi, May 8, 1986

 

Co-op may
allow use of
point cards

 

By SIMON PEREZ
Staff Reporter

 

Students may be able to use their
dining hall point cards at the Co-op
next year, Food Services Director
Gerald J. Darrell says.

Several students had asked Darrell
about the possibility of adding the
convenience of the dining hall and
General Headquarters charge sys-
tem to the Co-op.

Darrell said it would be ‘‘good for
business.”’ The GHQ, which began
accepting points this school year, has
received $30,000 worth of points, he
said.

Darrell said he would have begun
the system immediately; but ‘the
bookkeeping would be too compli-
cated.’’ As soon as a feasible ac-
counting method is formulated, the
process will begin, he said.

 

 

By Hank Mayer/The Ring-tum Phi

Student writes a check at the Co-op

Sophomore Andy Forbes, who has
used a point card this year, called the

proposal ‘‘a great idea’ and ‘‘very
convenient.”

 

Poll

 

Continued from Page |
women said they were satisfied with
their experience here.

“The students at Washington and
Tee c9aem ta he hv and large a

reasonably happy lot.’’ Novack said.

Three senior public policy majors
now are performing a more detailed
analysis and interpretive study of the
survey results. On Tuesday, they will
make an oral presentation, including
some recommendations, to the Coed-
ucation Committee.

The survey tended to show, Novack

said, that freshman men sometimes
have felt left out and that derogatory
comments about the academic
qualifications of the sophomore class
have taken their toll.

Novack said the major recommen-
dation the three seniors likely will
make is that it is crucial to treat
undergraduates first and foremost as
students, not as men or women.

90 percent say they’re committed to honor

 

 

 

CLASSIFIEDS

 

Based on the aftermath of Spain’s
civil war, this film carefully
blends action and dialogue on an
all-too-timely topic. The film is be-
ing shown as part of the Politics
Filmfest.

GENERAL NOTES

 

James Cone, president of Coffee
and Tea Ltd., Inc., a speciality
chain importer and roaster of cof-
fees and teas in Minnesota, will
speak in Room 121 of the Com-
merce School tonight at 7:30.
Cone, a member of the Washing-
ton and Lee Class of 1961, will
speak on the role of the small
businessman in the speciality re-
tailing industry. The speech is
sponsored by the W&L chapter of
the Association of Collegiate En-
trepreneurs.

ne ee

“Ballad of a Soldier’’ (USSR,
1960, English subtitles) and ‘The
Russians are Here " (U.S.. PBS,
1985) will be screened at 7:30 Fri-
day night in Northen Auditorium.
“Ballad” recounts a war-torn love
affair that discloses the Russian
view of romance in post-revolu-
tionary times. Ingeniously acted,
this was the USSR’s first major
exported film in the western
model. The film is part of the Rus-
sian Film Series.

All persons who have bounced
checks outstanding or who owe
money to the Cold Check Commit-
tee must have the amount paid by
no later than May 16. Holds will be
placed on the transcripts of those
who do not clear up their debt.

The last production of the Mary
Baldwin Theatre for the 1985-86
season is “Princess Ida,” an
operetta by Gilbert and Sullivan.
It will be performed by members
of the Mary Baldwin College Choir
and Washington and Lee Glee
Club on May 17 and 18 in the
Troubador Theatre, with perfor-
mances running May 21 through
25 at the Fletcher Collins Theatre
on the Mary Baldwin campus. Ad-
mission is free to W&L students,
but reservations should be made
beginning Monday at 463-8637.

Next Thursday at 7 p.m. in Nor-
then Auditorium a film will be
shown called ‘‘Not A Love Story?”’
This powerful and unusual movie,

Sign-ups for interviews for Stu-
dent Recruitment Committee will
continue until Friday in the Ad-
missions Office in Washington
Hall. Interviews will be held Sun-
day, Monday and Tuesday nights.
Any student may apply.

The David Strouse Blount
Educational Foundation has
scholarships available for Virgin-
ia residents based on need and
academic achievement. Applica-
tions and information are avail-
able in the Financial Aid Office in
Washington Hall. The deadline for
scholat ships for next year is May

“Behold a Pale Horse’’ (1965,
U.S., Fred Zinnemann) will be
screened tonight at 7 in Room 327
of the Commerce School. This
“thinking man’s’ guerilla war
film features Omar Sharif, Greg-
ory Peck and Anthony Quinn in a
morality play about civil obliga-
tion, the right to violence and the
nature of revolutionary authority.

which does contain some sexually
explicit scenes, claims it ‘‘neither
advocates nor appeals for censor-
ship” but raises questions about
pornography as a complex social
problem. After the movie there
will be a discussion led by Dr
Anne Schroer, Dr. Nancy Mar-
gand, Dr. Jim Worth and a pro-
fessor from the Law School. Stu
dénts are encouraged to attend
this program.

Rising juniors or seniors who
plan to pursue a career in the in-
surance field are eligible for 10 of
the $1,000 scholarships offered by
thé Independent Insurance Agents
of America, Inc. The scholarships
are awarded based on academic
achievement. Information and ap-
plications are available in the
Financial Aid Office in Washing-
ton Hall. The deadline is July 15.

The Washington and Lee aqua-
tics program is offering swim-

 

 

ming lessons to area residents |

three years of age and older dur-
ing the weeks of May 5 to § and 12
to 16. Two classes will be offered
each day, from 4 p.m. to 4:25 and
4:35 to5.

Registration and water evalua-
tion will be Saturday at 10 a.m. at
W&L’s Cy Twombly Pool in the
Warner Center.

The cost is $15 per program, and
the program include Beginners
(three levels), Advanced (three
levels), Mommy and Mee (ages 3
to 5 with mother), Aquatic games-
Gold Card Program (swimmer
level and above), and Life Saving
(depending on interest).

For further detzils, contact
Page Remillard at 463-8693.

 

By STEVEN POCKRASS
Special to The Phi

 

Academic reputation was the reason most often cited
by students when asked why they chose to attend Wash-
ington and Lee, according toa recent survey.

But student opinion of the school’s most important
tradition appears to be shifting from academics to the
Honor System, and more than 90 percent of the respon-
dents say they are committed to that tradition of honor.

The survey was administered during the winter by a

: nine-member sociology class headed by W&L Associate
‘ Sociology Professor David R. Novack. Although the
- survey focused on coeducation, students also were
« questioned about their views on the Honor System, tra-
- dition and other questions indirectly related to coedu-
* cation.

Academic reputation was cited by 42 percent of those

t surveyed as their major reason for enrollment, follow-

,-ed by 19 percent who cited school size. Less than 5 per-
<4cent said the Honor System was the major factor in
“their decision to attend, and only 2 percent cited single-
BeX.
*° Of the freshmen surveyed, 81 percent said they

thought the Honor System was W&L’s most important
=dtradition, compared to 61 percent of the seniors. About
4 17 percent of the seniors considered academic reputa-
tien to be the echanl’s most important tradition com-

.

pared to 7 percent of the freshmen. The results were
even more skewed for men and women, as 87 percent of
the women and 69 percent of the men thought the Honor
System was the school’s most important tradition.

Only 2 percent of all students considered gentlemanly
conduct to be W&L’s most important tradition.

Almost 95 percent of all students said they either were
very committed or somewhat committed to W&L’s tra-
ditions and ideals.

Such a response showed the students’ ‘‘proclaimed
allegiance to an institutional ideal,’’ Novack said, but
the problems at the school show the reality of the situa-
tion.

“‘T think they say it in good faith,’’ Novack said, but

added he’s not sure you would want to equate that with
behavior.”

By percentage, freshmen were the most committed to
the Honor System, juniors and seniors the least. A
higher percentage of women than men tended to be
committed, and fraternity members more than in-
dependents.

Novack said that in the past, students more strongly
committed to the school’s traditions tended to be oppos-
ed to coeducation, but he did not have data to support
that for the recent survey.

The women’s committment should allay the fears of
those who thought coeducation would destroy W&L’s
traditions, he said.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Southern
Inn

 

cd otal alll anecdotal

| Cappeto

 

Continued from Page |

ee

‘message to the undergraduate stu-
} dents...it is that if you are changing
tjobs, be careful,”’ he said. “Typically
t people change to give up their crum-
‘my job for somebody else’s crum-
t-my job. If you have a good job, you
‘need to be very cautious.”’

' “Take your time, know the situa-
' tion well before you go,”’ he advised.
t “That’s what I did.”’

t. “I have here at Washington and
Lee one ofthe best jobs in the country
:...and I wouldn’t be leaving it if I
‘wasn’t going to a job which was even
tbetter,’’ he said.

- At W&L, Cappeto is chairman of

*,
’
‘
'
¥
'
‘

the Alcohol and Health Awareness
Committee and the University’s pre-
law adviser. As he puts it, he also
gives general guidance to student
clubs and organizations.”’

Working with the students of the
University has been one of his most
pleasant experiences in his 11 years,
he said, “I’ve just enjoyed the rela-
tionship I’ve had with students,”’ he
states.

He thinks that people who dwell on
the bad aspects of their job are dissa-
tisfied with their job, so I tend not
ae

Cappeto said he believes one of his
most important achievements was
starting the Career Development and
Placement program at W&L. ‘Many
seniors will attest that it’s working
for many of them,” he said. ‘“‘Any-
thing that you see now, in a large

part, I feel responsible for.”’

Cappeto and his wife, Beverly,
have two daughters — Christine, 13,
and Jennifer, 9.

He said that he will begin looking
for a house in Claremont in the com-
ing week.

Cappeto characterized his pay in-
crease as ‘‘significant’’ but he said
that was due to the higher cost of liv-
ing in Southern California. “I don’t
know if it’s even fair to compare”’ the
difference in salaries, he said
“Tt’s not the reason I moved.”

Harvey Mudd College is part of the
Claremont College system. Each
school’s enrollment is kept under
1,000 and all the campuses are in a
central location. Harvey Mudd
specializes in mathematics and
engineering.

 

W&L Snack Bar

Welcome Back Alumni

We will be open
Saturday, May 10
8a.m. — 2 p.m.

 

 

69¢ Milkshake Special

For Month of May

(8 p.m. -11 p.m., Sun, - Thurs.)

 

 

Introducing New Items
Sundaes & Banana Splits

7:30-4, Mon. - Fri.

at guaranteed best
prices around

 

8-11, Sun. - Thurs.

 

 

 

  

Welcome
’ ’ ’ Students
Don’t Forget Mother’s Day: RE
We Carry: Russell Stover Candy and dinner for over
Perfumes 50 years
Other Gift Items Main Street, Lexington
17S. Main St. (703) 463-2323 463-3612
wis wn Sandwiches (Eat In-Take Out)
Lexington j Gourmet Items of All Nations _
— Cocktails® Wine@Beer
Hour: dam to am Subs @Imported Cheeses

Sunday 10am to lam Catering

Alvin-Benniz

Welcome Alumni
(Come Visit Our Expanded Store)

   
 

 

_ Alumni Special

 

Suits & Dress Pants 20% Off

 

 

Sport Coats and Suits

by Haspel, Gant & Oritsky

Sero Shirts

Bass Weejuns & Topsider Shoes
Knit Shirts - Izod, Cross Creek
Duck Head Cotton Pants
Bermuda Shorts plaids & solids
Jams, OP & Birdwell Swimsuits
W&L - Belts - Ties - Key Chains

(Since 1963)
MasterCard
9-5:30 Monday-Saturday

VISA Choice

Student Charge

 

 

 

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi, May 8, 1986, Page 7

 

Wendell’s

Barber LZ,

Shop —_ BORDEN
COMMONS

   

  
       
     
     
   

Thanks To You...
... We ve Had Great Success!

To show our appreciation we're having a |
sale: |

10% Off

on everything in the store all day
Friday and Saturday

Now over 200 titles on compact disc.

| need

your head

for my business

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

117 W. Nelson St.

 

The Ideal Investment

The Shop for
PAPPAGALLO

For
All Merchandise Alumni, Parents of Students and Real Estate Investors

25% Off

Shoes, Clothing
& Accessories

Baker Real Estate announces a new offering in Phase II of Borden Com-
mons near Washington and Lee Campus, offers affordable, cost-efficient
housing for students and young professionals, and like Phase I will rapidly

 

be fully subscribed.
23 NORTH MAIN STREET :
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA Scheduled for occupancy Fall Semester 1986, pre-construction reservations
463-5988 are being taken now. 90% financing available to qualified purchases. On-

 

site management is available through Baker Real Estate.

One bedroom with fully equipped kitchens, central air and plenty of
The Beauty storage at $44,000.

Bar

156 S. Main St.
463-2886

Specializing in MARKETED BY

style cuts Tom Baker Baker Real Estate Dick Emrey

bstet Lexington, Virginia sun
ies 703-463-7319

   

Florist to the Homestead &

103 N. Jefferson ee
Lexington, Va. 24450

(703) 463-9841

 

 

Six fine hairstylists
to serve you.

 
  

 

 

 

 

Student Activities Board

presents

Concert on the Colonnade

Heinsohn

&
Day

Saturday
May 10
1:30 - 4:30

Students & Alumni Invited

 

No Beverages will be provided.
No Bottles Please

 

 

 

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi, May 8, 1986

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

. By CHARLES T. GAY

 

ience with tennis. “I felt blessed to
have the caliber of men I did —

 

 

 

cluded a crucial weekend where
Washington and Lee competed
against then sixth-ranked Claremont

yg ey

sone AO aye

* mae agate “rtm

ie Fs
i iii iia alta ae

 

 

*
DAVID McLEOD ROBY MIZE BOBBY MATTHEWS CHRIS WIMAN JACK MESSERLY SCOTT ADAMS ’
layers: G Is h d shot’ at taki team title .
Players: Generals have ‘good shot’ at taking tea
: By DAVID NAVE the NCAA tournament. Matthews admitted that the pro- _ ourselves all season.” thews said, dispelling any worre> ihat the distractions of i
Staff Reporter spect of playing at nationals for the first time has him The Generals give themselves a solid opportunity of — southern California could hinder the Generals’ effort. : r
ee Ga PTO E eT NL TIES _— His ee ae that Mat- returning from this trip to The Golden State with the na- Last year’s _ was beet 7 ae >

» Next year is The Promis . ve five return- ws’ experience playing in United States Association tional championship. tional championships on its home court. '
ing oe and ae eee —— om 2 national junior tournaments will help him greatly next “We've got a good shot,” asserted All-American _ that it would be nice to have the home-court advantage ;
singies player Roby Mize after last year’s Washington _year. Wiman. again this year.
ad ote —— team a eighth at the NCAA Division The = = had a busy spring practice schedule pre- Messerly agreed: ‘‘Our chances are very good if we all Adams agreed that it is a pte ert cay Da y

I © © , ‘ ? ”

The W&L sas att has not won the national cham- ae i sileuhiita ee aeesheee heer cae ne la pri ape bay va oy ae nel is : a) tay cae cab eons is to a Division III pro- 4
pionship yet, but they take a 14-8recordand No.4ranking _imately five hours on the court each day. The two-a-day _ there.’ We need to play great for three straight days, We gram), but added that no one in the tournament will have ;
to California in next week’s championship. The players _ workout schedule involves a singles and a doubles match, _ believe we can do it and we are working hard.” a home-court advantage as neither the host school, Clare-
are = — and a to go. pe — drills - ae ae The team cited depth — crucial to success in the team _ mont, nor any California schools are competing this year. *

- Scott Adams, the team’s only senior and its captain, ize commented, ‘I don’t thi tthere isany team competition — as W&L’s strength. : posed
said that when he first made the team almost four years — whois playing more than we are.”’ “We have just as much depth. as any one else,”’ Mes- t oe ; seo ee a tan A lay-
ago, he had no idea at all that he would be in southern Several players assert, however, that such preparation _serly said, while Matthews added that ‘‘depth is the key el at mas . i nore But. interesting] = a :
California vying for the top spot in the country — for the _ is only part of a mental and physical conditioning for the _ to the team.” r ath ving sede agen a - sonati a tan :
second time ina row. tournament began long before W&L received its bid. Freshman John McDonough, the Generals’ No. 7 man re es — : ee a

. : _ $ e 3 Si ” : ’ : . +
i gan vt. added: ‘‘Last year certainly made a like all year has been a pre-season,’ McLeod ~ ine ber : rear eae dosmrag bagi While California can be distracting, the Generals ap

‘Freshman Bobby Matthews, who plays at Flight No. 3 Jack Messerly, No. 5 player and McLeod’s doubles _ eat tennis’’ once it arrives in Claremont. parently are concentrating on something else.
for the Generals, is the only starter who has not playedin _— partner, echoed those thoughts. “‘We’ve been preparing ‘When we get to the tournament, it’s all tennis,’’ Mat- Messerly stated, ‘‘It’s cool to. be there, but ...’’ :
Kalamazoo favored for team title, but fa ‘bal d’ field 2

; ces Daiance ie
NAIA and D-III but became solely D- to a stress fracture and his situation Odds: 4to1. Eagles. team is the pair of Kruger and Allen :

ANALYSIS BY III this year... Defeated D-I Idaho is doubtful for the tournament... Will WASHINGTON COLLEGE Emory has plenty of firepower in who are ranked 13th... ‘We are con-

(7-2), Washington State (6-3), and rely on 1985 national singles finalist Chestertown, Md the singles flights with Steve Git- cerned about the team champion- :

MIKE SH ADY Portland (7-2)... Their D-III victims Shep Davidson (11-9, ITCA No. 3, Record: 21-3 tleson (15-12, ITCA No. 10) and Jim _ ship, said head coach Steve Wilkin-

include Claremont (6-3, ITCA No. 9), undefeated against D-III players in ype, Ranking: No. 5 Strauss (23-4, ITCA No. 16)...A pro- son, “and not as much the in- ‘

UC Santa-Cruz (5-4, ITCA No. 10), 1986) and David Sobel (ITCA No. 24) It’s the first time for the Shoremen lem may arise in doubles as the dividuals. “We've got a balanced

Cea aLivecticetnti Govstnarivin Vemasrerat, inteNCAActampleshsandGny age vere wl pace ary o tam aiengndpoetia”
ees = thi = i eir pairs in the nation’s to :12tol.

KALAMAZOO tournament by downing top-10 NAIA ed ninth by ITCA..."" don’t feel any Zimetanet lan te fa cert pogge - Stauss and Gittleson Fi WASHINGTON U. »
~ ac aoreagiae "Wwiltnen hes sae superstar’ in change,” s0id head coach Mae ‘Th Tr Dl Bury (78), MIT (one Betty team Chet was invied 6. Less, Ma

— : 2 (5-4), and Sewanee (6-3)... Won the to nationals in 1984...Ended up play- Record: 19-3
Intercollegiate Tennis Coaches’ Chris Gregerson (30-1, ITCA No. 6) Mullan. 2 feel confident in our eight-team Towson Tiger Classic... ing a total of 11 ranked D-III teams [TCA Ranking: No.8 ’
Agsociation Ranking: No. 1 whose only loss came to a D-I player team’s ability. Obtained its first ever Middle Atlan- with a record of 8-3...Two of those Of the teams in the bottom four, the -

The Hornets appear to be the team who was internationally ranked for Odds: 4 to 1. tic Conference title... Also destroyed _ three losses were to Kalamazoo (0-9) —_ Bears seem to have the most poten-
Sees ee Se eee sett Wola aad ten = WASHINGTON AND LEE Carson-Newman 7-2 ranked 18th in and Whitman (2-7)...”We feel confi- tial to cause problems for the higher- ‘

‘ vitation F ith si i ir fi
Deciarabina Finished ond last per the dudes ‘ants of Nash and Lexington, Va. "ae prc May Rs fae said by a Saar a ee takes ae .
ne Y ee ‘ : Record: 148 Washington College will have to seven of the teams there,”’ sai head appearance at the national cham-
oe _ 7a wn the David a ao are oot ITCA Ranking: No. 4 place high hopes on its doubles team coach Don Schroer. ‘‘We are definite- _pionships... Major victories during ‘
‘fads gy Vamdeeen et rs = pn b ee eons va The Generals sealed up their in- of Enrique Leal and Alejandro Her- ly even with six of them. the season were D-I St. Louis Univ. ’

kerDut (7-2), W y Dlov “~ vitation with an important midsea- nandez (17-2, ITCA No. 1, undefeated Odds: 9 to 1. (8-1), N. Kentucky (8-1), and Univ. of
Marquette (7-2) and University of Ss. singles or close with its doubles... ‘‘I son weekend split losing to Swarth- against D-Ill competition) if it wants GUSTAVUS ADOLPHUS Missouri at St. Louis (9-0)... Wash- »
“Iorida ao -— D-IL power Rollins ee ‘ strong team and 7 more (98) Bat crushing Claremont: grab the title... Hernandez can’t be St. Peter, Minn. ington was defeated by both Emory y
va. : = i ed oo ep D- peer oar, ae ho (8-1)... D-I wins that also helped were overlooked as a singles player either, Record: 14-7 (3-6) and Gustavus (2-7)... They did, '
hae y by the score of 9-0. coach Furman. e have oe : owning a 17-7 recordand No.17ITCA {TCA Ranking: No. 7 however, come up with wins over
i never been in this tourne don’t William and Mary (5-4), Lehigh ;
Avila y SO we don : i : ranking... Lost to both W&L (4-5) and Their record may be deceiving for 17th-ranked Carleton (5-4) and r
Led by Tim Corwin (23-2, ITCA No. exactly know what to étpect (7-2), George Mason (8-1), and Univ. nd : .

ryt , i pect. : Swarthmore (3-6)... “This team is the Gusties own an 11-0 record DePauw (5-4), 22nd-ranked St.
2).and Alex Palladino (22-3, ITCA No. Odds: 5 to1 of Central Florida (9-0)... Second ‘Poraindt , : ‘
3), Kalamazoo has two players : : consecutive year that W&L has been Peyond belief,” said head coach : red against D-III schools... Had an in- Thomas (8-1) and 23rd-ranked Cen-
capable of taking the individual ti: SWARTHMORE asked to the nationals... Finished Wyman. “I just hope we are able to credibly tough schedule that contain- tral (81). a ;
‘le... Doubles team of Corwin and Swarthmore, Pa. eighth in last year’s event... Squeak- pring the pressure. It's all new to ed Wisconsin, Arizona St. and Ari- The Bears’ strength may lie in y
Jack Hosner are ranked fourth... Record: 11-11 ed by Washington College (5-4) inone them. zona... Won their conference cham- their best player, Duncan Seay (19-2,

Have a total of five out of nine flights ,ITCA Ranking: No.3 ; of the year’s toughest matches. Odds: 7 to 1. pionship for the 15th time out of 17 IA No. 5), who twice has beaten Toby +
‘anked by the ITCA... “We have to Defending champions, the Little Generals have a big gun in David EMORY years... Have been to the national Clark of Principia (ITCA No. 11, de- :
wait and see what happens and just Quakers’ .500 reoord is a result of a McLeod (ITCA No. 18) who upset Jeff Atlanta, Ga. championship every year since fending national singles champion)...
2ome out and play well,” said head difficult schedule...Scored wins over Krieger, the No. 1 seed in last year’s Record: 23-6 becoming a D-III school in '79.., This Seay was undefeated against D-III :
coach George Acker. “This is like a D-I Rutgers (5-4), Villanova (7-2) and national championships tourna- !TCA Ranking: No.6 season they have already won mat- competition. Bears will also rely on
‘inal exam: we either get an A, Bor George Washington (8-1)...Soundly ment... Can be awesome but lacks The Eagles’ season schedule reads ches against Washington Univ. (7-2, All-American Tim Spengler (ITCA
5 defeated Washington College (6-3), consistency... Roby Mize (ITCA No. like a D-III tennis greatest hits ITCANo. 8), Carleton (5-4, ITCA No. No. 27)... Record against common :

- Odds: 3 to 1. Claremont (7-2), W&L (6-3) and MIT 38) and Bobby Matthews (ITCA No, album...Have wins over Washington 17), and St. Thomas (9-0, ITCA No. opponents decided the issue as to :
(8-1), all nationally ranked 49) provide much needed depth, U. (6-3), as well as nationally ranked 22). whether Washington or ninth-ranked
“WHITMAN teams...Compiled a 6-1 record always a factor in the race for the Claremont (7-2), Redlands (6-2), the Gustavus’ top player, Mark Kru- Claremont, the host school, would be :
*Walla Walla, Wash. against D-III schools...Represented team title... ‘‘I feel thisis ateam that University of Wisconsin-Whitewater ger-ranked 25th by ITCA, has been _ invited... “We re a short, scrappy ’
‘Record: 21-2 at nationals for the 11th straight has earned the bid and now it’s just a_ (7-2), Central (8-0), Albany (9-0) and hindered by a herniated disc... Will team and I’m glad politics didn’t
“PCA Ranking: No. 2 year. matter of putting the pieces Wooster (90)...D-I victims include need plenty of support from Jim come into play, said head coach .
’ The Missionaries make their first | Swarthmore has been without the together,” said head coach Gary Furman (9-0), Dartmouth (8-1), Allen and Roger Gilbertson Nos. 42 Steve Gilbert, “I felt we were the bet- »
“‘\ppearance at the Championships... services of Jeff Krieger, its and the Franke. “Whoever has the best three Samford (6-0) and Georgia State and 58, respectively) in order to pull _ ter team. :
“Vere a joint member last year of nation’s No. 1 player of last year, due days is going to winit.”” (6-3)...Second trip to nationals forthe off the upset.. Strongest doubles Odds: 12 to1. j
a ;..3 q
= —/.
7 iti Tennis it |
3 as ricn court tradition i" F
’ 19 @
a national power since 1977 ole ape hionatigads I
. +

~ Staff Reporter character-wise, as well as talent- and third-ranked Swarthmore. The ;
. mae? Generals rose to the occasion and 74
As the fourth-ranked Though W&L was a Division III showed ‘that they deserved to be a

- Washington and Lee tennis squad
- travels to Claremont, Calif. for
- the NCAA Division III tennis
.. championships, it carries with it a
- rich history of tournament suc-
. cess, particularly in recent years.
This year’s team hopes to better
. the impressive performance of
» last season’s eighth-place finish.
“ This year’s invitation is the sec-
ond for W&L, since Division III
‘* began conducting team cham-
“> pionships in 1983.
'. Before 1983, when the team
- champion was determined by the
success of each team’s individual
participants in the national tour-
nament, W&L had quite a string of
national powers. The Generals
were in the top 10 for five straight
seasons from 1977-81.

The Generals finished second in
1977 and 1978, fourth in 1979 and
1980 and sixth in 1981. W&L head
coach Gary Franke guided the
teams of 1979-81, but his pre-

_decessor Dennis Bussard, now the
coach at Divsion II power Univer-

sity of Tennessee-Martin, pioneer-
ed W&L’s national development.

Bussard, who began coaching at

-W&L in 1974, succeeded in three
straight Old Dominion Athletic

team, Bussard said the competi-
tion during his tenure was pre-
dominantly Divix n Division I.

One who can reminisce even
more than Bussard or Franke is
current women’s tennis coach Bill
Washburn, who has experienced
two eras of W&L men’s tennis —
as a player in the late 1930s and as
the men’s coach from 1959-66.

Washburn compared past tennis
with present. ‘When I was a
player, there was nowhere near
the emphasis on tennis that there
is today. It certainly didn’t have
the influence.”

Washburn recounted that W&L
belonged to the Southern Con-
ference in his days as a player,
and played Division I level op-
ponents like Maryland and Vir-
ginia.

As a coach, Washburn’s squad
belonged to the College Athletic
Conference, which he called ‘‘not
much different from the ODAC.”

“We had a good men’s team,”’
he continued, ‘‘that was respected
in the conference.”’ But, he admit-
ted, ‘‘the teams then were not as
talented as they are now.”’

Under present head coach

;
é
Es

 

 

W&L’s first All-Americans Stewart Jackson (1) and Ben Johns compete in 1977

teams have also claimed five

 

WA&L Sports Information

among Division III’s top eight,
defeating Claremont, 8-1, and
challenging Swarthmore, though los-
ing 6-3.

The Swarthmore weekend combin-
ed with a 5-4 defeat of Washington
College, undoubtedly served as key
criteria for including W&L among
the eight at the national tournament.

The Generals wound up the bulk of
season play with a decisive Old
Dominion Athletic Conference Cham-
pionship victory and since then have
stepped up the intensity and are en-
couraged, on their own, to play as
much as possible, which for some
means as much as five hours a day.

Saturday, the Generals fly to
California, but they won't get a mo-
ment’s rest. When they arrive in
Claremont, W&L will squeeze in a
practice match with Division II
University of Tennessee at Martin.
UT-Martin is coached by Franke’s
predecessor Dennis Bussard.

Franke is confident of the team, its
preparation and chances of success.

‘This team has been able to rise to
the occasion in every situation
they've faced. With some of those
Division I teams early on in the

Hh egy -

Sil A "ly, ate

Yr.

a hi a a
tae ome

Hemme we oer me

Franke, the Generals have been
increasingly impressive, sending
players to the national tourna-
ment seven of his eight seasons at
the Generals’ helm, and the entire
team for the team championships
the last two years. Franke’s

Could 1986 be another red letter
year for W&L tennis? Franke is
confident: ‘We match up well
with all the teams in the tourna-
ment,”’ he said. ‘‘All we have to do
is have three good days it’s
wide open,”’

world, being led by a group of three
freshmen and a sophomore. W&L
had three All-Americans last year,
two of whom, David McLeod and
Chris Wiman, return to this year’s
championship contender.

season they may have come off the
court thinking that they could have
won the match and as a result they
still have some hungriness about
them,” Franke said, “This tourna-
ment looks wide open, and W&L has
the potential to beat any of the teams
competing.”

‘onference championships and
»ack-to-back runner-up finishes at
the national championships, led
»y W&L’s first All-Americans,
3en Johns and Stewart Jackson.
W&L was Bussard’s first exper-

ODAC crowns, including three of
the last four.

Last year’s national champion-
ship team which finished eighth
was somewhat of a surprise to the
rest of the Division III tennis

 

 

 
 

a yee

7 pie FT : P
we OT at i?
’ - El 2 tg Meee SE FN;

* John Ware takes a shot on Loyola goaltender John Pfeiffer

Blitzed

y oF
EY rem

 

By Hank Mayer/The Ring-tum Phi

_ Wé€L crushed by Loyola, will finish below .500 for fourth year

v
_ By DAVID EMRICH
Assistant Sports Editor

 

 

o

All hopes for a winning lacrosse
. record evaporated on Saturday, with
the Generals’ third loss in as many
... games. The 20-6 trouncing by Loyola
« College: lowered Washington and
Lee’s mark to 5-7 with but a single

* contest remaining.

This makes the fourth consecutive
“season in which W&L lacrosse has
«finished below .500.

* Loyola is a Top 15 team and seems
«to be headed for the NCAAs tourna-
,ment. The Greyhounds came into

Lexington looking to hone their skills
before starting the tournament, look-
_ing for a tune-up match.

, Head coach Dennis Daly said his
team was ready for the game, but
" Loyola was more ready.

“I think they went out there with
’ all good intentions. It was a matter of

‘Athletes are academic

Athletes at Washington and Lee
‘University once again proved that
, their books are as important as their
games this week when the athletic
‘department released its Academic-
Athletic Honor Roll for the winter
term of the 1985-86 school year.

* Twelve of W&L’s 17 athletic teams
shad combined grade point averages

~ of at least 2.6. The student body’s
‘average grade point for the winter
»term was 2.68.

another team being extremely up
because they were getting ready for
the tournament.”’

Loyola blitzed the General defense
and-goalie John Church for six goals
during a 3:49 span in the first
quarter, putting the Generals into a
hole they were unable to climb out of.

“We're beginning to realize just
how important John [Church] is to
our overall scheme of things,”’ said
Daly. ‘‘Not only does he stop the
other team from scoring but he leads
our transition.”

Daly continued, ‘“‘When he’s not
having his best day, then, yes, we’re
in trouble.”’

Building off that first period blitz,
Loyola fashioned a 7-0 lead after one
quarter, an 11-0 lead at the half.

“They were quicker than we
were,”’ said Daly. ‘‘We were not able
to execute anything we wanted to ex-
ecute. Some teams have strengths
that are opposite yours and we tried

to counter that. We didn’t always get
an opportunity to counter it.’’

Daly continued, ‘‘They were
already down the field and had done
their damage before we were able to
get on what we wanted to do to
counter, They’re a very good team.”

The Generals played the first half
without the services of leading scorer
G.T. Corrigan.

According to Daly, Corrigan, along
with sophomore midfielder Greg
Unger and freshman defenseman
Frank Sands, was found to have
broken the team’s training rules.

As punishment for the violation,
the three players were not allowed to
dress for the first half and could not
stand with the team on the field, Daly
said.

Daly stressed that the incident is
considered to be closed, and that
these are not the first players to be
punished. He said that other players
had been reprimanded in the past for

EAST LEX

Phone: 463-3614

US 11 North

 

Stroh’s Long necks
Natty Botong necks

 

 

 

 

 

 

Full supply of Mother’s
Day cards and gifts and

graduation cards and gifts.

 

 

 

a

 

 

165 S. Main

 

faffmorE [hte Florist
Stir something up
for Mother’s Day!

Welcome Alumni!!

 

 

463-9152

 

 

 

 

 

similar violations, but that this was
simply the first time players had
been punished at a home game.

This Saturday, the team will go on
the road to face the University of
Maryland-Baltimore County, but the
road has been unkind to W&L this
season.

The Generals have not won a game
on the road in four attempts this
year, something they obviously hope
to change this weekend.

UM-BC has a 5-7 record, but all
their losses have come at the hands
of Top 15 teams. They lost to No. 4
Maryland, No. 5 North Carolina, No.
6 Navy, No. 11 Loyola, No. 12
Delaware, and No. 13 Duke. But they
defeated No. 3 Virginia, a team that
beat the Generals.

“It will be which team can go and
play closest to its potential,’’ said Da-
ly. “It’s the last game of the season
and a lot of the hopes are gone.”’

The Ring-tum Phi, May 8, 1986, Page 9

Remember the fun?

 

The old masters do

....When I was young(er), I am
told, I used to hit plastic golf balls in
my front yard. I had no concept of
what I was doing. (1 probably had no
concept of when to use the restroom
either, but that’s another matter for
now.) It didn’t seem to matter all
that much, then. I remember that
when I was young I used to play en-
tire football games by myself.

It didn’t seem to matter that every game I played was won on the final
play. It was fun. When I was older, I used to (well, I still do) pound ten-
nis balls against the wall for hours on end. It was, andis, fun.

All of this gets me wondering if sports — athletics, whatever you
want to call it — is fun for the participation like my pseudo-sports are
fun for me. | wonder about those who are sort of my peers, the Olden
Polynices, the John McEnroes, the Bo Jacksons.

I see Olden in all sorts of tangles at U.Va. I’m thinking Olden would
find it fun to go shoot hoops alone, maybe pretending to be playing the
NBA Championship series, first being Larry Bird and then Kareem
Abdul-Jabbar (i-e., pretending to be somebody famous instead of hav-
ing to be somebody famous).

I see John McEnroe having to get away from it all because tennis
isn’t fun anymore. The last time the No. 1 player in the world thought
tennis wasn’t fun anymore and left to get away from it all, he never
came back. Isn’t it sad that the place he felt most at home suddenly
became a prison? I’m thinking John McEnroe might like to go out
alone with the wall and replay a Rod Laver-Ken Rosewall match of the
past. Maybe he would feel at home. Maybe he would have fun.

I see Bo Jackson being talked about like some piece of riverfront
property and I wonder if he minds. There’s no question we'd all like to
be valued commodities. But I think we'd all also agree that it would be
best if the emphasis were on the first word rather than the second. I
wonder if Bo remembers his first football with as much contentment
as his first round pick. Or is he too caught up in whether he will make
millions and from whom he will make those millions?

I was worrying about all of this the other day as I went to the post of-
fice to see how many newspapers don’t want me to work for them,
thinking how much I hated the whole business that used to be fun. I
was thinking all that and realizing I was just as bad as my friends who
play games for a living. Perhaps it would be best for all of us young
bucks to take heed of the old masters tearing up all the circuits of late.

See Jack Nicklaus having fun and winning, in that order. See Willie
Shoemaker choked up about winning his fourth Derby instead of ask-
ing for the check and looking for his next ride. See Bobby Allison get-
ting kissed in the winner’s circle by some sweet thing young enough to
be his granddaughter.

Somehow I find it hard to believe that life is all that tougher, the
younger you are. Yet, those angry young men like McEnroe, Polynice
and Jackson are still doing things and are or will be getting paid to do
something you and I used to pretend to do and only dreamed about.
Heck, guys, if it’s all that bad, I need a job. Why not trade places with
me? I’m a nobody and I’m still able to pretend.

I don’t expect to get too many offers....

.... Turning ever so carefully to the Colonnade, I don’t care how
hokey it sounds, it sure would be nice if at all possible for the lacrosse
seniors to get a win in their last game for W&L...The tennis team is
enough of an outside threat to be overlooked by the powers that be. If
this group gets ona roll, there’s no stopping. Monday's first match will
be key. Some early singles wins could set the tone for a W&L surprise
on Monday...

....90 Sugar Ray Leonard is talking big. Since even his wife is involv-
ed in the hype, I’m thinking the Leonards are thinking about an addi-
tion to the family residence. Either that, or pretty boy really thinks he
can take Hagler, in which case we all should be worried....SI says Ed-
monton players may be involved in a little nose candy action. What an
unfortunate possibility for a sport that (the only one in the majors) has
steered clear of such problems...

....Finally, word from the NCAA is that Tito Horford will be allowed
to play basketball at the University of Miami after the first semester
next December. Wonder if he’ll stay with the team through the start of
the second semester...

 

TIME
OUT....

 

 

By Mike
Stachura

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

115 S. Main Street

 

Furniture Dealers

“For your extra pieces of furniture”

pare er Summer Fall Spring
$ ReadThe SERVIDIAR. WASHINGTON
Open ‘til midnite : Classifieds : Lexington Herdwere OR LON DON

Bivscoveccnccocesccsscoccocces 463-2242 INTERNSH IPS

For Rent OXFORD ““se"

Large House In The Country Full Academic Years In

Call . wee University
463-251 8 ° St. Andrews, Scotland
VARNER & POLE Jill’s A Lady | | “itroughtamoder-sydney

463-2742

 

 

 

 

CAPER’S INC.

Hairstyling, Manicures, Tanning, Cosmetics, Etc.
“When only the best will do!”
NEW! Paul Mitchell Systems

Shampoo, Conditioning, Etc.
NEW! Stop Smoking, Lose Weight

Subliminal Tapes

25 N. Main St., Lexington

-They really work-$9.95

463-2566

 

 

 

College, founded in Virginia by
James Madison in 1776.
Graduate work is an option.
The Director of Studies for the
Center for Quality Education
Abroad (in Britain) is the Rt.
Hon. The Lord Beloff, D.Litt.

_ (Oxon,), Fellow of the British
Academy, Professor Emeritus
of Government and Fellow of
All Souls, Oxford.
INQUIRIES TO:
JANET KOLLEK, J.D.,
Admissions Director CQEA/
WISC, Rm 53, 158 W. 81 St.,
NY,NY, 10024.
(212-724-0804/724-0136).

(EO/AA)

126 S. Main St.

Welcome
Back

Alumni!

Come in and brouse.

All famous name brand
clothes and accessories.

 

 

 

 

 

The Ladies’ Habit

(formerly Russel’s)

Come in and acquire our habit.

habit (hab’it), n. 1. costume; dress. 2. a costume worn for certain occasions; as, a
woman’s riding habit. 3. a thing done often and hence, usually, done easily; prac-
tice; custom; act that is acquired and has become automatic.

Co-owners:

Linda Flint and Judy Jay

“ 22 W. Nelson St.

Lexington, Va.
463-9340

 

Visa, MasterCard
American Express
 

 

 

 

 

ee st cS

wi =

wa koe

2

-

a a |

Qannrnwnornr uu

STAN a

“BACK PAGE

Heinsohn & Day make room

 

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Entertainment Editor

 

Is there room in today’s music
world for an acoustic pop duo?

Heinsohn and Day are not alto-
gether sure. However, being one of
those ‘“‘acoustic pop duos,’”’ they
would certainly like to think there is
room.

“That's a question,” said guitarist-
vocalist and 1985 W&L graduate
Roger Day. ‘‘We might spark a new
folk-pop movement, or we might
have to change the line-up.”

“It’s been years and years since an
acoustic pop duo made it on the
charts,” added fellow band member
and 1983 graduate Eric S. Heinsohn.

Nonetheless, Heinsohn and Day
have proven ina very short time that
there is at least a great deal of
interest in an acoustic pop duo. Then,
again, it might simply be that there is
a great deal of interest in Heinsohn
and Day.

Officially a duo since last August,
Heinsohn and Day have gone from
playing small gatherings to prepar-
ing for the recording of their first
album — all in nine months.

‘‘We’re real pleased with how well
we've done.”’ Day said,

The two met in the W&L Glee Club
and used to play guitars on Glee Club
tours. Heinsohn went to the Universi-
ty of Virginia after graduation and
began working on a master’s degree
in English. Day and classmate John
W. Herndon made frequent jaunts to
Charlottesville and began putting
together a repertoire for a then-
nameless trio.

Heinsohn, meanwhile, was gearing
up to do some backup work for MCA
records. When the deal fell through,
he decided to devote his energies to
the new trio. Herndon left to coach
high school basketball in North
Carolina, the trio became a duo, and
in August of last year, ‘‘Heinsohn and

Day” was born.

It hasn't been an easy 10 months
for the two. For instance, last
November's flooding caused them to
lose their house and belongings.

“It’s definitely been work,’’ Hein-
sohn said. “It’s not like we’re just
running around playing guitar and
having fun. There are a lot of things
that need to be done in order to be
successful.”

The two are moving permanently
to Atlanta this week, hence solving
their ‘‘lack of home base”’ problem.

The two have approximately 15 to
20 original compositions ready for a
new album, seven or eight of which
are already in the group’s live act.
They said the songs span a variety of
styles — country and western, rhy-
thm and blues, rock and roll, jazz and
bluegrass. Remember — this is the
group that played ‘Johnny B.
Goode’’ at a bluegrass festival!

‘‘We like to be pop, like the Simon
and Garfunkel, Mark Knopfler side
of things,”’ Day said.

“Our music is aimed at a wide au-
dience,”’ added Heinsohn. “I’ve
studied classical music and so forth,
but I cut my teeth on popular music.”’

The two are not sure where the new
record will be recorded — here in
Lexington or in Atlanta — but they
already have begun sorting out their
ideas with Robby Tribbs of Lex-
ington’s own Sound Trap Studio.

In the meantime, you can catch
Heinsohn and Day tonight in the Sub-
way or Saturday afternoon on the
Colonnade. Saturday’s performance,
incidentally, will be their last Lex-
ington performance for the year.

The question remains: can an
acoustic duo make it in today’s world
of Tears for Fears and Van Halen?

“One of the things that tipped us off
was that we were instantly greeted
with a response,’ Heinsohn said.
“We've never played to an indif-
ferent audience. Lexington has given
us a lot of confidence.”

 

The Ring-tum Phi, May 8, 1986

—* @

 

. ee

 

By Cotton Puryear/W&L Publications

 

 

Eric Heinsohn (left) and Roger Day perform at a concert

—_$—<$< < <<<

ONCAMPUS

Thursday, May 8
7 p.m. — POLITICS FILMFEST: ‘‘Behold a Pale Horse.’’ Room 327,
Commerce School.

Jason Miller's 1972 Off-Broadway hit ‘“That Championship Season”
will be performed tonight, tomorrow night and Saturday night at 8 in
the University Theatre. Reservations for the performances can be
made by calling the theater office at 463-8637 weekdays from 10a.m. to
4p.m.

8 p.m. — ALUMNI REUNION LECTURE: “A Fullback’s
Flashbacks.’ Walt Michaels '51, former head coach of New York Jets
and New Jersey Generals. Lee Chapel.

Friday, May 9
7:30 p.m, — RUSSIAN FILM SERIES: “A Slave of Love.”’ Northen
Auditorium, University Library.
8 p.m. — PLAY: “That Championship Season.” University Theatre.

Saturday, May 10
Alumni Weekend.
3 p.m, — ALUMNI BASEBALL GAME: Smith Field.
8 p.m. — PLAY: ‘That Championship Season.” University Theatre.
9 p.m. — BAND: ‘“‘Dick Sessions Band.”’ G.H.Q.

Sunday, May 11
3 p.m. — FAIR CONCERT; Dance Recital. Lexington High School.

Monday, May 12

Law school examinations end.
7 & 9:15 p.m. — WWII THROUGH JAPANESE FILMS SERIES:
“Human Bullet.’’ Room 327, Commerce School.
8 p.m, — SLIDE LECTURE: “The Life and Work of Henry Strater.”’
Michael Culver, Curator of Ogunquit Museum of Art. duPont
Auditorium.
8 p.m. — LECTURE: ‘“‘Pentagon Procurement Pollution.”’ A. Ernest
Fitzgerald. Management Systems Deputy, ASAF. Room 221, Com-
merce School.

Tuesday, May 13

3:30 p.m. — ASTRONOMY LECTURE: ‘“‘Space Telescope: The Obser-
vancy of the Future.”’ Laurence W. Fredrick, Dept. of Astronomy,
University of Virginia. Room 201, Parmly Hall.

4:30 p.m. — GLASGOW ENDOWMENT LECTURE SERIES: Reading
by Peter Taylor, novelist and short story writer. Northen Auditorium.
University Library.

8 p.m, — ASTRONOMY LECTURE: ‘Ancient Monuments and the
Game of Checkers.” Laurence W. Fredrick. Northen Auditorium.
University Library.

Wednesday, May 14
7 p.m, — POLITICS FILMFEST: “‘The Mouse That Roared.”” Room
327, Commerce Sohool.
8 p.m. — LECTURE: “Ancient Medicine: Magic, Superstition, and
Science.” Christopher Pelling, University College, Oxford. Northen
Auditorium, University Library.
9 p.m. — BAND: ‘‘Push/Code Red.’ Sponsored by the Student Ac-

Spring term chops
male/female ratio

 

By PAUL DAVEY
Social Critic

 

 

POLO SALE

 

Kappa Sigma is proud to present 2 Folo sale
Thursday, May 15
From 10:30 A.M. to 4:00 P.M.
At the Kappa Sigma Fraternity house

You will fird significant reductions in oxfords, rugbys
polo knit shirts, sweaters, etc

Visa & MasterCard Accepted

 

 

 

PIZZA SERVED HERE, TO GO,
OR DELIVERED

 

¢ Try our fresh baked Pan
Pizza, Thin ‘N Crispy’
Pizza, served anytime.

¢ Priazzotm Italian Pie,
served after 4 p.m. Mon.-
Fri., and any time Sat. &
Sun.

¢ Personal Pan Pizza for
lunch. Available from 11:00
am-4:00 pm (Mon.-Fri.).

e Plus...Pasta, Salad Bar,
Sandwiches, Beverages.

e Served to your table, or
delivered to your home, or
call ahead and we'll have
your order hot and ready to

go.

    
 

Ria

1985 Pizza Hut. inc

 

e Each Wednesday night,
§:30 until 8:30 p.m., all the
salad, pizza, spaghetti, and
garlic bread you can eat for
only °3.49. Children under 6
years-99

 

 

 

600 E. Nelson St.
Lexington
463-7000

 

 

$9 OFF

$2. offany large pizza
or $1 off any medium. In
cludes Pizza Hut’ Pan
Pizza' Hurry. offer ex
pires soon One coupon
per party per visitat
participating Pizza Hut’
restaurants

 
   

Hut.

on
Pizza

Please present coupon when ordering. Not valid in combination with another
p offer 20 cent cash redemption valve. 1983 Pizza Hut, Inc. Good only through

$ 4 OFF
2 Offer

600 E. Nelsonst. @XPires
Lexington, VA May

463-7000
20,

1986

 

When I was looking at Washington
and Lee while still in high school, one
of the trump cards the recruiters
held was that, although W&L was an
all-male school, there were four
girls’ schools in the area providing
the famous 2-1 ratio. What the re-
cruiters neglected to add was that
midway through the term, this
ceases to be the case, and at this time
of the year, many students would be
freer to spend time with students
from other schools than at some
other times. This situation can be
viewed in both positive and negative
lights.

Before getting to opinions, we
should look at a few facts. Randolph-
Macon Woman's College has already
finished final exams and has only its
graduation ceremonies left. Hollins
College finishes exams in about a
week. Sweet Briar College ends ex-
ams on the fifteenth of this month
and Mary Baldwin College is now in
the midst of a spring semester that

allows many students to leave cam-
pus.

What's a man to do when all of the
women around have hit the road?
Some people may be rejoicing —
either they don’t like the girls from
down the road, or they have recently
done things that they are embarras-
sed about and don’t want to see ‘‘the
chicks.”’ (Often these things are

forgotten by the time September rolls
around.)

Some may be glad to see the skirts
leave so that they can cut loose and
do some “boys only”’ activities. Or,
one may be not unhappy to see the
girls leave because he has done no
work yet spring term and is now free
from non-academic distraction until
exams.

Most W&L men, however, probably
don’t look forward to seeing the girls
leave. W&L without the girls’ schools
is not the W&L one bargained for
upon enrollment. With the present
schedules at the schools, there is not
much choice but to live with the situ-
ation. If all else fails, follow a car
from VMI up to Staunton and take
your chances.

Figure artist featured

“Henry Strater: Sixty-five Years
of Painting the Figure,”’ a loan show
from the Museum of Art of Ogunquit,
Maine, will be on exhibit in duPont
Gallery from Monday through June
5.

The collection of 30 oil paintings
was selected by the artist and depicts
one or two paintings from each per-
iod of his career as a figure painter.
At the age of 90, Strater still is pain-
ting actively and says he has no in-
tention of retiring.

In addition to the oil paintings in
duPont Gallery, 20 line drawings by
Strater, which were donated to the
Washington and Lee art department,
will be exhibited in an adjacent
gallery

Strater was born in 1896 in Louis-
ville, Kentucky. After attending

Princeton University, he served as a
Red Cross volunteer in France dur-
ing World War I. He stayed in Paris
to study art and there he began his
career as a figure painter. His works
are currently, exhibited in major
museums and galleries throughout
the United States and Europe. The
major collection of his paintings,
however, is in the Museum of Art of
Ogunquit on the Maine coast.

Michael Culver, Curator of the
Ogunquit Museum of Art in Maine,
will present a slide lecture on ‘‘The
Life and Work of Henry Strater’’ on
Monday at 8 p.m. in duPont Auditor-
ium. A reception honoring Strater
will follow the lecture.

DuPont Gallery hours are 9 a.m. to
5 p.m.. Monday through Friday, 11
a.m. to 3 p.m. Saturday, and 2 to 4
p.m. Sunday.

Valley True Value Hardware

HARD

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

E. Nelson Street
463-2186

Mon.-Sat, 8:30-6:00
Sun, 1-5

 

Library.

327, Commerce School.

sion.”

 

tivities Board. Cover charge $2.50. G.H.Q.

Thursday, May 15
4:30 p.m. — GLASGOW ENDOWMENT LECTURE SERIES: Poetry
reading by Gwendolyn Brooks. Northen Auditorium, University

7 p. m.— POLITICS FILMFEST: “The Mouse That Roared.” Room

7 p.m, — FILM: “Not a Love Story.” A film about pornography. Nor-
then Auditorium, University Library. Followed by ‘‘an open discus-

 

 

Chowhounds call Lex

‘milkshake capital’

 

By JAMIE BERGER
and CHRIS KOMOSA
Food Critics

 

O to have a shake now that spring
is here!

Really, can there be any doubt that
the milkshake has become one of the
cornerstones of American culture?
When the mercury starts rising and
your stomach is sending you death
threats, what better way to kill two
birds with one slurp?

But little does anyone know that
Lexington is the milkshake capital of
Virginia. Yes, our fine, frosty friends
can be found in establishments all
over the city. We knew it was our du-
ty (tough as it may be) to personally
taste each one in order to find the hot-
test shake in town.

In order to be fair, we made this a
blind taste test in which we would
rate all of the shakes before we knew
which was which. Freshman Stepha-
nie Smith acted as our Certified
Shake Selector and mediator of this
momentus event.

The results were as follows:

eThe Palms:

Although most people do not know
it, the Palms does have shakes. This
shake was very sweet (even by ice
cream standards) and had a good bit
of ice cream init.

One thing we noticed was the
rather inconsistent consistency of the
Palms’ shake. It was mostly very
thin, with big glops of ice cream
floating around. Your personal pre-
ference can decide whether this is
good or bad.

¢McDonalds:

This was one mighty funny-looking
shake, with the look and consistency
of melted marshmallow. Almost im-
mediately, Chris went out on an
epicurean limb and pronounced this
to be a non-dairy milkshake (a non-
shake?). This was a very sweet
shake, with an almost gritty taste
from the added sugar.

eSpanky’s:

Now this was a good, old-fashioned,
vanilla milkshake. With medium
thickness and lot of lumps of ice

ec ernrerenete ete ent apna tee aN 9 OP SNE enpae

cream, this shake was a pleasure to
drink. Best of all, it was not too
sweet, but had a strong vanilla taste
to it. Good straw cling, for those of
you who like to lick the straw.

Sweet Things:

This shake was a lot thinner than
Spanky’s, but also had that good
vanilla taste to it. This shake was
also not overly sweet due to the
noticeable taste of real milk.

The only drawback was at the end.
Each of our shakes had a bubbly
foam at the bottom that did not taste
good at all. Perhaps this could be at-
tributed to what seemed to be a
higher milk content.

*Lloyd’s of Lexington:

We knew this was going to be a
thick shake when we saw the straws
stand rigid in the middle of the cup.
But unlike the McDonald’s shake,
this one did not require a gas
generator to force it through the
straw. This shake was very generous
on the ice cream, resulting in a very
generous taste.

Co-op:

This shake had many small lumps
of ice cream, but was still relatively
thin. Chris thought this shake was a
good mixture of milk and ice cream,
but Jamie disagreed, saying it was
too sweet and had an overpowering
vanilla taste.

After some serious contemplation,
we chose the shake that we enjoyed
most, and then our CSS informed us
what was what. Chris had selected
Spanky's as the best of the six. He
thought this shake was the best all-
around blend of flavors, although the
exorbitant price and relatively small
size of the shake may deter the
average shake drinker.

Much to his surprise, Jamie chose
Lloyd’s as the best of the bunch.
Jamie thought the taste and texture
of the shake made it stand out.
“Could Lloyd be personally adding
some secret ingredient?” Jamie
pondered aloud. Nevertheless,
Lloyd’s price and 24-hour service
seems to make his the most conven-
ient of the group.

We guess this all goes to disprove

that old saying, ‘‘A shake is a shake
is a shake.”’

ll dll

 

 

 
'

,

 

 

Sports play

 

‘Championship
Season’ scores

 
  
   

Page 6

  

. =

WAY 161986

 

 

Play sports

 

Triathion set
for Saturday

 
 
   

 

Page 5

  

 

 

Che King-tum Phi

VOLUME 85, NUMBER 29

Advertising
executive
‘to speak

¥
’

‘

 

By DANA BOLDEN
Staff Reporter

 

Allen G. Rosenshine, who from
April 27 until May 12 was chairman
and chief executive officer of the
world’s largest advertising agency,
will visit Washington and Lee on
Tuesday for a series of speeches and
class appearances.

Rosenshine headed the Batten,
Barton, Durstine & Osborn advertis-
ing agency, which last month merged
with Doyle Dane Bernbach and Need-
ham Harper Worldwide to form an
agency with annual billings of $5.02
billion. The trade publication Adver-
tising Age used phrases such as ‘‘The
Big Bang” and “‘megadeal”’ to refer
to the creation of the ‘mega-

: agency.”

~

~

On Monday, however, the firm
Saatchi & Saatchi acquired Ted
Bates Worldwide to form an agency

See Executive, Page 4

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 

 

 

By Cotton Puryear

Entertaining alumni

Washington and Lee alumni Roger Day (left) and Eric Heinsohn — better
known as Heinsohn and Day — perform in front of Lee Chapel Saturday
afternoon as part of Alumni Weekend. For other news about the weekend,

see Page 3.

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

second at nat

 

By LEIF UELAND
and MIKE STACHURA
Staff Reporters

 

Sure, there is a tendency for a
school newspaper to exaggerate the
prowess of the alma mater’s athletic
teams, especially when that team is
headed off to compete for a national
title.

But this week in the sunshine of
Claremont, Calif., the Washington
and Lee men’s tennis team showed
that, if anything, it was worthy of all
the hometown hype. The Generals
advanced to the finals of the NCAA
Division III national team champion-
ships with two strong wins before
falling to the tournament’s top seed,
Kalamazoo College (Mich.), yester-
day, 6-3.

The Generals’ performance was
the best since W&L’s back-to-back
second-place finishes in 1977 and
1978. It is the highest finish for a W&L
team since the tournament instituted
separate championships for teams

and individuals in 1983.

And the best is yet to come. W&L
will return its top five players next
year.

In yesterday’s championship mat-
ch, W&L was matched against a
team that had not lost to a Division
III foe all season. Kalamazoo’s top
two singles players were ranked
among the nation’s top 10, as well.

It was not until the middle of the
doubles matches, however, that the
Hornets were able to clinch their
third national crown.

“We gave it a good shot,” said
W&L head coach Gary Franke.
“Kalamazoo had just a little bit too
much. They’re a great team.”’

“When you work all year for
something and have the opportunity
for it right there and then you don’t
get it, you can get discouraged,”
Franke continued, ‘‘but there’s no for
us reason to be. [Our guys] went
after it very proudly.”

Against Kalamazoo, singles wins
for the Generals came at the No. 3
slot, where freshman Bobby Mat-

Possession charges against students dropped

 

By JIM STRADER
Editor

 

A Lexington judge dismissed mari-
juana possession charges Tuesday
against nine Washington and Lee
students, saying their right to
privacy was violated by a Lexington

, police officer.

«

Lexington lawyer Laurence A.
Mann, counsel for three of the defen-

. dants, made a motion requesting the

~

disallowal of evidence gained by the
officer after he entered the apart-
ment of two of the defendants.

Mann, who said he was joined in
the motion by the three other defense

» attorneys involved in the case, said

“

.

<

~

the officer had not exercised the pro-
per procedures for search and seiz-
ure of evidence.

District Judge Joseph E. Hess

mage

 

allowed Mann’s motion and subse-
quently dismissed the charges
against seniors G.T. Corrigan, Jim
Culnane, Bill Michaud, Ned Richard-
son, Scott Schreiber and Bill Zola,
and juniors Fred Driscoll, Brad Mac-
Cachran and Chris Reavis.

Arresting officer Phillip G. Joines
testified that in responding to a noise
complaint on the evening of Jan. 12,
he approached the door of the East
Nelson Street apartment of Culnane
and Michaud. The door and windows
were covered with a blanket, Joines
said, and he looked through a hole in
the blanket ‘‘to see what I was deal-
ing with.”’

Joines testified that he heard loud
music, saw a number of people, and
observed what he thought to be drug
use,

Joines said he then tried to open the
door to the apartment but found it

Despite noise and trash,

residents praise students

 

By TIM RICHARDSON
Staff Reporter

 

While they may not consider
Washington and Lee students to be
saints, several Lexington residents
continue to refer to their collegiate
neighbors and customers as gentle-
men and ladies.

The consensus among many who
regularly come into contact with
students — neighbors, landlords,
merchants and even the police — is
that W&L students are generally
well-behaved, law-abiding people,
even considering the occasional
bounced check or weekend of rowdy
parties.

“It’s a good image, basically,”’

Lexington Police Chief L.O. Sutton
said. ‘‘Naturally, as in any large
group, there are going to be in-
dividual problems. But the problems
that get the most publicity are not
representative of the W&L communi-
t -
Caatias said his department
receives a few complaints about
students, with the most common be-
ing the noise and litter associated
with fraternity parties.

Such problems are ‘‘expected to
some degree,”’ Sutton explained, and
the students usually cooperate in try-
ing to correct them. ‘‘The problem is
not intentional — they just don’t think
of how it impacts on other people,”
he said.

“They have parties, but they
haven’t bothered me much,”’ said

William O. Roberts Jr., Lexington ci-
ty attorney and a neighbor of Sigma
Phi Epsilon. ‘“‘We expect them to
makea little noise.”’

Another neighborhood resident,
Paul G. Leonhard, said there was
some trouble with empty beer bottles
on the lawns early Sunday morning.
“It’s gone by 12 o'clock, though.”

Leonhard, who also rents two
apartments to W&L students, added
that he had heard ‘‘horror stories’’
about damage done to places rented
for the school year, but, when
damage was done to one of his
places, the students apologized.

“As long as a house is in good
shape, then it generally stays that
way,’’ noted William J. Stearns, who
rents to about 100 students.

Managers at two local restaurants
also said they have little to complain
about.

“For the most part, they’re good
customers,’ explained Spanky’s
manager, Matt Morris. ‘‘Some get a
little out of hand sometimes. But
that’s understandable under the cir-
cumstances.”

Wade H. Leslie, owner of the
Palms, said, ‘I can honestly say they
are well-behaved. There is a lot of op-
portunity for trouble.”’

He recalled that some students
have walked out without paying the
check, but had returned the next day
with the money and an apology.

“We were pleasantly surprised,’
he said. ‘‘It’s a good indicator of the
caliber of people we're dealing
with.”

locked. The officer knocked and the
door was opened, and he then entered
and seized Culnane and a “‘bong,”’ or
marijuana pipe, that he was holding.

Additional police officers, — in-
cluding Police Chief L.O. Sutton,
were summoned to the apartment,
and Culnane and Michaud gave the
officers permission to search it,
Joines said. A Rockbridge County
Sheriff's Department sergeant
brought a drug dog to assist in the
search. ‘

The search yielded marijuana
seeds, various drug paraphernalia
that later were found to contain mari-
juana residue, and a minute amount
of a substance later determined to be
cocaine.

Mann, who originally had made the
motion at an April 22 hearing, asked
Hess to suppress the evidence
because Joines had seized it without

ieee cnesecrneeeaeraiereaeenecaerometrare

 

first obtaining a search warrant.
Hess allowed the motion and also
held that Joines had violated the
privacy of the individuals in the
apartment by looking in the hole in
the blanket. .

Protection against unreasonable
search and seizure is guaranteed
under the Fourth Amendment to the
U.S. Constitution.

Joines said he did not get a warrant
because he thought his observation
was enough cause to seize the
evidence, and that he thought the
defendants might have disposed of
the evidence by the time he could
locate a magistrate and obtain a war-
rant.

The case was prosecuted by Com-
monwealth’s Attorney Beverly C.
“John” Read and Assistant Com-

: By W. Patrick Hinley/W&L
The University Theatre takes its show into the community,
performing a play at Lylburn-Downing School last year

 

 

monwealth’s Attorney Richard J.
Cabaniss.

Read said there is no appeal for the
commonwealth in the misdeamean-
or cases. “Quite frankly,’’ he said,
“I’m not certain that I disagree with
Judge Hess’ evaluation of the law as
he applied it to this case.’’

The area of law involved is ‘‘very
confusing,’’ Read added, ‘‘and in this
case I can understand his giving the
benefit of the doubt to the W&L
students.”

Hess also dismissed a cocaine
possession charge against Michaud,
which stemmed from the small
amount of the drug found in the
search. Read said that Cabaniss like-
ly will confer with the state attorney
general’s office about the possibility
of appealing that felony charge to a
grand jury.

Your blow-it-off weather

Friday: Warmer, 80s;
chance of rain for weekend

 

MAY 15, 1986

ionals

thews defeated Jack Hosner 6-2, 6-4,
and at the No. 5 position, where Jack
Messerly downed Rick Verheul 6-2,
1-6, 6-4. Franke had singled out the
play of Matthews and Messerly last
week as being exceptional.

W&L’s final win came from the No.
2 doubles team of Matthews and
Roby Mize, who won in straight sets.
Mize, along with Chris Wiman, had
come up on the short end of three-set
matches in the singles competition.

The tournament director and head
coach at Claremont-Mudd-Scripps,
Hank Krieger, praised the play of the
Generals. ‘‘W&L played really well.
It certainly was the toughest match
Kalamazoo has had in Division III all
year,” he said.

Krieger’s comment is especially
gratifying given the Hornets’ road to
the final included a 7-2 win over
Swarthmore, the No. 3-ranked squad
in the tournament and the only Divi-
sion III team to beat W&L (a 6-3 loss
March 23) this season.

OSee Tennis, Page 5

SS
Court time set

for Dunnavan

A bond hearing was set for 2
p.m. today for former Washington
and Lee senior Roger L. Dun-
navan Jr., of Longwood Fla., who
was indicted last week on two
charges dealing with the theft and
attempted use of credit cards.

Dunnavan, who withdrew from
school during the second week of
this term, was being sought by
Lexington police and at least one
other jurisdiction, according to
Police Chief L.O. Sutton.

Although a bond amount had not
been set this morning, Angela T.
Morrison, victim-witness coordi-
nator for the commonwealth’s at-
torney’s office, said, we’re going
to ask for something very high.”’

 

 

 

Exchange students
frustrated by policy

forbidding

By STEVEN POCKRASS
Special To The Phi

 

Sophomore Marguerite Ayers used
to think that if she wasn’t happy at
Hollins College, she could apply as a
transfer student to any coeducational
school in the country.

But now that Washington and Lee
is coeducational, she’s been forced to
rethink that opinion.

Ayers is one of three 20-year-old
women who are attempting to trans-
fer to Washington and Lee but have
run into a roadblock known as “‘the
exchange agreement.” Although
much of the transition of coeducation
has gone smoothly, questions about
the enforcement of the exchange
agreement are ones that W&L’s ad-
ministration has found difficult to
answer.

Because these three women are ex-
change students at W&L as part of a
seven-school program, they have
forfeited their option to transfer
here. The rule is in a booklet that is
supposed to be distributed to all ex-
change students, but the three have
been frustrated this school year by
the administration’s vague responses
to their questions and the seeming
exceptions that already have been
made.

One of the women, junior Elise
Gaston, has received permission to
apply to W&L because of some misin-
formation she says she received from
a dean at Randolph-Macon Woman’s
College.

Ayers and a third student, junior
Jennifer Wise of Sweet Briar College,
have been told their transfer applica-
tions will not be considered as long as
they are enrolled at their home in-
stitutions.

transfers

None of the women has been guar-
anteed admission.

The exchange program was begun
in the 1972-73 school year with W&L,
Hampden-Sydney College, the four
area women’s colleges, Davidson
College and Randolph-Macon College
in Ashland. Davidson dropped out of
the program after becoming coed-
ucational.

“Host institutions shall not accept
transfers from among those students
who have studied under this program
at their institutions,’ the exchange
booklet says.

Underlined in the original ex-
change agreement is the following:

“This policy means specifically
that a student who enrolls at the host
institution as a ‘Special Exchange
Student’ may not thereafter be ac-
cepted by that institution as a
transfer student. The student who
wishes to transfer should refrain
from affiliating with the Student Ex-
change Program, but should apply
directly to the Office of Admissions of
the appropriate institution for accep-
tance as a transfer student.”’

Randolph-Macon Woman’s College
Associate Dean of Students Paula J.
Wallace, who usually serves as the
exchange officer there, had not been
available to advise Gaston, a Win-
chester resident. Gaston unsuc-
cessfully attempted to transfer to
WA&L last year, and another dean who
was less familiar with the program
advised her to exchange and then re-
apply for transfer, according to
Wallace and Gaston.

Because of that Gaston’s aase is be-
ing considered individually, W&L
Associate Dean of the College
Pamela H. Simpson said. Wallace

See Transfers, Page 4

 
OPINION
No takers?

How much do members of the Washington and Lee com-
munity value reading The Phi or receiving a copy of the
Calyx? Those might be questions some would prefer go unan-
swered, but the possibility that next year’s paper and year-
book will not be published due to a lack of editors remains a
real and present danger.

 

Every year, the University Publications Board accepts ap-
plications for the various editorships and business manager
positions available. This year, the Board received applica-
tions for editors of the Ariel and The Political Review, but
none for editor of The Phi or the Calyx nor for business
manager of either publication.

Attempts to elicit applications from students have met with
little success, and despite the editors’ best efforts, little hope
remains for finding successors before the end of the school
year.

Maybe “‘that’s the way it is,’’ as Walter Cronkite used to
say, but we (with our vested interests aside) find that hard to
believe.

Doesn’t anyone out there wish to be an editor? A business
manager? They’re both great ways of living. They’re more
than a job. They’re an adventure.

Comeback

The Student Activities Board reported Monday that it will
be returning nearly $10,000 to the Executive Committee at
the end of the year. We think the board should be commended
on its management — compared to previous years, this
year’s SAB has certatinly been a success story.

It was also reported that the SAB lost almost $1,200 this
year through the films it sponsored in the GHQ on Thursday,
Friday and Sunday nights. The SAB films are a bargain at $2
admission although the selection of films has not always at-
tracted much student attention. There was some discussion
on whether the SAB should continue to sponsor these films
that no one seems to attend.

The SAB’s purpose, as stated in the Student Handbook, “‘is
to provide social, cultural and recreational activities aimed
at the needs and interests of the student body.” In addition to
sponsoring films, the SAB puts on various concerts through-
out the year plus, of course, Fancy Dress. The films seem to
provide more of an excuse for ‘“‘a diverse purpose”’ for the
SAB. That is, it allows the SAB to say it does more than spon-
sor parties. If this is the only purpose; the films should be
discontinued. -Certainly. the SAB can find something that
would give the SAB its ‘diverse purpose’’ label while also
meeting the interests of the student body.

The EC suggested that the SAB keep the films, but try
something different. Perhaps showing the films on different
nights or using more advertising would attract greater stu-
dent attention and participation. But it seems the situation
really boils down to the SAB losing money on the films
because students can walk down to the local video store and
rent the same movies that the SAB shows in the GHQ.

Perhaps the SAB should offer different movies, suggested
the EC.

Like what?

Well, like pornographic movies.

Excuse me?

Several years ago the SAB did show pornographic movies
in duPont Auditorium. The crowds were so large that the
revenue generated from these movies made enough money to
pay for the more cultural films that had poor attendance. The
crowds, however, were often very drunk and so rowdy and
destructive that the films eventually were banned from du-
Pont. Should the potential for such vandalism be reinstated?

The discussion made it evident that the porn movies were
very popular. Many of the seniors in the room expressed fond
and funny memories of various escapades that resulted from
the showing of such movies.

I don’t think there is anything wrong with showing such
movies. The phrase “consenting adults’ comes to mind.
Those who want to see these movies may and for those who
choose not to — well nobody’s holding a gun to your head.

Sexually explicit material may not offend me. However,
material that depicts abusive or degrading acts is offensive.
Perhaps the SAB could come up with some guidelines to limit
how “scummy’’ these movies could be.

From an economic standpoint, using the skin flicks to sub-
sidize the ‘‘culture’’ for the rest of the campus really makes
sense, and in that regard I agree with the EC’s suggestion
that the SAB should consider bringing back porn movies.

 
 

—MEK
= .
e Ring-tum Phi

NEWS STAFF
Mpeg BOE on cs ideas ee leethincrt tei Mike Allen
TN 6 osc cc ce bbe ccc es cbc cneticve Vide ivies ceessithigtetnas Paul Foutch

Jim Strader
PERRO EE eGR is ee lei cee iccceeccreeseseidvesed Reade Williams
po er er ee ree ee eee ee Mike Stachura
DEON TR a 5c 6 ibe Nias ace hh UE Ns os bbe che cca cqies Cedaa rd cigs Jason Lisi
Photography Editor .............2cessceecseccscuecceeeesens soveees Seve Sadler
TOT II oi og ook ce hc ca rte cciestivece Marshall Boswell
PT IE Bie 5 os choc cdo ccs re de cercccescccrecetssceees David Emrich
EDITORIAL PAGE
pg ee ee Nelson Patterson
Assistant Editorial Page Editor. . . .» ++» Marie Kothman
Mo 5 an 065 6808 has a a Fs 0 60 his 00s cbse ieee aces Chris Bowring
BUSINESS STAFF
RT ee oe oe Jeff Kimbell
pe Re rr re nh are . Hank Greenberg
MVOT I  GRIIBIIING 0 oso sidan ccc cay cette ctericcces John Fey-er, Keri Hinrichs,

Jay Reville, Greg Turley

pe BPAY ee eer ce Vie ee ery Matt Horridge

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. ' ‘he
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 200 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run, Or send them to The
Ring-tum Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

Wau

 

The Ring-tum Phi, May 15, 1986

 

 

 

 

Senior lauds memorable mentors

 

MY VIEW
By Tom Maguire

 

A senior quickly realizes that his
(and soon, her) senior year is a year
of one “‘last’’ after another. I noticed

’ with varying emotions my last final

exam, my last history class and my
last Metropolitan Opera radio show
over WLUR. It is now time for my
last ‘‘My View” column. In the past I
have ridiculed, criticized, inveighed
or otherwise discussed a wide variety
ofsubjects. Today I wish to recognize
two gentimen who have done much
(perhaps without realizing it) to
make my time at Washington and
Lee a great experience.

I begin with a man who is recogniz-
ed by some of my fellow students as
the finest teacher the University has.

Male hordes to descend on G

 

By NELSON PATTERSON
Editorial Page Editor

 

Deja vu can be a frightening ex-
perience, especially early on a Sun-
day morning. At least I thought so
when I opened the paper and found
that Goucher College, a women’s col-

lege located just north of
Baltimore in Towson, had decided to
go ‘‘coed.”’

What struck me as odd about the
reporting on the Goucher decision
were several statements caught by
reporters.

Consider, for example, the rather
abject resignation to inferiority voic-
ed by a junior, Rachel Gordon, as
noted in The Washington Post: ‘‘In a
coed school, the guys talk more in
class.”” (Okay, so we have bigger
mouths and never listen to the
teachers anyway.) But that’s not
where the young lass stops. She con-
tinues:. ‘‘They’re called on more in
class.’ (Whoops! This young lady
has just accused the last bastion of
liberal thought and sexual equality
—the lovely realm of professordom
—of being full of sexist porkers! That
deserves a response, I suppose.) And
more: “They (the boys) are the
leaders.”’ (And to think that for near-
ly 250 years Washington and Lee once

To the editors:

Kirk Follo is a German professor, but
he is not one of those professors who
contents himself by exerting the
minimum energy required of him.
Thanks to his skills as a teacher and
— just as importantly — as a motiva-
tor, he helped me do far better in
German classes than I ever had
before. Furthermore, I am quite con-
vinced that the rest of my grades im-
proved because of his influence.
Before meeting him I was content to
slide by; for his classes, I began to
learn how to work. The lessons I
learned served me in good stead in
all my classes, not just German.

Professor Folio has also proven to
be a good friend, always willing to
provide helpful advice on a wide
range of subjects. In fact, he is one of
the best people I know for sitting
around and discussing (intelligently
and considerately) just about any
topic besides my beloved Chicago
Cubs.

believed that. Sorry Smeal, Schlafly,
et al. — you’re just pretending to be
leaders. Stop your charade and go
back to changing Pampers.) Finally,
clincher: ‘“‘Just because it’s 1986
doesn’t mean we are equal.”’ (Ah, the
excuse — and thus the blame — for
coeducation rests squarely upon the
shoulders of the male chauvinist pigs
of years gone by and long since
forgotten? Sure.) M42

Let Ms. Gordon believe what she
wishes. I think many would agree
that the sum value of her statement
weighs more heavily in favor of
coeducation and tougher academic
standards to keep similar students
out of such schools.

For Goucher, coeducation may
prove to be a panacea. Falling ap-
plication numbers and SAT scores.
Lower enrollment. Coeducation may
have been the only thing left to do in
their case, just as many believed it
was in ours. But irony plays a cruel
trick on us in looking for comparisons
between the two situations.

At Goucher, the president has been
a staunch defender of the single-sex
school/ideal, and was firmly against
the proposition that Goucher allow
men to enter its hallowed halls.
Here? Well, no one is really sure
where Wilson stood, although he said
after the decision that he voted in

Despite this one major shortcom-
ing, Kirk Follo, is in my opinion and
in the opinion of many of my class-
mates, the “MVP” of the faculty. 1
wish the administration would
recognize his value as the students
do!

I now come to the second subject of
this paean, and as a senior, I know a
paean when I see one! Dr. Gordon
Spice, in his role as director of the
Glee Club, has provided hundreds of
W&L students with more fun and bet-
ter experiences than could be re-
counted in a book, much less this col-
umn. For many in the Glee Club, in-
cluding myself, the annual concert
tour is the highlight of the whole
year. No matter what else I do in life,
the memories of a small pub in Fy-
field, England, or a campfire outside
Houston, Texas, or (best of all) the
sight of an old man moved to tears of
joy by Biebl’s Ave Maria in Eichstatt,
West Germany, will always stay with

favor of the move.

And the students at both schools?
Well, a recent non-binding vote at
Goucher showed the women firmly
against allowing men to sit alongside
them in the classroom. Here, the
sexes differed, but the notion remain-
ed the same.

And there are the similar reactions
to a sense .of ‘betrayal’seen at both
schools. One Goucher student “‘plop-
ped herself on the floor (of the alum-
nae hall where the news conference
announcing the decision was being
made) and announced, ‘We are not
going to leave.’ ’’ Noted another stu-
dent, ‘‘All you’ve done this morning
is disrupt our whole lives.”’ Seems we
have heard that story before also.

There was also an interesting aside
that appeared in Monday’s paper ina
column by Jonathan Yardley. He
wrote: ‘‘The finishing school is dead.
With the exception of a few institu-
tions in the South that still cater to
the region’s moonbeamed upper
crust, women’s schools are no longer
expected merely to give students a
veneer of genteel culture for their
once-traditional role as_ wives,
mothers and hostesses.’’ To which
schools does he refer, and just what
constitutes a ‘‘moonbeamed upper
crust?”’

It would seem to me that women’s

LETTERS

Student disagrees with transcript stamping

    

.

‘
me. or
Every year Dr. Spice takes a group
of 40 or 50 men of varying degrees
ability, interest, and dedication, and
produces music of which anyon
would be proud. “Coc’s” sense

humor and his belief that singin
should be as much fun as work havt
provided an atmosphere in which few :
could fail to have a great time.

When I was a freshman I despaired”
of ever finding my niche here. It wag
the Glee Club rehearsals that ke
me looking forward to the end of the
day, until finally I found my spot. Fur
providing a safe haven and many
wonderful memories, Gordon Spice
has my heartfelt gratitude. ‘

[have gotten a little maudlin in this
column (probably more than a little),
but I can think of no finer way t
recognize what Kirk Follo and Got
don Spice have meant to me than by
honoring them in this, my last col-
umn ’

oucher?

schools — originally begun to givé
women an opportunity for gaining
confidence in their leadership
abilities without young men running
about — deserve the same opportuni*
ty for a continued life of solitary ex,
istence as do the few remaining
men’s schools. I only object to the no*
tion that it is more permissible tq .
have women’s schools because tradi-
‘tionally, my dear, you know women
have had it rougher than men, and
after all, we owe it to them. Right.
Got it on the button. We owe them 4
chance at discrimination because
once we practiced it ourselves?,
Maybe in your book of logic, but not
in mine. ”
First there was man, and men’s;
colleges. Then came woman, and
women’s colleges. Then, the coed’
school? I guess it only seems a:
natural progression, by most logical ,
standards. '

CORRECTION

The age of former Washington
and Lee president Fred C. Cole at
his death was misstated in last
week’s Ring-tum Phi. He was 74.

.

 

?

4

 

 

 

Although the Honor System has constantly
been under criticism this year for the apparent
disinterest of the student body in upholding the
system as it stands, I have a procedural criti-
cism that I would like to bring to the attention of
the student body. Whether or not the student
generation chooses to define an action as an

_ honor violation is one matter, but whether the
student generation has the opportunity to judge
an action is another. The current system is flaw-
ed in that appeals to the student body are discou-
raged by the practice of marking a student’s
transcript ‘Student Not in Good Standing’’ fol-
lowing a conviction in an open hearing [as] op-
posed to ‘‘Withdrawn’’ following a closed hear-
ing. After conviction in a. closed hearing, even an
innocent student will think twice before ‘‘going
open” when the stakes are this high. Circum-
stantial evidence which the Executive Commit-
tee deems sufficiently incriminating may not
hold up in a court of law. The validity of this
argument, admittedly, however, will only be
known in time.

Of course, many other factors may contribute
to a student’s decision not to request an open
hearing. Pressure from parents to withdraw
quietly in face of the threat of a marked tran-
script is one. The advice of advocates from the
Law School who are entering the reading period
before their exams is another. A third factor is
simply the intimidation of having one’s ‘‘dirty
laundry” aired before the student body. While
arriving at his decision not to appeal, a certain
student said to me, ‘Even if I win in an open
hearing, 85 percent of the student body is still go-
ing to think I did it anyway.” Unfortunately,
after observing the small crowds at open hear-
ings and then hearing blatantly uninformed opi-
nions running rampant on the Hill, I have come
to the conclusion that he was wrong: 90 percent

 

of the student body would probably support con-
viction.

Controversy has surrounded all of the open
hearings this year. In light of student opinion
that guilty people are beating the system by go-
ing open, I can understand someone’s reluctance
to risk the transcript dilemma. I could not
respect the decision, however, because I had
thought — naively — that the purpose of the ap-
peals process is to protect innocent people. The
system, I regret to admit I have discovered, is
not fulfilling this function.

In a system in which a single body serves as
prosecutor, judge and jury, it is necessary that
the appeals process be open to prevent abuses of
power. Simply dropping the punitive aspect of
the withdrawal stamp would allow the student
body to serve as a check on the Executive Com-
mittee.

And the Executive Committee needs a check.
The EC is not infallible, and there is no harm in
recognizing its limitations. I wonder if, in light of
student body verdicts that have overturned EC
rulings, the EC may, understandably, have
become frustrated with the system. Perhaps the
temptation exists, even subconsciously, to con-
viet under the assumption that the accused will
“go open’’ anyway. In fact, following a recent
verdict of conviction, I was told by one EC mem-
ber — who shall remain nameless for his protec-
tion as well as my own — that he was surprised
that the student in question did not seek an open
trial. One wonders what to think upon hearing
this statement from an EC member.

Changing the transcript stamp would be con-
sistent with the philosophy of our Honor System
that holds that removal of offenders is not puni-
tive but purative. In fact, I do not understand the
philosophy behind the current practice unless it
is to discourage frivolous appeals. This recom-
mendation would probably encourage more open
trials, but better frivolous appeals than no ap-

peals at all because innocent students are afraid
to test the system that is structurally unsound
and unfair.

I confess that I am not sure how this revision in
the honor system would come about. I have
noticed in the past couple of weeks the White |:
Book Revision of Article III, Sec. O that permits:
the EC to waive confidentiality if it deems neces-
sary. I was unaware that this revision was even. .).
under consideration. I find it quite ironic that the. |.
confidentiality that prevents me from alluding to
a specific case protects the EC from criticism }
now and may be violated by the EC. Certainly
there is little precedent for any legislative body
to impose limits to its own power. For the sake of |
the system, however, I hope that this reeommen- | |;
dation will at least be discussed by the Executive
Committee. r

Holly Williams
Class of '89

Cinema supporters praised |:

To the editors:

The Washington and Lee Film Society would
like to thank all those who gave their support,
both financially and in spirit, to make the 1985-86
season truly one of the best ever in the society’s
history. The Film Society looks forward to
presenting another exciting season next year
and in coming years. Your continued support is
much appreciated!

Robert Merritt,
President

Jim Foley,
President, ex officio
Dick Grefe,

Adviser | ;

 

 
 

 

 

 

Deringer
named to
new post

 

*By SEAN BUGG
Staff Reporter

 

¢ Senior journalism major J.
Caulley Deringer of Chestertown,
‘Md., has been named an alumni
staff associate for next school

ear.

Deringer said his function in the
‘newly created position, which is
similar to the “baby dean’”’ posi-

 

tion in the admissions office, will
‘be to be “right-hand man’’ to
Alumni Director Richard B. Ses-
soms and Associate Alumni Direc-
‘tor Leroy C. “Buddy” Atkins IT.
» “TI will be executive secretary
and the person in charge of
Kathekon,” Deringer said.
‘Kathekon is the student alumni
sassociation composed of juniors
and seniors who ‘‘are really in-
terested in the University,” accor-
rding to Deringer. :
, Deringer said he will work “‘in
the field’ by attending about a
fifth of the alumni chapter
eetings in order to keep close
we contact between the Alumni
‘Association and its chapters.
, Writing academic class notes
and articles for the school’s alum-
‘ni magazine and corresponding
with individual alumni will be
among his other duties.

Class of
‘61 funds
renovation

By SEAN BUGG
Staff Reporter

 

 

Renovations on No. 32 University
Place, one of four antebellum houses
on campus will begin by late this
summer for use as a new admissions
office.

Both the admissions and financial
aid offices will be moved from
Washington Hall to the new Frank J.
Gilliam Alumni House, which orig-
inally was built in 1841 and 1842. The
space cleared by the move will be us-
ed by the development office, whose
present house next to R.E. Lee
Episcopal Church is ‘‘about ready to
fall down,”’ according to Frank A.
Parsons, executive assistant to the
University president.

The space also may be used as ex-
pansion room for the business office.

The project has a $700,000 budget
“that includes everything,’ said Par-
sons, including architectural fees,
landscaping and parking.

On Friday, the class of 1961
presented a gift of $250,000 for the
project during reunion-weekend
festivities.

The class worked for about 18
months to raise the money, beginning

The Ring-tum Phi, May 15, 1986

 

By W. Patrick Hinely /W&L

William R. Johnston, Class of ’61, dedicates the new house

with a 30-member committee made
of “people that gave a $5,000
minimum each,” said Associate
Alumni Director Leroy C. “Buddy”
Atkins II.

The gifts are capital gifts that can
be spread over five years. Atkins

said the largest gift was ‘“‘probably
$15,000.”

“Our hope is to have it done by the
same contractor that is doing the
residence hall for us,’’ Parsons said.
The firm is I.M. Turner and Com-
pany Inc. of Salem.

 

Attendance low
for ’86 reunions

By SEAN BUGG
Staff Reporter

 

Last weekend’s reunions drew a
smaller number of alumni than
usual, but the planned events
were better-attended than at some
past reunions, according to Assoc-
iate Alumni Director Leroy C.
“Buddy” Atkins II.

About 800 alumni and guests at-
tended the festivities, which
began Friday with a speech by
former professional football
coach Walt Michaels of the class
of 1951. Last year’s reunions drew
between 1,000 and 1,500 visitors,
he said.

Atkins said that among pro-
grams that were “‘better attended
than in the past’ were a presenta-
tion of a gift for the new alumni
house by the class of 1961 and the
dedication in Lee Chapel of a pla-
que honoring the only alumnus
toreceive the Congressional
Medal of Honor, James H. Monroe
of the class of 1966, who was killed
in action in the Vietnam War.

The Alumni Board of Directors
met on campus Friday morning.
Among the highlights were the
following:

eA career-assistance program

that will be begin on a trial basis
next year and will be sponsored by
alumni chapters in Washington,
Atlanta and Roanoke. The pro-
gram is primarily ‘‘to help juniors
and seniors...find internships and
jobs,’ said Alumni Director
Richard B. Sessoms.

ePaul J.B. Murphy reported
that the Alumni Fraternity Coun-
cil plans a ‘“‘renaissance’’ of the
W&L fraternity system, including
an October symposium and a
long-term physical regeneration
of the fraternity houses.

eThe Annual Fund as of April 30
is $211,632 and 733 donors ahead of
last year’s fund at this time. The
fund totals $1,292,009 and has 5,309
contributors through last month.
Sessoms called the fund ‘‘bread-
and-butter money”’ that goes di-
rectly to the University.

The Alumni Association on Sat-
urday in Lee Chapel elected the
following five new members to the
board of directors, increasing the
number from 19 to 20: James J.
Dawson of Lawrenceville, N.J.;
John D. Klinedinst of San Diego;
Robert D. LaRue of
Houston; James A. Meriwether of
Alexandria; and Richard R. War-
ren of Scarsdale, N.Y.

Three receive Distinguished Alumni Awards

Three Washington and Lee
graduates received Distinguished
Alumni Awards during reunion ac-
tivities on Saturday.

The three alumni selected by the
board of directors of the W&L Alumni
Association were:

eSamuel B. Hollis of Memphis,
Tenn., president of Federal Com-
press & Warehouse Co., a 1951
graduate and father of senior Lee

“Hollis.

eBertram R. Schewel of Lynch-
burg, president of Schewel Furniture
Co., a 1941 graduate.

eRichard H. Turrell of Short Hills,

N.J., senior vice president of
Fiduciary Trust Co., a 1949 graduate
and father of junior Doug Turrell.
Hollis spent three years with the
U.S. Navy following graduation from
W&L. Upon returning to Memphis, he
spent three years as executive assis-
tant to Memphis Mayor Edmund
Orgill. Hollis began his business
career with Percy Galbreath & Son
Inc., a mortgage banking firm, and
later became corporate secretary of
Plough Inc., now a part of Schering-
Plough Inc., a cotton warehousing
firm. In 1970, he became president of
Federal Compress & Warehouse Co.

Hollis and two partners recently pur-
chased the firm from its parent com-
pany, Southwide Inc.

Active in many professional, civic,
and charitable organizations, Hollis
is current chairman of the board of
the National Cotton Council, past
president of the Cotton Warehouse
Association of America, past chair-
man and president of the Memphis
Area Chamber of Commerce and
past campaign chairman of the
United Way of Greater Memphis,

Hollis has served as a member of
the W&L Alumni Association Board
of Directors, the Achievement Coun-

cil during the recent development
campaign, and the recently formed
Planning and Development Council.

As president of Schewel Furniture,
a fourth generation family business,
Schewel has headed a business pro-
minent in the economy of many
Virginia communities. He also has
been active in civic service, devoting
his time to many diverse organiza-
tions.

In 1985, Schewel received the Pro
Opera Civica Award of the Greater
Lynchburg Chamber of Commerce.
He has also received the Brotherhood
Award of the National Conference of

Christians and Jews. Schewel has
served as president and director of
the Lynchburg Retail Merchants
Association.

His sons, Marc and Jonathan, have
attended Washington and Lee.

In addition to being senior vice
president of Fiduciary Trust Co.,
Turrell serves as director or on the
advisory council of seven corpora-
tions.

Turrell has served as a member of
the W&L Alumni Association Board
of Directors and as president of the
New York City Alumni Association.

 

 

=x-secretary Chappell
eaves W&L tomorrow

 

yy JASON LISI
‘ews Editor

 

Carole K. Chappell, the former
Jniversity Center secretary and cur-
ent part-time secretary at the
Jniversity Theatre, says she will
gave Washington and Lee tomorrow
@look for a job in Richmond.

Chappell, who has worked at W&L
ince 1976, said she has offers for
ecretarial positions at several Rich-
nond companies, but does not expect
6 start work until mid-June.

“She said she is going to Richmond
“cause of better job opportunities
ind hay desire to live ina large city.
‘Leaving W&L will be difficult, she

amily to me for 10 years.”

“Those people who have been my
siends and family here will be my
tiends for life,” she added.

Chappell had worked as University
‘enter secretary for nine years when

 

*

aid, noting that “‘it’s been like a:

she was promoted to recruitment
coordinator in September. She
resigned that job in mid-November
and started the part-time position at
the University Theatre.

She said that although she will be in
Richmond, she plans to visit W&L
during the next school year. “Fancy
Dress is high on my list of things to
do,” she said.

Senior Sandy Whann, chairman of
this year’s Muscular Dystrophy
Superdance committee, said Chap-
pell helped the group at its meetings
by taking notes and typing minutes
on her own time. ‘She really helped
us out — it took a lot of time,” he
said.

“Her involvement with W&L above
and beyond that for which she was
hired is incredible,” Whann added.

“When she puts her effort behind
something, you can be assured it will
be done and be done well,”’ he said.
“The University is really going to
miss her.”’

Sophomore Brad Watkins said

 

 

CAROLE K. CHAPPELL

Chappell helped him understand the
campus in his freshman year and can
see why she would want to leave.
“Sometimes Lexington holds you
back and you have to go forward,”’ he
said. “‘She’s got a lot of energy.”

“T wish her the best,” he added.

There have been some vast chang-
es in the students and faculty in the
past 10 years, Chappell said. “‘It’s not
as close as it used to be,’’ she said.
“There’s not the camaraderie that
there was a few years ago.”

She added that she has enjoyed her
years in Lexington. ‘I just want to
leave gracefully,” she said.

Film and discussion to consider

several aspects of pornography

 

By MARGUERITE AYERS
Staff Reporter

 

“Not a Love Story,” a film depic-
ting the social implications of por-
nography, will be shown tonight at 7
in Northen Auditorium. Following
the film, a panel will lead a discus-
sion focusing on several aspects of
pornography, as well as topics such
as censorship.

University Counseling Psycholo-
gist James W. Worth said he hopes
the film will tie in several issues
relating to pornography. Among
these are sexism, freedom of the
press and violence, particularly
when it is directed toward women

Worth said the movie may also br-
ing to light the issue of sexual morali-
ty, and “how much freedom there
should be to find sexual satisfac-
tion.”’

 

NEWS BRIEFS
‘Car vandalism reported; tire-slashing suspect charged

The point of the documentary,
Worth explained, is to show what is
involved in pornography. The film
follows a filmmaker and a stripper
who explore the world of peep shows
and strip joints. By the nature of its
subject, the film contains some sex-
ually explicit scenes.

According to Associate Professor
of Psychology Nancy A. Margand,

the film is “not very comfortable to

see,’’ but she said she hopes it will
provide valuable exposure to a topic
that is rarely brought to light.

Worth, who with Margand and sev-
eral others will lead the discussion
after the film, said the group will
“try to help the audience deal with
what they see.”

He said the film is particularly
topical because of recent national in-
terest in the issue of pornography.

 

SAB discusses
porn with EC

Is there a demand for porn at
Washington and Lee?

That issue was raised at Mon-
day’s Executive Committee meet-
ing when Student Activities Board
Chairman Mike Guerriero asked
the EC’s opinion on whether the
board should stop showing movies
because attendance was very low
this year.

EC President John Lewis jok-
ingly raised the idea of showing
pornographic movies as a possible
way of increasing attendance. The
SAB stopped showing porn movies
about three years ago, and has no
plans to bring them back, Guer-
riero said.

—Daniel Bunch

 

 

 

      

 

4,

, Staff Reports

 

¢

Several auto break-ins and vandalisms occurred over
" the weekend, according to police reports.

*. Hollins College student Elizabeth Berry reported that

$86 in eash and other items were taken from her 1986
* Buick Skyhawk while it was parked behind the Sigma
« Alpha Epsilon fraternity house.

Sophomore Reed Hibbs reported that someone took a
cassette box with 30 tapes, valued at $180, from his car
+ while it was parked in the Spanky’s parking lot. Hibbs
, said he parked his car and ran to his apartment, and

when he returned several minutes later, someone had
* taken the tapes.

+ Two Sweet Briar students reported that their purses

_ were stolen early Saturday morning from their car
while it was parked at Henry and Main streets.

*  Qne of the students, Beth Ann Tropold, said a pair of

glasses, several credit cards and cash were in her
purse. Her possessions were valued at $159.

‘ ‘The other student, Beth Doyle, said she lost $74 worth

. of cash and other property in the incident.

There were several cases of auto vandalism and
thefts from cars Saturday night near fraternities.

+ Sophomore John Packett reported that his 1981 Buick

Regal was broken into and vandalized while parked
behind the Phi Kappa Psi fraternity house. Someone

+ entered the unlocked car and removed the rearview

mirror — and in the process, broke the windshield —
and bent the gear shift. Damage was estimated at $300.
Brian G. Kelly, of Towson,-Md., who was visiting the

Phi Psi house Saturday night, reported his car was also
vandalized. The oil filter casing was bent and the hoses
from the filter casing and the carburetor were removed
from Kelly’s 1983 Nissan Stanza, causing $150 in
damage.

Caroline S. Coffey, a Hollins College student, reported
that the oil cap and the air filter were removed from her
1980 Datsun while it was parked behind the Zeta Beta
Tau fraternity house. Two speakers, valued at $50, were
also taken from Coffey’s car.

A 1978 Jeep Wagoneer belonging to Hollins student
Kimberly G. Roberts was broken into while it was park-
ed behind the S.A.E. house. Roberts reported that $60
worth of cash and tools were taken.

Finally, sophomore Rudy Celis reported that early
Sunday morning, someone bent the license plate on his
1986 Jeep and took a Ducks Unlimited tag valued at $10.

Police Chief L.O. Sutton said David Lee Moore, a resi-
dent of Rockbridge County, was arrested and charged
in connection with six tire slashings that occurred in the
Law School parking lot in mid-March.

Ryans to give concert

Public Speaking Professor Halford R. Ryan and his
family will present a concert in Lee Chapel on Sunday
at3p.m.

Cheryl Ryan, the professor’s wife, will begin the pro-
gram with Frederick Chopin's Valse brillante in F Ma-
jor Op. 34, No. 3, to be followed by Claude Debussy’s
First Arabesque and Franz Liszt’s Liebestraum No. 3 .
She studied piano at the New England Conservatory of

Music and received her bachelor’s degree from Boston
University and her master’s from the University of Il-
linois. She has served as a guest lecturer in music at
Hollins College.

Their daughter, Shawn Ryan, a sixth grader at Lex-
ington’s Lylburn Downing Middle School, will perform
works for the piano and violin. She will play Franz
Schubert’s Impromptu in A-flat Major, Op. 242, No. 2 on
the piano. Shawn has studied violin for seven years
under Cynthia Penne. She most recently performed An-
tonio Vivaldi’s Concerto in A Minor with other Suzuki
String students with the Rockbridge Symphony Orches-
tra. She will end the first half of the program by playing
Arcangelo Corelli's La Folia and will be accompanied
by her mother on the piano.

Professor Ryan will play the organ. The second half
of the program will begin with Boellman’s Suite Gothi-
que pur Grande Orgue, consisting of a Chorale, Priere a
Notre Dame, and Toccata. Steubbin’s In Summer fea-
tures the solo voices of the organ, The final piece in the
French romantic era selections is Widor’s Toccata
from the Fifth Organ Symphony. Ryan is a member of
the American Organ Society.

History seminars slated

The history department will present seminars on
“Politics in Central America and the Caribbean Be-
tween the Wars’ on Thursday, May 22, and Tuesday,
May 27.

The seminars will focus on the issues and personali-
ties who faced them, primarily in Guatemala, El Salva-

dor and Cuba. Both sessions will be held in Classroom D
of Lewis Hall, are are open to the public. Refreshments
will be served.

The first session will be at 10 a.m. on Thursday, May
22. Sophomore Chris Rooker will read a paper on Guate-
mala in the 1930s and junior Sam McLean will read a
paper on E] Salvador in the 1920s. Commentators will
include senior David Moose, whose expertise focuses on
Honduras and Nicaragua in the 1920s, and senior
Scott Schreiber, whose area of concern is Guatemala in
the 1920s.

The second session will be presented at 10 a.m. on
Tuesday, May 27, and will feature papers dealing with
Cuba read by sophomore Steven Roth and freshman
Doug Franzese. Commentators will include senior G.T.
Corrigan, whose specialty is Nicaragua in the 1930s,
and senior Jaimie Hayne, whose background is in 19th
century Cuban social history.

Publications Board names editors

The University Publications Board last week ap-
pointed juniors Alex Bryant of Richmond and John
Pensec of Ridgewood, N.J., as co-editors of the
Washington and Lee Political Review for next year.

Junior Sean Butler of Williamsburg and first-year
law student Murray Stanton of Rochester were re-
appointed as editors of the Ariel, the campus literary
journal.

Each magazine is published biannually.

Editors and business managers for The Ring-tum Phi
and the Calyx will be appointed this month.

 

 

sence a cn a ht

 
 

 

Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, May 15, 1986

 

Transfers

Continued from Page 1

said R-MWC would support Gaston
“in every way possible — we’re cer-
tainly not trying to fight her.”’

Earlier this year, Gaston re-
quested and received permission
from the R-MWC president to apply
for transfer. She completed her ap-
plication during spring vacation, but
as of yesterday, she had not heard
from W&L.

Both Ayers and Wise said they
were upset because their applica-
tions would not be considered.

Ayers said that although coeduca-
tion gave her the opportunity to apply
for transfer, she also was wary.

“| just wanted to feel out the situa-
tion,’’ she said.

Ayers said that Holmes showed no
emotion either way when she told
him that she wanted to be an ex-
change student with the intent of
transferring. She said that Simpson,
her academic adviser here, remind-
ed her of the rules when she arrived
but encouraged her to try to transfer
if she wished. When the two put
together Ayers’ class schedule, it
was with the possibility of transfer-
ring in mind.

“What I tell any student is that
we've got rules, but if you want to ap-
peal the rules, there are channels,”
Simpson said.

“T think the problem is that this
[exchange] rule has kind of
represented a gray area,’ said
Ayers, who is withdrawing from
Hollins and plans to attend Colorado

 

University in her hometown of
Boulder this fall.

Although she will be a CU student
and not a Hollins student when she
applies to W&L, Ayers is worried that
her participation in the exchange
program still will work against her.

“I’m taking a big gamble,” she
said. ‘‘I don’t want to graduate from
CU. The whole focus of going there is
getting back in here.”’

After Ayers withdraws from Hol-
lins, her transfer application to W&L
will be considered, Dean of the Col-
lege John W. Elord said in an inter-
view. ‘‘She can apply after attending
the University of Colorado and we
will process her application for ad-
mission,”’ he said.

Wise, who graduated from Lex-
ington High School in 1983, said she
liked Sweet Briar but would prefer to
attend W&L, especially because of its
theater program. A Lexington na-
tive, she attempted to transfer last
year but was turned down because of
a deficiency of mathematics and
science credits. Her father has been
a chemistry professor at Virginia
Military Institute for about 35 years.

Wise said W&L Admissions Direc-
tor William M. Hartog III told her
that if she wanted to get into W&L,
she would have to stay at Sweet Briar
and take mathematics and science
courses instead of English, music
and theater. Instead, she pursued her
regular studies and became an ex-
change student here winter term. In
January, she decided she didn’t want
to leave.

Wise said she knew about the ex-
change agreement but decided to
press the issue. She most likely will
return to Sweet Briar in the fall and

will graduate from there.

All three women said that although
they hold nothing against the ad-
ministrators at W&L or their home
institutions, the experience has been
frustrating. Gaston and Ayers had
been asking about transferring since
the school year began, yet it was not
until the end of March that W&L an-
nounced any definite decisions about
their status as potential transfers.

The three also said they were
discouraged because they thought
they had proved that they could be
more successful academically and
more ‘involved extra-curricularly
than the average W&L student.

Ayers has been on the Honor Roll
and the Dean’s List here, writes for
The Phi and is a member of the Stu-
dent Activities Board. She said that if
accepted, she would like to start an
intercollegiate equestrian team.
Gaston is on the staffs of WLUR-FM
and Cable 9, and now is interning at
the Smithsonian Institution in
Washington. Wise was on the Dean’s
List and has been in three W&L
theater performances this year.

“They have enough students who
just twiddle their thumbs for four
years and then graduate,”’ Wise said.
“T think I contribute more to the
school than some of the people who
go here.”’

Despite the transitional problems,
Simpson said W&L definitely would
continue to participate in the ex-
change. Not only have the other
schools been reminded to emphasize
the non-transfer clause, she said, but
it is one of the topics that was on the
agenda for an exchange officers’
meeting held today at Hollins.

Special cases were exceptions

 

By STEVEN POCKRASS
Special To The Phi

 

Late last semester, Hollins College
sophomore Marguerite Ayers and
Sweet Briar College junior Jennifer
Wise found out they couldn’t transfer
to Washington and Lee because they
are exchange students here.

To allow them to do so, they were
told, would be to violate the exchange
agreement and possibly endanger
the future of the seven-school ex-
change program.

Dean of the College John W. Elrod
wrote to Ayers and Wise on March
27: “This policy has been observed
without exception, and I believe for
very good reasons.”

Both women said they thought an
exception had been made for Kath-
leen Plante, a former Hollins College
student who will graduate from W&L
next year. Plante was enrolled here
for three semesters under the provi-
sions of the seven-school program
from January 1984 through Decem-

ber 1984.

“The rules, as I understand it,
were not broken for me at all,”
Plante said.

Elrod agreed. Plante had no inten-
tion of returning to Hollins and had
withdrawn from there before apply-
ing to W&L, he said. She also had
received permission to apply for
transfer from the presidents of both
schools.

“The most extenuating circum-
stance is that she withdrew from
Hollins,’ Elrod said. Although she
transferred credits from Hollins, she
is not considered a transfer from
there.

Wise, a 20-year-old Lexington resi-
dent, said she thought withdrawing
from school before applying to W&L
seemed to be an exception to the
policy. “It’s like putting a mask on
it,”’ she said.

After she withdrew from Hollins,
Plante applied to W&L and went to
live in Japan for six months.
Although she was not enrolled at any
school in Japan, she had developed*

 

   
     
  
   

 

NEED Lite 103-463-1670
A CAR? | Util Sites
z 103-377-6331
Students under 21
Must Have
prior Insurance
Approval Brian and Doris
Fredricksen
RFD7, Box 149, Rt. 60 East Lexington, Virginia 24450

WANTED: Ride West, with final destination of
Yellowstone National Park. Must arrive by
June 4. Will share expenses.

Call Tal McThenia
at 463-8517 or 463-7656

 
 

 

 

SSeS

With this coupon
Movie Rentals — $2.00 per day
3 for *5.00

Player Rental — $5.00
1 Year Membership — 99°

Offer Expires June 10
Lexington-B.V. Shopping Center - 463-2177
j Mon.-Sat. 11-9 p.m.

VIDEO CENTER 1

OF LEXINGTON
kkk

* SPECIAL x
x*

Sun. 12-5 p.m.

an independent program with some
W&L professors before leaving the
U.S. When she was accepted at W&L
and returned this fall, she received
academic credit for her independent
work.

Associate Dean of the College
Pamela H. Simpson said Plante’s
case was decided by the schools’
presidents because W&L wasn’t sure
how to deal with the situation. She
said, though, that early in the pro-
gram, a precedent was set when the
case of an exchange student wishing
to transfer from one women’s college
to another was decided at the pres-
idential level.

To make exceptions is like not hav-
ing any rules, Elrod said, when asked
what would be done about the
women’s situation.

“The answer to the question is that
we are reasserting the rules’ orig-
inally agreed upon by the seven
schools, Elrod said. To make excep-
tions ‘would undermine the pro-
gram, then and now.”

be fully subscribed.

storage at $44,000.

Tom Baker
403-2510
Evenings

 

 

SAB praised for $10,000 surplus:

 

By DANIEL BUNCH
Staff Reporter

 

The Student Activities Board
reported at Monday night’s Ex-
ecutive Committee meeting that it
will finish the year with about a
$10,000 surplus.

The projected surplus is a result of
finishing ahead of budget in the fall
and winter and having enough money

budgeted for the spring.

The SAB finished with a $7,883 sur-
plus in the fall and a $1,976 surplus in
the winter. For spring term, $8,800 is
budgeted. Any money left over from
that will be added to the $9,859 cur-
rent surplus.

Weekends resulted in the biggest
loss for the SAB in the winter. For
weekends, $10,000 was budgeted and
just over $14,000 was spent.

The report showed that $2,964 was
lost on Mid-Winter Weekend, $5,460

on Fancy Dress and $4,902 on |
Violent Femmes Concert. "

The General Headquarters tave’
helped provide the SAB with i
surplus. For the GHQ, $4,000 w:
budgeted and a $1,484 profit wi |
earned from door receipts, resultir |
ina total GHQ surplus of $5,484.

EC President John Lewis ct
gratulated SAB Chairman mil
Guerriero and treasurer Georg.”
Boras on their work this year. Lag”,
year the SAB fin:shed with a loss.

 

Executive

 

() Continued from Page 1

with $7.63 billion in billings. News ac-
counts said that agreement likely
was spurred by the BBDO deal.

Rosenshine will be able to discuss
his weeks at the top of the advertising
universe in a presentation called
“Advertising Today’’ on Tuesday at 7
p.m., in Room 327 of the Commerce
School.

Rosenshine will sit in on three lec-
tures during his visit: Psychology
Professor David G. Elmes’ ‘‘Psycho-
logy of Motivation”’ lecture in Tucker
Hall at 2 p.m., Administration Pro-
fessor Lawrence Lamont’s Sales and
Marketing Management class, and
Journalism Professor Robert J

deMaria’s Broadcast Management
class.

Elmes said his class pays attention
to controlled situations in psycho-
logy.
“We also like to pay particular at-
tention to uncontrolled situations,
things like marketing, advertising
and slanting ads.” Elmes said.

Rosenshine joined BBDO in 1965 as
a copywriter, became a copy super-
visor in 1967 and was elected a vice
president in 1968. He was appointed
an associate creative director in 1970
and was elected to the Board of Di-
rectors in 1973.

Four years later he was an ex-
ecutive vice president of BBDO, and
then an executive vice president of
BBDO International in 1980.

He became president and chief ex-
ecutive officer of BBDO Interna-
tional in 1985.

 

 

ALLEN G. ROSENSHINE a

 

 

GENERAL NOTES

 

The Washington and Lee Glee
Club and the Mary Baldwin Col-
lege Theatre and Choir will pre-
sent the Gilbert and Sullivan
operetta ‘‘Princess Ida” Saturday
and Sunday, at 8 p.m. Perfor-
mances will be at the University
Theatre on Henry Street.

“Princess Ida’ deals with the
staff of a women’s university
where no men are allowed. Three
young men disguise themselves
and matriculate. Confusion en-
sues, but all is resolved in the
grand finale typical of the Gilbert
and Sullivan style.

The production will feature
Doreen Dillon as Princess Ida,
Kristin Wahlquist as Melissa,
Tom Maguire as Prince Hilarion,
Tom O’Brien as Cyril and Michael
Herrin as Florian. Also perform-

 

ing will be Todd Jones, W&L 85,
as King Gama; Ken Keller as
King Hildebrand; Lisa Carr and
Beth Briggs, alternately cast as
Lady Blance; and Kathy Als-
brooks as Lady Psyche.

Reservations for the the two
performances may be made by
calling the theatre office at
463-8637 weekdays between 10
a.m. and 4 p.m.

Five additional performances
will be given from May 21 to May
25 at Mary Baldwin’s Fletcher
Collins Theatre.

An ecumenical Peace Pentecost
Community Service will be con-
ducted Sunday at 7:30 p.m. at St.
Patrick’s Catholic Church. The
service is sponsored by the Rock-
bridge Area Peace Pentecost
Steering Committee and is open to
the public. The sermon will be
delivered by the Rev. James
Lewis of Charleston, W.Va., ex-

CLASSIFIEDS |

ecutive director of the We.
Virginia Coalition for the Hom °
less. Hi

Applications for chairman « 4
the Student Telephone Union ar.’
being taken in Carol Calkins’ of
fice through Tuesday. For further
information, contact Tom O’Brier
at 463-8580. The application need
not be any more than a name and
any qualifications the applicant
thinks are relevant.

Mr. J.T. Bishop, Registrar of
the School of Oriental and African
Studies of the University of Lon-
don, will meet with any students
interested in working in any facet
of Asian and/or African subjects
at SOAS in London for a term, a
junior year or for graduate credit.
He will be in Room 27B of New-
comb Hall tomorrow from 2 to 3
p.m.

 

QQ

BORDEN
COMMONS

 

The Ideal Investment

For

Alumni, Parents of Students and Real Estate Investors

Baker Real Estate announces a new offering in Phase II of Borden Com-
mons near Washington and Lee Campus, offers affordable, cost-efficient
housing for students and young professionals, and like Phase I will rapidly

Scheduled for occupancy Fall Semester 1986, pre-construction reservations
are being taken now. 90% financing available to qualified purchases. On-
site management is available through Baker Real Estate.

One bedroom with fully equipped kitchens, central air and plenty of

MARKETED BY

Baker Real Estate
Lexington, Virginia
703-463-7319

 

Dick Emrey
463-4362
Evenings

 

/SAC votes
against

late Rush

By DUDLEY LEE
Staff Reporter

 

The possibility of delayed fraterni-
ty Rush at Washington and Lee
received another setback last week
when the Student Affairs Committee
voted against the proposal.

Junior Chris Saxman, Interfrat
nity Council president and sae
member, said the tendency of many
fraternities to break Rush regula-
tions was a major reason for the com-
mittee’s refusal to change the Rush
arrangements.

“If we act more responsibly, this
won't happen next year,”’ Saxman
said. The failure of fraternities to
abide by the Rush rules may cause
the IFC to take action to stop “dirty”
Rush next year, Saxman said.

Dan N. Murphy, associate dean 0’
students for fraternity affairs and
also a member of the SAC, said he
voted against delayed Rush because |
it would cause complications.

“With the changes in the nature of
the school and the change in my posi-
tion, it is not the time for that kind of
dramatic change,” Murphy said. /
“Regular and delayed Rush both’
have their advantages, but we are
still adjusting.”

Murphy is leaving his position as
fraternity dean this summer to work &
full-time in the W&L admissions of-
fice, a job he currently does part-
time. His replacement has not been
hired,

Student reaction to the SAC deci-
s10n is varied.

Freshman Will Arvin, who pledged
Sigma Alpha Epsilon this fall, favors
delayed Rush, “The whole purpose of
the fraternity is to allow the person to
be with the people he enjoys,” Arvin
Said. ‘Too many nervous freshmen,
as well as the fraternity boys, feel the
necessity to play social games.”

Freshman Tom Flournoy, wh?
pledged Beta Theta Pi, also said he is
for delayed Rush. “It is too bad that |
delayed Rush was voted down,” he
Said. “Hopefully it will come uP
again for deliberation next year.”

Some students said they are happy
with the current Rush system. “I like
having Rush early because it gets the
freshmen immediately involved,

 

Said sopho f Kappa
Albha” more Sean Coyle, of Kap:

ae Si -
nner y ‘ ssaitaiclabiettl
he ta ead ah ne on

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi, May 15, 1986

 

 

By DAVID EMRICH
Assistant Sports Editor

 

 

The Washington and Lee lacrosse
team Saturday dropped its eighth
game of the season at the University
of Maryland-Baltimore County, a
team that had a year remarkably
similar to the Generals’. The loss set
W&L’s record at 5-8 and wrapped up
their fourth consecutive sub-.500
year.

Both the Generals and the Retrie-
vers entered the game with losing
records, but both also had faced stiff
competition. Five of the Generals’
eight losses came at the hands of
ranked foes in either Division I or
Division III. Similarly, all seven of
UMBC’s losses were handed it by op-
ponents ranked in the top 15 of Divi-
sion I.

In Baltimore last weekend, the
Generals were in control of the game
for most of the first half. They had
built a 5-2 lead by midway through
the second quarter on the strength of

 

r eS

WA&L Sports Information

 

@ mnis Daly: ‘Maybe we lost our confidence, maybe our play.”

  

senior attackman Billy Holmes’ two
goals.

“In the first half our defense neg-
ated what UMBC wanted to do,”’ said
W&L head coach Dennis Daly. “We
were able to take the ball away from
them and our transition cleared
well.”

The Generals success, however,
was shortlived.

The Retrievers pulled to within
one, 6-5, at the intermission and con-
tinued their assault into the second
half.

Outscoring the Generals 7-1 in the
third quarter and 5-1 in the fourth,
the Retrievers dominated the second
half to close out their season with a
victory.

UMBC’s Mark Malczewski scored
four of his six goals during the third-
quarter attack.

“They made some very good ad-
justments [in the second half],’’ said

Daly. ‘‘They forced us into a defense
that we did not want toplay.”

Saturday's loss marked the end of
a season that began in optimism but
ended in dissappointment.

After winning four of their first
seven games, the Generals were rid-
ing high, and there was even talk of
earning a bid to the NCAA champion-
ship tournament.

Beginning at spring break, though,
the Generals went into a tailspin, los-
ing five of their last six and dashing
any hopes of a winning season.

Daly noted that the season seemed
to have two parts. The first he
characterized as ‘‘full of optimism,
confidence and consistency,’ while
the second, he said, displayed a lack
of consistency

“Something happened in the sec-
ond half,” said Daly. ‘ ““Maybe we
lost our confidence, maybe our
play.”

“We had a similar problem last
year but we thought that we had solv-
edit,” said Daly.

 

Tennis

C Continued from Page I

Krieger's words are given support
by the Generals’ performance on the
way to the championship match. In
Monday's quarterfinal against
eighth-ranked Washington Universi-
ty, W&L handled the Bears, 8-1. The
only W&L loss was at No. 1 singles,
where David McLeod was defeated
by Duncan Seay, the nation’s No. 5-
ranked player.

Tuesday’s semifinal tested the
mettle of the Generals and the
challenge was well met. Facing the
No, 2 squad in the nation, Whitman
College (a school that had a 21-2
record and had not lost a Division III
match all season.’’ W&L’s depth pro-
ved its strength as it won three-set
matches at the bottom four singles
flights and the bottom two doubles
flights to claim the upset.

But the Generals cannot rest on
their success in the team competition
too long. The individual singles and
doubles play began this afternoon.
W&L’s top four singles players and
top two doubles teams are slated to

 

  

E

e
k

| When donkeys fly

st ~~ Soe

 

ee eee
a

 

.... Things that will happen if the

USFL wins its suit with the NFL:

TIME Donkeys will fly; the NBA Draft Lot-

7... tery will be fair; and made-for-tv

: movies like “Second Serve’ will be

given their proper place in the pro-

gram schedule, right after late

night/early morning ‘‘Mission Im-
possible” reruns.

s So, the USFL, a.k.a. Donald

‘Trump, is really going througn with this $1.32 billion (no typo) an-

 

 

By Mike
Stachura

 

 

 

“’“titrust suit. The claim is that because it is such a potential media

blockbuster, the USFL feels betrayed that none (we’re talking all
“ three and ESPN, kids) of the major networks was interested in offer-
‘ing the extended mini-series known as a professional football league a
contract for its new fall season. Don and Co. are crying ‘‘Foul!”’ or
ae “Monopoly!” and actually think they can win the case against
the NFL.

The whole thing, obviously, is rather ridiculous. I mean does the
word “merger” mean anything to anyone? Yet, the USFL-types not
only are saying the NFL is an illegal monopoly, but also they are
assuming that there are people who are actually interested in watch-
ing the USFL on television. Think about this person who watches the
USFL. Indeed, I believe we are talking about a separate species of the
human race.

Try to picture this guy (women do not watch the USFL). First of all,
we're talking about the paradigm couch potato. This clown also
regularly watches ‘The A-Team” and thinks it’s real. He was surpris-
ed to learn that Billy Carter was not a cabinet member during the Jim-
my administration. He believes Nikolai Volkov is a communist and is
actually singing the Russian national anthem before his wrestling
matches. He makes most of his purchases from toll-free telephone
numbers. He watches ESPN, but only for the roller derby.

And this is the body-type the USFL thinks is worth a billion-and-a-
third. There’s no monopoly. It’s just that ABC, NBC and CBS aren't all
that enthused about the USFL as a solid draw. As mentioned earlier,
it’s not all that unreasonable to suggest that Trump and friends are
trying to find some way to get their teams into the NFL.

Frankly, I don’t think Pete ‘Beat Me, Whip Me, Make Me Wear a
‘Headband” Rozelle and the rest of the league are interested in expan-
sion, let alone expansion in the form of teams that don’t even have a
home town. (Is it the College Park Stars, or is that just where they
play their games? The New York-Jersey Giants/Jets are enough,
thank you very much.)

It would be a great service to mankind if Federal Judge Peter
Leisure would toss this suit out of court on grounds that it’s too silly to
take up his time for the next two months. But then, other than gradua-
tion, I could use a good extended laugh to start my summer. I wonder
how this will stack up to the von Bulow trial...

....Dancing down the Colonnade, hats off to an exceptional perfor-
mance at nationals by the W&L netmen. This team has established
itself as a force in Division III, and with the top five players all return-
ing plus another good recruiting year, I expect this type of showing
could become a regular thing...A hearty congratulations to golfer

is reg Wheeler on being selected for next week’s national champion-

ships. Indeed, a just reward to a long-time quality per-
former...Triathlon is all set for this Saturday. Should be a good show.
You will be awed...

secs Noticed the other day that the only horses not on drugs finished
1-2 at the Derby. I wonder if the same is true of the NHL. Oh well, give
Sports Hlustrated time...Where did all those reborn Cleveland Indians’
fans go, all of a sudden?...What does John McEnroe, Sr., mean by say-
ing son John’s too busy for the French Open and Wimbledon this year?

’ This whole vacation gambit is starting to smack of a new version of
‘Bye Bye Borgy....

....Finally, CBS is thinking what a wonderful idea it would be to
make The Lottery its own show. Why not? Then it can encourage more
teams to have lotteries, and then you'll have lotteries to get in The Lot-
tery. But then all of this nonsense comes courtesy of the network that
figured the odds of winning The Lottery were one in 5,040 and not one
in seven....

 

Breathless

W&L Triathlon is like a continuous two-hour workout

 

By MIKE SHADY
Staff Reporter

 

Imagine swimming, biking and running all in
the same day. For most of us that would be a load,
but for a select few in the Lexington community it
will be a good two hours work Saturday morning
when the W&L Army ROTC conducts the third an-

 

 

 

 

Message To Seniors

Cap and gown will be distributed starting Mon-
day, May 26 from 10 a.m. to1 p.m. A $30.00

deposit is refundable on the day of GRADUA-

 

TION only. Ala Carte Pricing
No reservations. Reservations Suggested—
Call 463.6693

 

nual W&L Triathlon to honor Armed Forces Day.

All this swimming-biking-running hysteria
started back in 1978 in Hawaii when someone felt
that there wasn’t enough out there in the world to
challenge an athlete and decided to create the
ultimate competition. The result was the ominous
sounding Ironman Triathlon World Champion-
ships.

From the beginning, the Ironman contest at-

ils

 

 

 

By Cotton Puryear

Left to right, Page Remillard, David Lewis and Bob Woofter at last year’s triathlon

    
   
 
  
 

New Hours

  
  

HISTORIC
COUNTRY
INNS

 
  
 

Wednesday-Saturday: 5:00-10:00
Sunday Brunch: 11:00-2:00

NEW EXPANDED MENU

  

Phone: 463-3614

 

compete.

tracted a unique sort of crowd. Only 15 men show-
ed up for the first race. Since then, however, the
sport has grown to the point where over 1,000
racers compete annually in the sport’s original
event.

Arguably the most demanding physical and
mental test for an athlete, the triathlon can in-
clude two-mile swims, 100-mile or more bike rides
and full-fledged marathons. At this level, com-
pleting the race often can take over eight hours.

W&L’s version of the triathlon has been scaled
down toa less ultrahuman level so it can be finish-
ed. Even so, the entire course still will take most
people an hour-and-a-half to complete.

The scaled-down W&L course includes a 1500-
yard swim, a 13.1-mile bike ride and a 3.1-mile
run.

Sounds easy, right? Well, before you hop on the
new Schwinn, think again.

“It’s like working out continuously for two
hours,” said W&L Athletic Director William
McHenry, a three-time participant in the W&L
race. “You never have a chance to catch your
breath.”

McHenry said that the good swimmers have an
edge on the rest of the field. “‘They gain almost a
10-minute advantage,”’ he said.

This is just the type of news that freshman Stu
Sheldon wants to hear. Sheldon, a member of the
water polo and swimming teams, is entering for
the challenge but is receiving plenty of motivation
from a ‘‘friendly competition’ with teammate
David Lewis, a senior who finished second in last
year’s event.

““My main reason for doing this is to try to beat
Dave,’’ Sheldon said.

According to his designated “‘helper’”’ Kathleen
Plante, Lewis is taking on some intense training.

“Dave really wanted to work on his running,”
Plante — substituting for Lewis who was out of
town — explained, ‘‘so he has been running six
miles a day.”

Lewis, who faded in last year’s running portion,
has also included in his training schedule one mile
of swimming a day and 10 miles of biking every
other day, Plante said.

The triathlon is a non-profit event and, accor-
ding to organizer Maj. Jan Gabrielson, it barely
breaks even. ‘We pretty much do this just to hold
a triathlon and to get people interested in it,”
Gabrielson said.

The triathlon will begin with the first heat of the
swimming at 9:15 a.m. on Saturday.

T-shirts and certificates will be given to those
who compete and finish the race. Plaques will be
awarded for the winners in each of the four age
and sex categories. People can register until 9
a.m. on Saturday.

EAST LEX

Open ‘til midnite

US 11 North

 

 

SERVICITAR.

 

Stroh’s Long necks
Natty Bo ong necks

 

 

23 S. Main
IME jee. Strat Lem of Al Natu waar || J&B Office Supply
463-3338 .

 

 

Cocktails@® Wine® Beer
Subs@Imported Cheeses
Catering

New Line of Computer Supplies including:

© Ribbons
© Diskettes
© Printout Paper

Hours:
Mon.-Sat. 9am to lam
Sunday 10am to lam

Get the jump
on your 1986-87

subscription!
Call 463-8581

Come by for exam supplies, on sale through May 30,
and don’t forget your graduation gifts.

 

   
-BACK PAGE

 

Senior directs winning ‘Season’

 

By JIM MORGAN
Staff Reporter

 

“That Championship Season’’
finished its three-day run at the
University Theatre Saturday night.

Directed by Greg Stites as his
senior drama thesis, this gripping
play demonstrated the testing of four
members of a state high school
basketball championship team and
their coach at their 20th reunion. The
theme also revolved around the con-
flict between the importance of the
championship and the harsh facts of
life that middle-aged men must face.

The athletes in the play have main-
tained their friendships despite pur-
suing different lifestyles and occupa-
tions. These enduring friendships are
pushed to the edge by the betrayal
and distrust that surfaces at the reu-
nion.

The cast of five — seniors Ned
Richardson, David Marsh and Mark
McDonough and freshman Barney
March as the players and senior
Chris Carmouche as the coach — por-
trayed the frustrations and loss of
confidence masterfully. Their verbal
battles had the audience siding with
one character and then another, as
attitudes and circumstances chang-
ed.

The four players were able to get
across the distance their different oc-
cupations had driven between them.
March played a politician, Marsh a
public servant who aspired to
politics, McDonough an alcoholic,
and Richardson a business ex-
ecutive.

Wendell’s
Barber
Shop

| need

your head

for my business

  

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

  

By Cotton Puryear

Seniors Chris Carmouche and Ned Richardson performing ‘‘That Championship Season”’

OY

 

11:00 a.m.

  
   

following worship)

 

 

165 S. Main

 

faffonerEY bite Florist

April Showers?

No, May Flowers!

463-9152

 

 

 

- PIZZA SERVED HERE, TO GO,
OR DELIVERED

 

¢ Try our fresh baked Pan
Pizza, Thin ‘N Crispy’
Pizza, served anytime.

¢ Priazzotm Italian Pie,
served after 4 p.m. Mon.-
Fri., and any time Sat. &
Sun.

¢ Personal Pan Pizza for
lunch. Available from 11:00
am-4:00 pm (Mon.-Fri.).

e Plus...Pasta, Salad Bar,
Sandwiches, Beverages.

e Served to your table, or
delivered to your home, or
call ahead and we'll have
your order hot and ready to

go.

 

 

« Each Wednesday night,
§:30 until 8:30 p.m., all the
salad, pizza, spaghetti, and
garlic bread you can eat for
only '3.49. Children under 6
years-99

 

 

600 E. Nelson St.
Lexington
463-7000

 

 

$9 OFF

I

|

| 2. offans large pizza
| or $1 off any medium. In
|

|

|

I

cludes Pizza Hut’ Pan

Pizza' Hurry. offer ex

pires soon One coupon

per party per visitat ut
participating Pizza Hut’

1 restaurants

| Please present coupon when ordering. Not valid in combination with another
i ctter. 20 cent cash redemption value. 1983 Pizza Hut, inc. Good only through

yr ig

 
 

 

$ 4 OFF
2 Offer

|
|
|
= |
600 E. Nelsonst. @Xpires |
|

May
i

i

i

Lexington, VA
463-7000
31,
1986

   

(Students Dutch-treat lunch

Pentecost Sunday

Lexington Presbyterian Church

Joinus
for
reat! Worship and Celebration
7. 4 including
The Lord’s Supper
Sunday, May 18, 1986 J

S

Pentecost

 

The Ring-tum Phi, May 15, 1986

 

ONCAMPUS

Tonight
7 p.m, — POLITICS FILMFEST: ‘The Mouse That Roared.”” Room
327, Commerce SChool
7 p.m. — FILM: “Not A Love Story.” A film about pornography.
Followed by an open discussion. Northen Auditorium.

Friday, May 16
2 p.m. — STUDY ABROAD Informational Meeting: African and Asian
studies in London, England. J.T. Bishop, School of Oriental and
African Studies, University of London. Room 27B. Commerce School.
7:30 p.m. — RUSSIAN FILM SERIES: “Moscow Does Not Believe in
Tears.” Northen Auditorium, University Library.
9 p.m. — BAND: ‘The Stains.” G.H.Q.

Saturday, May 17
9a.m.— THIRD ANNUAL W&L TRIATHLON. Warner Center.
8 p.m. — PLAY: “Princess Ida,’’ by Gilbert and Sullivan. W&L Glee
Club & Mary Baldwin College Theatre and Choir. University Theatre.

Sunday, May 18
3p.m.— CONCERT: The Ryan Family. Lee Chapel.
8 p.m. — PLAY: ‘‘Princess Ida’’ University Theatre.

Monday, May 19
7 & 9:15 p.m. — WWII THROUGH JAPANESE FILMS SERIES:
‘Harp of Burma.”’ Room 327, Commerce School.

Tuesday, May 20
7 p.m. — LECTURE: “Advertising Today.” Allen G. Rosenshine,
BBDO International. Room 327, Commerce School.

Wednesday, May 21
7p.m.— POLITICS FILMFEST: “Tora, Tora, Tora.’ Room 327, Com-
merce School.
8 p.m, — LECTURE: ‘‘Ancient Historiography: Truth, Fiction, and
Something in Between.” Christopher Pelling, University College, Ox-

 

 

Enjoy medical
coverage despite

short-term
problems.

If you‘re just out of school. Drop-
ping off a family plan. Between jobs.
Or on: the move and between
group medical plans. Atna’s new
Short-Term Medical Insurance is tai-
lored just for you. . . and at a rea-
sonable cost. Contact us for further
information today.

Morrison & Agnor, Inc.

29 S. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450
463-4411

Fi

Atna Lite insurance and Annuity Company, Hartford. CT 06156

 

ford. Northen Auditorium, University Library.

 

 

 

 

 

Author speaks

 

By Perry S. Hayes/The Ring-tum Phi

Critically acclaimed author Peter Taylor gives a reading of his work last +
Tuesday in Northen Auditorium. Taylor was recently awarded the coveted
PEN/Faulkner award for his work ‘“‘The Old Forest and Other Stories.”

The author read selections from “In the Miro District” and ‘‘Presence.”’

f

Mixed Minks poke fun -

at W&L coeducation

 

By DANATHA HOFFMAN
Staff Reporter

 

 

 

K
*
*
+
+
+
¥
+
*
x
*
o
*
w
*
¥
*
*
*
*
*
*
+
*
*

OOOO OI COE

Sidewalk
Sale

Tuesday, May 20th 10-3
(Raindate Wed, May 21st

At The W&L Bookstore

New Stuff
Manager’s Mistake
Many New Bargain Books
Broken Sizes

Giant Bubble Makers

Fun

All Sales Final!
WL a Ok Ot ak Oa Ot Ot Ot

«
x
5 4
x

¥
&
oe
*
we
&
x
©
.
*
*
K
¥
*
«
x
*
«€
*
*«
co

 

“Why Can’t a Woman Be More
Like A Man’’ and ‘‘I Hate Men” are
just two of the many songs that the
new musical comedy group The Mix-
ed Minks will sing at its May 23 debut
performance.

The group was founded on an in-
spiration by Fine Arts Professor
Albert C. Gordon, who wanted to
utilize the female theatrical talent on
campus. He started the group, which
consists of three women, Jenny Wise,
Elizabeth Fowler and Susan Crouse;
three men, Louis Cella, Greg Luns-
ford and Craig M. Smith; and an ac-
companist, Valerie Pierson. Most of
the members have been active in
theater or acting classes and were
acquainted with Gordon or someone
in the department.

‘

Gordon hopes the group, wilhse
members are all under undergrad-
uates, will continue next year. The *
group may hold auditions in the fall ,
to replace or add members.

The group has been practicing dai-
ly since the second week of the term *
to prepare for its performance next ,
Friday for a program honoring
the school’s Lee Associates. ‘Ihe *
show will be a 24-minute comedy pro- ,
duction dealing with coeducation and
most likely will be its only show this
spring. Next fall, the group plans to *
perform during homecoming.

Gordon said he would like to

broaden the group to have it include ‘
scenes from musical comedies as
well as singing.
Pierson commented that it was en- '
joyable but also ‘‘a lot of work right
now because it is in the beginning
stages, and [we’re] trying to get it
together ina short amount of time.”’

For Rent
Large House In The Country
Call

463-2518

 

a ES

By Appointment
463-9588

Robin * Peggy * Marie * Sherry

a Lm

PUR nny
Card

463-9588
OCR ETS ae ELL
Lexington, VA 24450

Valley True Value Hardware

Hardware, Paint & Related lfems

E. Nelson Street
463-2186

 

Mon.-Sat, 8:30-6:00
Sun, 1-5
«

~

*

| Theater presents
‘Frankenstein’

 

 
  
   

 

Page 6

 

Movie

 

SRO crowd sees
movie on porn

Page 4"

 

 

Che KRing-tum Phi

VOLUME 85, NUMBER 30

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 

By MIKE STACHURA
Sports Editor

 

President John D. Wilson said to-
day he will bring before the Board of
Trustees this weekend a University
Athletic Committee proposal recom-
mending the lacrosse team’s NCAA
classification be changed from Divi-
sion I to Division III.

The proposal, unanimously agreed
to by the committee in a 55-minute
meeting yesterday, states that “W&L
cannot realistically expect to be com-
petitive in lacrosse at the Division I
level.”

 

 

The committee’s proposal calts for
the lacrosse team’s National Col-
legiate Athletic Association classifi-
cation to be changed ‘‘immediately.’’
The deadline for filing a request for
reclassification with the NCAA for
next school year is June 1. The Board

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Trustees to study plans
for auditorium theater

 

By SEAN BUGG
Staff Reporter

 

The Board of Trustees this
weekend will examine architects’
drawings of a proposed auditor-
ium and theater to be built near
the dormitory now under con-
struction.

The meeting of the 25 trustees
will begin tonight with an infor-
mal dinner. Tomorrow the
board’s seven committees will
meet, and Saturday the entire
board will meet for about four

Your weekend weather oe
Fri.: 30% rain chance;
Sat., Sun.: Rain chance

 

7H ONIVERSITY LIGRAR
WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, NA; 24450

MAY 301986

MAY 22, 1986

Panel recommends
lax go to Division Ill

 

year of the Student Control Com-
mittee’s new disciplinary rules
that specify ‘‘major’’ and
“‘minor’’ offenses.

eThe University operating and
capital projects budgets will be
presented by the Budget and
Audit Committee. A review of the
University’s current unrestricted
fund is also planned.

ePromotions and tenure for
eligible faculty members will be
considered, and department head
appointments and _ reappoint-
ments will be made.

 

 

Confucius?

’ The driver of this Datsun 240ZX parked on Lee Street
this week was packed and ready for the trip back to Ten-
nessee after Hollins College finished its exams on Tues-

By Reade Williams/The Ring-tum Phi

favorite for dorm room walls.

day. Visible through her hatchback is this thought for the
day for drivers along Interstate 81. The poster is a

of Trustees has the final say on
W&L’s divisional status.

The president reached his decision
to submit the proposal after a meet-
ing this morning with Athletic Com-
mittee acting-Chairman Barry
Machado, and Athletic Director
William D. McHenry and Dean of
Students Lewis G. John, both of

(See Lacrosse, Page 4

hours.

University
Wilson said Tuesday.

ness will include:

 

The project will be continued if
the trustees approve funds for it,
President John D.

Wilson said other board busi-

The Campus Life Committee
will present a report on the first

eA tentative list of degree can-
didates will be submitted, subject
to final approval by the faculty,
which will make the final decision
after the examination period.

*The board also will discuss
freshman orientation, coeduca-
tion, fraternity affairs, and inter-
collegiate athletic affairs.

 

 

New treasurer: ‘More methodical with money’ after ‘84 audit

 

By SIMON PEREZ
Staff Reporter

 

Incoming University Treasurer Lawrence
W. Broomall Jr. in 1983 violated state pur-
chasing rules and exceeded his financial
authority in furnishing his College of William
and Mary office but broke no laws, a school
auditor ruled in 1984. A subsequent state in-
vestigation also found that Broomall had not
acted illegally.

Two top Washington and Lee ad-
ministrators said they were unaware of the
incident until this week. A trustee who knew
about the matter before Broomall was
chosen last month said he thought the matter
was irrelevant.

The W&M and state inquiries probed
whether Broomall, the school’s vice presi-
dent for business affairs, had misdirected
funds the college received for the use of its
facilities during the 1983 Economic Summit
of Industrialized Nations in Williamsburg.

The school received about $345,000 for ser-
vices during the summit. Broomall’s inten-
tion to spend $38,000 of that on W&M office
renovations drew the attention of Virginia
Auditor of Public Accounts Charles K. Tri-

Less than $15.95

Nihilism comes cheaper, these days.

spent four weeks on the New

paperbound edition.

press run for the original edition.

almost exclusively students,
“recognize friends”’ in the book.

say

developed

said

 

 

Bret Easton Ellis’ ‘Less Than Zero,”’ which
York Times
bestseller list as a $15.95 hardback, now is
available in the University Bookstore in a $5.95

Penguin Books says it initially has printed
100,000 copies of the softback version; a Simon and
Schuster spokeswoman declined to reveal the

Susan A. LaRue, trade book manager for the
University Bookstore, said ‘“‘Less Than Zero’’ is
‘definitely the bestseller” of the year for the shop.

She said that since September, the store has sold
about 60 copies of the original edition, which is
“really unusual for a hardback book.’’ LaRue
ordered two dozen of the paperbacks, and since
they arrived last Thursday, half have been sold.

LaRue said many purchasers, who have been
that

LaRue said she read the book last fall because
she was curious about the following the book had

“I’m impressed that [the readers she’s talked
with] seem to understand it’s a tragic book,”’ she

ble. Expenditures in question included the
purchase of Broomall’s $1,254 chrome-trim
desk, a $698 chrome and leather chair and $49
in decorative pottery.

The internal audit, which Broomall re-
quested, found he had committed funds he
did not have the authority to use.

The Newport News Daily Press reported
that after the completion of the school audit
but before the exonerating state review, the
W&M board of visitors ‘‘chastised Broomall
for his handling of the matter and ap-
propriated private, non-state money to cover
the expenses he had authorized.”’

Broomall, who begins work at W&L on July
1, initially said this week that he was un-
willing to discuss the incident, but later said
that Virginia spending procedures were ‘‘not
precisely followed”’ in the matter.

“T tried to do something more expeditious-
ly than the bureaucracy would permit,’’ he
said, adding that as a result of the investiga-
tion he will be ‘more methodical with
money-spending in the future.”’

Broomall, 44, has been a higher-education
administrator for 16 years.

President John D. Wilson, who appointed
Broomall, and retiring treasurer E. Stewart

Rock, MTV and Costello mix
in Bret Ellis’ ‘Less Than Zero’

Epley, who participated in the selection pro-
cess, said on Tuesday that they had not heard
about the controversy over the summit
funds.

James M. Ballengee, rector of the W&L
Board of Trustees, said yesterday that he
was informed about the matter prior to
Broomall’s hiring, but did not find the infor-
mation important enough to pass on to
Wilson or Epley.

“It seemed so insignificant I didn’t even
bother to do anything about it,” Ballengee
said from his home in Bryn Mawr, Pa.

Ballengee, who participated in the selec-
tion of Broomall, said he has served twice in
government service and said he ‘‘can under-
stand when one gets frustrated with the gov-
ernment procedure.”

“It didn’t reflect on his character — it was
a matter of wanting to get the job done,”
Ballengee added. ‘It’s not like buying a
$1,000 commode seat for the Air Force.”

Wilson said yesterday that he didn’t know
whether he should have been informed of the
matter during the selection process.

“T don’t know what significance has been
attached to this by others,”’ he said. ‘‘From
what I know of, this isn’t a significant item.
I’m not going to second-guess it, nor am I go-

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Entertainment Editor

 

discarded. Let me explain.

narrator) Clay, returns to Los

they ships.

Hit song after hit song

 

See Zero, Page 4

 

 

Now that Bret Easton Ellis’ ‘‘Less Than Zero’’ has
made it to paperback, the true impact of this modern
study in nihilism can finally be gauged. This is the book
that demands to be purchased cheaply, read quickly and

Bret Ellis, at the ripe old age of 21, has become a
literary phenomenon in an alarmingly short time. In-
deed, he is something of a Rob Lowe of the literary world.
The instant success of ‘‘Less Than Zero”’ is more than fit-
ting for a book named after a pop song — Elvis Costello's
protest about Oswald Mosely and the National Front. The
tune’s chorus: ‘‘Everything means less than zero.”’

Elvis Costello, MTV and rock music are the primary
images Ellis uses to tell his disconcerting tale of rich
Beverly Hills teenagers. The main character (also the
Angeles on Christ-
mas break from an Eastern College. The two-week
vacation turns out to be a series of endless parties, co-
caine binges, pulsating tunes and crumbling relation-

The prose style is cold, detached and streamlined. Clay
views the world as a flowing stream of sensory images
and events. Nothing is commented upon, nothing is il-
luminated. Clay’s world is a barren landscape of pro-
ducers’ mansions, seedy rock clubs and all-night diners.
blares continually

in the

ing to second-guess the character of the man
we appointed.”

Wilson said that in discussing Broomall
with numerous W&M officials and staffers at
Colonial Williamsburg, ‘‘no one thought this
was significant enough to bring to our atten-
tion.”’

In discussing the 1984 Broomall matter,
Wilson at one point called it “‘the newspaper
thing.’’ Indeed, the charges and investiga-
tion attracted considerable attention in the
Daily Press, including three front-page
stories.

Broomall said yesterday that he ‘‘didn’t
think about’ informing Wilson or Epley
about the matter and said he had ‘‘no feel-
ings one way or the other’’ about whether
they should have been told.

“It didn’t occur to me that something that
old has any bearing on anything that would
come up now,”’ Broomall said, adding that he
would be “happy to provide my personal file
to Wilson or anyone else.”

Epley said on Tuesday that he was ‘‘com-
pleteiy unaware”’ of the investigation, and he
woud be ‘‘surprised’”’ if any of the other
members of the selection committee knew
about it.

The committee, composed of the school’s

 

    

deans and about 10 other staff members who
work regularly with the treasurer, interview-
ed five candidates for the job and then sub-
mitted evaluations to Wilson.

Epley said Wilson selected Broomall and
that the committee did not participate in the
actual choice beyond the candidate evalua-
tions.

Broomall said he had an “intermittent
working relationship’ and made ‘‘policy
decisions”’ with Wilson at Virginia Polytech-
nic Institute and State University in Blacks-
burg while Wilson was provost and Broomall
was budget director.

Associate Administration Professor Roger
A. Dean, a specialist in personnel manage-
ment, said it is standard practice for a
university president to hire people with
whom he has worked, and Wilson actually
has done that to a lesser degree than might
be expected.

Dean said he is “‘a little surprised’’ that
with the number of administrative posts that
have been filled in the last few years, the
treasurer’s job is the first to go to an ac-
quaintance of the president.

“This is the first person they’ve hired that
Wilson knew, so that probably had very little
to do withit,” he said.

Dunnavan
returns for
arraignment

 

By JIM STRADER
Editor

 

Former senior Roger L. Dunnavan
Jr. of Longwood, Fla., was arraigned
Monday morning on credit card theft
charges and released on a $2,000
bond.

Dunnavan, who was indicted May 5
by a Rockbridge County grand jury,
turned himself in to Lexington police
Monday, according to Police Chief
L.O. Sutton.

Dunnavan was sought by police for
several weeks as a suspect in an in-
vestigation they were conducting in-
volving the attempted use of a credit
card in early April to withdraw $1,800
from a local bank.

Dunnavan withdrew from Wash-
ington and Lee on April 29, according
to University Registrar D. Scott Ditt-
man.

Commonwealth's Attorney Bever-
ly C, “John” Read, who asked for the
indictments on charges of credit card
theft and attempted grand larceny,
said Tuesday that the case is ‘‘very
serious.”’

Dunnavan is scheduled to appear
in Rockbridge County Circuit Court
on June 25 to plead to the charges.

 

 

 

28 eRe ROEDER Renae emer REY BFE pn, fey aoe sor
|

OPINION
Leaky drips,

The recent uproar over the reporting by an NBC News cor-
respondent of a sensitive intelligence gathering operation in
the Soviet Union reminds us a bit of the foofaraw over report-
ing of open honor trials. In these parallel situations, both
sides need to learn certain lessons.

One would hardly expect such brazen behavior out of the
NBC studios, given their ‘“‘Home-on-the-range in South
Dakota’ anchorman, Tom Brokaw. But nearly two weeks
ago, his evening broadcast featured an exclusive interview
with the terrorist who supposedly masterminded the Achille
Lauro hijacking last summer and who is wanted by four
countries, including the United States. The NBC reporter who
conducted the interview, London correspondent Henry
Champ, refused to disclose in which city he had interviewed
Aboul Abbas and when he had done so.

Criticism was swift for NBC; were they not patriotic, or did
they just want to be pawns of a terrorist, giving him more
publicity for his war on the United States?

Just as the dust was settling over the Abbas incident, along
came Jim Polk, correspondent for Brokaw’s morning count-
erpart, the ‘‘Today”’ show. In a story dealing with the trial of
Ronald Pelton, the National Security Agency code genius
charged with espionage, Polk detailed a sensitive in-
telligence gathering operation called ‘‘Ivy Bells’’ that used
U.S. submarines and high-tech listening devices to spy on the
Soviets from their own harbors. This story, over which Cen-
tral Intelligence Agency Director William Casey had
threatened The Washington Post with a court injunction and
criminal prosecution earlier in the week, was effectively
broadcast to nearly 9 million viewers. So much for the ‘‘Top
Secret” classification. .

Casey’s disenchantment with the media is understandable.
He had met with Post officials earlier in the month and
carefully outlined his objections to certain ‘“‘sen-
sitive’’ stories The Post and other publications had recently
featured. His penchant for secrecy demands careful adher-
ence to a strict set of publishing guidelines. His — and Presi-
dent Reagan’s and Secretary of State George Schultz’s —
hatred of the few disenchanted CIA or State Department or
National Security Council staffers who continually supply the
press with classified reports or information is well-
documented. Wednesday’s editions of The Post included a
watered-down version of the controversial article, along with
a story of the introspection The Post had undergone in
deciding to publish the few, scant facts.

In a way, we see the suit Casey filed Tuesday against Polk
and NBC News as a long overdue ‘‘check”’ of press abuses.
NBC seemed to tip its hat to Casey while talking out of the
other side ot its mouth. The ‘‘catch-me-if-you-dare”’ attitude
is dangerous, especially in the press, given its preeminent
role in shaping today’s policies and public opinion. Some
matters are simply not for general public consumption,
despite the belief that ‘‘the people have a right to know.”

How true. And yet, when placing the same situation within
the context of the Washington and Lee community, certain
troubling parallels can be drawn.

Consider the well-documented case of a certain open honor
trial last fall. A senior charged with stealing had his case
reported on the front page of this paper, and in this column,
we decried the jury’s verdict, telling specifically why we
would have arrived at a different verdict given the same in-
formation. Did we consider it daring at that time? Not par-
ticularly. Would we do it again? Not necessarily.

That seems like a ‘‘gray’’ answer. Yet, the knowledge at
that time was community knowledge, and to stop the spread
of rumors and half-truths that usually proliferate when the
lights in the EC room burn past midnight, we published some
of the facts of the case and even an interview with the defen-
dant.

But as with the CIA and NBC News, the EC pounced upon
the Phi reporting as contrary to the Honor System tenet that
no knowledge of such affairs go beyond the W&L community.
No hanging out the dirty laundry. Some matters people just
don’t have to know nor do they have a right to know. It is a
private matter, after all.

So, we reformed our ways. But we still hear lots of informa-
tion, rumors and half-truths about honor matters, thanks to
an abundance of loose tongues. Like disenchanted or publici-
ty-seeking government employees, some EC members and
the student witnesses or accused involved in any given honor
investigation have, in the past, talked a little too much.

So when we hear of a case, what do we do? After last fall’s
fiasco, we settled on a policy with the EC not to divulge such
information. We would try to keep the ‘‘details’’ out of the
paper, although no provision — outside of the White Book
stipulation that all matters are considered highly confiden-
tial — was made to stem the flow of EC gossip about the mat-
ters.

It all leads us to wonder who is right in the two situations.
The NBC action certainly borders on irresponsibility, but
that is only a symptom of the far greater illness called
‘“Jeaks” that has taken Washington and other political
societies in epidemic proportions in recent years.

The best way to prevent our getting the information is to
keep the flow to a minimum. At the same time, the press
needs to learn to say ‘‘no’’ every so often, especially when we
may be unable to judge the ‘‘sensitivity’’ of the piece.

 

Py =
Che Ring-tum Phi

NEWS STAFF

a I ions i I eect a oie Mike Allen

re re Paul Foutch
Jim Strader

WI RIND oak oe sicc chee dcesccccssecsceaden ec seenens Reade Williams

oo ee Oe Mike Stachura

RT os bas GAGS ri i ea Jason Lisi

Photography Editer.........ccccscccesccveccccseceveceecerene eeees Perry S. Hayes

MI TI oii cbse rdieseees ceeecicieeses as Marshall Boswell

Fn RR re ee David Emrich

EDITORIAL PAGE

BPOPNRT PGS OME ons i icc cc tccccsscccccecesteccsseccccss NOMEN IGLED

Assistant Editorial Page Editor....................00c0eeee00++0e++.Marie Kothman

TI PER s ice vice ssiieedsset in ccidecives nis Chris Bowring

BUSINESS STAFF

BD ANI i Wackness is Jeff Kimbell

Be ok i GIR Gs as es . Hank Greenberg

es Oe John Feyver, Keri Hinrichs,

Jay Reville, Greg Turley
Circulation Manager ...... beeen ee eeeececeecencecereeteseceeeerees Matt Horridge

 

The Ring-tum Phi, May 22, 1986

 

 

 

  

OKAY, LET'S
TRY IT AGAIN.

    

 

 

     
     
 

YOU HAVEN'T SEEN MANY OF THOSE
STORIES LATELY AgouT How) STAR WARS
PESEARCH IS GOING FAR BETTER THAN
ANYONE DARED IMAGINE .

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE IMPORTANT DART, THE CONTRACT
DISTRIBUTION PART, IS PROCEEDING APACE.

 

 

 

Tired of mayonnaise
and white bread?

 

MY VIEW

By Steven Pockrass

 

Woody Allen removed a crucifix
and a portrait of Jesus from the
brown paper bag. He reached in
again and pulled out a loaf of Wonder
Bread.

“Oh no,”’ I said. ‘‘Now he’s going to
pull out a jar of mayonnaise.”’

Right-o-stein. In ‘‘Hannah and Her
Sisters,’ Allen committed the ulti-
mate act of conversion from Judaism
to Christianity by purchasing THE
goyish (i.e., Gentile) sandwich com-
bination. New York Jews do not eat
white bread and mayonnaise, not
because it’s not kosher, but because
it’s not part of the culture.

I was the only one in the theater
that night who understood the joke,
but that’s understandable. It’s not
easy being a Jew in Lexington.

As a. Jew, you're asked to explain
Woody Allen movies and to make
crucial decisions, such as whether
day-old bagels should be toasted to
maintain their freshness. The first
day of classes falls on your holiest of
holidays. When you explain that Jews
don’t believe Jesus was the son of
God,‘ you’re asked if you’re a
heathen.

It’s almost as bad as when you’re
away from W&L and the person tak-
ing your check scrunches up his or
her eyebrows and gives you one of
those ‘‘and what white supremist
group do you belong to?” kind of
looks, It’s not easy being a Jew out-
side of Lexington with that swastika-
like W&L symbol on your checks.

Living in the United States, I’ve
been exposed to Christianity all my
life. But just as I’d gained a basic
knowledge of Christianity, I thought
that college students and facuity
would have developed a general un-
derstanding of Judaism.

Wrong-o-witz. The New York
Times recently reported that four out
of five Americans have never tried
bagels. Not to say that these hard,
doughnut-shaped breads will impart
unto you any substantive Talmudic
knowledge, but they beat the mayon-
naise off white bread, especially with
lox and cream cheese.

I can understand the ignorance,
though. I used to think bagels and
doughnuts were the same thing until
I got that ‘‘and what Jewish suprem-
ist group are you a member of”’ look
when I ordered an ‘‘onion’”’ doughnut
as a tot in Jew Joisey. It’s not always
easy being Jewish there, either.

I don’t mind answering questions
about my beliefs or about Lexing-
ton’s first Bat Mitzvah, which was
held last month in Lee Chapel. I do
worry that the small number of Jews
with a Jewish identity on this campus
reinforces the seeming belief among
some people that all the world is
Christian. I am especially troubled
Jewish identity on this campus rein-
forces the seeming belief among
some people that all the world is
Christian. I am especially troubled
because Judaism is not just a reli-
gion, but a culture and a heritage
that is on the brink of extinction due
to assimilation and intermarriage.

In this WASPy world known as
W&L, don’t we have an obligation to
help people gain an appreciation for
other religions and cultures? If so,
our administration needs to set the
tone for getting more Jews here. And
we students must make an effort to
learn more about religions other than
our own, by taking classes and by in-
teracting with people of other faiths.

You might even order your next
Co-op sandwich on rye bread with
mustard and a kosher dill on the side.
See if you don’t get one of those “‘are
you sure you don’t want white bread
and mayonnaise?”’ looks. It’s one of
the perils of being a Jew in good ‘ol
Metrolex.

2

 

Way beyond zero: _—
A senior looks back |

 

By MIKE ALLEN
Executive Editor

“Have a nice life,’’ the women’s-
college tease chirped as she left our
house a few Sundays ago, shoulder-
ing an over-weekend bag that looked
vaguely like something Lands’ End
would sell if it were a boutique.

Her comment was a little discon-
certing — I hadn’t heard that phrase
since ‘‘Grad Nite’’ at Disneyland four
years ago, when hugs, handshakes
and “‘good riddances”’ were dispens-
ed amid ‘The Pirates of the Carib-
bean,”’ ‘‘The Matterhorn” and ‘‘Fan-
tasyland.”’

The same painful process is com-
ing up in a few weeks, but this time it
will be different. We won’t just be
saying goodbye to friends; we’ll be
bidding farewell to what we are told
were the best years of our lives.
Grudgingly, I believe that; it can’t
get better than this.

This summer, I read a column a
guy had written after seeing “St.
Elmo’s Fire.’’ He talked about the
fact that when we’re in college, we
feel that we and our buddies will
never just be ‘normal people.”’

It’s hard to imagine, for example,
not being able to on the spur of the
moment have a midnight pizza with
Brandt, a quick beer with Rick or an
off-the-wall conversation with Matt.
It'll be weird not being able to go
downstairs and shoot the bull with
John or call and wake up Ned for
Saturday lunch.

We're rapidly careening into the
world of schedules, commitments
—and distance. ‘Reality shock,”
they call it in business-admin-
istration classes. And we’re supposed
to be celebrating.

On the front page this week, we
have a review of ‘‘Less Than Zero,”
the haunting, hip-L.A.-youth novel in
which nobody connects — they’re all
afraid to merge. Around here, just
the opposite is the case: You wind up
being extremely dependent on other
people, mainly because they’re
always there.

That’s especially true with mem-
bers of your fraternity, the people
who’ve known you at your best and
worst — and still speak to you.
They’ve seen you with bedhead and
dressed for formals, have a seeming-
ly encyclopedic recall of your suc-
cesses and failures with women, and
know all your foulups, bleeps and
blunders in excruciating detail.

In this world of appearances and
false fronts, it’s been cathartic for
me to have a group of people from
whom nothing is hidden, and who
probably know me better than I know
myself.

One of my regrets about the past
social setup around here is, along
with aesthetics, one of the primary
benefits of coeducation. At Christ-
mas, while I was watching ‘‘The Big
Chill’’ for the 50th time, it occurred to
me that when our gang gets together
in a few years, there won’t be any
Karens, Megs or Sarahs.
Something’s missing there.

As a senior, the main focus is on
where you’re going; it seems healthy
to take a momentary look back at
where you’ve been. Here’s some of
what comes to mind:

eA lingering doubt is about the
value system that’s the norm for us
around here. In my more naive days,
I used to think that “‘If it feels good,
do it” was a joke — a hyperbolic

LETTERS

Readers ask U.Va. critics to look homeward}

A letter of apology to the University of

young people. Around here, though,
it’s the 11th commandment. Tha!
bothers me.

Several of us recently havé
discussed our growing realization
that the “get laid, get wasted’ for
mula for nirvana seems to have lost 4
little something. Somehow, drinking
bourbon until you throw up just
doesn’t have the same charm it use

slogan grownups concocted to 7

experienced it, that depravity and
decadence could actually be boring
— and ultimately unsatisfying’

*I’ve learned a lot about the subtle
ways that we influence each other, {
both positively and negatively.

On the plus side, I’ve seen an Honor
System that, to the degree it fune-
tions, does so largely because of @
unique form of peer pressure. * ®
believe it was Mike McAlevey who |
first offered the thesis that people *
around here don’t cheat because it's
not cool to; I think he’s largely CF |
rect — and hope it stays that way. On
another matter, an administrator
noted the other day that the environ-
ment here promotes civility to the
point that even students who violent-
ly disagree with him are never |
theless “unfailingly polite” in doing
so

to.
But who would believe, had he no!
¢
5

On the down side, I’ve come to
realize that the elitist notions many 9
of us possess when we come here are
reinforced to an alarming degree. A
prospective student who missed §.
lacrosse practice at one of Philadel- ¥
phia’s top prep schools to toodle down
here in his 900S a few weekends ago
was aghast at how snobbish and
harsh we are. That’s a bad sign. |
Although you’d never know it from
listening to a lot of conversations
around here, there surely are worse
things in the world than blends and
fake Vuarnets. They don’t come to
mind, but I’ll take it on faith thatF
they’re out there.

When you’re little, they teach youF:
to treat others the way you want to be
treated in return. That’s probably’
good advice as far as it goes, but it’s
a bit simplistic and not very pra
tical. Around here, I’ve discoverea/
that people generally are treated the ’
way they expect to be regarded. It’sh
easy to see with women: Some ex
pect to be treated as your equal,c!
some as your superior, and others ex
pect to be abused — and are rarelyvi
disappointed. I’ve notice among bothh
men and-women I’ve met in the las
four years that winners know theyr
are and project it; the weak and
unstable telegraph their character
just as clearly.

eDespite what we’re taught in col
lege about rational-decision theory)
and so forth, I’ve discovered that the
“no guts, no glory” approach to life is
the one taken by most successful peo
ple, whether it involves choices isp’!
their career, investments or relationti:
ships. Although I admit to reserva
tions about this philosophy when ap
plied indiscriminately to foreigr
policy, as a guide for personal deci h
sions I think it’s generally sound, |

After four years, I can graph sup}
ply and demand, discuss the strucfP
ture of political systems and tell yo
a little about diplomatic history. It’{hé
for the less tangible lessons, thoughP*
that Washington and Lee has been in:
valuable. r

“Have a nice life.” ce

If the last four years are any i’
dication.... ps

   
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
  
 
  
  
   
   
 
  
   
  
 
  
  
 
  

he

eee

 

Virginia:

In response to your letter following the Univer-
sity of Virginia-Washington and Lee lacrosse
game on March 22, we grant your demand and
send our sincerest apologies for our behavior.
We have no excuse for the ‘deplorable in-
cidents” you described. For our part, we
apologize to the university community and re-
quest your forgiveness. For your part, however,
we wish to call attention to certain phrasing in
your letter we feel is hypocritical and entirely
uncalled for. To do this, we compare ‘‘the worst
afternoon of your lives’ to a similar event, a
U.Va. football game.

As U.Va. students, you surely have attended
football games at Scott Stadium and witnessed
the behavior of the student section. Despite the
attempted regulation of alcoholic beverages
within the stadium, we recall seeing a large
number of flasks and quite a few ‘‘extremely
drunken, obnoxious young men.’’Perhaps that is
why Scott Stadium has such a section, to
separate such behavior and thereby prevent it
from creating ‘‘an unforgettable inpression of
your university.” Or does separation justify such
behavior?

Secondly, in regard to parents with children in
the crowd, they ‘‘no doubt receive a wonderful
and enlightening education” from the U.Va.
Marching Pep Band at halftime. Members of
your university will forever defend the antics of
the infamous Pep Band, but how can one defend
a group that mocks the discipline of the U.S.
Naval Academy Marching Band, taunts the lack
of birth control on the campus of West Virginia
University, or depicts the use of drug parapher-
nalia for a chemistry project on the grounds of
its own University” We cui iaiuiy do not wanl vu
children receiving such an education.

 

Finally, in regard to the verbal abuse and
“certain four-letter words,’ we ask Mr. Hogan
and Mr. Sandridge if they have ever attended a
game at Scott Stadium (or anywhere) in which
similar verbal abuse was not used? We feel that
such behavior is no way to judge ‘‘the breadth of
one’s learning.” If it is indeed a veritable com-
parison, where does your university stand?

We are not attempting to justify our behavior
on March 22; we sincerely apologize for those ac-
tions you found offensive. However, we suggest
that in the future, if you are going to speak for
the whole university, you exercise better judg-
ment in your condemnations.

E.G. Allen
Class of 1988
Don Thayer
Class of 1988

Reader decries ego
of senior columnist

To the editors:

I wish that for just one time you could stand in-
side my shoes,
You'd know what a drag it is to see you.
—Bob Dylan
I thought that by the time a person was a
senior at Washington and Lee he would under-
stand that his peers have outgrown the rather
childish habit of making rash generalizations
and inane statements concerning his fellow
students. In reading last week’s ‘‘My View,” the
humorous way the article had been written in the
past seemed to be thrown aside and in its place
were petty comments of a person seeking some

sort of vendetta. Basically, does not the autho!
frei a better to say? The man is a

nglish major, a Phi Beta Kappa, supposed!
one of the best-educated and belahieet potent
on campus but he has nothing humorous nor e
lightening to say but to be caustic. The artic!
was as obnoxious as possible; I guess he used a
his English major facilities to prove he ha
learned how to use polysyllabic dialect, I don’
want to mention the name of the author of t
May 8 “My View”’ because seeing his name iit
print seems to add to his already obese eg
enough so he feels far enough above everyong
else that he can pass judgment on his peers. |
that is all the author has gained from spendin
four years at W&L, then he has definitely waste
many professors’ time,

    
 
 
   
    
   
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
   
    
  
   

William F. Jones Jr
Class of '86

Trio regrets lax manners |”
To the editors: |

In respose to the April 24th letter written b
Mr. Hogan and Mr. Goagen and Mr. Sandridgfe
along with the wishes of the Student Contrd ~
Committee, we would like to apologize for our aq
tions during the Washington and Lee Universit
of Virginia lacrosse game on March 22. 0
behavior was not intended to insult anyone, big °
nevertheless we would like to offer our since.”
apologies to anyone who was offended. a

Michael Buttaraz4 ve

Class of 198F, &
Lester Co

Class of 198§

Don Thaye s

Class of 1 bi

 

—!"!
|

NEWS

The Ring-tum Phi, May 22, 1986

 

vontract
jlan to end

ANIEL BUNCH
Reporter

 

  

dhanges in the General Head-
 @rters tavern next year will in-
, We an end to the policy allowing

Bing hall contract patrons and
 Shmen to eat for free in the GHQ,
_ danend to the sale of beer in pitch-

$ during Wednesday night con-

= ervices Director Gerald J.
) iFrell said this week that the first
| ange has been caused by the limit-
) Capability of the GHQ kitchen in
> # face of the great success of the

Ba

et
we
eal

cs

We Created a monster,” Darrell

e other change will occur
eause of “‘a problem down there
N underage people drinking
- @,” Darrell said.
- I combat the problem, beer will
Z perved one glass at a time and the
ent Activities Board, which runs
0 2 ‘Wednesday Night in the GHQ”
y Ows, will be given money to hire
e pple to patrol the crowd to make
\ Fe no underage students are drink-
dg.
- Phe new Virginia drinking age of 21
n pet into effect in July, prompting
ofrell to change the focus of the
d
.

i

1
r
2

Pe

ern — then called the Cockpit

om a beer tavern toa restaurant.
n With that change came the policy
s Pwing dining hall patrons — those
e; contract and those using point
dfds — to eat their meals in the
ofQ in order to offset falling beer
tS.

he contract plan had to be stop-
u8, Darrell said, because the tavern
eb Serving “up to 150 dinners a
yuit, and we couldn't get food out of
e kitchen ‘
( } said he has asked the Universi-
money to expand the kitchen,
1 Was turned down.
‘she underage drinking problem
x4 arisen even though the SAB
cf customers’ ages at the door

   

xi bartenders check them before
lwing beer, Darrell said.

ththe GHQ hasn’t had any problems
Sh the Alcoholic Beverage Control
rd this year, Darrell said.

think they realize we made

   
  
 

 

   

Sunshine

Freshman Alexa Salzman of Atlanta takes in some sun-
shine on the Colonnade recently. Sunbathing activities

this weekend.

By Steve Sadler /The Calyx

will be coming to a halt soon, as showers are predicted

SATs rise for
Class of 1990

By PETER BOATNER
Staff Reporter

 

The average SAT scores of high
school seniors coming to W&L next
year are 13 points higher than this
year’s freshman class, according to
Director of Admissions William M.
Hartog.

Potential students offered admis-
sion for next year had average SAT
scores of 590 verbal and 630 math, for
a total of 1220. Freshmen this year
had SAT averages of 580 verbal and
617 math, for a total of 1197.

The University received 2,417 ap-
plications for admission to next
year’s freshman class and accepted
892, or 37 percent. So far, eight people
from the waiting list have been of-
fered admission, as opposed to 41
people from the waiting list last year.

Last year, W&L had 2,639 ap-
plicants. This year’s total is down 8
percent from last year, but Hartog
pointed out that this is not because of
declining interest in W&L, but
because the Admissions Office has
made an effort this year not to en-
courage applicants who have slim
chances of being accepted.

The number of visitors to W&L has
doubled in the last two years, and the
number of contacts from potential
applicants has increased significant-
ly, Hartog said.

Of the 892 offered admission, 650
are men and 242 are women. Six are
minorities. Of these students, 425
have confirmed their admission by

sending in their $250 deposit. May 1
was the deadline for confirming.

The University has a goal of 410
students for the class of 1990, with a
composition of 290 men and 120
women. So far, 304 men and 121
women have confirmed. Past ex-
perience has shown that enough
students will change their minds over
the summer that the numbers will be
down within the guidelines by
September, Hartog noted.

Seventy-one of the incoming
freshmen held major student offices
in high school, 103 were captains of
varsity sports teams and 43 were
editors of their school publications.

Next year’s class has an average
class rank in the 81st percentile, com-
pared with this year’s 82nd percen-
tile. Sixty percent are from public
schools and 40 percent are from
private schools.

“What we have is a class that has
demonstrated excellence in and out
of the classroom .... We had a really
outstanding year. We were totally
surprised by the yield,”’ Hartog said.

“The real determining factor will
be three or four years down the road,
when this class has had a chance to
prove itself at W&L.”’

The class of 1990 will come from 34
states and the District of Columbia.
as well as four foreign countries.
Virginia is the home of 62 of the
students.

Next year’s freshman class con-
sists of 46 sons and 18 daughters of
alumni.

Sororities won’t come to W&L until 1988-89

By CLARE KAYE
Staff Reporter

 

Washington and Lee’s Greek com-
munity may expand next year with
the addition of sororities. Word of
their possible development has been
circulating around campus for sev-
eral months, including conflicting ac-

- counts of the actual steps being taken

to make sororities a reality at W&L.
Freshman Caroline Boone of Hous-
ton says she has worked closely with

Associate Dean of Students Anne
C.P. Schroer and the Greek Commit-
tee of the ‘Women’s Forum to exa-
mine the possibility of sororities as
an alternative for women in upcom-
ing years.

“Sororities will offer women the
opportunity to pull together and ac-
tively participate in the social life
here by sponsoring parties with the
fraternities and as separate groups,”
Boone said.

Representatives of 13 national sor-
orities have contacted the University

about the possibility of colonization
on campus. Kappa Alpha Theta, Del-
ta Delta Delta, Beta Pi Phi and Kap-
pa Kappa Sigma are some of the bet-
ter known sororities included in this
list that have shown strong interest in
establishing chapters here. Research
is being conducted to find out more
about each sorority and how they
might be beneficial to Washington:
and Lee. ;
From the original list of 13 soro®
rities, five or six chapters will be in-
vited to visit W&L to make presenta-

tions to women students next fall.
The women’s interest will play a ma-
jor role in determining whether soro-
rities will be accepted or rejected
here, as a social outlet for women,
Boone said. If the women show in-
terest in the institution of sororities,
a rush will be initiated during winter
term next year.

Actual colonization of recognized
national chapters will not take place
until the 1988-89 school year. The
establishment of sorority houses, will

not be an issue until that time.

President John D. Wilson, Dean of
Students Lewis G. John and the Inter-
fraternity Council all have ap-
proved the steps taken so far toward
sorority colonization and develop-
ment. The real test now, of the
sororities acceptance, will come
from the male majority’s reaction in
the W&L community, Boone said.

“ think that it is important that the
men realize that we are not trying to
hurt W&L’s fraternity system or take
over their houses,” Boone explained.

 

inv TEVEN POCKRASS
ntial to The Phi

 

 

en the seven-school exchange program
hich Washington and Lee participates
begun early in the 1970s, one of its key
isions was that host schools would not
Ppt exchange students as transfers.

BI
Cl

; hat rule was reaffirmed last Thursday at
exchange officers’ meeting at Hollins Col-
np, but it should in no way affect the status
ree exchange students who have recent-
considered transfering, according to

iate Dean of the College Pamela H.
pson.

e of these students, Randolph-Macon
an’s College junior Elise Gaston, has
allowed to apply to W&L because of
misinformation she received from an
C dean. Gaston, 21, completed her
fer application during spring vacation

yesterday.

A second student, Marguerite Ayers, a
Hollins College sophomore, is withdrawing
from that school and plans to attend Col-
orado University in her hometown of Boulder
this fall. By leaving Hollins, Ayers will be
allowed to apply for transfer toW&L.

“T think the cases were pretty well decid-
ed’’ before the meeting, Simpson said. ‘Elise
has been allowed to apply. Marguerite plans
to sever her connection by applying to
another school.’”’

Although she will not be a Hollins student
when she applies to W&L, Ayers has express-
ed fears that her participation in the ex-
change program still will work against her.
Simpson said it won’t.

“] think her application will be considered
totally on its own merits,” Simpson said.
“My own personal feeling is that what
Marguerite’s going through is not something
most students would normally do.”

Ayers’ case closely parallels that of
Kathleen Plante, a junior dormitory
counselor who transferred to W&L from
Hollins after participating in the exchange
program from January to December 1984.

Plante had no intention of returning to
Hollins and withdrew from that school before
applying to W&L. She was not enrolled at any
school between January and September 1985,
although she did receive some academic
credit for independent work that she did
while on a six-month trip to Japan. Both she
and Ayers said one of the major reasons they
wanted to transfer was because Hollins did
not offer majors in their fields of interest.

Plante also received permission from the
presidents of both schools to transfer.

A previous case in which presidential per-
mission came into play was mentioned in a

background discussion of the exchange pro-
gram, presented by David W. Holmes,
associate dean for student academic affairs
at Hollins.

Holmes said he remembered a woman
from R-MWC transfering to Hollins after be-
ing an exchange student. Paula J. Wallace,
associate dean of students at R-MWC, said in
an interview that she thought a second stu-
dent might have transfered to Randolph-
Macon College in Ashland.

Simpson said one of the main reasons for
the non-transfer agreement was to prevent
home institutions from losing their best
students.

W&L has similar exchange agreements
with Chung Chi College of the Chinese
University of Hong Kong, Rikkyo University
in Tokyo and the Kansai University of
Foreign Studies near Kyoto, Japan, said
Roger B. Jeans Jr., an associate professor of
history and director of East Asian Studies at
W&L.

Jeans said a student from Chung Chi had
asked about transfering to W&L earlier this
year. Jeans wrote to Chung Chi on her behalf
and said he received a ‘‘crystal clear

eaffirmation of exchange rule won’t affect applicants

but had not heard back from W&L as of

answer”’ from officials there that exchange
students had a moral obligation to return.

W&L has received one or two exchange
students from Chung Chi every year since
1973, and the transfer question arises every
few years, Jeans said.

Simpson and Holmes expressed positive
feelings about their meeting, which also was
attended by exchange officers from R-MWC,
Hampden-Sydney College, Sweet Briar Col-
lege and Randolph-Macon College in
Ashland. Mary Baldwin College, the seventh
member of the exchange group, was not
represented at the meeting.

Simpson said all the officers in attendance
affirmed their belief in the rule and agreed
on the need to counsel students to make them
better aware of the non-transfer provision
and other alternatives to transfering. She
also said that exchange applications would
be altered to make it clear that by par-
ticipating in the program, students would
forfeit the opportunity to transfer,

taff Reports

 

Sydney Lewis, founder
and president of Best Pro-
ducts Co., will deliver the
address at commencement
exercises of the Washing-
ton and Lee School of Law
on Sunday, May 25.

The ceremony will be
held at 2:30 p.m. on the
lawn in front of the Presi-
dent's House. In the event
of rain, the ceremony will
be moved to Warner Cen-
“A ter.

j W&L expects to award

juris doctor degrees to 114
third-year students.
SYDNEY LEWIS A 1940 alumnus, Lewis
iso attended W&L’s School of Law, the Harvard
raduate School of Business Administration, and the
éorge Washington School of Law. A generous benefac-
br, Lewis and his wife, Frances, donated $9 million in
72 for construction of the Lewis Hall, which houses
/&L’s law school. Lewis is a trustee emeritus.

Lewis founded Best Products, the nation’s largest dis-
punt catalog showroom merchandiser, in 1951. He also

i served as vice president of New Standard
ublishing Co,
a

    
  
  
   
 
 

 

NEWS BRIEFS

Lewis has served as a trustee of the Hirshon Museum
in Washington, the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts, the
Institute of Contemporary Art in Philadelphia, and
Virginia Union Universitv.

Washington and Lee will award its undergraduate
degrees during commencement exercises on June 5.

Photographer focuses on W&L

Students wondering about the helicopter buzzing the
Colonnade last week need not worry that the campus
was under attack. The helicopter was under the direc-
tion of William Strode, a Pulitzer Prize-winning
photographer.

Strode and his company, Harmony House Publishers
of Louisville, are preparing a large, case-bound and
dust-jacketed coffee-table book on Washington and Lee.
The book is part of Harmony House’s ‘American Col-
lege Series”’ that has already featured detailed looks at
Centre College, the University of the South, the Univer-
sity of South Carolina and Rhodes College.

Strode — a regular contributor to National Geograph-
ic, Town & Country, Time, Life, and other publications
worldwide — began his photography work at W&L last
summer and will continue through commencement ex-
ercises next month. Selected passages from W&L’s
literary ard social past and rare old photographs from
the University’s archives will accompany Strode’s
photographs.

The book, to be published in time for Christmas 1986,

will be officially announced to alumni in October and
November. Pians are underway to have the book avail-
able in bookstores throughout Virginia and the South by
early December.

Professor to be keynote speaker

Tom L. Beauchamp, professor of philosophy and
senior research scholar at Georgetown. University’s
Kennedy Institute of Ethics, will be the keynote speaker
for Washington and Lee’s annual Medical Ethics In-
stitute on Friday.

Beauchamp’s lecture is titled “Is There a Right to
Health Care?” It will be presented at 8 p.m. in
Classroom E of Lewis Hall. The lecture is free and open
to the public.

The Medical Ethics Institute is part of W&L’s pro-
gram in applied ethics, ‘‘Society and the Professions,”
The three-day institute will involve students, faculty,
physicians, and other specialists in health care areas in
a series of seminars and discussions of case studies.

Science papers read at JMU

Washington and Lee students and faculty were well
represented at the 64th annual meeting of the Virginia
Academy of Science. The meeting was held May 13-16 at
James Madison University in Harrisonburg,

Seniors Shawn Harvey, John McCaffrey, Michael
Blackwood and Joe Whelan, juniors Chris Talley, Mark
Whiteford, John Carder and Jett Mandak and sopno-

Best Products founder to address Law School graduates

more Brian Haggerty joined professors James K. Shil-
lington and Michael A. Pleva in presenting three papers
in the chemistry section.

Senior Jim Sperka teamed with Professor George S.
Whitney to present a paper in the chemistry section.
Whitney also presented a paper individually in the
same section.

Senior Barry Funkhouser and Professor David Elmes
presented a paper in the psychology section. Senior
John-Paul Bouffard and junior Andrew Tartaglione
joined Elmes and Professor Joseph B. Thompson in
presenting a psychology paper.

Senior Lester Johnson, junior John Carder, Bouffard,
Talley and Mandak joined Professor Leonard E. Jar-
rard in presenting three different papers in the
psychology division.

James Knox of the biology department made a
presentation in the biology section.

Visiting professor to give lecture

Christopher Pelling, visiting professor of English,
will deliver a public lecture Tuesday at 4 p.m. in Room
21 of Payne Hall.

The lecture is titled “Biography: Ancient and
Modern” and is open to the public. A reception will
follow.

Pelling is a fellow and praelector in classics at
University College, Oxford.

Pelling’s presentation is the sixth in a series of
seminars sponsored by the English department.

 

 

<DEL LE LEAL LLC

SR eS ae tes ad ater ere

 
é Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, May 22, 1986

=
I
t
i

s
=

a et ot

1

]
(

é

{

] :

 

Movie about
pornography

attracts 250

By MARGUERITE AYERS
Staff Reporter

 

 

 

 

By JASON LISI
News Editor

 

 

Students sell
pro-coed shirt

sale for $8 at the beginning of spring’
term and almost all of the 127 shirts,
made are now sold out.

 

Senior Lou Mondello, who owns 4’

» The old cliche ‘sex sells’ proved
its validity last Thursday evening,
when about 250 people packed Nor-
then Auditorium to see a documen-
tary on pornography and participate
in a two-hour post-film discussion.

“Not A Love Story’’ wasn’t the
Jatest Student Activities Board
revenue-raiser, and it wasn't produc-
ed to be viewed by a howling group of
fraternity brothers throwing beer
‘cans at the explicit scenes on the
screen.

Instead, the film portrayed por-
nography as a social problem with
pervasive influence that a faculty
panel said needs to be recognized as
something other than a source of
entertainment.

One of the panelists, W&L Law

| :Professor Andrew W. McThenia Jr.,

|

said the film relayed its message on

‘ “very disturbing and fundamental

levels.”

‘ “It was a gut-wrenching movie
‘that produced a period of audience
silence when it ended,’ McThenia
said.

Another member of the panel,
University Counseling Psychologist
James W. Worth, said pornography
tends to bring about a desensitization
toward the personal aspects of sex,
and ‘“‘sends bad messages about how
men and women are sexual with one
another.”’

McThenia said people sometimes
attempt to detach themselves from
the people on the screen in these
movies, failing to acknowledge that
the subject matter pertains to them

as well.

Psychology Professor Nancy A.
Margand, another member of the
panel, said men are the main con-
sumers of pornography. This raised
several questions from the audience
about the different perceptions men
and women have about sex, and why
a magazine such as Playgirl has a
lower circulation than many of its
“‘male magazine’’ counterparts.

The exploitation of women that
Margand said is persistent in this

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi
Left to right, Novack, McThenia, Worth, Schroer and Margand discuss the film

 

subject matter creates misconcep-
tions about gender and sexual
dominance.

The discussion, McThenia said,
showed ‘“‘an attitude change by and
large among the males in the au-
dience who came to affirm por-
nography as a degrading product.”

Other issues raised in the discus-
sion included the violence prevalent
in pornography and the debate over
censorship of films and other
materials.

Although the decision to make
Washington and Lee a co-educational
institution has been criticized on
bumperstickers, and the idea that
“the roadtrip continues”’ is announc-
ed on T-shirts, four W&L students
now are selling a T-shirt with a pro-
coed slogan.

The shirts are white with blue let-
tering and read ‘“W&L Women...
Quality Doesn’t Need to Travel.”

‘“‘We came up with the idea in fun
and thought it was time for a pro-
coed T-shirt,” said freshman Jenny
Bray, who said she has sold the shirt
to male and female members of the
student body and the faculty.

Reaction to the shirt has been very
good, according to Bray. “I think a
lot of people have enjoyed it and very
much felt that it was about time for
that shirt,’ she said. “It makes a
statement, but a fun statement.”’

She said the idea came about after
she and a group of friends were jok-
ing about the anti-coed slogans on
campus last term. The shirts went on

shirt that reads “W&L Class of ‘96 ,
The Last Class With Balls,’’ said he
likes seeing a shirt with a different*
point of view. ¥
“After all the stuff that guys have
put about the girls, I think it’s prett;‘'
good that someone had the guts to put,
something like that out,’ he said.

-
Senior Ted LeClercq, who helped _,
fund the project and sells the shirt,"
said he’s glad he is involved. j
“It’s a shirt that says something
positive about coeducation,’’ he said. *
“T think it’s long overdue.” i
“The slogan was not nearly as im-
portant as the concept of it being a*
positive message,”’ LeClercq said.,
“It could have said anything that was
just catchy, as long as it was positive *
as far as I’m concerned.”’

.

LeClereq said he has not heard any,
women’s college students’ reaction to
the shirt, but said he thinks they will®©
create a shirt in response to this one. ,

Would he buy it? “If it were good,
perhaps,” he said. &

*

 

Lacrosse

’ Continued from Page 1

 

’ whom are members of the committee.

“T think it’s important that [the proposal]

} go before the Board so as to meet the NCAA
_ deadline,” Wilson said this morning. ‘‘I see
' the merits of the recommendation and I am

impressed by the quality of the thinking of

’ the committee.”

cites the increasing

The proposal

; prevalence of athletic grants-in-aid in Divi-
» sion I lacrosse and the negative effect W&L’s
‘ lack of competitiveness in Division I has had
‘ upon athletes and coaches as reasons for
, making the move to Division Ill.

“Given the expansion of subsidized

’ lacrosse in Division I,” the proposal reads,

‘with special concessions in admissions and

> with some colleges awarding as many as
‘ fourteen athletic scholarships to their teams,
* the Committee has concluded that remaining
: at Division I would constitute an unaccep-
‘ table hardship on coaches and players.”

“To team morale it would be harmful; to

the achievement and recognition of in-
dividual and team excellence it would be in-
imical.”’

Yesterday’s meeting was the committee’s
second in the last eight days regarding the

divisional status of lacrosse. At the previous
meeting, held May 14, the committee voted
to recommend a move to Division III, accor-
ding to Machado, after which a preliminary
proposal was drawn up for yesterday’s

without the lure of athletic scholarships.
“In this day and age, with the cost of living

‘what it is, any sort of break is enticing to

parents and students,” the Generals’ third-
year coach said.

meeting. Dean John said he agreed that a move
Machado said Wilson asked the committee needs to be made. A change in divisions ‘‘is
to consider the matter. no panacea, no cure-all, but at least in Divi-

The committee’s recommendation comes
on the heels of the lacrosse team’s fourth
straight losing season, the worst slump since
W&L decided to compete in Division I (where
scholarships are allowed) in 1971, yet
operate under the financial guidelines (no
athletic grants-in-aid) of Division III.

Wilson said it was important for the Board
to consider the matter now, but the debate
should be free and open.

Head lacrosse coach Dennis A. Daly said
the committee’s recommendation is a step in
the right direction.

“It was a wise decision. It was a sensible
decision, and obviously it was well thought
out,”’ Daly said, adding, ‘‘It does not make
any sense to continue to compete with so-
meone who is using a different deck of cards
or a stacked deck.”’

Wilson said yesterday the changes in the
Division I game — with bigger universities
offering more scholarships to players — ‘‘are
not ina direction we areprepared to follow.”’

Daly said vecreitieg Yea suffered because

W&L cannot attract the top-flight player

sion III there’s a realistic chance to compete
for the national championship,’ he said.
John’s son, Chris, senior co-captain for the
lacrosse team and a student representative
on the athletic committee, agreed that W&L

would have a better chance at going to the .

national tournament in Division III. ‘““Why
not compete against them? Had we been
Division III this year, some games might
have been different,” he said.

He noted that the extra incentive of a na-
tional tournament bid may have worked to
the favor of Roanoke College in its upset win
over W&L last month. The Maroons won
17-14 and were the last team invited to the
Division III national tournament.

In addition to competing for the Division
III title, the reclassification would mean that
more than half the games W&L plays would
have to be against Division III opponents.

Wilson stressed that the University should
seek to compete with schools that have an
academic-athletic orientation similar to
W&L’s, whether that be in Division III or
Division I.

Members of the committee agreed that the
negative effect of consistent losing seasons in
Division I upon the W&L student-athletes
was a key factor in their recommendation.

“The student members of the committee
let us know that morale on the team-was very
low,” said Biology Professor John J.
Wielgus, who co-authored the proposal with
History Professor Machado. ‘‘At Washington
and Lee, the students come first, and in my
own mind we should not have a program that
is demoralizing to our students.”’

John, who as a senior has felt the brunt of
the four straight losing seasons, voiced the
despair of a player. ‘‘It has been a very, very
frustrating four years for me,” he said, in-
dicating that it was ‘‘demoralizing”’ to play
the top-rate Division I programs — those
competing for a tournament bid — and
always lose.

“We're spinning our wheels,” John said.

McHenry said this morning that it is
becoming increasingly apparent that only
teams that give athletic scholarships will be
able to compete for the Division I national
championship in lacrosse.

“T feel our student-athletes are at a severe
disadvantage at the Division I level in com-
peting for a spot in the national tournament,
in earning All-America recognition, and are
not even able to be recognized by a con-
ference,’”’ McHenry said. “This is not in line
with our total Division III philosophy.”’

Machado indicated that a concern of the ©

committee was that another season in Divi- *

sion I might risk “greater demoralization,” © ,
Ancient Languages Professor Herman
Taylor, another member of the committee, *
expressed this concern. “My impression is «
that it would be bad to let it wait another ,

year,” he said. ‘‘I really feel that you ought
to be competitive, that you feel like you have *
a good chance at making the playoffs.”’ e
With only 10 days left to file a request for. ,
divisional change with the NCAA, the
timeliness of the issue is of concern to many. “#*
“(The decision] should be — if it is at all,
possible — made for next year,’ Dean John’
said, ‘‘but it is not absolutely essential.” © _**

:

He noted, however, that since a softer Divi+',

 

sion I schedule had been tried this season’ +»

(with the removal of North Carolina se
Maryland from the schedule and the addititn,
of middle-of-the-pack Division I progrants:
like Notre Dame and Dartmouth), now may'*
be the time to make a move. a
McHenry agrees. ‘‘Any delay might put us: _
further behind in our efforts to stay com-:
petitive in Division III on the national level.” *
John said he would like to see his team-
mates play Division III next year and end the
frustration. “I don’t want the juniors to go
out without having a winning season,” he:
said. ‘I see absolutely no reason in wasting a
year in Division I. I don’t want the guys feel-
ing the way I feel right now.” 4

 

be fully subscribed.

storage at $44,000.

Tom Baker
403-2510
Evenings

 

Ni?

BORDEN
COMMONS

For

MARKETED BY

Baker Real Estate
Lexington, Virginia
703-463-7319

 

The Ideal Investment

Alumni, Parents of Students and Real Estate Investors

Baker Real Estate announces a new offering in Phase II of Borden Com-
mons near Washington and Lee Campus, offers affordable, cost-efficient
housing for students and young professionals, and like Phase I will rapidly

Scheduled for occupancy Fall Semester 1986, pre-construction reservations
are being taken now. 90% financing available to qualified purchases. On-
site management is available through Baker Real Estate.

One bedroom with fully equipped kitchens, central air and plenty of

Dick Emrey
463-4302
Evenings

 

 

 

Zero

( Continued from Page |!

 

background like a real-life “Miami Vice” episode.

Like the hit songs that serve as the book’s unifying
theme, ‘‘Less Than Zero” is a novel that purports to be a
pop artifact. It is a quick read, it presents and does not
comment, and it relies for impact on its immediacy — the
book is written in the present tense. Moreover, the rock
songs and music videos sprinkled throughout the novel
most likely will be forgotten in 10 years. Which, of course,
is the point.

Like a true piece of pop art, ‘‘Less Than Zero”’ relies
heavily on shock value. Ellis starts off innocently enough
There is nothing too entirely shocking about college kids
snorting cocaine. The streamlined and rapid nature of
Ellis’ prose, however, pulls the reader along as if he were
chasing an ambulance. As the story progresses, so does
heavily on shock value. Ellis starts off innocently enough.
There is nothing too entirely shocking about college kids
witnessed a ‘‘snuff film’ (a pornographic film that con-
cludes with the actual murder of the female), has watch-
ed a girl shoot heroin and has accompanied a friend on a

male prostitution “trick.” These events are piled on oné
after another until the novel’s message comes through,
loud and clear: When one sees too much too early, excite-
ment comes at a much higher price. &
A poster of Elvis Costello that hangs on Clay’s bedroom
wall serves as one of the novel’s most arresting visual im-
ages. The word ‘‘trust’”’ is scrawled along the bottom of
the poster, alluding to the old joke, “You know how to say
‘trust me’ in L.A.?” Two-thirds of the way through the
novel, Clay breaks down in his psychiatrist’s office and
shows emotion for the only time in the book. Hanging on
the wall behind Clay is another Costello poster, this time
with the words, “Elvis Costello Repents,”’ printed in
large, white letters. The psychiatrist observes Clay's
pea and says, ‘‘ ‘Come on, Clay... Don’t be so...mun;
ne.’ ” .

 

|

| -

|
|
|

|

on
“Less Than Zero” is not a modern “Catcher In Thé |

Rye.” Nor is Bret Ellis a “voice for a generation.” In
deed, Ellis still has to prove if his pop novel is a controlled
piece of literary craft or just a lucky first shot. Like the
pop songs after which it is modeled, the book could ver¥
well see its Warholian ‘15 minutes of fame’’ and thep
drift quietly into obscurity. The most disconcerting thing
about this idea, of course, is that that might very well bé
the whole point. é
Less than zero, indeed.

‘

 

 

 

eatin “ed Room ay ne exon a 2 Wendell’s
H] 26, at 7 p.m. ington Herd

SERVIGTAR.

 
     
     

 

 
     
  

  

   
  

Ala Carte Pricing

Reservations Suggested—

  
 

Mon.-Sat. 9am to lam

    

  

     
   

WC

Ge Maple Hall
New Hours Ine
apa Wednesday-Saturday: 5:00-10:00 ed ;
INNS Sunday Brunch: 11:00-2:00
your head

NEW EXPANDED MENU

Sandwiches (Eat In-Take Out)
Lexington - Gourmet Items of All Nations
463. Cocktails® Wine® Beer
Hours:

Subs@Imported Cheeses

Restaurant and Del

 

   
  
    
 
  
  

  
    
      
  
 
 
 

PPR lege ss

 
   

for my business’

pt

=

ie

  

i wre

      
       
   
 
 

 
 

ee

Rg gm

ee ee ee eh ee ee
The Ring-tum Phi, May 22, 1986, Page 5

Bleggi named W&L’s MVP__| What we owe
aE Wa&L lacrosse

Assistant Sports Editor
Open letter to the Board of Trustees:

....Do you remember that game
they used to play on Sesame Street?
You know, “One of these things is
not like the other, one of these things
just doesn’t belong...'’ Maybe a sam-
ple game will help. Virginia, North
Carolina, Johns Hopkins, Washing-
ton and Lee. ‘‘One of these things...”

Washington and Lee does not
belong in Division I lacrosse, for
the same reason it does not play in Division I football or Division I ten-
nis. And this is not an idle suggestion, this is a call for immediate (this
weekend) action. You can talk about the budget, the Annual Fund, and
Gaines Hall some other time. If something constructive isn’t done at
your meeting this weekend, you are damaging this school’s greatest
asset, its students.

You wouldn’t send your best friend out into the rain with only some
old newspapers to keep him from getting wet on his walk home. You
wouldn’t ask yur parents for a graduation gift you knew they couldn't
afford. You wouldn’t try to make chicken soup if you didn’t have any
chickens. Yet, that is what you are doing — more often than not — if
you ask W&L’s lacrosse players to play against Division I programs.
And that’s not fun.

If you were doing something and it really wasn’t all that much fun
anymore, common sense tells us that you'd have two options: stop do-
ing it or find some way to make what you’re doing fun. As far as I can
see, there is nothing all that much fun about Washington and Lee
lacrosse anymore, and if you care anything about the program, its
athletes, its coaches, its fans — I think you are obliged to make the

 

 

‘

 

Given the sparse crowds that
patronize most Washington and Lee
atiletic events, it’s a safe bet that a
lol of this school’s athletes could walk
down the Colonnade without fe: r of
regognition by their classmates.

laboring in this relative obscurity
can be very difficult for the athletes,
so the athletic department has devis-
eda way around this problem.

Beginning at 6:30 yesterday morn-
ing, several coaches spent most of
dhe day cooking barbequed chicken
for the evening’s event — the W&L
Sports Awards Banquet.

Some twelve hours later, Chris
Bleggi would walk off with the P.R.
Brown Most Valuable Athlete Award
as the University’s outstanding
senior athlete.

The annual picnic honoring those
so, often overlooked by the students
was held at Wilson Field last night.

‘Awards were voted upon by the
eqaches in every varsity sport, as
well as in seven ‘‘special’’
cdtegories.

These additional prizes ranged in
nature from student service awards

TIME

‘= | OUT...
% wy

By Mike

Stachura

  

 

i

 

 

 

 

By Perry S. Hayes/The Ring-tum Phi
Major Departmental Award Winners at yesterday’s All-Sports Banquet (1 to r): Ted Goebel, Chris
Bleggi, Bill Holmes, Larry Anker, Tom Skeen, Elizabeth Miles, Mike Stachura along with Athletic
Director William McHenry.

Richard E. Yeakel, who died in
November, was added to the pro-

Award for student service was pre-
sented to Senior Ted Goebel, who

academic All-American. A triple ma-
jor in chemistry, physics, and

to’ the trophy for the University’s

most ‘wahle athlete, won by
Blegg

"Th as named All-ODAC in
foot? was also ODAC indoor
trac sues of-the-Year.

‘Said Bleggi, ‘This [winning the
award] is a goal you set for yourself
at the beginning of the year but don’t

gram.

The R.E. “Chub” Yeakel Award,
created to recognize outstanding con-
tributions to W&L athletics, was
awarded to Ring-tum Phi Sports
Editor Mike Stachura.

“Mr. Yeakel was a special per-
son,”’ said Stachura. ‘I am very pro-
ud to receive the award not only

served as student manager for both
the baseball and the football teams
for four years.

Tom Skeen and Elizabeth Miles
were named the outstanding fresh-
man male and female athletes of the
year.

Skeen was a second team All-ODAC
punter and linebacker for the football
team and Miles was an All-American

mathematics, Anker has a GPA over
3.8.

Said Anker, ‘‘This was very impor-
tant to me, I tried to win [a similar
award] in high school but didn’t.’’ He
continued, ‘I wanted to leave my
mark and I knew I wasn’t the best
athlete so I wanted to be the best
scholar-athlete.’’ Anker added, ‘‘This

against.

game as enjoyable an exercise as possible.

It has been an ordeal even to watch W&L lacrosse this year. It has
been an ordeal because in your heart of hearts you knew W&L was
playing for nothing all season long. There was no chance of a tourna-
ment bid — despite the delusions of grandeur expressed in this space
before the U.Va. game. There was no conference championship, no all-
conference recognition for any players. It gets tough playing for pride
when you get beat 26-2 by a team you thought you’d be competitive

Let’s look at the alternatives to the way things are done now: Divi-

has driven me for four years.”’

The Wink Glasgow Spirit and
Sportmanship Award went to senior
Bill Holmes, captain of both the soc-
cer and lacrosse teams this year.

In mettle test, Hope beats Lewis
to finish first among student ironmen

Leading from the start, Hope, the
challenger, was finally caught by
Lewis, the favorite, on the last mile
of the 13.1 mile bicycle stage. The
overall winner, 35 year-old-Robert
Wright from Lynchburg, held an in-
surmountable 30-second lead, but

sion I with scholarships? A University no-no since the disaster in 1951,
and justifiably so. The scholarship does more harm than good and
seems to smack of athletics taking precedence over academics, and
that’s not a good thing, that doesn’t work here. In essence, Division I is
not an option.

Division III? Well, that’s what we are now. Let’s explain. W&L
played two of Division III’s best teams and lost both games by close
margins. Imagine W&L as a Division III team and if you don’t get ex-
cited, you don’t like lacrosse. The Generals would compete in the
ODAC, where they would battle Roanoke for the conference title. They
would battle for a national tournament. One’s reminded of the
thoughts of an NCAA lacrosse official who remarked that the Division
III tournament would be a hell of a tournament if W&L were involved.

Beyond this, though, is the idea that governed this year's lighter
Division I schedule. The philosophy was, ‘‘Let’s play schools that
place athletics in the same light as we do.” I’ll submit, however, that
as long as you’re playing a Division I opponent, you're not going to be
playing a similar opponent. The reason is simple: W&L is not a Divi-
sion I school. Operating under the financial constraints of Division II,
yet trying to play Division I, is like trying to play goalie without a
stick. You might stop a few shots, but that’s not the way the game’s

tell anybody about.”’

*This year an award named for the
former supervisor of the university’s
non-professional

because of the honor, but also
because of the man it was named
for.”

The J.L. ‘‘Lefty’’ Newell Memorial

swimmer.
The Scholar-Athlete Award went to
senior Larry Anker. Anker was cap-

athletic _ staff, tain of the wrestling team and a

 

“He lost it on the transition,’’ said
Hope. “I just tossed my bike down
and started running while he stopped
to talk to his helper.”

By MIKE SHADY
Staff Reporter

Last Saturday’s third annual
triathlon had all the makings of a
classic one-on-one confrontation with
the outcome not to be decided until

 

“He surprised me on the run,’’ said
Lewis. ‘I was catching my breath

 

 

 

‘ By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

the finish line. But it was not to be.

Senior swimmer Chris Hope, with a
time of one hour, 30 minutes and 27
seconds, edged out fellow senior
swimmer David Lewis (1:31:24) to
become the unofficial ‘‘student’’ win-
ner of the triathlon.

Due to his age, Hope, 23 years old,
doesn’t fall into the student category
of 22 years and under. As a result,

most of the attention was focused on
Lewis and Hope.

With the 5K (3.1 miles) run remain-
ing, Lewis said he was totally confi-
dent that he was going to win.

“I was unsure at that point of the
race because I knew he had been
training for the run,”’ said Hope. “‘I
had only run one time last week [in
preparation].”

But losing time in the transitional

but I was taking too much time. He
ran really well.”’ j

Hope said that besides the ‘‘friend-
ly competition’ that he had going
with Lewis, he was also out to prove
that swimmers are more than one-di-
mensional athletes.

Freshman Stephanie Smith, with a
time of 1:58:43, was the winner of the
student category for women.

“People say that the swimmers

supposed to be played.

 

 

As a final argument, just look at the national finalist men’s tennis
team. People were interested and excited about this group’s success,
as they would be if given the chance for the lacrosse team. So, let’s put
the lacrosse team where it belongs, in Division III, where it will be
competitive, where it will have something to compete for, and where
ultimately the players will have fun. We owe our athletes that much...

 

Netmen return proud

 

Lewis catured the student title while period between the bike and the run, have an advantage, but you still have
; Hope had to settle for his own per- Lewis dug himself a hole he was 0 be able to compete in all three
CHRIS HOPE sonal satisfaction. never able to climb out of. areas in order to win,’’ said Hope. a n U n g ry Oo r m Oo re
e ° . downs of the tournament. ‘‘It felt
Lexin on Bike Sho Get the ea rly ju m p ) By LEIF UELAND great the day that we made it to the
gt P Staff Reporter finals, then the day after we were all

130 S. Main

463-7969

Mountain bike special:

Ross Mt. Hood

15 speed
1985 model

Was $339°5

Now $29995

Mon.-Fri. 9-5, Sat. 9-12

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
     
 

 
    
 
 
  

on your your 1986-87
subscription

 

 

 

The Washington and Lee tennis
team returned Sunday following
their impressive second-place finish
in the national championships. How-
ever, in the individual champion-
ships, the team did not perform up to
their own expectations, failing to
have a single team member attain
All-America status.

bummed out, even though we had
gotten second. We’ve come a long
way though, last year we were
eighth, and this year we're second —
the future looks good.”’

Matthews saw the tournament in a
somewhat diferent light, this being
his first year. “It really was a lot of
fun, I had a great time. Getting sec-
ond was great. The team we lost to

_ Sophomore David McLeod won his was very good and the experience
‘ So uthern first match in singles and then lost in that we got in the finals was really

|, . a tight second match. In doubles, the valuable.”’

General’s No. 2 team of sophomore
* In n For Rent Mes sag e€ To Seniors Roby Mize and freshman Bobby Mat- _Last night at the awards banquet,
. thews were able to upset the No. 5- Matthews received both the Wash-
i Welcome Large house Cap and gown will be distributed starting Mon- seeded team but then lost to an burn Outstanding Freshman Tennis
‘ Students in Lexington day, May 26 from 10 a.m. to1 p.m. A $30.00 9 unranked team. wand sad ten Memnoriel Totals Cap
‘Serving breakfast, lunch bass deposit is refundable on the day of GRADUA- fl piayers returned from California

* and dinner for over all 463-3697 TION only. expressing a multitude of sen- “That was just the way it worked,
‘ 50 years after 5 p.m. No reservations. timents, ranging from disappoint- one of the awards was for a freshman
. Main Street, Lexington ment with losses to joy at having and I am the only freshman. ! think
463-3612 been able to participate, but all of — that it's the depth of our team which
$ their statements eventually returned js the most valuable aspect,’’ Mat-

‘ EEE to one central theme — extreme op- __thews said.

= si timism towards the team’s possibil-

EAST aL EX FOR RENT Michelin B.F. Goodrich | ties for the future. The General's prospects do indeed
* Alignment * ‘iy teats that ee Gare ta look bright. The team's second place
‘ _ “til midni ; going tO finish is a testimony to their out
Phone: 463-3614 US11 North Open ‘til midnite Secured Storage Space * Brakes * nationals from the start. Last year it standing talent. Senior Scott Adams

 

Stroh’s Long necks
Natty BO ong necks ....

ees 6060 COCR EtEES

 

starting at 15°° per mo.

Pres Brown's, Inc

 

 

* Radiator Repairs x
* Swim Tubes x

 

 

was just a nice surprise, this year it
was our whole season. It was a great
accomplishment for the team to play
for the national championship,”’ Mize
commented, “This wasn’t something

is the only player not returning next
year, which being the case, there is
little doubt that the future holds only
good things for the Generals. Adams

Bh a ee Hileman Tire & Radiator I was expecting when I came to rng gph ni Coe vie
Washington and Lee. You can’t do it : ; yer ee
bia 115 W. Nelson St 536 E. Nelson St. : Athletic Director William D.
: . all in one year. We gave Kalamazoo McHenry
463-2146 their best match of the year — -

 

  
   

Students under 21

 

 
  

 

 

 

 

Sun. 1-5

 

everyone thought that they were un-
touchable.”’

while he elaborated on the ups and

[Robin + Peggy ¢ Marie ¢ Sherry

aed HORNE SEER OSE AOE COUT) OR Ge TO RED ENRON RTE SENS See ee

“Tam sorry that we couldn't bring

NEED Liu 103-463-1670 Vv back the first place trophy,’’ Adams
alley T: I rdw ' place trophy," Adz

A CAR? LULL Emergency 7ue Value Ha are Sophomore Jack Messerly express- said, “but they are going to be work-

103-377-6331 ed similar sentiments about the trip, ing real hard, and I’m sure they'll

bring it back next year.”’

Must Have

: i ‘ HARD fon A Kn, SE 5s, SAU ONE RN EMR OO ES RE ES SR RE om re wow

a sisi ko MARIE'S HAIR STYLERS 327)
a a ry

= rar ab Rt ft ET

. i / ~*~]
. , By appointment For the next 2 k ;

RFD7, Box 149, Rt. 60 East Lexington, Virginia 24450 mee Street Mon.-Sat. 8:30-6:00 | 463-9588 ona eee Old Main St. Malt |

Lexington Va. 24430]

 
-BACK PAGE

The Ring-tum Phi, May 22, 1986

‘Viktor Frankenstein: takes a new twist -

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Entertainment Editor

 

The five-day run of “Viktor
Frankenstein,”’ an original produc-
tion written and directed by Drama
Professor Joseph Martinez, begins
tomorrow night at 5 p.m. at the
Boiler Room Theatre.

Although Martinez draws heavily
on the Frankenstein legend for his
play, the story line of ‘Viktor
Frankenstein’’ is original. The
playwright poses the question, “Of
what value are man’s discoveries if
they become inhumane?”

The play opens in a Vienna univer-
sity, where young Frankenstein,
played by Mathematics Professor
Vernon Eagle, is reprimanded for his
preoccupation with his own ex-
periments. After watching one of
these heinous experiements go awry,
Frankenstein becomes insane. He
recovers, returns home and falls in
love with his future wife, Elizabeth
Lavenza (freshman Delia Ford).

Elizabeth brings up Frankenstein’s
clouded past, and he flees from her in
anger. She is found dead soon there-

his ancestral home to resume his ex
periments.

There, Frankenstein takes a wan-
dering ruffian named Igor (Drama
Professor Thomas J. Ziegler) under
his wing and begins to bring his
“creation’’ to life. After that, Mar-
tinez’s story truly begins to take on a
life of its own.

The stage design is unique and
visually arresting. Designed by
Ziegler, the play’s visual environ-
ment is enhanced by slides, clever
props and innovative lighting techni-
ques. Frankenstein’s insular, tor-
tured view of the world is frequently
projected on a screen that acts as the
stage’s primary backdrop. The au-
dience is situated above the action,
as if viewing an autopsy in an
operating theater.

Doug Harwood is the audio
designer, Drama Department Chair-
man Albert C. Gordon is the costume
adviser, and Skip Epperson is
technical director.

The play is intended for mature au-
diences. Due to limited seating,
reservations are required. Tickets
may be obtained by calling the
theater office at 463-8637 between 10
a.m. and 4 p.m. Monday through Fri-

 

 

 

By Perry S. Hayes/The Ring-tum Phi
‘

 

 

 

after, and Frankenstein returns to day.

VARNER & POLE

Furniture Dealers

Vernon Eagle (right) as Frankenstein and Mark Daughtrey appear in ‘Viktor Frankenstein’”’ .

WANED: Rasa Pox mer ane oy LVOUrNeY releases -
‘fascinating record

 

 

June 4. Will share expenses.
Call Tal McThenia
at 463-8517 or 463-7656

MMMM MMMM HEHEHE HHH

115 S. Main Street
‘For your extra pieces of furniture’’

463-2742

 

 

 

 

 

 

>
truckload. The idea, I gather, is that
Journey is just like the rest of lis:
“We're all raised on the radio,” sez
the chorus to the title track. And, of
By now, it is safe to say that a course, millions of people out the: re
Journey record is best judged by how are unfortunately going to nod and
bad it is, rather than how good it say, “Yup. That’s me. Wow, man
might be. Indeed, with each new _ Brilliant.”
Journey release, one must im-
mediately ask oneself: Can they ac-
tually get any worse?
Well yes, actually.

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Entertainment Editor

 
   
      
     
     
  
  
  
  
   

 

Yolo lb Florist

7

How many of these songs could be
hits? Well, all of them, I suppose. Dr
none of them. It doesn’t matter, real
ly. Nothing on the record stands out,
The first single, “Be Good To YOUke
and consequently most fascinating self,” is typical Journey: a couplesof
record to date. Fascinating, primari- standard guitar chords wrapped jn
ly because it is interesting how a — |ayers of studio gloss matched with a
record this barren and vapid can go puerile, inane ly ric The son#’ S
on to sell millions of copies (which, message, by the way, is contained en-
let’s face it, this record is bound to  tirely initstitle.

do) jo” and “Be Goc
NO gy One “Raised On Radio’ and ‘Be Good
ve ee Y To Yourself” are the only “rockers”

sells millions of records. People love
P on the album as the remainder aye

ee either sappy ballads or mid-tempo
jing all. gage hr rt Age radio-fodder. ‘Once You Love

like th b f |
Se ee eee Somebody’’ purports to be a funk

Sd
 g
bd
od
.d
bd
*
®
5 4
: 5
3 1? &
ca *
Sd
. g
 d
4
*
*
*
bg
¥
bd
Bd
3
sd
*
+d
*
5d
*
*
2 *
7 sincere guys. And people buy the
ANCY DRESS I pose Buy ie y number, but it is watered down
A “Raised On Radio” is going to sell
bd
*
od
bd
4
bg
bg
x
5
bd
*
bd
*
5
+d
*
A
bd
bd
5 a
by
*
+d
*
bd
bd
bd
bg
*
*®
sd
+d
*
es

“Raised on
Radio” is Journey’s newest, worst

Not sure what to say?

S.A.B.

Flowers say it all!

165 S. Main 463-9152

Seniors!

Congratulations

 

 

 

   

 

enough to be absolutely harmless.
for exactly this reason. Steve Perry Besides, it is full of classic ‘“‘Journey-
sings each of these 11 tracks as ifhe isms’ such as, ‘‘Iwo young
were deep in the throes of painful hearts...running wild,” and, “Onte
heartache. The photo on the inner YOu love somebody...it’ll burn
sleeve shows “the guys” looking forever.
dead serious and dressed in blue Brace yourself: this one is going to
jeans and “normal clothes.” I can haunt us for the next couple of
already see the videos: Steve Perry months or so. There is an alternative,
sitting backstage with a far-off look however. Simply turn off the radig.
in his eyes, thinking about that Not only does Journey’s message go
“streetlight” girl he had to leave out the window, but so does Steve
behind in order to “rock all night.’’ Perry’s increasingly annoying voice.
Or something like that. Perhaps if we all close our eyes and

So the pose is all over this record, wish really hard, these jerks miglit
the music is utterly banal and flac- simply go away. But don’t hold you
cid, and it is going to sell by the _ breath.

ee

ONCAMPUS d

Thursday, May 22 ‘
7 p.m. — POLITICS FILMFEST: ‘“‘Tora, Tora, Tora.” Room 327, Com-
merce School.
8 p.m. — PIANO RECITAL: Yukie Kurihara, W&L exchange student *
from Rikkyo University, Japan. Lee Chapel. Reception to follow in du-
Pont Hall.

  

Party Pics Have Arrived
and all of the

best luck in the future.
Pick yours up

May your travels be

Wk

ee at Carol Calkins’ Office
unlimited.

TRAVEL UNLIMITED

University Center

SLES CTT TT TTT TT TTT TTT LLL eee eee SSS

Statin atch th otth tat tina ctnstnstth thot that ath than thant inainath tht othatnanalnal

HAVEN'T YA HEARD!

Ol

FOR YOUR USED

“10 &

’

 

«

Friday, May 23
BOARD OF TRUSTEES MEETING. :
8 p.m. — MEDICAL ETHICS LECTURE: ‘“‘Is There a Right to Health ¢

Care?” Tom L. Beauchamp, Georgetown University. Classroom E, ,
Lewis Hall.

8 p.m. — PLAY: “Viktor Frankenstein.” Written and directed by ¢
Joseph Martinez, W&L drama professor. Boiler Room Theatre

PIZZA SERVED HERE, TO GO,
OR DELIVERED

¢ Try our fresh baked Pan
Pizza, Thin ‘N Crispy’
Pizza, served anytime.

¢ Priazzotm Italian Pie,
served after 4 p.m. Mon.-
Fri., and any time Sat. &
Sun.

 

Saturday, May 24
BOARD OF TRUSTEES MEETING. ,
8 p.m. — PLAY: “Viktor Frankenstein.” Boiler Room Theatre.

Sunday, May 25
2 p.m, — LAW SCHOOL COMMENCEMENT. Front Lawn. Speaker: 4
Sydney Lewis, W&L Trustee Emeritus. be
8 p.m, — PLAY: ‘Viktor Frankenstein.’’ Boiler Room Theatre.

¢ Personal Pan Pizza for
lunch, Available from 11:00
am-4:00 pm (Mon.-Fri.).

¢ Plus...Pasta, Salad Bar,

Monday, May 26 *
Sandwiches, Beverages.

7 & 9:15 p.m. — WWII THROUGH JAPANESE FILMS SERIES:
‘‘Women of the Night.’’ Room 327, Commerce School
8p.m.— PLAY: ‘Viktor Frankenstein.’’ Boiler Room Theatre ”

* Served to your table, or
delivered to your home, or
call ahead and we'll have
your order hot and ready to
go.

e Each Wednesday night,
5:30 until 8:30 p.m., all the
salad, pizza, spaghetti, and
garlic bread you can eat for

 

CLOTH OR PAPER

1985 Pizza Hut. Inc Tuesday, May 27

10 a.m. — HISTORY SEMINAR: “‘Politics inCentral America andthe ¢
Caribbean Between Wars.”’ Classroom D, Lewis Hall

4 p.m. — ENGLISH COLLOQUIUM: “Biography: Ancient and »
Modern.” Christopher Pelling, University College, Oxford. Room 21,
Payne Hall. ’

 

late hee lhe ia
OC Te URC met eG Pll

600 E. Nelson Sf.

 

 

 

 

 

Lexington 8 p.m. — PLAY: “‘Viktor Frankenstein.”’ Boiler Room Theatre x
only ‘3.49. Children under 6
years-99 “Hut. = SELL THEM ALL Wednesday, May 28 :
6:30 p.m. — SENIOR NIGHT. Lee Chapel. ’
$9 OFF time $a or La 7p.m. — POLITICS FILMFEST: ‘‘Rollerball.’’ Room 327, Commerce ‘
yew ty School.
Offer

I

|

| $2. offany large pizza |
| or $i offany medium. In

| cludes Pizza Hut’ Pan Pizza
|
|
|
|

  

8 p.m. — PLAY: “Viktor Frankenstein.” Boiler Room Theatre
600 E. Nelsonst, EXPIres

Lexington, VA
463-7000 Ma y

Pizza' Hurry: offer ex-
pires soon One coupon
per party per visitat

Thursday, May 29
5 p.m. — CHEMISTRY SEMINAR: “The Farewell to Seniors Fry {

THE W&L BOOKSTORE

Hut.

’ Howe 401.
articipating Pizza Hut --6.4n.
Festaurans th anoth 7 / May 28, 29 ghly 7p.m. — POLITICS FILMFEST: ‘‘Rollerball.’’ Room 327. Commerce }
Pi t nm when ordering. Not valid in combination with another =— Se =
[otfer.20 cent cash redemption value. 1983 Pizza Hut, Inc. Good only through 1986 May 30 8:3 School. '

 

 

 

 
’

s

 

 

 

 

*

*VOLUME 85, NUMBER 31

Best students
Recruiters help with
Admissions search

 
   
   

 

Page 4

 

Best speaker

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Lewis offers advice (4

to law graduates
Page 4

   

ra
rae 1)
e

 

NUNEATON, Bh acca
bs UV &

 

 

 

 

—s Che Ring-tum Phi

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Our summer weather:
Augusta: Hot
Montgomery: Hot
Fredericksburg: Hot

  

MAY 29, 1986

 

Board OKs Division Ill lax status

‘

, By SEAN BUGG
Staff Reporter

 

.

 

The Washington and Lee lacrosse
*team will be classified as a Division
, II team next season pending NCAA

approval, the Board of Trustees
decided Saturday.

» The trustees made the decision
after the University Athletic Com-
‘mittee made a unanimous recom-
smendation for the change. The pro-
posal was presented to the board by
"University President John D. Wilson.

* “The Athletic Committee submit-
sted an extremely thoughtful pro-
posal,” Wilson said. “The board
‘agreed that the trend toward increas-
‘ed subsidization in Division I
lacrosse is not a direction Washing-
ton and Lee is prepared to follow.”

Professor Barry F. Machado, head

‘of the Athletic Committee, said he

,was in “complete agreement” with
the trustees’ action.

“I think the proper decision was
»made,”’ he said, adding that the
, lacrosse team’s ‘‘fortunes will be in-
creased .””

However, Machado does not expect
+ the team to see a sudden turn-around
in the first season of Division III
play. ‘‘I think that’s too much to ex-
*pect,”’ he said. :
* Machado believes it could take two
_or three years for the change to make
a measurable improvement.

Sororities
may form
within year

, By SEAN BUGG
Staff Reporter

‘

 

 

National sororities could be con-
* ducting rush activities to form col-
, onies at Washington and Lee some-

time in the next year, according to
» Associate Dean of Students Anne
_ C.P. Schroer.

An advisory committee consisting
‘of faculty, administrators and
, Students may be named within the

week, she said. Its function will be to
* help select the sororities that come to
.« W&L and to attend the sororities’

presentations to help the students
"pick the ones best for them and the
+ University.

“There’s potential, I think, for
winter rush or spring rush,’’ Schroer
* said, adding that ‘the women so far
sare determined not to have fall

rusb”’ in order to minimize
* academic conflict.

* Schroer said her job was not ac-
, tually to bring sororities to campus,
but to “be supportive” of any group
* of women wanting to form a sorority.
» “I’ve worked pretty closely with
the women during spring term,” she
* said. ‘The University made a deci-
, sion before I came here that if
women wanted to colonize they would
* support it.”
. Schroer said that when colonies are
formed, much of the advice they
* receive will come from the sororities’
+ national organizations.

The new dean of fraternity affairs
* will need to work closely with the
+ women wanting to form a sorority,
, Schroer said.

‘Board appoints
‘Phi co-editors

Journalism majors Sean Bugg and
Jason Lisi were named co-editors of
‘next year’s Ring-tum Phi by the
, University Publications Board on
Monday,
Bugg, a rising sophomore from
, Fredonia, Ky., is a staff reporter for
the paper, and Lisi, a rising junior
* from Hockessin, Del., is the paper’s
» news editor.
Rising senior Greg Turley of
* Austin, Texas, was appointed Phi
+ business manager. The three become
members of the Publications Board.
‘Also appointed was rising senior
+ Hank Greenberg of Naples, Fla., to

.

_ Calyx business manager. A Calyx

editor or editors will be named in the
fall

for reclassification with the National
Collegiate Athletic Association by
June 1 for the change to take effect
next season.

Athletic Director William D.
McHenry said he plans to talk to the
NCAA yesterday to find out all the
details on how to file the application.

“I plan to submit that application
this week,’’ McHenry said.

McHenry was also pleased with the
change, saying, “I very much
favored the change from Division I to
Division III.”’

McHenry supported the change
because players were not getting
positive reinforcement in the form of
post-season play or All-America
honors, as well as not being able to
compete for a conference crown.

With the division change, th
lacrosse team will be competing in
the Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference and will also be eligible to
compete for the NCAA Division III
national championship.

@

The last time the Generals were in-
vited to participate in the Division I
tournament was 1980.

Nine of the University’s men’s
teams compete in the ODAC, not in-
cluding lacrosse.

The change to Division III will
mean the lacrosse team will have to
schedule more than half its op-
ponents from Division III. In Division
III, no athletic grants-in-aid are
awarded to students. All financial aid
is based on the student’s need.

 

By DAVID EMRICH
Assistant Sports Editor

 

 

The move: everybody’s two cents’ worth

for favoring the move, while those who opposed the ac-
tion mentioned the prestige of a Division I program as
justification for keeping the team as it is. Others merely
accepted the change as inevitable.

 

lacrosse fans among the students.

 

There has been a change on campus, and like any
other change, it has not gone unnoticed.

In the 1987 season the Washington and Lee lacrosse
team will compete in Division III, having made the
decision to change divisions earlier this week,
something that is bound to elicit response from the

Most people who said they supported the move cited
the ability to better compete on the Division III level
and the chance for a national title as the main reasons

A majority of players supported the move, saying
that playing in Division I was an uphill battle.

“Tt was a good decision, no doubt,” said sophomore
midfielder Greg Unger. ‘‘We get no help from admis-
sions, and can’t offer scholarships.”

Junior Midfielder T.J. Finnerty, co-captain of next
year’s team, agreed with Unger. ‘‘We’ll be more com-
petitive as far as play 1n Division III goes,” he said.

()See Reactions, Page 6

 

>

 

 

Eat, drink and B.S.

Seniors enjoy their Senior Night banquet on the Alumni House lawn
last night. Above (left to right), Edgar Hill, Brian Miles, Ernest
Franklin and Chris John eat their steak sandwiches, The Senior Night
was sponsored by the Alumni Association as a kickoff for its alumni
fundraising program. Below, some seniors go through the serving line.

EC could have
lost budget job

The Board of Trustees was
“seriously considering” taking away
the Executive Committee’s budget
powers and hiring an accountant to
disburse student funds if the EC lost
money on student accounts again this
year, according to Student Body Vice
President Andrew Caruthers.

Caruthers said on Tuesday that
this year is the first in three that the
committee will finish ‘‘in the black.”’

“We have been stricter with groups
this year,’’ he said.

—Daniel Bunch

Trustees approve plans for new theater

By SEAN BUGG
Staff Reporter

 

The Board of Trustees last
weekend approved the continuation
of plans for the proposed auditorium
theater, according to University
President John D. Wilson.

‘“‘We’ve had the board approve an
additional appropriation,” Wilson
said. The University will now begin
fundraising projects to finance the
building.

A target date of the summer of 1988
has been set for beginning construc-
tion. ‘‘We would do it sooner if we had
they money in hand,”’ Wilson said.

MT. Tr eee
OP

Ye

F ‘

Photos by Hank Mayer/The Ring-tum Phi

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

eR a a ne

The University is allowing two
years for the money to be raised.

The board received a report on the
Annual Fund from its Planning and
Development committee. “‘We’re up
in every possible category,”’ Wilson
said of the rise in both donations and
donors.

“Alumni are really supporting the
University this year,”’ he said.

In other business, the board ap-
proved promotions, tenure, and
department head appointments
among the faculty.

Mathematics Professor Robert S.
Johnson is the first professor to be
awarded the Cincinnati Professor-

ship, which recognizes an 1802 gift
from the Society of the Cincinnati of
Virginia.

Edgar W. Spencer, professor of
geology, was awarded the Ruth
Parmly Professorship, which recog-
nizes her gifts to the University.

Associate professors promoted to
full professor were Denis J. Brion
and Mark H. Grunewald of the Law
School, Roger B. Jeans Jr. of the
history department, Hampden H.
Smith III of journalism and 0. Ken-
dall White Jr. of sociology.

Assistant professors promoted to
associate professor were H. Laurent
Boetsch of Romance languages, John

H. Knox of the biology department,
Steven H. Hobbs and Brian C. Mur-
chison of the Law School and Richard
F. Grefe of the University Library.

Department head reappointments
were Edgar W. Spencer in geology
and Buford S. Stephenson in German.

Lyn F. Wheeler was appointed
head of the accounting department,
replacing professor Jay D. Cook Jr.,
who has held the position since 1959.

J. Kevin Green of the accounting
department was awarded tenure.

The board also received reports
from the Alumni Interfraternity
Council and the Campus Life Com-
mittee.

Atkins of Alumni Association
named to fraternity deanship

 

By JASON LISI
News Editor

 

Associate Alumni Director Leroy
C. ““Buddy”’ Atkins accepted an offer
Monday to be Associate Dean of
Students Lewis G. John said yester-
day.

In what John called a ‘‘reorganiza-
tion” of the Dean of Students’ office,
Atkins now will be in charge of
fraternity affairs and student ac-
tivities, and have a position that is a
combination of the jobs of Associate
Deans of Students Dan N. Murphy
and Michael A. Cappeto.

Next year, Murphy will be a full-
time associate director of admis-
sions. Cappeto will take a dean of
students’ job with Harvey Mudd Col-
lege in Claremont, Calif.

An associate dean of students in
charge of career placement, part of
Cappeto’s job now, will be named
later, John said.

Atkins was one of 90 candidates

from within and outside Washington
and Lee that were chosen by a com-
mittee of seven members of the Dean
of Students’ office and President
John D. Wilson.

“We determined that he was the
best person for the job — he certainly
has the experience working with all
the constituencies at Washington and
Lee,’’ John said, noting that Atkins
has had contact with faculty, stu-
dents and alumni. ‘His background
here at Washington and Lee and
knowledge of those areas will be a
real asset in this office.”

“T was very pleased that he’s
agreed to serve in this important
position,”’ he said.

John said that the six or seven
finalists for the job met with Inter-
fraternity Council President Chris
Saxman and Student Activities
Board Chairman Michael Guerriero
because the new associate dean of
students will work closely with those
two groups.

He added that the position will in-
clude many aspects of student life,
including being the primary ad-

ministrative contact for the frater-
nities and SAB.

Atkins, a 1968 W&L graduate, said
yesterday he was happy to accept the
position.

‘I’m pleased that I have the oppor-
tunity to do something that is ap-
parently important to a lot of people
and be able to help the school,’’ he
said.

He said that although he has no
definite plans for action, he will be
receptive to the students in the areas
of fraternities and student affairs.

Atkins said that he has ideas for
what aspects of the fraternities need
to be improved.

“I’m very optimistic about the
future of fraternities here and the
ability of the school to have not just a
fraternity system, but if they so
decide, a Greek system that will bea
model for what it ought to be at other
schools,” he said.

“This administration has made a
commitment to see that they are
strong and a permanent part of the

CO See Dean, Page 4

Pate leaving admissions office
for Richmond banking position

 

By MIKE ALLEN
Executive Editor

 

Associate Admissions Director
Van H. Pate will leave Washington
and Lee on June 13 to join the trust
department of Sovran Bank in Rich-
mond.

Pate, who is also an assistant pro-
fessor of Romance languages and a
W&L alumnus, said he is “leaving
simply because I have a super oppor-
tunity.”’

He said the move also “was dic-
tated’’ by the fact that his wife, Anne
W. Pate, needed to begin her
accounting career “‘in a city bigger
than even Lexington or Roanoke.”’
She has accepted a position as
auditor at the Richmond office of the
Arthur Young Co., a “Big Eight”’ ac-
counting firm.

Pate said he will be working in new
business development, a sales posi-
tion. “I’m still going to be dealing
with people,’’ he said

He said he has missed teaching his

ee ee meres se — eee

elementary and intermediate French
classes the last few years, and has
enjoyed his frequent contact with
Student Recruitment Committee
members.

“It’s easy in Admissions to lose
contact with students — that’s one of
the frustrations of this business,’’ he
said.

Pate noted that among faculty
members and administrators,
“everybody is involved in everything
around here — that’s what’s wonder-
ful about this place.”’

After graduating from W&L in
1971, Pate joined the University as
assistant director of admissions. He
became director of student financial
aid in 1973 and rejoined the admis-
sions office in 1979 as associate direc-
tor. He obtained a master’s degree
from Middlebury College the follow-
ing year.

As a French and Spanish major at
W&L, Pate was an officer in the
Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity
and was a member of the predeces-
sor group to Southern Comfort.

 

Sn e

By W. Patrick Hinely /W&l

VAN H. PATE
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OPINION
Party’s over?

As the spring term draws to a close, it seems only proper to
take a look back at the year.

At this time last year, I was still celebrating having been
accepted to become a member of W&L’s first coed under-
graduate class. My friends and I were busy collecting posters
to decorate dorm walls. At that time, it seems the most
challenging prospect of college life was finding a way to in-
still some of my personality into four beige walls, a bed, and
a desk.

Arriving in September, I expected and dreaded many
things. The Class of 1989 had been described as being the best
and the brightest to walk the Colonnade in many years.
Would we — indeed, could we — live up to the expectations of
Washington Hall? Could we maintain good grades, extracur-
ricular activities, social lives and our sanity? It seemed to be
a very tall order to fill and one I wasn’t sure I could meet. I
should have had more faith in my classmates. It now appears
that the first coed class has lived up to all of the expectations.

I remember being scared to death on the first day of
classes. After hearing about all the opposition to the move to
coeducation had met, I expected the first day of the fall term
to resemble the busing riots of the sixties, complete with
picket signs and the ROTC in riot gear. Certainly to my sur-
prise and delight, the worst comment I heard, or rather
overheard, was, ‘“‘Hey, how many girls did they let in here
anyway?’’ Most students and faculty accepted the first coed
classes without missing a beat.

It seemed to me that we, being the first coed class, should
try to assimilate, to become part of the student body. Calling
attention to our difference from other classes by asking for or
expecting special favors seemed to promote bitterness and
rivalry between the classes. Yet the fact remains that the
Class of 1989 is different. W&L will never be the same after
we leave, and we should take pride in that fact. It is
necessary to be a part of the student body and still retain a
separate identity. Assimilation should be a goal, but not one
met at all costs.

The Women’s Forum and the Coeducation Committee have
made good progress this year in establishing some programs
and opportunities for women. As more undergrad women
come to W&L, these committees will play an increasingly
more important role on campus. In laying the groundwork
for these programs, the committees met some opposition.
Many students seemed to think that W&L women were get-
ting anything and everything they asked for. Rather, the
committees, it seemed, tried to ensure that the same oppor-
tunities for leadership positions, social clubs, etc. exist for
women at W&L as they exist at other coed universities and
for men at W&L.

However, I think what surprised many students and what
surprised me was the immediacy with which many changes
were made. I suppose I came here ready for a fight, expect-
ing to scrape for every tiny victory for my rights. But it
seems the decision to go coed was no half-hearted decision,
and once the decision had been made, the administration and
entire university have tried to accommodate the new coed
class as much as possible. We have not been punished or
given an endurance test because of our decision to be a part
of W&L’s first coed year; rather we have been welcomed.

Looking back, the problems that confronted the Class of
1989 now seem pretty trivial. Inadequate laundry facilities
for the freshmen were quickly rectified, and the horror
stories of staying up all night waiting for a free washer/dryer
dissipated. Then there was a minor dispute over whether
women from surrounding women’s colleges were tying up the
dorm bathrooms and should something be done about it. But
this problem was solved after the heavy partying of Rush
drew to a close and visitors from other schools no longer
flocked to W&L in such droves. Vandalism in the dorms was
also a problem, but that too seems to have waned, especially
after it was announced that halls would be collectively ~
responsible for the costs of any repairs necessary to the hall
and adjoining stairwells.

Perhaps the most serious problem that faced the Class of
1989 was the potential division of the Class. With such em-
phasis being placed on the women in the first coed class, it
would be very easy and probable that the men of the class of
1989 might feel slighted. One has to remember that the
women in the freshman class came here because it was a
great university — a great coed university. The women didn’t
choose W&L because they would be on center stage, but
rather because it offers the opportunity for a good education.
W&L is coed not just because of the women in the class, but
also because of the men.

The Class of 1989 deserves to congratulate itself. It’s been a
good first year of coeducation and it is largely due to the class
itself. Being the class to ‘‘blaze the trail,’’ it is our respon-
sibility to make the going a little easier for each class that
follows. We also have to stay on our toes. Next year’s
freshman class is being billed as being better and brighter
than ourselves.

 

—MEK
- =
e King-tun Phi

NEWS STAFF
MU aca cca e ih Reet UV Vienlebdseascsncsiidieees Mike Allen
is ie EE iii es cei Paul Foutch

Jim Strader
I ah Nice eres vs cess ces cccsccens Reade Williams
ia 66s cits ce pei ea eH thi co ce bu eee sincera Mike Stachura
rai VCs ie (ienckbed sears ueipoae Jason Lisi
We hbitri ice as Cotton Puryear
ee NA aa a Marshall Boswell
eC ibis sie ck, David Emrich
EDITORIAL PAGE
se uO eee
ee Marie Kothman
I Chris Bowring
BUSINESS STAFF
aaa SOUR E ao rs 8 Ae Jeff Kimbell
I an 56h e a a eo asa ee rctiveecr ccs . Hank Greenberg
PIT DIG, onion cin this vieecicesccscecess John Feyver, Keri Hinrichs,

Jay Reville, Greg Turley

CO RE ae AW iis eri i eeee ier Matt Horridge

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. ' ‘he
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 200 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run. Or send them to The
Ring-tum Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450.

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, May 29, 1986

   

 

“| think it’s time we let Division III

have a go at him ...”

 

 

 

 

 

Racism, homogeneity: W&L’s Catch 22:

 

By PAUL FOUTCH
Editor

 

Coeducation seems to have gone
pretty well this year. About 100
women showed up to be in this year’s
class, there are another hundred
coming next year, and Washington
and Lee thought up all sorts of things
to make The Transition as easy as
possible for them, like lounges in the
dormitories, a salad bar in the dining
hall, and suggestions that student
government committees have non-
voting women members.

A few years back there was
another big change at W&L. It was
called integration. Unfortunately,
not so many black students felt like
attending an all-white college, but
the few that did were given scholar-
ships, a minority dean and a house to
live in. And still not many came to
W&L. And next year, the freshman
class will boast six black students.
Count ’em. Six.

The obvious conclusion is that
more needs to be done to attract
qualified blacks and other minori-
ties.

What’s the difference between
coeducation and integration? In
coeducation, girls like to hang out
with guys (and vice versa), so lots of
girls apply to formerly all-male
schools. With integration, members
of one race would really rather hang
out with their own kind of people, so
not so many blacks apply to formerly
all-white colleges. That’s just the

way we are as human beings.

Being white, I can’t pretend to
know what it’s like being black at a
mostly white school. I do remember,
though, having a big red pimple on
the end of my nose one day, and
noticing that everyone I talked to
didn’t really look me in the eye or
listen to what I was saying, but kind
of acted like they couldn’t get that
pimple off their minds. I’m guessing
it would be something like that. And I
do know that I would feel very un-
comfortable attending Grambling or
Hampton Institute. That’s why I
didn’t go to those schools.

That point has two parts: One,
black students at W&L probably
don’t have an easy time of it because
they are in such a severe minority;
and two, W&L isn’t going to get more
blacks and minorities until that fact
changes.

And getting more minorities
doesn’t just benefit the blacks.
Remember the coeducation argu-
ment? ‘“‘When we get out into the real
world, we’re going to have to work
with women, so we'd better learn
how to do it now.”’ And, “‘If this is a
liberal education, how are we suppos-
ed to learn about other people if all
we have here are the same kind of
person?”’

Well, the same solid reasoning ap-
plies to blacks. But we still don’t have
integration, and we won't until we
make the percentage of black stu-
dents here near the percentage it is in
the real world.

The difference between coeduca-

tion and integration at W&L is that
the blacks are less inclined to come
here, for obvious and understandable
reasons. So, what W&L needs to do is
try harder to get them.

That’s not to say that scholarships
should be given to unqualified black
students, or that black students
should be given special consideration
in the admissions process. That
would be the lazy man’s way out.

The answer to getting more
minorities is simple: Spend more
money on recruiting them, and make
the atmosphere better for them, by
hiring more black professors, creat-
ing an Afro-American Studies pro-
gram, and soon.

It’s not that the Admissions Office
isn’t doing its job. Admissions
counselor Bob Tomaso says qualified
black students are the hottest com-
modity in the business, and W&L has
to compete for them with schools like
Brown and Williams.

One logical answer is another
recruiter — or two, or three — who
focuses only on minorities. Right now
there are six recruiters in the Admis-
sions Office. This year those six at-
tracted 58 black applicants. That
number could conceivably double if
one or two extra people recruited at
black high schools.

Tomaso said he thinks an extra
recruiter focusing on minorities
would help, but that recruiting isn’t
the only solution. Another problem is
the atmosphere, which scares many
black students away.

Of this year’s 58 black applicants,

33 were accepted and 6 have decided
to enroll. That means 18 percent of
those accepted thought life at W&L
would be bearable enough to come
here. That compares to the 49 per-
cent “yield” for white students. Ob-
viously the black students are stay-
ing away for a reason that doesn’t ap-
ply to white students.

Tomaso read a letter from a highly
qualified black student who was ac-
cepted at W&L but decided to go
elsewhere.

“T’'ve decided to enroll at Brown
University because there was a much
larger minority community there
and there were many support ser-
vices and for minorities. I
disliked the fact that W&L had no
Afro-American courses or black
teachers. Also, the community at
Washington and Lee seemed too
homogeneous and conservative.”

W&L has been hiring women for
open professors’ jobs since last year.
Where are the black professors?

We've got a Jewish studies pro-
gram in place because a Jewish
alumnus funded one. Where’s the
black studies program?

It seems to me that if you have two
new kinds of students you want at
your school, and one of them comes
readily and the other doesn’t, then
you work on the second until you get
the number you want.

This isn’t a poor school. Reducing
its homogeneity by increasing the
number of black students can’t cost a
lot of money and it would make W&L
a better place. Coeducation did.

Ain’t burning all my bridges before | leave

 

By NELSON PATTERSON
Editorial Page Editor

Two months ago, I wrote a rather
indicting piece on congressional
reluctance to back the cause of
Nicaraguan contra rebels. Just after
the piece was published, a certain
journalism professor asked another
editor of The Phi if I were serious in
what I had written. The senior jour-
nalism major replied he thought that,
in part, I spoke with conviction and
that in part, I was poking fun at the
way Pat Buchanan orchestrated the
White House lobbying effort on the
issue.

“That’s too bad,” replied the pro-
fessor. ‘‘I guess he’s learned nothing
in four years.”’

Think again, professor. I have
learned many lessons well at Wash-
ington and Lee. (One of those lessons,
incidentally, was learning never to
waste my time in one of his courses. )

There is some point in everyone’s
senior year when the tendency sud-
denly exists for one to be nostalgic
and maudlin, recounting tales of
freshman hall escapades (like stuff-
ing a neighboring student’s room full
of wadded-up newspaper) like an
alumnus at a 25th reunion. I really
detest that sort of reminiscing, for it
reminds me of people who never
seem to be able to grow up.

Yet, there are a few lessons I have
studied and re-studied during the last
weeks of my undergraduate life that
seem worthy of passing on to others.

Many people will claim I am a
rebellious brat when I write my first

account, but it is a lesson I have had
to learn several times over.

*Don’t believe that everyone at
Washington and Lee believes in the
Honor System, and that includes
(especially) some members of the
faculty and administration. In
writing for the newspaper, I have
been misled and lied to more times
than I wish to recount. The Honor
System, for all the good I believe it to
be and for all the convenience it
presents for the community, is made
a mockery by many people on this
campus. An administrator who lies
about policy reviews and directives
he/she has supposedly ‘‘given’’ often
needs a student or peer to check up
on the truth (or lack thereof) in his
statement. The EC has jokingly
given “honorary honor violations’’ to
many members of the faculty and ad-
ministration whose _ ‘‘selective’’
memories often allow them to forget
certain promises they made or
statements they gave. Like the few
students who ruin the image of the
Honor System for the rest of us, there
are a few bad apples in the faculty
who spoil the whole barrel.

*Believe forever in the idea that
faculty and students and administra-
tion can and should work together.
Some administrators believe stu-
dents are nothing more than bother-
some gnats chafing them at the col-
lar. After all, every decision doesn’t
(and shouldn't) need to be made in a
fraternity circle on the Colonnade.
Yet, smug administrators should
never feel comfortable making a
decision and damning student opi-
nion at the same time. As students,

we shouldn’t be afraid to say when
we think our interests have been
overlooked.

Don’t ever accuse a professor or
administrator of deceiving you or
misspelling a word on a test or any
other breach of normal behavior
unless you have considered the
serious repercussions of your words.
My sophomore year, I took a make-
up test and discovered a word I
believed was misspelled. I told the
professor that, but in the wrong way.
The rest of the term was not a happy
experience, to say the least, and I
have regretted ever since those few
errant words. I lost the chance to
take advantage of the opportunity the
W&L system presents by talking a lit-
tle out of line.

eBeware of the professor who
maintains that he/she is not a
member of the typical Maoist faculty
establishment. Need I say more?
Nearly 80 percent of the faculty, in a
random poll last year, said they
would vote for Mondale and Ferraro.
Higher education, like fresh fly
paper, seems to attract bothersome
pests every once in a while. Partisan-
ship will always enter classroom
discussion, and students merely need
be aware of the political tendencies
of most faculty members. There
should ideally be no fear of letting
partisanship enter classroom debate
where appropriate; iron sharpens
iron.

*Don’t believe coeducation will
promote a genderless society at
W&L anytime soon. For nearly 250
years, W&L existed solely to educate
the gentleman. When coeducation

brought in fresh faces and healthy
competition, some idealistic and
naive apostles believed sexism could
be dealt a final and fatal blow.
Wrong, again. I sincerely hope that
coeducation proceeds smoothly and
W&L women begin to exert some of
the genetically gifted leadership
abilities their mentors in the ad-
ministration believe them to possess.
We could use a few Maggie Thatch-
ers around here, or at least half a
Jeanne Kirkpatrick. And I hope that
the men don’t allow themselves to be
trampled upon anytime soon. I’m
sure they could always start a Men’s
Forum, if their ‘“‘turf’’ becomes
threatened.

I have been accused this year of
running a fascist editorial page,
especially by a certain Woods Creek
paramilitary suite/group/bunch of
knaves. Their criticism, though
usually couched in jest, is perhaps
the harshest I have recieved during
the entire year, for it accuses me of
limiting the exposure of other and
diverse opinions on this page. I hope I
haven’t done that, and if I have, my
regrets do exist.

At the same time, this paper has
never really had a strong central
voice speaking for it. I hope the past
two years have been a good start
toward establishing one, and I am
confident the woman who will suc-
ceed me will continue to ‘‘comfort the
afflicted and afflict the comfor-
table,” as H.L. Mencken used to say.
Sorry to those who saw in my leaving
a chance to breathe again; there is no
rest for the wicked.

=

a

 

 

 
NEWS

The Ring-tum Phi, May 29, 1986

 

Graduates
told to ask
questions

 

*By CHRIS MUNSEY
Staff Reporter

 

Learning to ask the right questions
*is the true value of a legal education,
»Best Products Co. founder Sydney
* Lewis said at Law School commence-
‘ment Sunday.
Lewis also told the 114 graduates
that a law degree is ‘the best possi-
*ble preparation” for a lifetime of
, learning but itis also essential to ‘“‘re-
main open and flexible to new ex-
» periences.”’
A light rain fell as Lewis, a 1940
* Washington and Lee graduate, spoke
» on the lawn in front of President John
D. Wilson’s home.
“A legal education teaches you
+ how to stick your nose into anybody’s
business,’’ Lewis said. ““‘When you
* have learned to ask the right ques-
« tions and to separate two issues
which formerly had been assumed to
* be one, you have learned what you
+ will need to quickly acquire the
necessary knowledge for practically
any field of endeavor.”’
+ He recalled his days at W&L and
, said the Honor System, the in-
dependence of the student body and
’

4

.

 

 

 

By W. Patrick Hinely/W&L

Sydney Lewis addresses the law graduates on the front campus Sunday

close interaction with professors
opened up a new world to a young
man “unscratched by life.”’

“There are too many lawyers,”’
Lewis warned, advising that the
graduates should go to business
school.

Lewis urged the graduates to re-
main open to new experiences.
“Never put off what you can enjoy to-

 

 

 

 

By W. Patrick Hinely /W&L

Student Recruitment is a key part of admissions process

day, and always have the ability to go
with the flow.”

He founded Best Products, a na-
tionwide chain of discount catalog
stores, in 1951. He and his wife,
trustee Frances A. Lewis, donated $9
million in 1972 for the construction
of Lewis Hall, which houses the Law
School.

As the rain fell, W&L President

 

By MATT HORRIDGE
Staff Reporter

 

The Student Recruitment Commit-
tee, the many well-dressed tour
guides for visitors to the Washington
and Lee campus, is a key part of at-
tracting students here, admission of-
ficials say.

Julia M. Kozak, the admissions
counselor who works most closely
with the committee, said the most
important — and visible — aspect of
the committee is to give tours to pro-
spective students. That, though, is
not its only function.

Besides on-campus tours, Student
Recruitment members also help with
scholarships weeks and sometimes
speak to groups at their high schools.

The committee is composed of
students chosen by the chairman and
his two co-chairmen who are selected
by the admissions staff.

The competition to get on the com-
mittee is fierce. Kozak said there
were approximately 56 members this
year and 760 students applied for the
20 positions being vacated by seniors.

Senior Sandy Whann, this year’s
chairman, said the process is highly
selective.

“We're looking for a represen-
tative group of students’”’ to be in Stu-
dent Recruitment,’’ Whann said.

Kozak also said the chairmen
‘“‘make a conscious effort to try to get
a cross section of the student body,”
including athletes, fraternity and
non-fraternity members and
students from each of the Universi-
ty’s major departments.

“We're looking for someone with
personality, personability, a wide
range of interests and dependabili-
ty,”’ said next year’s chairman, Mac
Gibson.

Whann said the successful can-
didates for Student Recruitment are

John D. Wilson warned the graduates
to protect their diplomas.

He said that W&L is ‘‘one of the few
places on earth where when we speak
of a sheepskin diploma, we mean it,”’
and to audience laughter cut through
the usual commencement platitudes
with this tip: “‘Do leave them in their
tubes until you’re safely under
cover.... Sheepskin, if it gets wet,
dissolves.”’

‘the ones who can adda little more to
the tour than the date the buildings
were built.”’

Last year, Whann said he asked
candidates how they would handle
different situations they might find
themselves in on tours, including
pushy mothers and the prospective
student who doesn’t say a word.

Committee member Michael
Longshore, a sophomore, said one of
the most basic requirements for a
committee member is ‘‘the ability to
talk with all kinds of people.”’

Once on the committee, a member
is expected to work at least one hour
a week, usually giving tours. Whann
said members occasionally have to
give Saturday morning tours.

Gibson said an often-overlooked
responsibility of the committee is
helping with scholarship weeks for
prospective students. He said
members make sure the students get
to classes and become familiar with
the University.

Committee members said the tours
are important because a prospective
student is often heavily impressed by
the student tour guides.

“The lasting impressions [of the
University] are those of the tour
guides,’’ Kozak said.

Gibson said the important parts of
a tour are giving ‘‘a student’s
perspective of W&L”’ and ‘‘a realistic
view of the University.”

“You can make this place as ex-
citing, glorified as you want,”’ as long
as what is said is realisite, Whann
said.

“You’ve got to make a good im-
pression — period,’’ Whann said of
giving tours.

Gibson said a good impression
sometimes is hard to make. He said
he once gave a tour to a prospective
student and his mother, who wanted
to see the dormitories — not an
unusual request. He knocked on a

 

NEWS BRIEFS

Stricter rules
face ’90 class

 

By SIMON PEREZ
Staff Reporter

 

Next year’s freshmen will face
fines and possible expulsion from the
dormitories if the new alcohol con-
sumption rules are broken, accord-
ing to Dean of Freshmen H. Robert
Huntley.

A “sliding scale of punishment”
will be applied to freshmen who are
found violating rules, Huntley ex-
plained.

First offenders will be fined $5 and
be referred to Huntley; second of-
fenders will have to pay $15, see
Huntley, and have a letter sent to
their parents; and if a freshman is
caught a third time, a $25 fine will be
imposed, the student will be required
to see Huntley again and temporary
expulsion of the student from the
dorms will be considered,

Huntley said all fine money will go
to a hall activities fund for recrea-
tional activities for the freshmen.

There is a dilemma between the
fact that “dorms cannot provide a
sanctuary” for the freshmen to
drink, and the fact that the dorms are
the homes of the freshmen, Huntley
said.

 

Jeff Mandak, next year’s head
dorm counselor, said the rules will be
more strictly enforced than this year.

Huntley said the freshmen will not
be allowed to drink in ‘‘the dorm
halls, quads, adjacent to dorms, or
anywhere near the dorms where they
can be seen drinking.”’

‘There are essentially no changes
as far as the Virginia State Code is
concerned,’’ Huntley said, but the
reason for the intensified enforce-
ment is to ensure there are no pro-
blems with local police.

“Tf there are, there will be real ar-
rests and real fines,’’ Huntley added.

Mandak said dorm counselors had
some problems enforcing the rules
this year, but predicted that the new
rules will help to ‘‘clarify every-
thing,’’ and make enforcing the rules
easier for the counselors because all
problems will be handled in the same
way.

Huntley agreed that ‘‘uneven ap-
plication” of the rules caused some
difficulties. He said the dorm coun-
selors were stereotyped into “‘law-
and-order types’’ on those halls
where counselors were strict on
drinking and ‘‘good ol’ boy types”’ on
those halls where drinking was allow-
ed.

‘Student Recruitment Committee: W&L’s ‘ambassadors’

 

 

By Steve Sadler/The Ring-tum Phi

Junior Brandt Surgner shows a prospective student around

freshman’s door and was invited in,
but much to his surprise — and the
prospective’s mother — the fresh-
man’s walls were decorated with
photographs and cartoons from
Playboy.

Longshore said he avoids tour
groups through the dorms on

Monday mornings because of the
mess that tends to accompany a
weekend of partying at Washington
and Lee.

Whann said Student Recruitment
members should not be classified
simply as tour guides, but rather as
‘ambassadors of the school.”’

Former student sentenced on cocaine distribution charge

Staff Reports

 

John H. MeLarin, a former Washington and Lee stu-
dent from Richmond, was sentenced to serve 300 hours
of community service last Wednesday for a conviction
ona charge of conspiracy to distribute cocaine.

McLarin was indicted Sept. 4, 1984, by the special
grand jury that was formed earlier that year to in-
vestigate local drug trafficking.

Clerk of Rockbridge Circuit Court D. Bruce Patterson
said yesterday that McLarin originally was in-
dicted on two counts of conspiracy to distribute cocaine,
but one of the charges was dropped. McLarin was found
guilty on one of the counts Nov. 20, 1985.

McLarin was sentenced to five years in the state
penitentiary by Circuit Judge George K. Honts III.
Honts suspended the jail sentence and placed McLarin
on five years probation and ordered him to perform 300
hours of community service.

Police report check forgery

A check belonging to sophomore Alex Richmond was
forged at Pres Brown’s Inc. last Saturday, according to
a police report. The check was for the amount of $57.46
and signed Jeff T. Tree

Another forged check belonging to Richmond was
given to the Lexington police on Tuesday, police said
That check, for the amount of $12, was used at Estelle’s
Grill and was signed John L. Tree

The police have no suspects in the case

In other police news:

eSophomore Steve Sadler, from Easton, Md., was
charged with assault and battery and trespassing after
an incident at 2:25 a.m. Sunday at 511 S. Main Street.

Virginia Moran, the owner of the boarding house at
the same address, said in the report that Sadler grabb-
ed her left arm and forced his way by her when she tried
to stop him from going to his friend’s room.

Moran and Sadler declined to speak to a reporter
about the case.

eFreshman Michael Kidd reported that on May 18,
someone entered his unlocked dormitory room and
removed $90 in assorted bills from his wallet. There are
no suspects in the case.

eRalph Walter, who was a third-year law student,
reported that $370 worth of camping equipment was
taken from his 1976 Plymouth while it was parked in the

Law School parking lot May 17.
—Matt Horridge

EC considers new organization

At Monday night’s Executive Committee meeting
freshman Tom Brickel made a proposal to the commit-
tee about the possibility of starting a student-run
organization to buy used books that would be used on
campus at half the original price.

Brickel wanted to get the EC’s response to the idea
because the plan may need money to get started. Most
EC members were receptive to the idea but said there
were still some problems to be worked out.

Helena Roller, manager of the campus bookstore,
said she has nothing against a student-run book-buying
organization but she said she didn’t think the students
realized all the obstacles they would run into such as
professors changing their minds about what books will
be used next year and finding a place to store the books.

Roller also said that the W&L Bookstore already pays
50 percent of the original price of books if they have a
guarantee that the book will be used next year. Lower
rates are paid for books that will be used on other cam-
puses or not used at all.

IFC donates $470 to MS

The Interfraternity Council and the 17 social frater-
nities raised more than $470 for the Multiple Sclerosis
Foundation at the pie-eating contest at halftime of the
May 3 lacrosse game against Loyola College

The $25 entry fees paid by the fraternities to be in the
contest plus the $36.38 in donations collected at halftime
by the Delta Tau Delta fraternity made up the $471.38
given to the Blue Ridge Chapter of the Multiple
Sclerosis Foundation

Freshmen cars vandalized

Vandals attempted to steal a number of items of
stereo equipment from five cars in the freshman park
ing lot last night, according to University Proctor

Charles F. ‘“‘Murph’’ Murray

‘We got it all back,” Murray said of the items.

Two Washington and Lee security guards entered the '
tower lot late last night and found two speakers anu ait

equalizer lying on the ground by a car.

Upon investigating, they found that a small front win-
dow had been broken to gain entry into the vehicle.

The men then investigated the upper lot and found
more items on the ground.

Among the items removed from the vehicles were a
car stereo and two separate speaker systems.

The vandals attempted to remove a stereo from one
car, and left it hanging from the dash, said Murray.

Rush calendar announced

Rush, which will last approximately two weeks next
fall, begins with open houses on Sunday, Sept. 21 and
Monday, Sept. 22. After a short period of ‘‘no contact’’
between houses and rushees, rush dates will be held
Sept. 24, 26, Oct. 1 and 3. Bids can be given out by houses
at the fifth and sixth rush dates, Oct. 1, and accepted
after the eight rush date, Oct.3.

Fraternities are allowed to have band parties on two
consecutive Saturdays, Sept. 20 and 27. No bands are
permitted Oct. 4, the night of ‘‘optional’’ rush dates and
nine and 10. Wednesday night parties are prohibited
throughout the official rush period

The IFC will make its first rush presentation to
freshmen Sept. 11 as part of orientation week. The sec-
ond talk will be made Sept. 19, two days prior to rush
registration.

 

 

 
Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, May 29, 1986

Class of ’86
to graduate

Thursday

 

By CHARLES GAY
Staff Reporter

 

Members of the Class of 1986 will
bring their years at Washington and
Lee to an end with the 201st under-
graduate commencement exercises
next week.

Exercises will begin with the bac-
calaureate service in Evans Dining
Hall on Wednesday at 11 a.m.

The service will feature the Rev.
Christoph Keller Jr., a W&L trustee
and Bishop Emeritus of the
Episcopal diocese of Arkansas.

Later that day, the University
faculty will host a reception and
dance for the graduates and their
families in Evans Dining Hall.

Thursday, commencement ac-
tivities begin at 9 a.m. with the Army
ROTC’s commissioning ceremony in
Lee Chapel. Commander of the U.S.
Army Cadet Command Major Gen.
Robert Wagner will speak at the
ceremony.

At 11 a.m. on the lawn between Lee
House and Lee Chapel, diplomas will
be presented to the graduating
students in the College of Arts and
Sciences and the School of Com-
merce, Economics and Politics.

The tradition of the president of the
student body delivering remarks
rather than the valedictorian began
several years ago.

“The change was made because
the student body resident was decid-
ed to be more appropriate as a
representative of his class,’’ said
Dean of Students Lewis G. John.
“Often, the valedictorian didn’t know
his fellow students well enough to
represent them.”’

According to University Registrar
D. Scott Dittman, 281 degrees will be
awarded.

Four honorary degrees will be
awarded by the University at the
ceremony.

Former Virginia Governor Charles
S. Robb and his wife, Lynda J. Robb,
founder of the Virginia Women’s
Cultural History Project, will receive
a degree.

Dr. Joseph L. Goldstein, a reci-
pient of the 1985 Nobel Prize in
medicine and a 1962 W&L graduate,
and William B. Spong Jr., professor
of law and a former U.S. senator, will
also receive degrees.

 

By W. Patrick Hinely /W&L

 

From left to right, award winners Hayne, Pressler, Lindeman, Herrick and Pate

Three seniors, a departing ad-
ministrator and a community leader
received Ring-tum Phi awards at last
night’s Senior Night, a Lee Chapel
program sponsored by the Alumni
Association.

Recipients of the awards were:

eJames L. ‘Jaimie’ Hayne Jr., a
history major from San Antonio, Tex-
as, the outgoing Interfraternity
Council president and former presi-
dent of the Kappa Alpha Order social
fraternity.

The Phi noted that as IFC presi-
dent, Hayne ‘‘worked diligently to
improve the image of fraternities
with [University] administrators
and with local residents and of-
ficials.”’

Hayne is a member of Kathekon,
the student-alumni association, and
is a two-year member of the Student
Recruitment Committee.

eDianne W. Herrick, project coor-
dinator for the year-old Lexington
Downtown Development Association.

A six-year resident of Lexington,
Herrick also has chaired the Chris-
tian Education Committee at Lex-
ington Presbyterian Church, where
she is an elder and taught a first-and

second-grade Sunday school class.
The local United Way drive exceed-
ed its fundraising goal while she was
its executive director, and she was an
organizer of the recent move of the
Rockbridge Regional Library to a
new location. She is the wife of Bruce
H. Herrick, chairman of Washington
and Lee’s economics department.
eKenneth L. Lindeman, a physics
and engineering major from Atlanta.
Lindeman was a sophomore Ex-
ecutive Committee representative
and has served on the Student
Recruitment Committee, is a dor-
mitory counselor and is a member of
the Glee Club, Southern Comfort and
the Phi Delta Theta social fraternity.

A member of Phi Beta Kappa and
Phi Eta Sigma, the freshman honor
society, Lindeman also has been on
the dean’s list and honor roll. He has
attained the ROTC rank of Cadet Bat-
talion Command Sergeant Major,
and Military Science Professor Luke
B. Ferguson refers to him as ‘the
man whoran the program.”

Van H. Pate, an associate director
of admissions and assistant professor
of Romance languages, who is leav-
ing W&L next month.

In presenting the award, The Phi

Five receive Phi awards

noted that Pate’s contributions were
especially valuable because he is
among the few administrators who
are W&L alumni. Pate, a 1971
graduate who majored in French and
Spanish, joined the University ad-
ministration that year as assistant
director of admissions. In 1973, he
became director of student financial
aid, and in 1979 was named associate
director of admissions. During that
time, he also taught a number of

French classes.

Townes G. Pressler, an economics
major from Houston, class president
for all four years.

Pressler headed the Student Con-
trol Committee this year, is a
member of the Student Recruitment
Committee and Kappa Alpha, and is
a charter member of Kathekon. He
conceived and is promoting the Tom
Fellin Memorial Scholarship, a five-
year fundraising project the class of
1986 is beginning this spring.

He is a four-year track and field
letterman, and for the last three
years has placed in the top four in the
high jump at the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference Outdoor Track
and Field Championships.

Futch tells seniors to avoid “goody-goodies’

 

By DUDLEY LEE
Staff Reporter

 

History Professor Jefferson Davis
Futch III warned the soon-to-be-
graduated senior class last night to
ignore the utopian-seeking ‘“goody-
goodies’’ who would like to bring
back the ideals of the 1960s, and to
keep their feet firmly planted in
reality and in tradition.

“The age of lunacy is gone,’’ Futch
said. ‘‘The age of reason is back.”’

Futch was the keynote speaker for
Senior Night, the awards banquet
held in Lee Chapel and on the Alumni

House lawn. The night included sing-
ing by Southern Comfort, remarks by

student leaders and alumni direc-
tors, and presentation of the senior
awards.

Futch said he was worried at the

 

Dean

more of that than they realize right
now, but it needs to become a stated
part of their goals so that they can
make sure that they continue to

 

Continued from Page 1
Washington and Lee scene,”’ he said.

“It’s going to take some hard work,
creative thinking and a lot of
cooperation among different consti-
tuencies — the University ad-
ministration, the faculty, the student
body, the Interfraternity Council and
the alumni — in order to put the
fraternities back in the position
where they're a strong body of viable
and attractive alternatives for a
place to live, a place to eat, and a
place to provide more than just a
social outlet,”’ he said.

“IT think most, if not all, of the
fraternities probably provide a lot

realize progress in that direction,”’
he said.

Atkins said that he will need some
time to investigate the student ac-
tivities on campus before he can
make any plans for action.

‘T have the sense that there’s lots
of things going on here and students
have a tremendous menu to choose
from on a daily basis of things
that they can do for cultural and in-
tellectual and social enrichment, but
I don’t know how much people are
taking advantage of those and how
attractive they’re made and so on in
order to get people to take advantage
of them,” he said.

 

CLASSIFIEDS

 

FOR RENT

GENERAL NOTES

number of speeches he has read
about that were given to graduating
classes this year and that sounded
like ‘‘stuff you read at bedtime” —
Jane Fonda types urging a return to
the good times of the ’60s.

Award winners were Student Body
President John Lewis, who won the
Frank J. Gilliam award, presented to
the student who has contributed the
most to the class and the school; and
Sidney M.B. Coulling, head of the

English department, who received
the William W. Pusey award for pro-
fessors and administrators.

In addition to the speech and
awards: Alumni Director Richard B.
Sessoms and Associate Director
Leroy C. ‘‘Buddy’’ Atkins welcomed
the class into the Alumni Association
and urged each member to join one of
the 82 regional alumni chapters and
to keep in touch with the school.

Fake IDs will
concern EC

 

By DANIEL BUNCH
Staff Reporter

The use of fake identification cards
will be a prime concern of next year’s
Executive Committee, several of its
members say.

Shayam Menon, president-elect of
the student body, said, ‘It will come
up and it will be addressed.’’ He said
a policy regarding the use of IDs will
be ‘‘made clear’’ by freshman orien-
tation.

Menon declined to say whether he
considered the use of fake IDs an
honor violation but he said ‘‘each
case will be addressed on its own
merits.”

Sophomore _ representatives-elect
Chris deMovellan and Matt Bryant
both agreed that fake IDs will be an
issue next year.

Bryant said: *‘l detinitely wouldn't
advise fake IDs. I think it’s dishonor-
able and I think it’s lying.’’ He added
that he has given the issue a lot of
thought and he feels that students
have an obligation to represent them-
selves truthfully.

Senior representative-elect An-
drew Caruthers and vice president-
elect Brandt Surgner both said they
thought the EC will have to deal with
the issue next year but they declined
to give their own opinions about fake
ID use.

Another issue the EC will be deal-
ing with next year is the distribution
of the budget. A possible change may
be in the use of student funds for
social events.

‘‘T think we should work on not sup-
plying money for social functions,”
Bryant said. Menon and Surgner
agreed that funds for social events
need to be cut back.

Freshman involvement
is key to fall orientation

 

By MARGUERITE AYERS
Staff Reporter

 

Intellectual, naive, idealistic, and
still possessing all their brain cells,
the class of 1990 will face the realities
of Washington and Lee orientation
Sept. 7 through Sept. 13.

Dean of Freshmen H. Robert
Huntley said the emphasis in next
year’s orientation will be on using
W&L students to familiarize the
freshmen with the school to give
them a better feel for the at-
mosphere.

He said the new students will
become better acclimated to W&L
due to the increased involvement of
upperclassmen.

A tradition that creates the at-
mosphere at this university, the
Honor System, is a high priority on
the orientation schedule for Huntley.
Because of feedback from this year’s
freshmen, the focus will be upon pro-
viding a more comprehensive in-
troduction to its implications and im-
portance.

Shayam Menon, next year’s Ex-
ecutive Committee president, said
“students not committed to honor-
able conduct don’t belong here.”’

“We aren’t out to scare the
freshmen, but we want them to
understand what a person will face if
he acts dishonorably,’’ he said.

Menon said he wants the freshmen
to be better informed of the serious-
ness of the system, and that he would
stress the importance of a strong
understanding of the White Book.

 

 

 

LEXINGTON PRESCRIPTION CENTER

11 W. Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
(703) 463-9166

Charge your prescriptions and have the bill mailed home.
HOURS: Monday- Friday 8:30-5:30
Saturday 8:30-1 P.M.

10% off first purchase of the year.

 

 

 

 

 

NEED
A CAR?

Students under 21
Must Have

prior Insurance
Approval

RFD7, Box 149,

 

Rt. 60 East

 

 

Three rising seniors looking for
a student to share a house near
campus. Rent $112.50 per month,
utilities not included. Call 463-7253
anytime.

The senior class party will be
held Tuesday at Zollman’s Pavi-
lion from 1 to6 p.m. The affair will
feature the music of Heinsohn and
Day and be catered by Subway.

 

 

 

Such a big SUCCESS.

 

25 N. Main

Caper’s
Wish to thank W&L for making their
FIRST YEAR

We look forward to seeing you in the fall and we
will miss those of you who will leave us.

Have an enjoyable summer!
...When only the best will do.

 

463-2566

 

 

 

7

 

, By appointment

Robin * Peggy * Marie* Sherry 463-9588

as MARIE’S HAIR STYLERS #2 onl

$2.00 OFF WITH THIS COUPON OR
- $2.00 OFF WITH THE COLONNADE CARD |
For the next week

%
SP

Old Main St. Mall |

ED SE SF So me Se mee ee

165 S. Main

  

Lg ce
ifffmaxhite~Florist

Our sincere congratulations to all
graduating seniors and our
warmest wishes for 1987
and beyond.

463-9152

 

SERVIGTAR.

235. Main —_ Lexington, Va. 24450
Lexington Hardware
463-2242

 

 

 

Menon also plans to make it clear
that the Honor System creates a uni-
que academic environment and that
its advantages are widespread and
enjoyed by students and professors
alike.

Sidney M. B. Coulling, professor of
English, will address the class of 1990
with a few words on the Honor
System and what it has meant to him
in his years as a student and pro-
fessor at W&L.

As a follow-up later in the year, the
13 EC members will meet with fresh-
men in the dorms to answer ques-
tions about the system and clarify the
technicalities concerning the EC’s
stance on false identification cards
and stolen road signs.

The Women’s Forum is sponsoring
a meeting for the new class of women
to discuss what to expect as female
students and the problems encount-
ered during the year. This will be
held simultaneously with the frater-
nity orientation meeting.

The Alumni Association will spon-
sor a pig roast at the student ac-
tivities pavilion featuring the music
of Heinsohn and Day. Southern Com-
fort will also teach the words of the
W&L Swing.

Members of Kathekon, the student
Alumni Association, will be present
at the roast to meet new students and
help introduce them to the school.

Other activities of the week include
placement tests, registration, meet-
ing with advisers, and a day of canoe-
ing, volleyball, softball, and hiking to
give students a chance to get to know
each other.

Needed
Bassist, Drummer and Keyboardist
for W&L rock band.
Contact David Klabo

3904 Northampton Way
Tampa, Fla. 33624
(813) 962-3572

 

 

needs.

bilities best for you!

plans (more than

expense.

3276. Nationwide,

 

 

 

 

Moving to Richmond?

Looking for a great apartment that’s
just right for your lifestyle? Make it sim-
ple! Call GSC... The Apartment People.
One phone call will put you in touch with
the apartment communities that fit your

Let our FREE service save you time
and precious gas! We do the research
and recommend the apartment availa-

The choice in locations, features, floor

tremendous. All apartments are fully
modern with virtually any combination
of features, community facilities and
planned social activities you could wish!

Many GSC communities include utili-
ties for heat, hotwater and cooking. This
is important when you realize that elec-
tricity has become a major consumer

We also have a roommate service, and
we'll send you a free Richmond area map
and our full color Lifestyle book. In Rich-
mond, call 329-6666. In Virginia outside the
Richmond area, call toll-free 1-800-542-
call
368-7669. Make it easy on yourself!

aSCT
The Apartment People

EQUAL HOUSING OPPORTUNITY

100) and styles is

toll-free 1-800-

 

 

”

 

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi, May 29, 1986, Page 5

 

 

Ne

BORDEN
COMMONS

The Ideal Investment

For

Alumni, Parents of Students and Real Estate Investors

Baker Real Estate announces a new offering in Phase II of Borden Com-
mons near Washington and Lee Campus, offers affordable, cost-efficient
housing for students and young professionals, and like Phase I will rapidly

be fully subscribed.

Scheduled for occupancy Fall Semester 1986, pre-construction reservations
are being taken now. 90% financing available to qualified purchases. On-

site management is available through Baker Real Estate.

One bedroom with fully equipped kitchens, central air and plenty of

storage at $44,000.
MARKETED BY
Tom Baker Baker Real Estate
eo. Lexington, Virginia
socal 703-463-7319

Dick Emrey
463-4362
Evenings

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

W&L Graduates
Congratulations
The Shop eo
On This Memorable Occasion bos taename
We At The Natural Bridge Hotel O f f
|| Offer You This Banquet Buffet 25% cil
On ALL
Sliced New York Sirloin Strip
New Orleans Style Shrimp Creole Pe Cee
Smithfield Virginia Country Ham
Sliced Grade A Turkey Breast waiuavens a dds call
Homemade Baked Cheese Macaroni 463-5988
Fancy Italian Style Vegetables
Shrimp Salad
Tossed Pasta Vegetable Salad ’
Country Style Potato Salad Wendell $
Fancy Desserts And Beverage Barber
25 More Dinner Items i need
Large Variety Of Wines Available
Live Piano Music your heed
for my business
Wednesday, June 4th
9:30 — 8:30
$9.65 and Tax ;
Hair Shack
| }Lexington-B.V. Shopping Center
. Located by D.M.V.-Walker St.
Natural Bridge Hotel =
Route 11 - 12 miles south of Lexington a psa on
Colonial Dining Room
0 weer XY - ~~ Open 5 days 9-5:30; Thurs. 9-8
QISGONONGK |___ 463-1575

 

 

 

GRADUATES

 

 

  
  

 

 

  
     

 

 

 

   
  

 

 

 

   

 

MasterCard,

East Nelson Street, Lexington

463-7101

Fraternities receive 10% discount

VISA

and 30 day charge with approved credit.

Ra06o |
Charmin ! f
Toilet Paper | |
! 3
Tt !
| |
| |
1
Limit 2 1 |
r
|
1;
| |
| || Kodacotor fm
| SonofaGun |! O
5’’ Portable is : .
Black & White ¢ 97 | i
ae! Care! 2 a 4
Coppertone | ' Rubbermaid
| Ice Cube
seg Tan | i
ana ‘ ! Trays
eee | | 3 /S700
!
$3 97 | Sunglasses 50 % ae
off |
Open daily Please present coupons for purchases Sunday
9-9 p.m. Coupons expire June 8 12-7 p.m.

  
   
  

COURTESY

Ford ¢ Mercury
HAS YOUR

PRE-APPROVED
CREDIT FROM
FORD CREDIT

PLUS $400 TOWARD
THE PURCHASE Agr OF A NEW FORD

   

 

It’s Easy To Qualify

@ You must receive at least a
bachelor’s degree or a state RN
license between October 1,
1985 and September 30, 1986.

@ You must have verifia'le
employment that begins within
120 days of your qualifying
vehicle purchase at a salary
sufficient to cover ordinary liv-
ing expenses and your vehicle
payment.

These Vehicles Are

Included In The Plan

Ford: Escort, Escort EXP,
Tempo, Mustang, Thunderbird

Ford Truck: Aerostar, Bronco II,
Ranger, F-150 & F-250

Mercury: Lynx, Topaz, Capri,
Cougar

by the qualifying vehicle you buy,
and you are eligible for the $400
directly from Ford even if you
don’t finance your purchase.
Make your best deal and you can
use the $400 toward your down
payment or get a check from
Ford after the purchase or lease.

Hurry. If a vehicle is not in
dealer stock it must be ordered
by June 1, 1986, and delivery of
all vehicles must be taken by
August 31, 1986. See your par-
ticipating dealer for complete
program details.

The amount of your pre-
approved credit is determined

@ Your credit record, if you
have one, must indicate pay-
ment made as agreed.

(oe LEGE C

“1g }
iS S

m
Gord)
7:

CG
VASE pRO

COURTESY

mee Melos Fo rd M ercu ry

Credit
Company

= 2019 Forest Ave.
Buena Vista

  

©

g

ED
PP

 

 

 

 

 

en

261-2112
DL 1916

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

SPORTS

 

« By MIKESTACHURA
« Sports Editor

 

Chris John, senior co-captain
and Mr. Defense for the Washing-
ton and Lee lacrosse team, was

rewarded for his efforts this
season by being selected to repre-
sent the Generals in the 1986

North-South All-Star Game to be
played at Johns Hopkins on June
14,

John has been the team’s defen-
sive leader in 1986, scooping up a
team-leading 80 ground balls in
the Generals’ 5-8 campaign. He is
regularly assigned to the oppo-
nent’s strongest offensive
weapon

“Chris has had a great year,”
head coach Dennis Daly said.
“‘He’s been more consistent this
year. He contributes in every way
as a defenseman.”

John was named the team’s
Defensive Player-of-the-Game in
the Generals’ losses to Virginia,
Towson State and Cornell.

Daly, who will be coacning the
South squad this yearsaid year,
said the selection prooess i in-
volves the head and assistant
lacrosse coaches throughout the
nation. Only seniors are eligible
and there is a restriction that only
two players from the same team
can be represented at the game.

The Ring-tum Phi, May 29, 1986

or
ies a
>

 

John named to North-South game

John said it was ‘‘an honor to be
selected’’ and to be able to play
with so many talented players

In addition to John, senior
Caulley Deringer, the team’s
leading assist man and second-
leading total scorer, was selected
as an alternate for the game.

Daly said that he would hold two
practices a day on the Thursday
and Friday preceding the Satur-
day game.

 

Pn a gig oe ae

Pace eenyonanetpanaes

 

 

 

 

- a ~ a
"som age -
Pre ctr nm acres = al oe e

  
 
  
     

Cee posers

a Melb % eT pan

  

 

hg sap

Chris John (in white) displays the form that earned him North-South honor

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring- tum Phi

 

 

 

Reactions

 

Continued from Page |

“There’s excitement, and the chance
of a tournament bid in Division III
while in Division I it was just getting
further and further away.’

* Senior Defenseman Chris John
said, “I’m very excited about it, this
will provide a much needed lift for
this team.”

Sophmore Midfielder Robbie Stan-
‘on praised the move saying, ‘‘I think
t’s great. It will give a lot of guys a
shance to have a winning season.”’
3ut he also questioned its timing, ad-
ling that he thought ‘‘it was a year
00 late.”’

But it’s not only athletes who are
leased with the decision, the
students also seem to be happy.

Junior Peter Van Son said, ‘‘I think
t’S a good idea. It’s not fair to com-
yete [in Division I], because it’s get-
ing to be like football in that if you
lon’t give scholarships you can’t
‘ompete with those who do.”’

Sophmore E. G. Allen said, ‘‘I’d like
pe the team have a chance to play

r the national title. I think it’s im-
vrtant to the fans and to the
ayers.”

ECE LAR ERIE REND,

W&L Seniors
Graduation Mass

Wed., June 4, there will bea
special graduation mass for
parents, relatives, friends
and family at St. Patrick’s
Church
5:15 p.m.

te All welcome
_ Scanner easo ra nena aes

NELSON STREET
SERVICENTER

Anyone needing to

 

sell their car,
call Kenny or Ed

463-3922

 

 

“T think we’re recruiting Division
III players,’ said Sophmore Chase
Faust. ‘‘We can’t play Division I with
Divison III players

Junior Chip Davis agreed, ‘“‘We’re
getting outplayed by Division 1
teams.”

Junior John Koedel also feels the
change will be beneficial to the team.
“T think it would bring us to a level of
competition more consistent with our
talent,”’ he said.

Yet not everyone was entirely en-
thusiastic about the change.

Freshman Attackman John Ware,
while supporting the move, added
that he was ‘“‘a little disappointed
because I came here to play Division
Le

Freshman Midfielder Neill
Redfern expressed similar senti-
ments. ‘‘Personally,’’ he said, ‘‘I’d
rather play Division I.’’ But Redfern
added, ‘‘I think the program has to do
that [change Divisions].”’

Redfern was not the only player to
express that feeling of inevitability.

Senior Defenseman Pete Braden
said the change was “‘unfortunate but
necessary.”

There were also those who were
completely oppossed to the move.

Freshman Rhona Hughes thinks
that the team should stay in Division
I. “Division I is a better league,”’ she
said. ‘‘I would rather be in the middle

of a better league that be at the top of
a minor league.”’

Freshman Chris Willard also
disagreed with the decision saying,
“T think that because the team was
Division I, it created more en-
thusiasm for the sport.’’ He con-
tinued, ‘“‘We played the U.Va.’s, the
Dukes, the Carolinas, it put the
school on the map.”

Beyond the students and the
athletes, there is another group of
people whom this decision affects,
the future athletes and students, next
year’s lacrosse recruits.

Most of them expressed disappoint-
ment at not being able to play Divi-
sion I lacrosse, but optimism for the
future.

Julian Gillespie, a high school
North-South selection at goalie, said,
“My immediate reaction was, well
not betrayal, but disappointment. I
was really looking forward to playing
Division I.”

The goalie from Landon School
said, however, that he thought about
the decision a lot since head coach
Dennis Daly informed him of the
decision Tuesday night by phone. He
said he realized that ““‘W&L was not
the team it was in the 70s. It just
doesn’t belong in Division I.”’

More than the decision, he said, ‘I
wanted to go to W&L for what it was,
not just for its lacrosse program.”

Russell Wilkerson, an attackman

 

r

 

    

Phone: 463-3614

Have a great summer, students!!

We would like to invite new students to come in for com-
plete hair care, hair cuts, color, or permanents.
We also specialize in sculptured nails and manicures.

Come see us next fall!

BEAUTY BOUTIQUE

107 W. Nelson St., Lexington

EAST LEX

US 11 North Open ‘til midnite

 

463-2422
=

 

  

Natty BO ong necks

 

Stroh’s Long necks

Coeeerne Ce eeseseneeees

CERRO eee eee wee EEE EEE EES

ee eee meee eeeenee

 

  
  
    
 

from St. Paul’s, agreed, ‘‘I chose
W&L first for what it had to offer
academically, and then because of
lacrosse.”

He said the decision surprised him,
but that it was in the best interest of
the school. He also said he was ex-
cited about the possibility that. with
W&L as a Division III lacrosse team,
he might “‘even be able to contribute
a little bit more.”’

Chris Giblin, a midfielder from
Episcopal High School, shared
Wilkerson’s excitement. ‘‘I think it’s
a great thing,” he said. “‘I’d rather be
playing for the championship in Divi-
sion III, than play Division I and be
struggling like they have been.”’

The three recruits agreed W&L
would have a good chance at making
the Division III tournament and that
being in Division III would be a more
competitive atmosphere. Gillespie
expressed the enthusiasm for Divi-
sion III success: ‘‘When you’re at the
top in Division III, you can say you’re
as good as anybody.”’

It was this lure of competitiveness
and positive reinforcement that was
attractive to most in favor of the de-
cision. But despite all the talk,
despite all the reasons given for the
change, it may have been outgoing
captain John who managed to hit
closest to home when he said, “‘It’s an
excellent chance to play in the tour-
nament, something which I was.
unable to do.”

Sport Coats & Suits by Haspel & Gant, Oritsky

Sero Shirts, Bass Weejuns & Topsider Shoes
Berle & Thomson Pants

Woolrich & Deans Sweaters
After Six Formal Wear

 

ee PR aoe tae

Sieh ” re
Se Ce eae

 

By Cotton Puryear/The Ring-tum Phi

Daly: Division change
‘proper, consistent’
with W&L philosophy

 

By DAVID EMRICH
Assistant Sports Editor

 

Maybe, if you’re lucky, you haven’t
had the opportunity to discuss the
decision to change Washington and
Lee lacrosse from Division I to Divi-
sion III.

However, if you have, you’ve most
likely been assaulted by several opi-
nions, and few of those were all that
close to the situation.

Head lacrosse coach, Dennis Daly,
was one of the central players in the
decision. What does the man most
directly affected by the move think?

“T’m glad the athletic department
has decided to treat sports in a con-
sistent fashion,’’ Daly said.

The third-year head coach said
that he had recommended a year ago
that the University ‘‘commit to either
Division I or Division III.”

“T said it was important for the
school to decide,’’ continued Daly.
“If we were to stay as we were, we
should be Division III; if we wanted
to stay Division I, we should treat it
[the lacrosse program] in the same
way as other schools.”’

Daly said the University’s decision
in 1971 to affiliate the lacrosse pro-
gram with Division I but operate
under the no-scholarship constraints
of Division III would not be made in
the same way today.

“It would not be made now due to
the changed nature of the game,”

Daly said.

Indeed, the game has changed
since 1971.

When the athletic department

made the decision to play Division I

Alvin Bennis

102 W. Washington St.

lacrosse, very tew schoois otfered
scholarships in the sport. Today,
there are over 20.

Between 1970 and 1980, the
Generals had 10 players named First
Team All-Americans; seven of those
players were honored in more than
one season. No W&L player has
reached that level of recognition
since 1980.

“‘We’re just not getting that type of
player anymore,’ Daly said.

How will the change affect the type
of player who will-decide to come to
W&L?

The new recruits, many of whom
Daly contacted Tuesday night, are
generally enthusiastic about the
change, according to Daly.

“‘T’ve always sold the school first,”’
Daly explained. ‘I talked about a
small college with a great lacrosse
program.”

Now that the decision has been
made, what can we expect from next
year’s team?

“It’s very important that we are
successful and success means wins,”’
Daly said. ‘‘Not necessarily a na-
tional championship, but to get to the
tournament and do well, that’s im-
portant.”’

“Winning is very valuable,” Daly
elaborated. ‘It’s a kind of positive
reinforcement. That’s something we
didn’t have here the past four years.”’

Daly said the team should be able
to do well when the pressure mounts
next year, that the confidence level
will be greater simply by virtue of be-
ing in Division III.

“T think that now we’re in the pro-
per classification for the institutional
philosophy,”’ Daly said.

 

 

Duck Head Pants
W&L Belts - Ties
Silk Ties
London Fog

 

Student Charge, MasterCard, Visa, Choice

 

Mail Orders Accepted

—Since 1963—

   
   
   
 

 

NR ap A

 

The soccer team has been a part of the success of women’s sports at W&L

 

By Perry S. Hayes/The Ring-tum Phi

A General success

Women’s athletics prospers through enthusiasm

 

By CHARLES GAY
Staff Reporter

 

Coeducation seemingly has touched every
aspect of Washington and Lee this year, and no-
where is that effect in greater evidence than in the
athletic department. The department has embark-
ed on a promising women’s program, which in-
cluded three full-fledged teams and a couple of
other athletic outlets for women that promise con-
tinued participation for the future.

While the numbers have been great — nearly 50
percent of the first group of women participated in
W&L athletics in some form — the department’s
greatest victory in its successful development of
women’s sports may have been in a mid-year vic-
tory over a National Collegiate Athletic Associa-
tion eligibility requirement.

To receive NCAA certification as a viable Divi-
sion II] program, an institution must field teams
in four women’s sports with one at least one team
coming from each season, according to NCAA
membership coordinator Shirley Whittaker. Whit-
taker said, however, that the four-sport stipulation
was eased when the NCAA granted W&L a waiver
because of an insufficient enrollment.

Whittaker explained that W&L was given a two-
year grace period in which it could field only three
women’s teams and still be certified. The NCAA
would review the W&L situation after two years,
according to Whittaker.

The waiver was a long time coming due to a lack
of understanding, explained Assistant Athletic
Director Cinda L. Rankin.

‘We just couldn’t get it through their heads that

we only had a hundred girls, at first,’ Rankin
said.

The waiver and grace period questions may
become moot by next season, when W&L will field
teams in cross country (fall), swimming. (winter),
tennis (spring) and soccer (spring) in 1986-87. The
women’s soccer team will move to varsity status
next year after being a developmental varsity pro-
gram this year.

Rankin well expressed the enthusiasm held by
the athathletic department: ‘‘We’re really excited
about the program,” she said. “The won-lost
record is not the most critical factor at this point. I
expect better caliber of play next season.”

Indeed, steps have already been taken in an ef-
fort to improve things for next year’s women’s
teams. Rankin pointed specifically to the area of
recruiting activities performed by herself and
Athletic Director William D. McHenry. Based on
these efforts, Rankin confidently asserted, ‘All
{women’s] teams will show improvement within
three years.”

But success has come already in Year 1. Fresh-
man Carolyn Arbogast was a district qualifier in
cross country and classmate Elizabeth Miles was
an honorable mention All-American in two swim-
ming events.

But all the women have been very much behind
the development of the program. Forty-eight per-
cent of all W&L women were involved in sports in
some form (including those managing men’s
teams). Fifty individuals in all participated in
some way in the first year of women’s athletics at
W&L and 10 individuals took part in two or more
sports.

The birth of the women’s soccer team is a
testimony to the growing enthusiasm of the W&L
women for their sports program. Put together
solely by the women who wanted to play, the team
shocked the department with its initiative.

Rankin commented, ‘‘I was pleased and surpris-
ed that it was the students who got behind and
organized the team.”

The girls appear to be satisfied with the way the
program went this year, particularly in relation to
their male counterparts. Freshman tennis player
Benny Savage stated, ‘‘We had a lot of respect for
the guys, and the team realized it would take a
while to reach their level.”’

Savage, an Old Dominion Athletic Conference
consolation finalist, noted that despite its record,
“the [women’s] team played competitively this
year. Next year’s matches should be closer.”’

Savage gave much of the credit to head coach
Bill Washburn and assistant coach Rankin. ‘“‘They
worked us hard and they knew their stuff,
especially Coach Washburn.” Rankin was praised
“for getting us into good shape play.’’ Freshman
Nancy Whalen, a swimmer, said it was difficult at
first trying to work with the men athletes. ‘‘The
guys were probably afraid we’d get too much at-
tention,’ she said. But Whalen dispelled that
thought by saying, ‘‘We were treated the same as
the guys and equally with each other.”

From all accounts, the women’s athletic pro-
gram has started on the right foot. And while
everyone connected with the new teams admits
that it will take time, things appear to be looking
up for the Lady.... er, uh women’s teams.

Wheeler has ‘frustrating’ week at golf nationals

 

 

By MIKE SHADY
Staff Reporter

 

 

 

 

GREG WHEELER

 

When Washington and Lee’s head
golf coach Buck Leslie set priorities
for his charges way back in those
wintry months of January and
February, he said the ‘‘ultimate
goai”’ was to be invited to play in the
NCAA Division III golf champion-
ships. Last week, one W&L golfer
— senior captain Greg Wheeler
— reached that goal by participating
in the national tournament held in
Exeter, Pa.

Although Wheeler carded a four-
day total of 332, some 40 strokes off
the pace, the captain felt that his per-

good golfers there.”’

the entire season.

ly,’ Wheeler _ said.

formance should have been better.
“It wasn’t a very long golf course and
my game kind of left me,” said
Wheeler, who returned to Lexington
over the weekend. ‘I would have lik-
ed to play better. There were a lot of

The captain and most valuable
golfer award-winner for the past two
years, Wheeler earned his right to
compete at the national champion-
ships with consistent play throughout

“Although I never had any spec-
tacular rounds, I played consistent-
“Tt [being

selected] was definitely in the back
of my mind, but I was still somewhat
surprised.”’

Leslie described Wheeler’s final
round of golf as ‘‘frustrating,’’ but he
said he reminded the senior that
“you don’t always have your best
stuff every day.”’

“Greg was our fifth player [in
W&L history] to be selected,’’ Leslie
said, ‘‘and I told him that it’s an
honor just to get to go in the first
place.”

Wheeler was also honored by being
selected to play in the East-West
match, a preliminary event that not
all the individual competitors were
asked to play in.

“T’m glad I made it,’ Wheeler
said. ‘“‘It was a good experience for
me. The important thing is that my
teammates realize that they too can
make it — that it’s a realistic goal.”

 

 

 

     
   
   
   

Subscribers:

AND SIGN OUT.

  

sheets.

 

CAMPUS LINEN SERVICE

PLEASE TURN IN
LINEN BEFORE FRIDAY, 30TH

Students who don’t sign out will be billed for their

    
 
        

E. Nelson Street
463-2186

 

 

 

Valley Trve Value Hardware

Hardware, Paint & Related items

Mon.-Sat. 8:30-6:00
Sun. 1-5

 

 

 

 

Animals...

Nashville Babylon, Ectasy, Lost Weekend, and Latest

- all $8.98.

Buy one of these albums and get the second one for

only $7.98.

Now over 200 titles on compact disc.

117 W. Nelson St.

 

 

  
 

  
    
 

21

ITT,

 

PPTL»

 
  
  

Incoming
Freshmen

Prepare for an exciting year featuring new
friends, ideas, and experiences. We are Lex-
ington’s finest travel service and we can send
you wherever your friends, ideas and exper-
iences take you.

Travel Unlimited
W. Washington

  
   

St.

Ve

463-7174

Ve

 

The Ring-tum Phi, May 29, 1986, Page 7

 

A fitting end
to all of this

_.. What with Boston dominating

 

 
  

Houston as expected, the In-
TIME dianapolis 500 rescheduling itself in-
> OUT.... to boredom (as if it needed to), and

the Board of Trustees deciding in
favor of Washington and Lee’s
student-athletes, all seems right

qu
a
with the world this last week. A fit-
ting end, that.

By Mike
Stachura
: There have been some things we

wished we hadn’t seen on our long journey, but we have overcome
them not too much the worse for wear. Like the football team’s in-
auspicious start and its eventual rise to great achievement, more often
than not, the cream rose to the top, and that is much more reason to be
thankful than can be expected, in this day when there are still some
athletes who aren’t sure about verb tense making more money than
the entire Class of 1986 will make its first year out in the real world.

Yes, there have been forgettable moments. Less than honorable
athletes has been a big theme. What does it mean? There are no more
heroes anymore, or is it that there never really were any and we're
just finding that out now. I’d like to think there are heroes and under-
stand and accept the responsibility that goes along with being a cross
between a matinee idol and somebody’s father. Maybe if we started
treating them more like fathers and less like matinee idols they might
turn out better. I know my father never needed cocaine to help him
deal with the pressure of being my hero.

Coaches have been a biggie, too — high school, college and pro. I
wonder if coaches will start getting the benefit of the doubt again
sometime. Does winning have to mean everything? It certainly means
a great deal to colleges and professionals, where W’s mean $$, and $$
means everything.

But, who determined that equation? Does someone coach because
he likes to win? Everybody likes to win and winning is fun (Hell, it’s a
pretty large part of why we’re playing Division III — not so much that
we will win, but that we will have the chance to win), but it isn’t
everything (hokum alert). Is someone all of a sudden a good coach
because his teams win? No, what makes a good coach is the afternoon
chats with a player or the morning visit from a former player who
wants to talk about the old days or the evening phone call to a recruit
who has all the questions but doesn’t get the hard sell.

Those kinds of things don’t get talked about enough anymore. Is it
because they don’t mean much anymore? | hope not. Perhaps, it is
because those things don’t mean much and winning does that our
athletes turn to drugs for support rather than a coach.

I was going to talk about what a successful year W&L has had, what
with the achievements of the women’s sports, of Kevin Weaver and the
football team, of the basketball team, of the wrestlers, of the swim-
mers, of the indoor track team and of the men’s tennis team. But I
realized how hypocritical that sounded. Success is not supposed to be
measured by the number of all-conference performers or All-
Americans you produce. We are proud of W&L athletics most of the
time. (Granted, there are times when we are not so proud of W&L
athletes; there were time this year. To ignore these times would be fol-
ly.) We are proud of W&L athletics because more often than not it br-
ings us people like Andy Haring or Chris Bleggi or Frank Eppes or
Carlton Peebles or Newton Kendrick or Chris John or Jeff Dixon or
Brian Hanson or John DiDuro or Tim Valliere. If you don’t know all of
these people, trust me, they are the kind of people the person who said
“Participation in athletics builds character” had in mind.

In the great scheme of things, then, the record of the Washington
and Lee water polo team in 1985 doesn’t amount to all that much. In-
deed, the record of the Chicago Bears in 1985 won’t amount to all that
much either, except for an occasional outburst in a bar 20 years from
now. But then, that’s what bars and records are for. What is important
is that we take more from the season, more than its numbers, that the
Sunday afternoon Richmond game was a great thing to be a part of,
never mind that we lost. One wonders if the Bears take more than the
record and the dollars from 1985.

If we can learn to look beyond the obvious, to find the things that are
important when you scrape away all those others that everybody else
says are important, then I think we will be content, and we may be
able to make a difference, even if the only person to whom we make a
difference is someone who wants to play catch with us.....

 

 

 

 

 

 

Get the early jump
on your 1986-87

subscription

Call 463-8581

 

 

Congratulations graduates!
have a great summer!!

Come see us next fall to set up a student charge account
to be sent home.

Serving the W&L community
over 30 years.

 

      
      
  

 

SIGMA NU FRATERNITY

Welcomes the Class of 1990.
Best wishes for a good summer.
Hope to see you during the fall.

4Henry St. 463-2503

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“BACK PAGE

 

Old textbooks line p

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Entertainment Editor

 

If you are like me, the end of the
year is almost always synonymous
with a dwindling bank account. To be
sure, spring term seems to mean
pretty weather, a light workload, and
Saltines and water for supper.

All is not lost, however. since the
end of the year also means it is time
to sell those textbooks. Indeed, what
on earth is one to do with a $28
Calculus book once the year is over?
Fine summer reading, n est-ce pas?

Wallace book buyers. a Lexington,
Ky., firm, has been in the W&L
Bookstore buying used textbooks
since Wednesday afternoon. The
company sends its buyers to univer-
sities and colleges around the coun-
try, buying old textbooks by the
truckload to resell.

Helena ‘“‘Tidge’’ W. Roller.
manager of the University Book-
store, said Wednesday that the com-
pany buys back those books it thinks
will sell later on. The price it sets for
a book is determined by supply and
demand. The buyers speculate what
kind of demand a certain book might
attract and price it accordingly.

The company has a record contain-
ing thousands of titles. each with a
given price. It doesn't buy all books.
of course. Frequently. a book will
have a second edition printed up.
making all first editions obsolete. In
addition, occasionally the company
itself will simply be overstocked on a
certain book.

“We keep what we can.” Roller
said,

She said she talked to as many pro-
fessors as possible to determine
which books could be resold next
year. Then she gave this list to

Wallace's buyers so they could buy
the needed titles

“We use their money, and that is
quite nice. That means we don't have
to go to the University for the money
up front.’ Roller said. ‘Also, we use
their expertise. They know about sec-
ond editions and so forth.”

Norman Lepchitz. a buyer for
Wallace. said that in general the
older the book, the lower the fetching
price. There is more risk of the
book's being updated. which would
result in a warehouse full of obsolete
titles.

Mass market trade paperbacks —
novels and the like — usually resell
for 10 cents on the dollar. Prices for
textbooks vary. depending on the
book's speculated demand.

Roller said she had heard of
student-run co-ops in other univer-
sities in which students themselves
by the used textbooks and resell them
on their own.

“I would be very wary of taking on
an undertaking like that. however.”
she said.

According to Roller, it is important
to know which textbooks will be used
the following year. Also. since it is
improbable that a student-run organ-
ization such as this will be able to
come up with the initial capital need-
ed to buy the books, careful records
must be kept. The seller would have
to be paid the following year when
the book is resold.

Sophomore Elizabeth Smith felt

she should have been paid more
money for her books.

“I paid $42 for a Biology book and
got $10 for it. If you need cash it’s a
good deal, but I expected a whole lot
more money than I got."’ said Smith.

“It could have been better, it could
have been worse,"’ said sophomore
Steve Sears.

The Ring-tum Phi, May 29, 1986

 

   

 

ockets

=e Ali

3

By Hank Mayer/The Ring-tum Phi

Students selling used textbooks in the bookstore

Freshman Chris Casey, however,
left the bookstore saying, ‘That was
a quick $38.50!"’

“I didn't pay for the book. It’s just
cash out of the pocket. I know people

who are charging books right now
just to sell them back. It’s quick
cash,”’ Casey said.

“IT would think the honor system
would apply there,’’ said Roller.

War becomes a sport in ‘Rollerball’

 

By TIM MeMAHON
Movie Critic

 

The final entry in this year's
Politics FilmFest, Rollerball,” is a
tour de force of action and the story
of one man’s fight for individuality in
1 Stifling, futuristic world.

James Caan plays Jonathan E.
*hampion and star athlete in the 21st
‘entury’s ultimate sport. rollerball.
\ combination of roller derby. foot-
vall and gladiator tournament,
‘ollerball has been designed by the
‘erporate leaders of the world as a
neans of bringing international con-
licts down to a human scale, pitting
eams rather than armies against

 
   
    
   
 

11@ S. Jeffersun St.

He
f

Restaurant and Delica

one another.

“They are dealing in sublimation,
bringing war from a macrocosmic to
a microcosmic scale,’ said Craig
McCaughrin, associate professor of
politics. As organizer of the Politics
FilmFest, he showed the movie last
night and will show it again tonight.

McCaughrin posed questions to the
audience before the movie began
about the ethical nature of a system
that performs under what he called
“scapegoat ethics,’’ placing the
responsibility of the community on
the shoulders of only a few (or a
single person). In the case of ‘‘Roller-
ball,’’ that person, of course, is Caan.

Though Jonathan E is revered the
world over for his skill, he is

Cocktails® Wine@Beer

 

PIZZA SERVED HERE, TO GO,
OR DELIVERED

 

¢ Try our fresh baked Pan
Pizza, Thin ‘N Crispy’

Pizza, served anytime.

¢ Priazzotm Italian Pie,
served after 4 p.m. Mon.-
Fri., and any time Sat. @
Sun.

* Personal Pan Pizza for
lunch. Available from 11:00
am-4:00 pm (Mon.-Fri.).

¢ Plus...Pasta, Salad Bar,
Sandwiches, Beverages.

* Served to your table, or
delivered to your home, or
call ahead and we'll have
your order hot and ready to
go.

    
 

WH

1985 Pizza Hut. Inc

 

¢ Each Wednesday night,
§:30 until 6:30 p.m., all the
salad, pizza, spaghetti, and
garlic bread you can eat for

 

 

&

600 E. Nelson St.

 

 

only ‘3.49. Children under 6 Lexington
years-9% 463-7000

offany large pizza
$1 offany medium. In-
ides Pizza Hut’ Pan
tza' Hurry. offerex-
es soon One coupon

r party per visitat
rlicipating Pizza Hut*
itaurants

“Hut

\$e present coupon when ordering. Not valid in combination with another of
20 cent cash redemption value. 1983 Pizza Hut, inc. Good only through

yen Pig

 

Offer
600 E. Nelson st. EXPires

a J une
15,
1986

oe A oF co co So ce oh SF So SF SS SR Se SNS SOS SS SS SSD A A A

Sandwiches (Eat In-Take Out)
Gourmet Items of All Nations

Subs@Imported Cheeses

somewhat of a threat to the corpora-
tion responsible for rollerball. He is
pressured to retire, but when he
refuses, the corporate executives, led
masterfully by a menacing John
Houseman, decide something must
be done to stop him.

Through it all, Jonathan wants to
find out why he is being pressured out
of the game he loves. At every turn
he is thwarted, for no man can do
solely what he wishes, only what the
corporation allows him to do.

Caan is superb as the introspec-
tive, intense, competitive Jonathan.
He is quick with a put down and slow
to act against his better judgment.
Nowhere is his futility more ap-
parent, however, than when the cor-

poration allows his wife to come visit
him and then she, under orders from
the corporation, asks him to retire. It
is at that point that he realizes any
hope of getting what he really wants
is gone.

Throughout there is a sense of a
foreboding, ominous cloud hanging
over Jonathan’s head. Big Brother
has taken a new dimension in
‘Rollerball,’ giving people what
they think they want to sublimate
their knowing what they really want
and need.

‘Rollerball’ will be shown tonight
at 7 p.m. in Commerce School Room
327. Its strong messages and jolting
action make it well worth a look.

 

Jill’s A Lady
126 S. Main St.

GOOD LUCK
GRADUATES!

We look forward to

seeing all new and

returning students
next fall!

All famous name brand
clothes and accessories.

 

 

 

Wednesday-Saturday: 5:00-10:00

Sunday Brunch: 11:00-2:00

NEW EXPANDED MENU
Ala Carte Pricing

Reservations Suggested—

  
 
 
 
  
 
   

 

Co-owners:

22 W. Nelson St.
Lexington, Va.
463-9340

  

 

 

School.

Undergraduate classes end.

 

 

ONCAMPUS

Thursday, May 29
5 p.m, — CHEMISTRY SEMINAR: “The Farewell-to-the-Seniors
Fry.” Room 401, Howe Hall. Tea at 4:30 in Room 402. Public invited.
7 p.m. — POLITICS FILMFEST: “Rollerball.’’ Room 327, Commerce

Friday, May 30

Saturday, May 31
Undergraduate examinations begin.

Monday, June 2
Undergraduate examinations end.

Wednesday, June 4
9a.m.— FACULTY MEETING: Northen Auditorium.
11 a.m. — BACCALAUREATE SERVICE. Evans Hall, Speaker: The
Right Rev. Christoph Keller, Jr., W&L Trustee Emeritus.
12:30 p.m. — Luncheon on the Lawn.
2-4 p.m. — TOURS: Historic Front Campus Open Houses.
3 p.m. — Presentations of the Senior Theses in Art: Jeff Hubbard,
John M. Moody, William F. Jones Jr., Northen Auditorium, University
Library. Reception to follow on library patio.
9 p.m. — FACULTY Reception and Dance. Evans Hall.

Thursday, June 5
9 a.m. — Military Commissioning Ceremony. Lee Chapel.
11 a.m. — COMMENCEMENT EXERCISES. Front Lawn, Speaker:
Dr. John D. Wilson, President, Washington and Lee.

 

Joe Jackson, Church
are top Summer discs

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Entertainment Editor

 

ee fed Ss se
|

oe

Ae
> es eee *
sy VA\e@) call

eet TS Ny
DAREN Le Lan Cd Uns
Cia . ne a

O

Joe Jackson’s ‘“‘Big World’”’

It has been said (I am not sure by
whom) that music is the best part of
driving. That is probably true. Music
is also the best part of summer (1
said that). And this summer, there is
going to be quite a lot of good music
to listen to. One simply has to know
where to look.

Four new records, in particular,
stand a very good chance of pro-
viding a soundtrack for my own sum-
mer.

First on the agenda-is the new one
from the Mole of Rock and Roll, Joe
Jackson. A three-sided, live 2-track
digital recording, ‘Big World,”
might prove to be Jackson’s most
consistent work since his landmark
“Night and Day’” LP. Using a tradi-
tional three-piece rock and roll outfit,
the new record is not necessarily a
return to Jackson’s rock and roll
past, but it is a successful return to
pop.

Side one is a snappy collection of
pop styles, ranging from the funky
politics of ‘Right and Wrong”’ to the
Eastern-influenced feel of the title
track. Side two contains four slower,
introspective tracks and contains
the albums showstopper, ‘“‘Forty
Years.” Side three comes out rocking
with the most bracing music Jackson
has recorded since his fiery debut,
“Look Sharp!’’ ‘Survival’ is the
highlight.

All in all, the album is a triumph.
Its innovative recording technique
(there is an audience, although the
listener never hears it) gives
Jackson’s hot band enough fire to
push these songs to exciting heights.
In a world of beat boxes and syn-
thesizers, ‘Big World” is probably

 

the most vibrant and human record in
the stores. Buy the compact disc for
maximum results.

The Style Council's new live
release, ‘‘Home and Abroad,” is not
as successful as ‘‘Big World’’ simply
because it takes no chances. None the
less, the album contains fine, polish-
ed performances of Council
favorites, highlighted by a terrific
new track, the Marvin Gaye influenc-
ed ‘(When You) Call Me.” Paul
Weller, of course, is in fine voice
throughout and the band is tight as
all get out. It is a terrific introduction
toa much-underrated band.

The Church, an Australian pop out-
fit, has unfairly been lumped with the
new post-psychedelia movement.
This is unfair as the Church has been
playing lush, atmospheric pop for
years. Their new one, ‘“‘Heyday,”’ is
their best yet and it should go a long
way in setting the Church apart from
the rest of the psychedelic herd.

Beautifully produced by Peter
Walsh, the record’s 10 tunes do not
contain a misplaced note. ‘‘Tantaliz-
ed’’ comes roaring, ‘‘Tristesse”’
soars, and “‘Happy Hunting Ground”
pulsates with understated power.
This record should prove to be one of
the year’s best releases.

And lastly, Husker Du’s new
Warner Bros. debut shows that the
major leagues will not affect this
band’s wonderful fury. The opening
track, ‘‘Crystal,’’ proves this quite
nicely. Bob Mould comes out scream-
ing while the rest of the Huskers play
furiously behind him on perhaps the
most bracing’ three-and-ahalf
minutes Husker Du has yet put on
vinyl.

The record contains some slower,
quieter numbers, but no power is
sacrificed. “‘Too Far Down,”’ for in-
stance, is a powerful acoustic ballad
sung by a man on the edge of suicide.
Other tracks, such as ‘‘Dead Set On
Destruction” and ‘Eiffel Tower
High,”’ feature Husker Du at their
best: loud, fast, and chock full o’
hooks.

This is just the beginning, of
course. This summer promises new
releases from the Smiths, the Meat
Puppets and the Suburbs, Also, check
out the new Let’s Active and Green
on Red releases. In other words, hap-
py listening. It looks like it might be a
good summer.

 

 

 

 

Get your subscription to next year’s

Hing-tum Phi
call 463-8581

 

 

 

(formerly Russel’s)

Linda Flint and Judy Jay

The Ladies’ Habit

Come in and acquire our habit.

habit (hab’it), n. 1. costume; dress. 2. a costume worn for certain occasions; as, a
woman’s riding habit. 3. a thing done often and hence, usually, done easily; prac-
tice; custom; act that is acquired and has become automatic.

Visa, MasterCard
American Express

 
