   

‘D

 

 

 

 

Columnists Cody

Sarah Palin: ,
tent? i or a campaign ’s fatal flaw?

Beauchamp and Abel Delgado debate
McCain’s bold choice

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING-TUM PHI.

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2008

BY THE

STUDENTS AND

FOR THE

STUDENTS SINCE

1897

VOLUME CXII,

Identity crisis

W&L aims to revamp graphic
ID, student facebook group
says, “If it ain ’t broke, don ’t'
ﬁx it! ”

By Allison Chopin
MANAGING EDITOR

‘The unveiling of Washington and Lee’s pro-
posed redesign of the “graphic identity” in July
has created quite the uproar among students.

The university hired North Charles Street De-
sign Organization (NCSDO) of Baltimore, charg-
ing the ﬁrm with “an assessment of the various
graphic elements used to represent W&L and sug-
gestions for improvements, with the goal of creat-
ing a strong, cohesive identity system to serve all
units,” according to the website.

Dennis Cross, Vice President for University
Advancement, explained in an e-mail to the univer-
sity community that W&L will not be eliminating
its current symbols, namely the Crest, the Trident
and the Seal. The university and NCSDO aimed to

“Its not even the way [the de-
sign] looks. Its the lack of stu-
dent input... It seems to me to be
a bit of a wasted resource. We

could do this internally. ”

JONATHAN WRIGHT, 3rd year law student
 

review and redesign the “wordmark/logo,” which
is used for stationery, business cards, the website,
and similar publications.

The current wordmark/logo was designed in
2006 and features “Washington and Lee Univer-
sity” with an image of the Colonnade. The last
review of the identity before 2006 occurred in
1987. I

“We want to return to the goals of the success-
ful 1987 review, because we have strayed from
them,” Cross said in his e-mail.

“The current situation--more than 30 different
logos in use-—is unacceptable, not to mention con-
fusing,” he added. “The vast majority agree that
we need to discard the current identity, which was
created in 2006 with neither an inclusive process
nor wide support.”

NCSDO’s proposed wordmark/logo features a
blue circle or coin shape around the letters “W&L.”
According to the website, the ﬁrm examined the
university’s archives and “found many University
identiﬁers placed within circles or on coins.” The
ﬁrm also “thought it would be an advantage to
give ‘W&L,’ our widely known nickname, a for-
mal presence.”

After the results of NCSDO’slreview and re- _

design were made public, students responded im-
mediately. The majority of reactions were not of
approval.

Law student Jonathan Wright, creator of the
Facebook group bemoaning W&L’s proposed
graphic identity and boasting over 400 members,
pointed to what he sees as faulty decision-making
on the part of the university.

“It’s not even the way it looks,” he said. “It’s
the lack of student input.”

Through the honor system and other forms
of student self-govemance, students at W&L are
treated as adults who can make their own deci-
sions and shape the image of the university. Thus
Wright asks why students were not involved in de-
veloping the new graphic identity.

Wright further objected to the fact that W&L
chose to “outsource” the project to a design ﬁrm.
“It seems to me to be a bit of a wasted resource,”
he said. “We could do this internally.” _

As Wright and the members of his Facebook
group suggest, an overwhelming number of stu-
dents have been willing to share their thoughts on
the future of W&L’s logos. Many believe that the
blue circle is too similar to images used by other
universities and even corporations, and thus they
would prefer something that is more unique.

See Graphic Identity on page 2

  
 
   
    

By Brett Holton
STAFF WRITER

Is 21 still a viable minimum
drinking age? That’s what the Am-
ethyst Initiative hopes to ﬁnd out.

The initiative, launched this July,
aims to “rethink the drinking age."
W&L President, Kenneth Ruscio,
joined 128 other university presi-
dents around the country in support-
ing the initiative, which calls for
open, dispassionate debate about the

United States’ minimum drinking
age of 2 1.

“Like the other presidents who
have signed the Amethyst Initia-
tive, I believe that the signiﬁcant
problems created by some college
students’ abuse of alcohol demand
thoughtful consideration of whether
or not public policy in this area has
worked, and what alternatives we
might consider," Ruscio said in a let-
ter to the W&L community.

The initiative began this July af-

ter John McCardell, W&L class of
’71 and now President Emeritus of
Middlebury College, was invited to
speak at a meeting of the Annapolis
Group, comprising roughly 120 lib-
eral arts colleges. McCardell con-
tacted several Annapolis presidents
to see what they thought of the cur-
rent drinking age, and they found
a common desire to reopen public
debate on the matter. The initia-
tive signatories hope this debate will
cause elected ofﬁcials to reconsider

/

W&L joins
debate over
minimum
drinking age

about the effectiveness of current poli-
cies regarding alcohol.

CODY BEAUCHAMP / Qpinions Editor

current alcohol legislation and invite
new, safer alternatives to drinking
amongst young adults.

A statement on the initiative’s
website claims that by limiting
drinking to people ages 21 and over,
dangerous binge‘ drinking habits
emerge, particularly on college cam-
puses, among those deemed not old
enough.

“Adults under 21 are deemed

See Amethyst initiative on page 2

Changes to Traveller routes

New stops added, but some oﬁ’-campus houses cut out of service

By Joel Poelhuis
smrr WRITER

Changes designed to improve ser-
vice on the Traveller safe ride pro-
gram will limit access to within ﬁve
miles of campus.

Traveller Dispatch. which pro-
vides transportation for students go-

, ing to and from parties off campus,

will continue to serve 165 of the 173
off-campus houses on record with
the program, according to Traveller
Chair Rebecca Koval. The houses
that are no longer receiving service
include Cedar Creek, Compton,
Hooterville, Lazy River, the Mill,
Pink Palace, Sex Panther and Upper
Toad Run.

Koval said the changes are intend-
ed to cut down on wait times for stu-
dents by eliminating long loops that
strain the system’s limited resources.
She also cited increased safety for the
Dispatch drivers, who previously op-
erated without phone service or radio
contact with the dispatcher on long
runs in the county. The lack of com-
munication combined with poor road

’ conditions and signage put stress on

the drivers, Koval said.

Dispatch drivers George Gelinas
and Eddie Rodriguez agreed.

“If you didnftknow where you
were going and got lost, you’re in

trouble,” said Gelinas, who said he
has been lost for over an hour on
country roads due to poor directions
from passengers.

Rodriguez said he has had several
close calls with deer on unlighted
roads.

To students who live outside
the five-mile radius, the new policy
comes as an unpleasant back-to-
school surprise. Tucker Lawrence, a
resident of Pink Palace, said he feels
the school is forcing distant residents
to “fend for ourselves” in an environ-
ment where taxis and other forms of
public transportation are scarce or
nonexistent.

Will Lewis, Lawrence’s house-
mate, said the residents affected by
the changes were left out of the de-
cision-making process. Lazy River
resident Austin Colpini agreed,
saying that the policy was not an-
nounced until students had already
signed binding leases which place
them outside the service area.

Lawrence said that while the situ-
ation is tough for himself and other
residents of country houses, it is
harder on large groups of partygo-
crs.

“We hire sober drivers, but a lot
of people use Traveller,” he said.

Colpini said those living outside

the service area are considering how
best to petition for a reversal of the
policy. Hesaid that while he un-
derstands the rationale behind the
change, he believes it runs counter to
Traveller’s mission of providing ser-
vice to those living off campus and
was done with an irresponsible lack
of input from the student body.

Koval said that the Traveller
board is open to discussion. Inter-
ested parties should contact her via
email with comments or complaints.
She said in the future, funding for
GPS in the‘Dispatch vehicles could
make driving on the back roads safer
and more efﬁcient.

While the Traveller Dispatch ser-
vice is reigning in its range, the Trav-
eller Express bus lines have expand-
ed with several new stops. The new
blue line will follow the approximate
route of last year’s regular Traveller
line and the red line will go to areas
previously served by the Country
Express.

New steps include the Log Cab-
ins and increased service to the law
school. Koval said that during the
evaluation period it became clear
that law students needed more con-
venient stops. Other changes to the
service will include training drivers
to deal with hostile passengers.

OPINIONS / page 3

NUMBER 1

  

UNNERSHY usnmy

2 - THE RINGLEliIIGToN,vA2445g

SEP 1 0 2993

 

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 8,2008

Feeding the hungry

Jenny Sproul becomes new Campus Kitchens coordinator

Photo courtesy Jenny Sproul

campus Kitchens coordinator Jenny Sproul and volunteer Rosemary Kelley prepare meals at Beta fraternity house.

By Jamie Klm
smrr wanna

Washington and Lee alumnus Jenny Sproul
has started her postgraduate career by return-
ing to W&L as the coordinator of the Campus
Kitchens Project.

Campus Kitchens, a hunger relief project in
connection with W&L’s Shepherd Poverty Pro-
gram, collects unused food from the school’s
dining hall and makes nutritious meals for
Rockbridge County’s needy.

Sproul took over the Campus Kitchen from
another W&L graduate, Robbie Turner ‘02,
who is now the coordinator for the Bonner Pro-
gram, which is part of the Shepherd Poverty
Program.

Sproul said she has two main goals for the
year ahead: expanding into parts of the county
that aren’t currently being reached by Campus
Kitchens and carrying out a work release pro-
gram with the Natural Bridge Juvenile Correc-
tion Center.

“We are going to expand further out into the
County where it’s less accessible, like Goshen
and Glasgow,” she said.

Sproul has already organized the work re-
lease program, which will allow a cadet from
the correction center to come to W&L to work
in the Campus Kitchen, recently relocated from

the Beta fraternity house to Kappa Sigma, start-
ing in October. There will be one cadet working
at a time, and he will be paid the equivalent of
work study wages for 20 hours a week.

“After a few months, if our cadet graduates
the program, we will hopefully receive a new
placement,” Sproul said. “The cadet should
learn valuable skills in the kitchen and admin-
istrative duties.”

The Campus Kitchens has been and will
continue to take every precaution to ensure that
safety is a priority, she said. Sproul said the ca-
dets would wear GPS ankle bracelets.

Majoring in politics and sociology and par-
ticipating in the Shepherd Program, volunteer-
ing has always been appealing to Sproul. The
ﬁrst time she became interested in the Campus
Kitchens was when she visited the Magnolia
Center by her friend’s invitation.

After visiting the Magnolia Center, a day
program for developmentally-disabled adults in
Buena Vista, she realized how much she enjoyed
the interaction with the community. Sproul said
delivery is her favorite part of the job.

She remembers serving one of the residents .

at Magnolia Center who was hostile at ﬁrst. “By
consistently coming to visit and sharing meals,

we’ve built a friendship,” Sproul said. “So now
we look forward to our time together on Fri-
days.”

Ever since then, her college life has been

ﬁlled with various volunteering activities. She -

volunteered for Campus Kitchens her entire ju-
nior year and she was on the leadership team.
She participated in the Department of Social
Services Foster Care Program, tutored and
mentored in Rockbridge County schools, and
led Young Life camp.

Since it started in August 2006, Campus
Kitchens has delivered over 23,000 meals,
worked with eight partner agencies and has had
over 650 volunteers. Anyone can join the Cam-
pus Kitchens Project, Sproul said. After prepar-
ing meals in the kitchen, volunteers deliver the
food to people in Lexington, Buena Vista and
Rockbridge County, taking time to eat and talk
with them.

“One unused tray of food from the D-hall
can feed about 40 people in the county,” Sproul
said. “Food mostly comes from the D-hall, but
we also get donations from Kroger and other
organizations.”

Now the head of Campus Kitchens, Sproul
intends to work in the project for two years.

Grant will fund new courses

Environmental studies gets $600, 000 for Chesapeake _Bay research

By Victoria Taylor
surr wnman

Washington and Lee Univer-
sity recently received a four-year,
$600,000 grant from The Andrew
W. Mellon Foundation to further
expand its Environmental Studies
program, which gained approval in
May 2007 to move from a concen-
tration to a major.

The grant will allow the de-
partment to create a place—based
program in the Chesapeake Bay
watershed. This will add a domes-
tic counterpart to the study abroad
program in Brazil.

“[The Chesapeake Bay water-
shed] is a very important environ-_
mental resource,” said Professor
James Kahn, John F. Hemdon Pro-
fessor of Economics and head of
environmental studies, “and also a
very stressed resource because of
all of the urban growth in the mid-
Atlantic.”

Nutrient pollution, , chemical
contaminants, air pollution, land-
scape changes, erosion and over-
harvesting of ﬁsh and shellﬁsh are
also harming the Bay and water-
shed, which arc home to more 3600
species of plants and animals.

Assistant professor of biology
Robert Humston will be teaching
courses related to Chesapeake Bay

and watershed management as well
as developing research and other
co-curricular opportunities for stu-
dents interested in ecology, conser-
vation and management.

“This program has
some great beneﬁts...
the opportunity to
examine one of today ’s
most important envi-
ronmental issues right

in our backyard. ”

ROBERT HUMSTON, biology

Professor Humston, who has
background in ﬁsheries ecology
and management, is developing
three courses directly related to
the program. The ﬁrst is an aquatic
ecology course through the Biol-
ogy department in which the labs
will focus on monitoring a new

stream restoration effort in Rock-
bridge County. The others will be
a two-course watershed sequence
containing a winter term course in-
tended to be a broad introduction to
watershed issues for students from
a variety of disciplines, and a spring
term ﬁeld course for students who
are interested in getting “up-close
and personal” with the material.

“The winter term course will
consider watershed management
from a broad perspective, consid-
ering the scientiﬁc and cultural
underpinning of current conserva-
tion issues,” Humston said. “The
Chesapeake Bay will provide the
context for most of these topics,
but the course will also consider
other systems for comparative pur-
poses.”

The ﬁeld course will look spe-
ciﬁcally at the habitats and stress-
ors within the Chesapeake Bay
watershed and give the students a
chance to see how the fundamen-
tals they leamed during the win-
ter term appear and “play out at
ground-level.” .

“This program has some great
beneﬁts, with the biggest being the
opportunity to examine one of to-
day’s most important environmen-
tal issues right in our backyard,”
Humston said.

“The Brazil programs give the
opportunity for place—based leam-
ing in Brazil but we didn’t have a
good domestic counterpart to that,
so the Chesapeake Bay Program
was a natural way to incorporate
that with the rivers up here and the
Chesapeake Bay watershed,” Kahn
said.

Thanks to the U.S.-Brazil Pro-
gram, a grant competition run by
the governments of the two coun-
tries, W&L has a strong exchange
program with two Brazilian uni-
versities: Universidade Federal do
Amazonas in Manaus and Univer-
sidade Federaldo Rio de Janeiro.
Interested students take intensive
Portuguese, followed by classes at
one of the Brazilian universities:
two interdisciplinary environmental
studies courses, a directed research
project with a Brazilian professor
and an elective.

The formation of the Chesa-
peake Bay program will allow
those Brazilian students studying at
W&L as part of the exchange to be
eligible for funding to do research
or internships with agencies in the
Bay areas.

“It’s a very exciting program
to be part of, especially as it is just
getting started,” Humston said.

continued from page 1

Amethyst Initiative

capable of voting, signing contracts, serving on juries
and enlisting in the military,” the statement says, “but are
told they are not mature enough to have a beer.”

The effort does not, however, call for a lower drinking
age, a widely held misconception that has challenged the
Amethyst Initiative since its outset.

The initiative garnered negative attention in the media
after its ﬁrst appearance in the Associated Press, when a
ﬂurry of inaccurate stories came out regarding the initia-
tive as a proposal to lower the drinking age to 18.

W&L’s new executive director of communications and
public affairs Jeff Hanna knows that is not the case.

“In some ways it was unfortunate that it got a little bit
ahead of itself so that there was an immediate and fairly
sharp reaction from opponents of lowering [the drinking
age],” he said.

Hanna has been tracking the initiative since its incep-
tion and has been keeping Ruscio abreast of its develop-
ments in the media.

Hanna said that people both in favor of, and opposed
to, lowering the drinking age have signed on to the initia-
tive. .

“It’s clear people want to have a conversation about
it,” he said.

Sophomore Merritt Poling is glad that these debates
are being held, but remains skeptical as to their outcome.

“I ﬁnd it interesting and encouraging that they are 
concerned about so many things that [students] are con-
cerned about . . . but ultimately it’s a national law, and very
diﬂicult to change,” he said.

“I don’t think anything startlingly new is going to come
from this,” Poling added. _

Lucy Hundley, a junior at W&L, said though she sup-
ports the initiative’s motives, she does not see it as a way
to reduce risky drinking behavior amongst students.

“[Drinking] is not going to be safer, it’s just going to
be legal. If it were legal, most people would be drinking’.
I don’t think that’s bad at all, but I do think that drinking
is something that tends to develop as a habit more often
than not,” she said.

Nevertheless, Hundley applauds the University for
participating in the Amethyst Initiative.

“Overall I deﬁnitely support it because if anything
it’s dialogue, and having communication with students is
important. Students don’t give the administration enough
credit sometimes. Their spearheading this is a vote of
conﬁdence in the student body,” she said.

Ruscio joined the other signatories in hopes of further-
ing the debate.

“I want to explore a variety of efforts to address the
problem of irresponsible and dangerous drinking on our
campus,” he said.

“I am committed, ﬁrst and foremost, to ﬁnding an ef-
fective way to educate college students--especially W&L
students--about their responsibilities when it comes to al-
cohol.” 

continued from page 1

Graphic Identity

“Most students that I’ve talked to think the Crest is the
way to go,” said Wright. “It’s a symbol worthy of repre-
senting the ﬁne institution that is W&L.”

Other members of the W&L community, though
smaller in number, applaud the university’s decision to
review its graphic identity.

“Washington and Lee’s graphic identity was muddled
at best,” said Lisa R. Miller, graduate of the Class of
2005, in an e—mail. “It was unclear, messy, and not stan-
dardized.” ,

Miller also explained the importance of developing a
clear identity. “The basic idea of any branding effort is
to clean up and clarify communications with the external
community,” she said.

“What would Coca-Cola be without that red and white
symbol we know so well? This can only help the Univer-
sity’s status as a premier university on a national stage.”

By the end of the fall, W&L and NCSDO plan to draft
guidelines detailing the use of the university’s new imag-
es. These guidelines will be in the form of a short manual
that “will codify the elements of the identity” and suggest
rules for their implementation.

The Graphic Identity Working Group welcomed com-
ments from students and others over the surmner, but it
is unclear as to how student input has actually shaped or
altered the process of redesigning the graphic identity.

Dennis Cross, member of the Working Group, could
not be reached for comment this week.

1 987: -

WASHINGTON AND LEE
UNIVERSITY '

The last major redesign of the graphic
Identity produced this wordmark/logo and
gggrlles of guidelines for use of Images In

2006:

  
   

I‘ 1 t , WASHINGTON  Lea
Iiil UNt.V’£R:SI’!‘Y

-W&L updated the wordmark/logo In 2006

but did not revise the guidelines for use of
the graphic Identity.

2008:

Washiiigton and Lee Uriiversity

NCSDO proposed this new wordmark/logo '
In July.

M

  
 

* Pa1in’s Problem

 

 

.7

THE RING-TUM PHI -3

 

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2008

opinions

Was McCain crazy to pick Palin?...

By Cody Beauchamp
OPINIONS EDITOR

John McCain has lost his ever-lovin’ mind.
That’s all there is to it.

How else could you explain his pick ofAlaska
Governor Sarah Palin as his running mate?

There are so many problems with Sarah Palin
being the second highest executive in the land, it’s
mind-boggling.

Let’s begin, my friends, with experience.
McCain’s greatest asset this campaign was his
impressive resume. He beat Obama’s resume no
matter how eloquently the Illinois Senator tried to
argue otherwise.

McCain’s best bet strategy was to make this
election about experience, his over Obama’s lack
thereof.

But when Obama picked Biden as his run-
ning mate, he went a long way towards blunting
McCain’s edge. McCain decided to go ahead and
completely throw it away by picking Palin.

Technically, yes, Palin has more executive

experience than any of the other three — Mc-

Cain, Obama, Biden — but you can’t claim with a
straight face it’s any kind of experience that quali-
ﬁes her for the Vice Presidency.

Her time as mayor of Wasilla, Alaska (pop.
7,025) compromises the bulk of her ‘executive
experience,’ at six years.

I know this — Palin claiming she’s ready for
the Vice Presidency because she was executive of
a population that is 1 / 42,704th that of the United
States’ is ridiculous.

Using that kind of logic, my fraternity pres-
ident is ready, right now, at this moment, to be
Governor of a state with 1.1 million residents.

To be fair to Palin though, she is a governor
~ her resume is slightly better than just mayor of
a tiny town.

So what’s her record for two years as Alaska’s
governor‘? Is this the sweet spot where she gains
military experience (as commander of the Alas-
kan National Guard), foreign policy experience
(as Governor of the only state save Hawaii to ac-
tually see combat on its soil in the last century),
and executive experience that trumps Obama, and
more accurately Biden?

As for military experience, the Alaskan Na-
tional Guard has only been called into duty once
by Palin. To battle forest ﬁres. And, might I point
out, her command of the Guard is ceremonial; just
like all the other 49 governors who technically
‘command’ their state’s guards.

How about foreign policy experience? In 2000
then-Govemor Bush had a marginally valid claim
to have gained some foreign policy experience
from Texas’ dealings with cross-border Mexican
states —- can Palin make a similar claim?

Hardly. She’s never been to Russia. She’s also
never arranged any kind of government deal with

the Yukon, Alaska‘s Canadian neighbor, though
she has helped broker a few deals between US
and Canadian oil companies that have led to, as
McCain would gleefully put it ifPalin were Dem-
ocrat, a ‘greater dependency on foreign oil."

She does have a hell of biography though,
and I love the idea ofa ‘hockey mom’ becoming
the new symbol of the common American voter.
‘Soccer moms’ were becoming passe anyway.

But she’s got so little experience that Obanias
resume looks downright amazing by contrast. Bi-
ographies be damned, Obama‘s experience heats
hers (his biography tool).

And lest we forget, Biden is more accurately
her rival, and his experience slaughtcrs hers like a
grizzly going at salmon.

But beyond the fear that McCain’s potential
Veep has the least experience out of any of the
four, let’s examine for a second the most cliill—
ing thing of all - Sarah Palin could realistically
be President of the United States if iVlcCain is
elected.

John McCain loves to trot out his 95-year old
mother, Roberta, and point to her as sign Ion-gc\—
ity runs in his family. Not so fast Mac.

McCain’s father was Admiral John 5. McCain.
Jr. He died at age 70, from a heart attack. Ve-
Cain’s grandfather was Admiral John S. McCain.
Sr., and he died at age 6 I, again of a heart attack.

Neither of the two of them ever suffered six
years of torture at the Hanoi lliltoii. I’m not a
physiological expe1't. but I in willing to bet that
McCain’s stint as a F-.C.W. took years olliliis life.

So you’ve got a man Wllii :1 familial history
of heart trouble, who spent years in brutal captiv-
ity, and who — according to family medical liisilmy
— is already defying odds to still be alive running
for the most stressful job on the planet.

The person he’s picked to be a heart-heat away
from the Oval Office has essentially no rneanii;g-
ful experience.

McCain’s choice of Palin for running mate
isn’t insane because she’s a woman.

Don’t let Republicans happy to ha ve a claim to
‘diversity’ for the first time in their party’s history
fool you on that count.

Ferraro already sliattcretl that glass, ccilin and
Hillary not a year ago did much to pi'o\'e were
moving into a post‘-gender political world.

McCain’s choice of Palin for running mate is
insane because in an election where he’s saying
experience is the thing you base your vote on. his
ticket is suddenly the most inexperienced.

Now McCain has not only lost his most effec-
tive tactic against Obama (short of racism), he‘s
allowed his running mate to highlight just how
screwed we’d all be if his considerable age gets
the best of him.

Still don’t think McCain’s lost his cver—lovin‘
mind?

Palirfs Promise

...or was it a choice

By Abel Delgado
COLU M NIST

The latest ridiculous twist in a presidential
campaign too strange for comparison was not John
McCain’s choice of Governor Sarah Palin as his
running mate - it was the Obama Campaign’s reac-
tion to it.

Democrats who defend their candidate by say-
ing judgment is important and experience is not
say that Palin does not have enough experience to
be a 'heart-beat‘ away from the presidency.

They spent most of their convention on biog-
raphy and very little on record and now want you
to ignore Palins’ amazing biography and focus in-
stead on her lack of foreign policy experience.

Did I miss something or did the Democrats just
become the ‘Republican Attack Machine‘ they
have told others to ignore?

The attacks on Palin are so similar to the ones
Republicans used on Obama that they look copied
and pasted.

Robert E. Lee would call that an HV. He cer-
tainly wouldn’t think the media’s treatment of her
and her family is 'gentlemanlike' either.

Critics say that Palin is just the Republican ver-
sion of Obama.

Palin is actually the Republican version of what
Obama wants us to think he is.

While 'post-partisan’ Obama was voting with
his party over 90% of the time, Palin was unseat-
ing a Republican Governor, forcing out a corrupt
Republican Attorney General, and naming Demo-
crats and Independents to her cabinet.

While 'anti-big oil’ Obama was voting for tax
breaks and subsidies for oil companies and receiv-
ing more political contributions from Exxon than
John McCain, Palin was battling the oil compa-

nies by opening up competition, increasing pro- .

duction taxes, and using the extra money to give
Alaskans a tax refund so they can pay for rising
energy costs.

So critics charge she has no experience. They
don’t mention that she has more executive ex-
perience than Obama, Biden, and even McCain

of sheer genius?

have. . .combined.

This is important considering the four of them
are running for the two highest executive posts in
the land.

Palin-critics remind us that Alaska lia:-: a small-
er population than Austin, Texas.

They forget it also provides us with 20% ofour
oil - 10% more than the Middle East. This is im-
portant considering the energy crisis we are cur-
rently in.

No doubt many people questioned whether
Palin could handle the pressure when she was
picked.

After her acceptance speech, the more press-
ing question is how Democrats are going to handle
her.

Obama claims he has more executive experi-
ence that Palin because of running his campaign.
If running a campaign is all the experience you
think a President needs, then vote for Obama.

One of the more disgraceful arguineiits being
made by Democratic operatives is that Palin is a
gimmick’.

Of course this is insulting on so many levels
and ignores the records both Mc(‘:iiii and Palin
have of caring more about people than politics.
Would she be the VP if she were a inan‘."lVIaybe
not. Would she be called a gimmick it she were a
man? Of course not.

These people would have called former Demo-
crat and long-time Senator Joe Lieberman a gim-
mick if he had been the VP choice. and they would
have said the same of the reform—niinded Gover-
nor Bobby Jindal.

According to them if you‘re not white, protes-
tant, Republican, and male, supporting John Mc-
Cain makes you a gimmick.

The DNC apparently thinks the most important
experience required of women and minorities is a
(D) behind their names.

Sarah Palin may not be experienced enough
for their liking, but she is certainly experienced
enough to expose them as frauds.

 

‘editorial

Applause for Amethyst

Ruscio commits to the kind of honest debate we need

It’s not often that these pages bear praise for
administrators. I

Which is why the Phi is so excited to say ‘a
hearty ‘good call’ to any and all who had a hand
in Washington and Lee’s recent decision to join
the Amethyst Initiative.

The Initiative, which as of press-time has 129
signatories, is one of those movements Washing-
ton and Lee couldn’t not be a part of. I

Alcohol and its effects on individuals and
— more importantly — society is a "pillar of the
W&L zeitgeist. There is nothing hyperbolic in
the claim that alcohol has affected absolutely ev-
ery single person’s life at this school.

For our money, alcohol is a chief factor be-
hind the University’s decision to not cooperate
with the Princeton Review. Whether or not our
failure to be listed at all in the publication’s Best
368 Colleges’ will haveiany fallout in the long-
tcrm is yet to be known. -

But it’s clear that our administrators weren’t
pleased with W&L continually earning top marks
for beer consumption, hard alcohol consumption,
partying, and Greek life.

Alcohol’s effects on gender relations at this
school cannot be understated either.

Last year, the Interfraternity and Pan—Hellenic
councils ﬂirted with an initiative aimed at poten-
tially drastic changes for Greek life at W&L.
Then—lF C President Andrew Duckworth said to
an IFC meeting that the troubling number of so-
rority womeh getting the morning-after pill from
the health center following last year’s tear night
was a huge factor behind the initiative.

Let’s re-phrase that for clarity. Two bodies
governing 80% of the student body felt parties

alcohol-fueled parties — were placing a disturb-
ing nuinber of W&L women into very real sexual
crisis.

And the problems with our image or our
Greek life due to alcohol are only the tip of the

sponsibly.

Lee.

’ on US.

booze iceberg.

An inordinate and chilling number of students
need medical care, even hospitalization every
month because of drinking. I ‘

An expensive safe—ride network is, sadly, nec-
essary at Washington and Lee. ‘

’ While plenty of other colleges have Traveller-
like systems in place, we at the Phi doubt many
receive the near-universal and overburdening use
Traveller does. '

If there was ever a school that needed to have
a frank discussion on the drinking age its Wash-
ington and Lee. If there’s a college in America
where the students need to have a voice in deter-
mining what alcohol consumption and responsi- -
bility should mean, it’s W&L. ' I

Not because‘we’re the best at it'— we aren’t.
But because (if last year’s Bracket and DTF ﬁ-
ascos prove anything) we’vé seen the price of
ignoring social problems. , ‘

Washington and Lee is a tight-knit commu-
nity, and we know our own problems well. Last
year proved the college has the capacity for talk-
ing through problems and moving forward re-

Thc Amethyst Initiative proves President
Ruscio is committed to responsibly addressing
drinking at Washington and Lee. Whereas he’
and the administration could have ignored the is-
sue until problems came to a head (no beer pun
intended), they opted for the pro-active course
and committed W&L to honest and open debate.

Because make no mistake, that’s what the
Amethyst Initiative will do for Washington &

Ruscio not only threw W&L’s name behind
a national call for a debate on drinking respon-
sibly, he committed his administration to a like-
wise frank conversation herc on campus.

For that, we say cheers! Keri, the next round’s

--  --—-—-~ WASHINGTON an LEE UMVERSITY —-—4--

THE RING-TUM PHI.

MANAGING EDITOR

. NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR

ARTS & LIFE EDITOR

ALLISON CHOPIN
JOHN HENDERSON
CODY BEAUCHAMP
WILL DORRANCE
CELESTE CRUZ-'
CARANDANG
CONTRIBUTING WRITERS CRIGHTON ALLEN
ADAM CANCRYN
JEAN CHAPMAN
KEVIN CORN
ABEL DELGADO
BRETT HOLTON
JAMIE KIM

JOEL POELHUIS
VALAREE TANG
VICTORIA TAYLOR
KIMBER WIGGS

DESIGN EDITOR
STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER
BUSINESS MANAGER
DISTRIBUTION MNGR.

LARA JORDAN
MORGAN HARRIS
CHARLES PERSONS
STROCK MOORE

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE .
RING—TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully. and
thoroughly report news affecting the‘/w/ashington
and Lee community for students, aculty,
parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire
to spark discussions that lead to discovering
information that prompts change.

THE RING—TUM PHI IS PUBLISHED MONDAYS
DURING THE UNDERGRADUATE SCHOOL YEAR.
THE RING-TUM PHI IS A MEMBER OF THE MEDIA
BOARD, BUT IS OTHERWISE INDEPENDENT.
QUESTIONS OR CONCERNS ABOUT THE PHI
SHOULD BE ADDRESSED TO THE EDITORS AT
PHI@WLU.EDU OR TO THE MEDIA BOARD AT
MEDIABOARD@WLU.EDU. THE MEDIA BOARD
IS AN INDEPENDENT, STUDENT-RUN EDITORIAL
OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE WORKING WITH ALL
MEDIA OUTLETS ON THE WASHINGTON 8:
LEE CAMPUS. ALL INQUIRIES WILL REMAIN
CONFIDENTIAL. THE RING-TUM PHI WELCOMES
ALL LETTERS. WE RESERVE’ THE RIGHT TO EDIT
SUBMISSIONS FOR CONTENT AND LENGTH.
LETTERS AND ADVERTISING DO NOT NECESSARILY
REFLECT THE OPINION OF THE RING~TUM PHI
STAFF. THIS NEWSPAPER OBSERVES CURRENT
‘ COURT DEFINITIONS OF LIBEL AND OBSCENITY.

THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540) 458-4059
EMAIL: PHI@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

Flowers &
Things

F reshﬂowers,
balloons, gift & fruit
baskets and birthday
cakes all delivered! I I

Call 261-6300

Solid wood kitchen
sets and 4 chairs-
$300

to see call Flowers
and Things-261-6300

We deliver!

Local & Organic Food
Downtown

HEALTHY-
FOODS
CO-OP

LOCALLY GROWN
PRODUCE ° SMOOTHIE
BAR

CARRY our OR EAT IN

Freshly Prepared Meals
Daily —
Healthy. Fresh &
Delicious

MON.- FRl.9AM - 6 PM;
SAT.9AM - 5 PM

I l0WestWashington
Street I
Downtown Lexington,
across from W&L 463.6954

 

4 - THE RING-TUM PHI

MONDAY,

SEPTEMBER 8, 2008

 

arts&life*

 

MORGAN HARRIS / Staff Photographer
Baton Rouge-based Benjy Davis Project performs on Cannan Green.

pizza.

solos.

 

Going above and beyond the call
of duty, this year’s FOC (First-Year
Orientation Committee) kicked 0-
Week into high gear by inviting Ba-
ton Rouge’s The Benjy Davis Project
to perform last Monday night. The
Louisiana group is gaining popularity
and momentum in the music world.
First—years and upperclassmen alike
came out for rocking tunes and free

At nine o’clock, a ﬂood of ﬁrst-
years burst onto Cannan Green. They
were met by the funky sounds of the
Lalai Damas, whose set was already
in progress. Singer Malcolm Hines
was joined by bassist Robert Wason,
guitarist Spencer McElroy, and drum-
mer Keith Friend. As the winners of
last year’s Battle of the Bands, the
Lalai Damas did not disappoint.
Their cover of Outkast’s “Roses”
showcased the house band’s award-
winning talent.

Following the Lalai Damas was
an all too brief set by W&L’s resi-
dent folk troupe Rikki Tikki Tavi.
Singer, songwriter, keyboardist, and
a modern day Jill-of-all-trades, Ju-
lie Slonecki, started the set off with
a little Rilo Kiley. Singer-songwriter
Michael Morella ﬁnished the set off
with his own “Postcards from Aus-
tralia.” Drummer Morgan Harris kept
the beat while guitarist Will Stewart
wowed the crowd with his ﬁery guitar

By the time the headliners tookthe
stage, the free pizza had diminished

and the crowd had somewhat thinned,
but a strong contingent of music lov-
ers had remained. It is a testament-
to the Benjy Davis Project that they
were able to hold of a respectable
crowd of_ W&L students when most
of the school’s population was prob-
ably taking advantage of the fourth
consecutive night of O-Week parties.
A few ﬁrst-years, when asked, admit-

Benjy Davis Project rocks Gweek ’
        Baton Rouge band performs at W&L

By Kimber Wiggs
STAFF WRITER

sic, an independent label that has also
represented such acts as Sister Hazel
and Reel Big Fish. Being signed will
mean a lot of important things for
the band, including the re-recording
of their album Dust. The new release
will include three new songs, Rusnak
told me, so fans of the band should be _
on the look—out.

Noting the band’s Dave Matthews-

esque sound, I asked Matt about his

I think I speak for

everyone present that

pus.

night when I express
the wish that we could
all go aboard the BDP

rock boat.

ted that they had not known about the
Benjy Davis_Project before the con-
cert, but they thoroughly enjoyed the
show. The band’s brand of alternative
jamming was a good ﬁt for the cam-

Sadly, a city ordinance governing
noise on a school night meant that the
BDP was forced to end their set just
before 11 p.m.

I had a chance to talk with bass-
ist Matt Rusnak. This newest member
of the BDP gave me a scoop that will
surely delight fans of the band both

musical inﬂuences. Grinning, he re-

vealed that a better question would
be to ask what he does not listen to.
(Old-school country is one genre.)
He said he likes anything with a good
bass line and a good heat — he ad-
mires the band’s own drummer Mic
Capdevielle. He also cited southern
rock as a major inﬂuence.

When asked why the Baton

Rouge-based band came all the way

to Virginia, Rusnak revealed that

W&L would not be their only port of

call in the area. He also told me that
the group had just ﬁnished a short run
in the Midwestand Chicago area. For
fans of the Benjy Davis Project and
water, the band will soon be perform-

ing on a “rock boat.” The term means

new and old: after six years of try-

ing, the Benjy Davis Project has been
signed. The label is Rock Ridge Mu-

exactly what is sounds like: a few
bands, one cruise ship, and endless
rocking.

I think I speak for everyone pres-
ent that night when I express the wish
that we could all go aboard the BDP
rock boat.

Big Brother Big Sister luncheon a big success

University Big Brothers and Sisters help welcome the Class of 201 2, forge friendships with ﬁrst-year students

By Valaree Tang
STAFF warren

The Freshman Orientation
Council (FOC) organized its
annual University Big Brother/
Sister event. In order to welcome
the new students, upperclassmen
were paired with freshmen for a
luncheon on September 2.

Like past years, many frater-
nities hosted cookouts. While
many University Big.. Brothers
and Sisters took the new students
to fraternity barbeques, some
chose a different option. ‘‘I look
my freshmen to the Kwan last
year for a barbeque, which was
really fun, but this year, I took
them to the Bistro for dinner,”
said Farrell Ulrich, who has been
participating in the program for
two years.

The event allowed upper-
classmen to introduce freshmen
to student life. The older students
were able to answer any of the
questions and quell the fears of
the members of the class of 2012.
“ [They can] give ﬁrst-years ad-

vice about scheduling, academ-
ics, and social life, as well as any
other questions the may have,”
said FOC Big Brother/Sister co-
chair Eric Hamscher.

The event gave freshmen the
opportunity to meet upperclass-
men and learn more about aca-
demic life. “I got a chance to talk
about teachers, and it was helpful
to learn about majors and profes-
sors. Everyone found someone
who knew about what they were
interested in studying," said
freshman Sarah Offutt.

While the FOC program in-
formed the ﬁrst-year students
about life on campus, it also of-
fered another asset for the new
students. “It gives the freshmen
an upperclassman they can rec-
ognize when they’re on the Hill,
as opposed to being totally lost.
In my involvement with campus

activities, I’Ve already seen my '

Little several times just random-
ly. If they have questions about
classes or Greek stuff or religious
life, they have an -additional re-
source,” said Sam Gilleran.

For some, lasting relation-
ships were built at one of these
luncheons. ‘‘I think the program
is really effective in introducing
freshmen to W&L, especially for
those who do not know any up-

friendships among students, it
was a chance for upperclass-
men to give back to the program
as well. “It was really great for
me this year to experience the
Washington and Lee Big Brother

“ t gives the freshmen an upperclassman they

can recognize when they ’re on the Hill, as op-

posed to being totally lost...If they have ques-

tions about classes or Greek stuﬂ or religious

life, they have an additional resource. ’

SAM GILLERAN, sophomore

}

1

perclassmen at ﬁrst. It gives the
freshmen a chance to connect
with upperclassmen from their
hometown or home state, which
is really beneﬁcial,” said Ulrich
whose university little sister
ended up being her sorority little
sister as well.

While the program helped
to answer questions and formed

Program from the other side of
the spectrum. As a freshman last
year, I was able to utilize my Big
Brother to ask questions about
the Rush process, residential life,
and academics,” said Jack Pan-
do]. “After spending all year ex-
periencing the school for myself,
it was great to be able to pass that
information on to a new class of

freshmen.”

Like Pandol, Hamscher also
had a very different experience
this year compared to last year.
“Last year, I was never actually
contacted by my assigned Big,
so I wanted to get involved this
Fall to ensure that everyone was
placed and hopefully contacted
by their assigned Big,” said
Hamscher who felt that his expe-
rience on the Freshman Leader-
ship Committee helped him in
planning a successful luncheon.

Pandol also stated that the
FOC program is a vital part of
student friendships on campus
and is more than just a chance
for upperclassmen to share their
prior experiences with freshmen.
“The program allows for fresh-
men to have a much more acces-
sible and personalized ﬁrst-year
experience than any other uni-
versity I know. One of my favor-
ite things about Washington and
Lee is the tight-knit community
that we share around campus,
and this program is an integral
part of that community,” said

Pandol.

He believed that the Big
Brother/ Sister Luncheon pro-
gram was a success. Yet, the
acliievement came at a price.
The Big Brother/Sister chairs
of the FOC, Eric Hamscher and
Ted Kingsbery, put in numer-
ous hours. Following the ini-
tial task of pairing the siblings,
both Hamscher and Kingsbery
were responsible for resolving
any problems that may have oc-
curred. According to Hamscher,
“Every ﬁrst-year was paired with
a Big Brother/ Sister...any and
all complaints from participants
were addressed... I believe that
the majority of students enjoyed
Tuesday’s luncheon,” said Ham-
scher.

Though Hamscher considered
the event a success, he stated
that improvements could still be

"made to the program. “We have

come up with new ideas on how

to make next year’s program

more successful for everyone in-'
volved,” promised Hamscher.

Open-mic night student performances entertain audience

University dance troupe hosts a night of diverse performances, including comedy, dancing, singing and beat-boxing

By Jean Chapman
sr/arr warren

Some of the most talented
musicians and shower singers at
Washington and Lee came to the
annual_Open-mic Night hosted by
the KLASICZ, a student dance
troupe. The event was held in the
Marketplace. The promise of free
ice cream drew a small but very
enthusiastic crowd. Rasaq La-
wal, a member of the KLASICZ,
said that his group hosted the
event last year, and “it was a hit,
so when the opportunity came up

7 again we basically leaped at it.”
Throughout the night, a vari- ,

ety of musical styles were pre-
sented, ranging from hip hop

to 1980s pop rock. Lawal com-
mented that even though he had
thought that “there would be no
talent and it would just be a night
of karaoke and fun...there turned
out to be a lot of good perfor-
mances from a female rapper,
guitar and harmonica player and
a beat boxer.”

First year student Jasmine
Jimenez of Chicago opened the
show with an original Christian
rap. Jimenez ﬁrst became inter-
ested in performing around the
age of 12. She explained that be-
cause she was never very talented
with singing, she became drawn
to composing and performing
rap. Jimenez said that most of her
raps are inﬂuenced by Christian

themes or center around God, but
as the crowd’s positive response
showed, the songs maintained a
broad appeal.

Michael Morella, a junior,
performed second. Morella be-
gan his act with an acoustic ver-
sion of Rihanna’s “Take a Bow”.
He followed his interpretation of
the chart-topping pop ballad with
an original composition entitled
“Patch” which included both
acoustic guitar and harmonica
solos.

Following Morella’s perfor-
mance,- co-host Isaiah Goodman
gave a beat-boxing performance.
Goodman included a little audi-
ence participation that truly high-
lighted the diversity of talent at

Washington and Lee.

Morgan Harris, a senior and
a Residential Advisor, also per-
formed two acoustic songs as
well as delivering some stand-up
comedy. i

After the original perfor-
mances, the karaoke repertoire
that followed ranged from funk
to 80s pop to 905 hits, and was
performed by ﬁrst years, upper-
classmen, and groups of both. As
Lawal put it, “we were off to a
slower start this year but once
we started off the karaoke with
‘Brick House’ and some other
rocking tunes there was no resist-
ing the fun and laughs.” Towards
the end of the night, Kimber
Wiggs delivered a show-stop-

ping rendition of “Total Eclipse
of the Heart” which she had per-
formed previously as a member
of General Admission. Members
of the audience accompanied her
as backup singers while others
danced interpretively to the emo-
tional song. '

The ﬁnal performance of the
night was, appropriately enough,
“Bye, Bye, Bye.” A courageous
group of men sang and danced
to the notorious 90s melody. The
act wasireceived with a number
of cheers, laughs and the sponta-
neous participation of audience
members.

Over all, the Open-mic Night
drew together people of both
genders and all classes for a night

of fun and frivolity. A ﬁrst year
student said that the event was
“really funny...it was a good
idea” and also added that she
“would come again” if another
such event were to be held. An-
other audience member said that

he enjoyed the event, but that “it!

would have been great to have

even more people attending.”
Undeniably, Open-mic Night

was enjoyed by all who did at-

tend, and co-host Lawal said that -

“I think this event is a great, clean
and fun alternative to the barrage
of parties during ‘O’ Week and
it is a good testament to the fact
that there is more to do than just

party.”

 

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2008

  

5 - THE RING-TUM PHI

 

sports

Ballistreri, Katherine Fenwick, Dorothy Todd M V   _ _ I M 
Key Losses: The 2007 Generals did not have a senior among their‘ 7 best

  Fall sports preview
Sport: Men’s Cross Country I - 1 ‘ , . it ' It
2007’ Post-Season: Placed 15‘ in the ODAC Championship meet; placed_’4?" f

in the South/Southeast Regional meet
ODAC Coaches Preseason Poll Ranking: 1

— South/Southeast Regional Preseason Ranking: 4 7- V

A. Key Returnees: Michael Welsh, Vance Berry, Alex Jackson

 Key Losses: Tom Brower, Andrew Friski ’ . . . ‘ I — I M_ '
Previous Results this Season: Finished first out of 11 teams at the.W&L,

I Invitational on Sept. 6 I ‘ ’ I ‘ _ 1 V,_
Coach John ’Iucker’s Expectations: “Being competitive inthe "Old Do-

. minion Athletic Conference is certainly one of our top priorities. We woul

“like to be in a position to compete for that top spo .” I s 6

9 Sport: Women’s Cross Country

2007 Post-Season: Placed is‘ in the ODAC Championship meet; placed 3*“
in the South/Southeast Regional meet '
ODAC Coaches Preseason Poll Ranking: 1

South/Southeast Regional Preseason Ranking: 2

National Preseason Ranking: 32

Key Returnees: Kat Telfeyan, BeccaTaylor, Elizabeth Webb, Christine

runners. ,
Previous Results this Season: Finished ﬁrst out of 12 teams at the Virginia

M Wesleyan Invitational on Aug. 30; ﬁnished ﬁrst outof 10 teams at the W&L M
- Invitational on Sept. 6 A v

Coach Kris Hoey’s Expectations: “It is energizing working‘ with 17 worn»

1 en as talented as this. Each memberof the team will have a hand in blazing
. the trail. to Hanover [NCAA Championships] in November. They all have

different strengths, and we need every single one of them to get theref’

Sport: Field Hockey
2007 Record: 11-7 (5-2 ODAC)

;_2007 Post-Season: Did not compete in postseason -
LI ODAC Coaches Preseason Poll Ranking: 3

Key Returnees: D Emily Mathews,iF Sallie Armstrong, D Liz Garson M

Key Losses: M Kendall Korte, GK Tara Rubenstein 9
Previous Results this Season: Lost 2-1 to Centre on Sept.‘6; lost 3-2 to
M Rhodes on Sept. 7 I . ,

. Coach Wendy Orrison’s Expectations: “I am extremely excited about this It
year’s team. My senior leadership is solid and the teamiis showing a level

of commitment and mental toughness that is top notch; I’m excited and
privileged to work with this stellar group of athletes.”

Sport: Football
2007 Record: 6-3 (4-2 ODAC)

M2007 Post-Season: Did not compete in post-season

ODAC Coaches Preseason Poll Ranking: 4

Key Returnees: OL Greg Kurkis, RB/WR Stuart Sittersoh, DL Tommy-

Matteo

Key Losses: DB Kyle Luby, OL Alex Skotnicki, LB Bryant Fulk, DB Mark
Snoddy, WR Jack Martin, LB Kyle Harvey I

Previous Results this Season: Losfto Franklin & Marshall 24-0 on Sept.
6

Coach Frank Miriello’s Expectations: “We have had 4 consecutive sea-
sons with 6 or more victories and want to perform at a level that will give us
a shot at doing something that has never been done in the history of W&L
football -— _5 consecutive seasons with 6 or more victories.”

‘Sport: Men’s Soccer 7 i

2007 Record: 12-3-3 (6-1-2 ODAC

2007 Post-Season: Lost 2-0 to Roanoke in the ODAC Championship
ODAC Coaches Preseason Poll Ranking: 5

Key Returnees: D Fletcher McCraw

Key Losses: M Josh Dodds, F Jack Palmer, GK Ted Sheedy
V Previous Results this Season: Beat Shenandoah 2-0 on Sept. 6; beat Pied-‘
,mcnt2-1onSept.7 ‘ M A . , -  7

Coach Rolf Piranian’s Expectations: “I think we’re going to get better as
I the season goes along. We have come uncertainties about the team that will

be worked out as we face competition.”

Sport: Women’s Soccer . M
2007 Record: 16-4 (9-2 ODAC) B *

-2007 Post-Season: Lost2~1 to Roanoke in the ODAC Semi-Finals B ‘
‘ODAC Coaches Preseason Poll Ranking: 4 _
Key Retnrnees: F Anne Van Devender, M Roz Klann, D Marisa Van -

Brunt

' Key Losses: D Haley Bunting I I - M M . .
Previous Results this Season: Beat Centre 3-1 on Sept. 6; Lost 3-1 to Tran-

sylvania on Sept. 7 ,
Coach Neil Cunningham could not be reached for comment.

Sport: Volleyball

2007 Record: 29-6 (9-1 ODAC) *

2007 Post-Season: Beat Bridgewater 3-0 in the ODAC Championship; lost
3-0 to Southwestern in the ﬁrst round of the NCAA Championships
ODAC Coaches Preseason Poll Ranking: 1

Keyketurnees: OH Laura Maurer, OH Rachael Phillips, RS Jessica Ul-
rich " ‘
Key Losses: RS Jess Huddock

Previous Results this Season: Won the W&L Invitational by beating Dick- "
inson 3-0 and Mary Baldwin on Sept. 5 and then also beating Southern’

Virginia 3-0 and Marietta 3-0 on Sept. 6

Coach Bryan Snyder’s Expectations: “I feel that we have a lot of talent 9
at all of our positions, and this is the most experienced team we have had in V
. probably four years. We have set very lofty team goals for ourselves, and if

everyone works hard all year, I believe we can accomplish them. I am very
excited about this season and can’t wait to see what we can do.’,’ _

. «;,:. .g

XC teams start Well

Both teams place ﬁrst at W&L Invitational

By Kevln Corn
STAFF WRITER

The Men’s and Women’s Cross
Country teams were victorious at
home Saturday as they competed in
the Washington and Lee Invitation-
al. The men took ﬁrst out of eleven
teams, while the women were ﬁrst
out of ten teams. With high-ranking,
individual ﬁnishes and fast times,
there is no doubt that the cross coun-
try teams are ready for another great
year.

on the men’s side, the team was
led by senior Vance Bony who ﬁn-
ished third with a time of 29:34.
Close behind him was ﬁrst-year Matt
Gossett whose time of 29:38 was
good enough for fourth. Senior Alex
Jackson snatched sixth with a time
of 29:55, and junior Stuart Vassey
rounded out W&L’s top ﬁnishers
with a ninth place ranking after run-
ning the course in 30:03.

“It’s great to come out with a win
in the ﬁrst meet, but we know that the
competition we saw today is nothing
like what we will be s'eeing the rest
of the year,” commented Gossett. “It
was a great opportunity to see where
we’re at though, and the fact that we
have such great depth this year is re-

 
  
  

PLAYITAGAIN, SAM
M0n., Sept. 15, 2008

ally going to help us win ODACS.”

Speaking of Gossett, Vassey com-
mented on how the ﬁrst-year “was a
nice surprise today ﬁnishing 2nd for
the team and 4th overall.”

The men’s team was able to se-
cure a ﬁrst-place ﬁnish even without
two of its top ﬁve runners compet-
ing. Both Michael Welsh and An-
thony Ives were unable to race be-
cause of injury. Coach John Tucker
“was very pleased with the team’s
performance” even without these
two important runners for the team.

Senior Elizabeth Webb led the
women, not only for the Generals,
but all other teams as she ﬁnished
ﬁrst in a time of 24:12. Junior Kat
Telfeyan was close behind in second
with a time of 24:36. Senior Becca
Taylor ﬁnished the course in a time
of 24:48, which put her at fourth.
Meanwhile, junior Dorothy Todd
ﬁnished sixth with a time of25:08.

“The 2008 Women’s Cross Coun-
try team is one of the best in the his-
tory of W&L” commented Webb
after the meet. “We come into the
season ranked 32nd among all Di-
vision III teams, our ﬁrst national
ranking — ever. This year we’ve re-
ally clicked as a team. Coming into
preseason, it became very clear that

Performance Dates
Nov. 13, 14, 15, 16,2008

For more information, Contact mcclhannonc@wlu.edu

theater.wlu.cdu

woL REPERTORY DANCE COMPANY

Cloomons FOR.’
STUDENT SHOWCASE zoos

 

W&L REPERTORY
DANCE COMPANY

everyone on the team had put in the
miles over the summer. That really
showed today as weput four Gener-
als in the top six ﬁnishers.”

“Winning this weekend on our .

home course was so great!” added
Todd. “Before the race, Coach [Kris]
Hoey really encouraged us to try to
run in groups so that we could push
each other and encourage each other
during the tough parts of the race.
We are so lucky this year to be able
to work together with our teammates
not only during practice but in the
meets as well. We really do have the
strongest women’s team that W&L
has ever seen! It really is so much
easier to make it up the hills or catch
the girl in front of you when you
have your teammates telling you that
you can do it.”

“The best compliment I heard
after the meet was that our team,
unlike the rest of the competition,
didn’t have looks of death or fatigue
on our faces once we came up [the
infamous] F anghom hill,” men-
tioned Taylor. Instead we all looked
determined and ready to push it to
the end. And we are ready...ready to
have an amazing rest of the season.”

    

MMwithM

Tues.,Sept.16,2o0s  6-ssoaswér
7 - 10 pm. wed, Sept. 17,2008
Johnson Theatre / Lenfest Hall Thurs” Sept 18, 2003
7 - 10 p.m.

Johnson Theatre / Lenfest Hall

Performance Dates
Oct. 17 & 18,2008

    

  

ADITIONS
for:

    
  
 
    
  
 

Tues., Sept. I6, 2008
4:40 - 6:30 p.m.
Keller Theatre
Lenfest Hall

For more information,
contact
daviesj@wlu.edu

 
 

.-53'

,-.;»a'-vb...

 

 

 
  

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2008

8 ° THE RING-TUM PHI

sports

 

 

asdeck

Mon Tues WED Tiiuns Fm SM SUN
at
Football 5°Wa“°°
1:30 pm.
at vs. Johns
FIG” McDaniel Hopkins
Hockey 2 p m 11 a m
at
Men’; Maryvllie
Soccer 1 p_m_
vs.
W0m°||’3 Roanoke
soccer
1 pm.
ys_ VS.
Eastern Randolph &
Noileyball Averett
Mennonite 11 a_m_ g,
6:30 pm. 39-!“-
Women's
xc
at
Men’s xc James
Madison
Invite
Women's:

Tennis

'“°"" ODAC individual Tournament
Tennis

 numbers

 

13

The number of consecutive years that the New York Yankees have

made the playoffs. As of press time Sunday night, the Yankees were

9.5 games back in the American League East and 7.5 games back in

the Wild Card.

0

The number of winning seasons in Tampa Bay Rays history prior to the

2008 season. With 85 wins this season and 21 games left to play,

the Rays have already clinched a winning season. They also currently

sit atop the American League East standings.

1255

The number of career regular season games played by quarterback

Brett Favre for the Green Bay Packers. After being traded to the New

York Jets this offseason in a retirement controversy, Favre played for a

team other than the Packers for the ﬁrst time Sunday since his rookie

A season with the Atlanta Falcons.

I32

Washington and Lee women’s cross country team’s national pre-

season ranking, according to th?.-‘U-.8. Track_8‘=ie|d and Cross Cory

Coaches Association. The team is also ranked second in the South/

Southeast region and ﬁrst in the ODAC.

 

“It’s something I don’t think anyone has ever

done before. Have I ever had a reason for why!

do what I do? I’m having fun.”

Cincinnati Bengals wide receiver formerly known as Chad Johnson
on iegaliy changing his name to chad Javon Ocho Clnco, courtesy of

bengals.com.

‘“‘I got the bags back-—empty. So he’s [Tatum

Bell] got a bunch of my underclothes. WhatShe’s
going to do with that, I don’t know. He's got some

socks and boxers.”

Detroit Lions running back Rudy Johnson on Tatum Bell's returning
Johnson’s Gucci bags without any of their contents. Bell reportedly
stole the belongings out of the team locker room after he was cut

from the team, courtesy of yahoo.com.

 

Recapping the Olympics

Allen reviews highlights, controversies of Summer Games

By Crighton Allen
S TA F F W RITE R

I have a word for you. Just one.
Olympics. Perhaps you heard about it.
If you’re like me, you probably feel like
Bob Costas is a part of the family.

I had my wisdom teeth taken out right
in the middle of the Games, so I ﬁlled
most of my time for a week lying on the
couch, milkshake close at hand, watching
Team USA. The ﬁnal verdict on these
Games is still years away from being
ﬁnally delivered. Beijing delivered mo-
ments of oddity, scandal and triumph, all
in equal proportions. All these episodes
blended together to create an event unlike
any humanity has witnessed ever before.

I myself still -don’t quite know how I
feel about it all. When I_close my eyes, I
can see Michal Phelps’ crooked smile ra-
diating the pride and joy he must surely
feel at winning an epic eight gold med-_
als. But I can also see the bitter irony of
China, a nation that in many respects has
yet to accept even basic standards of hu-
man rights, hosting an event that is sup-
posed to bring the world together in an
atmosphere of peace and mutual respect.
Therefore, I can only offer you my overall
impressions.

For starters, how about the Opening
ceremony? The imagination of Zhang
Yimou, the director of the event, is un-

V real. He makes Stanley Kubrick look like
a cloistered monk. The lights, drummers,
the acrobat seemingly ﬂoating through the
air to light the torch, and the ﬁreworks all
blended together to create an atmosphere

that seriously toed the line between spec-
tacular and trippy. It wasn’t my style, but
it was Zhang’s gig, so it gets a pass.

Here’s what doesn’t get a pass: the
age controversy surrounding Chinese
gymnast Yang Yilin. The International
Olympic Committee stipulates gymnasts
must be or reach sixteen years of age in
an Olympic year to compete. Take a look
at this girl; there is no way she is sixteen.
My ten-year-old brother looks like he
could be her grandfather.

Time and time again Chinese ofﬁcials
insisted she and all other their athletes
were of legal age and provided the cor-
responding documentation. Normally, I
would take a government ofﬁcial’s word.
However, China’s government has, what
the folks in the PR business like to call
a little “credibility problem.” China still
jails journalists whose writing are viewed
as unacceptable, their human rights re-
cord is, I don’t want to say abysmal, but
when the horrors of Darfur are backed by
the Chinese government, forgive me if I
don’t nominate Wen Jiabo, the Chinese
Premier, for Man of the Year. Bottom

line, if Yang Yilin is sixteen, I’ve got abs .

like Dara Torres.

But at the end of the day, the Olym-
pics are fundamentally about celebrat-
ing the men and women who take upon
themselves the great honor and privilege
of competing for their respective nations
on sport’s grandest stage. And how much
there was to celebrate.

A word about Michael Phelps. What
we witnessed for that week in the Water
Cube was the single greatest athletic ac-

complishment in history. Period. Better
than Jordan in any Finals, Lance Arm-
strong in any Tour de France, better than
Roger Bannister on that magical day he
broke the four minute barrier in the mile.
Usain Bolt, the great Jamaican sprinter
who himself had a dominate Games
proved the only thing faster than his legs
may be his mouth when he quipped “I am
an athlete. Michael Phelps is a swim-
mer.” The man swam seventeen races in
nine days. Experts say that is the equiva-
lent of running nine marathons in as many
days. The physical toll that presses on a
body is extreme, equaled only by the psy-
chological stress placed upon him by« the
eyes of the entire world. He got every
competitor’s best shot and rolled with all
punches. True, a Herculean effort by his
teammate Jason Lezak in the 4xl00 meter

_ freestyle made his record eight gold met-

als possible, but that aside, the man owns
16 gold medals, the most by far of anyone
else in history.

Phelps was not the only American
who shone in Beijing. The grace and el-
egance of Nastia Liukin and the athletic
explosiveness of Shawn Johnson brought
gymnastics home to many Americans in
a way never before seen. The aforemen-
tioned Dara Torres won three silver med-
als at the age of 41. Her Olympic career
began at the 1984 Games in Los Angeles,
a year before Phelps was even born. Did
I mention her six-pack?

Beijing, through good and bad, en-
thralled the world for a magical two
weeks. London 2012: good luck with the
follow-up.

Men’s soccer kicks off season

Team beats Shenandoah 2-0 Saturday and Piedmont 2-1 Sunday

By Adam Cancryn
smrr wrmsn

One small ﬂick of the head from mid-
ﬁelder Drew Crowley turned a frustrating
Saturday afternoon into a hard-fought ﬁrst
win for the Washington & Lee University
Men’s Soccer team.

Receiving a comer kick from forward
Whit Larkin, Crowley re-directed the ball
into the back of the net, ending 64 minutes
of scoreless play and lifting the Generals to
an eventual 2-0 victory over Shenandoah
University.

“We wanted to get the ﬁrst goal and pin
them down,” said Crowley of his team’s
strategy. On the comer kick opportunity,
“the goalie froze and the ball just kind of
plopped in.”

While the strategy was simple, for
much of the game the execution proved
much tougher.

Already three games into their season,
Shenandoah came in prepared and hungry
for their ﬁrst win. And at points, it seemed
the visiting Hornets would take advantage
of W&L’s ﬁrst-game jitters.

Despite playing the ball almost ex-
clusively in their end in the early going,
Shenandoah broke through with the ﬁrst

real scoring chance of the game. Taking
advantage of a W&L defensive misplay,
midﬁelder Karim Kamara ﬁred an open
shot from the right side that ﬂew past the
keeper’s outstretched arms. Luckily for the
Generals, the ball glanced off the inside of
the left post and back into play, saving an
early goal.

Following the initial scare, W&L settled
into its possession play and took back mo-
mentum.

They started to methodically work the
ball into the Shenandoah zone, getting their
best chance on a James Pymm breakaway
that forced the keeper to make a spectacu-
lar sliding save. While, according to head
coach Rolf Piranian, Shenandoah was “the
more athletic team,” the Generals were
neutralizing them by “playing smarter. ”

Coming out of the half tied 0-0, W&L
showed a marked difference in intensity
and tempo.

Using the accelerated pace and in-
creasing physicality of the game to their
advantage, the Generals immediately put
Shenandoah on its heels. It was not long
after that Crowley headed in the team’s
ﬁrst goal, putting them in the lead.

With about 25 minutes still left to play,

W&L hunkered down and turned away a
number of Shenandoah challenges, uti-
lizing their team depth to keep everyone
fresh.

“Sometimes you (the team) start to lag,
and we go in there to pick up the intensity,”
said ﬁrst-year midﬁelder Stiles Harper on
the role of a sub.

Shenandoah tried frantically to equal-
ize, but in the end it was the Generals who
got the break.

With the Hornets goalie coming out.to
handle a long ball, pressure from forward
Huntley Johnson forced him to botch the
catch. A quick tap of the ball into the open
goal sealed the game.

Following the match, Coach Piranian
said he felt play was sloppy overall and in-
sisted the Generals would and could play
much better in the future. Yet, in what he
called a “gut check” game, W&L came
away with the best possible result: a “W”
in the books and a positive start to the new
season. . '

The Generals continued their week-
end homestand on Sunday against Pied-
mont College. Crawley’s early score and
Harper’s sudden-death overtime goal gave
W&L the 2-1 win over the Lions.

SENIOR MEETING

Tuesday, September 9
Szllllll p.m.

Commons Theater

This meeting is for ALL seniors!

Meet the staff and get information
about the job Search process.

Learn about the procedures
for on-campus interviews.

Hear from ’08 grads about their
job search experiences.

W

HINC-TON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

AREER©SER-VICES

i . A
aaayizaaaaaa
l’l~IDAL CAR DINER & Tm 'l‘0r Cm‘.

Order from our complete mam:
Or Jain usjbr one r2faurALI. YOU CAN 1:14TBaﬂéts.*

Friday Night Seafood Sofie: with Crab Legs 5pm.-10pm
Saturday Night Prime Rib Dinner 5pm-10pm
Sunday Baked Chicken, Pork Loin, & Pot Roast 11am-9pm
Friday & Saturday Late Night Breakfast Bar 10pm~2am
Breakfast Bar 7 Days a Week 6am~1 lam
Daily Hot Country Bar liamflupm
Daily Soup. Salad, & Fruit Bar Ham-10pm

Order Breakfast 24 Hours 3 day, 7 days a week?

Home Cooker! Meals & Sriutiiern Hospitality!

ill liilﬂmli

l~8l & I-64. Exit i‘/>5. 2516 ?\ior1h Lee I-lvry, lexingiori, VA

ﬁres? food 3: :2 gram‘ coilection of
Antique Pedal Cars 8: Tia Toysi

.ot:ated at

540-463-3478

 

B

Audience flips!

Golden Dragon Acrobats from China perform
for a sold-out audience In Lenfest.

ARTS & LIFE / page 5 

   
  

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING-TUM PHI.

STUDENTS SINCE

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2008

W&L
sporting

.. events to be
‘broadcast

VOLUME CXII, NUMBER 2

BY THE STUDENTS AND FOR THE 1897

School agrees to contract
with B2 Networks to stream

games live on Internet

By Wlll Dorrance

SPORTS EDITOR

Washington and Lee University has agreed
to a multi-year contract with B2 Networks to
stream live video and audio feeds of athletic
contests over the Internet. The ﬁrst broadcasted
game of this school year was the volleyball game
on Wednesday against Eastern Mennonite Uni-
versity.

Games will be available on the school’s web-
site and on B2 Network’s streaming website
(www.b2tv.com). The broadcast requires a high-
speed Internet connection as well as a current
version of Microsoft Windows Media Player.

According to W&L Sports Information Di-
rector Brian Laubscher, this process has been in
the planning stages for about a year and a half.
Laubscher said that the athletic department has
been “thinking about it for a while but wanted to
make sure we had the infrastructure set in place.”
The department needed to secure the correct
technological equipment, ﬁnd camera operators,
and network all the press boxes with Internet.

To make the project more manageable, Laub-

“B2 Networks is the industry
leader in television-style broad-
casting on the Internet We
can use it not only for athletic
events but also  graduation,
Mock'Convention, plays and

other University events. ”

I Brlan Laubscher, W&L Sports Informatlon

Dlrector
 

scher “pulled several departments. together.”

The Office of Public Affairs and Communica- ‘

tions is providing the cameras for recording the
games, journalism students will be the camera
operators and the Office of University Develop-

ment helped raise the necessary funds to kick off

the project.

While season packages are available, indi-
vidual games will cost $7 with W&L and B2
Networks splitting the revenue evenly. W&L
will use the money to pay camera operators and
purchase better equipment in the future.

Laubscher said that the athletic department
will stream “a fair amount of games, but we don’t
want to overextend ourselves.” Five football
games, four men’s soccer games, four women’s
soccer games, four ﬁeld hockey games, and four
volleyball matches will be broadcasted this fall.
Laubscher didrecognize the possibility of add-
ing more games to the schedule in the future.

Last spring, the school conducted a successful
one-game test of a men’s lacrosse game between
W&L and Hampden-Syndney. Viewers of the
live stream satisfactorily evaluated the service.

W&L chose to partner with B2 Networks
partly because of the ﬂexibility that the com-
pany provides. W&L has control of the airtime
and can run commercials, messages, or notes
to alumni groups during half-time or time-outs.
Additionally, Laubscher noted, “We can use it
not only for athletic events but also can stream
graduation, Mock Convention, plays, and other
University events.”

Furtherrn_ore, the school also elected B2 Net-
works because W&L only needs to send one
feed of the games to B2 Networks, who will dis-

See “B2 Networks” on page 3

On the main ﬂoor of Leyburn Library, a plywood wall partitions what used to be the lobby.

LENORA NUNNLEY / Staff Photographer

Leyhurn Library gets new look, facilities

By John Henderson
NEWS emron

Leybum Libraiy’s main floor is being trans-
formed from what some students felt was a
shabby, poorly lit labyrinth of shelves and of-
ﬁces into a modern and welcoming work space.

Aplywood wall partitions what used to be the

‘ lobby, guiding entrants away from the construc-

tion area toward the stairs and elevators. On
the other side of the wall, workers have gutted

the, area where students once studied together,»
‘ accessed public computers and found reference

materials.

I The library’s technical services have been
permanently moved to the first floor stacks,
while the circulation desk was temporarily re-
located in f1'ontofNo1then Auditorium. In their
place, the renovated main floor will have more

tables and armchairs, Carrels with power outlets,
public computer stations, classrooms and an IT
support desk.

“The way people use libraries has changed,”

“I think it will be a lot more
comfortable as a place to work

and as a place people will enjoy

}

lingering in. ’
Merrily Taylor, University Librarian

said University Librarian Merrily Taylor. “We
wanted to modernize the ﬂoor and make it more
comfortable and more workable for people... I
think it will be a lot more comfortable as a place

to work and as a place people will enjoy linger-
ing in.” I

The library staff has been discussing reno-
vating the main floor for the past four years in
response to student complaints of low lighting,
insufficient group study spaces and a lack of
power outlets, among other things, Taylor said. ,

The library collected student feedback
through surveys and a suggestions box. The,
surveys garnered a variety of responses: some
students felt the lack of natural light made the
main ﬂoor a depressing place to work; others
said the old carpets and used furniture looked
g1"~1ngY-

While the aging library has been on the Uni-
versity’s renovation “short list” for some time,
it has had to compete with other projects for
funding, including Wilson Hall, Wilson Field,

‘see “Library” on page 2

Addressing rural poverty

$90, 000 grant creates I 5 new internships in Arkansas

By Katherlne Roberts
STAFF WRITER

The Shepherd Poverty Alliance
recently received a $90,000 grant
from Southern Financial Partners, a
nonproﬁt organization that focuses
on economic revitalization, to expand
the alliance’s internship program in
Phillips County, Ark. The grant will
provide for 15 internships by 2010,
according to Coordinator of Co-Cur-
ricular Education Fran Elrod.

The grant also introduces a part-
nership between the Shepherd Alli-
ance and the Delta Bridge Project,
a community-driven initiative that
funnels money into non-proﬁt agen-
cies that help stimulate the local
economy, Elrod said.

The] Mississippi Delta region,
over an hour’s drive from Memphis,
Tenn., has suffered economically
since cotton and other forms of agri-
culture left the area, Elrod said. The
county seat, Helena, is one of the
poorest cities in America with a me-
dian income of $19,896 in 2000 ac-
cording to the U.S. Census Bureau.

Junior James Dick, who partici-

pated in the 8-week internship this
summer, said the level of poverty in
the Delta region is similar to that of a
third-world country. “It is not a huge
overstatement,” he said.

W&L students in the Shepherd

“I wanted to go to a. place that
would stretch my ideas of...what
it means to be happy and content,”
Dick said.

Dick worked at the Phillips Coun-
ty Boys & Girls Club, playing games

“I wanted to go to a place that would stretch my

ideas of what it means to be happy and con-

tent. ”

 

Alliance began working in Phillips
County four years ago, following
encouragement from active W&L
alumni in Arkansas. Last year, six
interns went to work with local or-
ganizations.

To appreciate what working pov-
erty means in the area, the interns
lived on $11 a day. That means “a
lot of peanut butter, honey and ba-
nana sandwiches,” said junior James
Dick, who completed an internship
in Phillips County last summer.

such as ping-pong, pool and kickball
with local children. This gave them a
place to go during the day while their
parents worked.

One of the biggest indicators
of poverty in the region was a lack
of education, Dick said. While the
children had basic necessities like
clothes and shoes, they did not know
about dental hygiene or healthy food
choices.

As part of his internship, Dick
ran a “Cavity-Free Zone” at the club

where children learned about dental
health by cutting holes in an apple
and ﬁlling up its “cavities.” He said
that many kids had ﬁllings.

Junior Megan Steinhardt ran a
summer day camp for kids aged six
to 14 that focused on nutrition and
physical activity.

One component of the program
was introducing kids to foods such
as broccoli, celery and blueber-
ries, which many of them had never
eaten. “These are things we take for
granted,” said Steinhardt.

The philosophy of the organiza-
tion was that change could be im-
plemented by teaching the children
better eating habits, Steinhardt ex-
plained.

Steinhardt said she was most
struck by the “cycle of poverty.”
Most members of the community are
in the ﬁfth, sixth or seventh genera-
tion of their families to live in Phil-
lips County.

“It was almost like they were
stuck in the town,” she said.

See “Poverty” on page 3

 

  

0 THE RING-TUM PHI

UNIVERSITY UBRARY
WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VA 24450

SW26

Qllﬂﬁ“

 

M 0 N DAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2008

W&L students get the Vote out

Student political organizations offer T-shirts and advice on voter registration

By Anne Vesoulls
STAFF wmrsn

The College Democrats and
Republicans at Washington and
Lee are developing different
techniques to get the word out on
student voting both locallyand
nationally for the November 4
Presidential Election.

Erika Rost, co-chair of the
College Republicans, and other
members of the club have been
working on coordinating events
to inform the public, includ-
ing a T-shirt sale at the Parents’
Weekend football game to pro-
mote Senator McCain and other
Republican candidates in the
upcoming election. The club will
also distribute buttons and bum-
per stickers to promote the Mc-
Cain-'Palin Campaign. I

Likewise, the College.Demo—
crats are promoting voter regis-
tration across campus.

“We are helping to register
students to vote in Virginia and

, also campaigning in and around
Lexington by phone bank-
ing and canvassing for Barack
Obama, Mark Warner, and Sam

Rasoul” said Rebecca Guyrm,
co-chair of the College Demo-
crats.

The College Democrats are
putting a heavy emphasis on get-
ting students to vote because of
the high degree to which college
students can affect the election’s
outcome both at the polls and at
voting promotion events.

“We believe that students
will play an important role in
the election with our votes _and
the potential votes of the citi-
zens of Rockbridge County that
we can achieve by working
in the community. Also, with
more students across the country
forming groups such as Students
for Barack Obama, activism is
growing on campuses and could
produce a signiﬁcant student
turnout on campuses" across the
country,” Guynn said.

“I’m excited to be a part of
such a groundbreaking election
and can’t wait to get more in-
volved in the political scene on
the Washington and Lee campus
during my time here,” said ﬁrst-
year Keturah Nichols.

A Library

continued from page 1

Holekamp Hall and Newcomb
Hall.

“There just wasn’t enough
money to do the whole building,”
Taylor said.

The University compromised,
allowing the main ﬂoor renova-
tion to go ahead for a mere $2.5
million while the lower floors
would stay as they are with the
exception of the new technical
services oﬂice on the first ﬂoor.

In April, architects from SFCS,
Inc. presented their plans for a
physical and thematic redesign of
the main ﬂoor. The plans called
for obstructive walls to be taken
down, the ceiling to be raised and
worn fumiture and carpeting to be
replaced with modern designs and
styles.

The renovation is intended to
create public, collaborative spac-
es toward the front of the build-
ing and quieter study areas in the
back.

The open plan will allow the
circulation desk, renamed the “In-
formation Desk,” to be relocated
to the center of the room. The
Information Desk will serve as a
“one-stop shop’-’ for library users’
needs, according to SFCS plans.

On the west side facing the

Commons, a second entrance
will provide a convenient access
point to the most public part of
the library, where couches and
armchairs, periodical display
racks and a small cafe’ with a cof-
fee station and vending machines
will provide an alternative to the
Commons living room.

Two classrooms, four study
rooms, research and IT services
will line the back and sides of the
library. Rows of reference mate-
rials, arrnchairs and an abundance
of group study tables will be nest-
ed in the middle. To the left of the
main entrance, an art exhibit will
welcome visitors and reinforce
the modern, chic feel that the ar-
chitects hope to cultivate.

Construction on the main ﬂoor
began in June shortly after the end
of the school year. The renova-
tion is scheduled to be ﬁnished
sometime in January 2009. Tay-

lor said construction is proceed-
ing at a very fast pace.

Taylor said she has not heard
a single objection to the renova-
tions from students or faculty.
Sophomore Jamie Kim was one
of the students asked by library
staff how the library could be im-
proved. Kim suggested brighter
lights and a display rack for vid-
eos and DVDs, which were inac-
cessible prior to the renovation.

While Kim is not a “regular”
in the library, she does plan to in-
crease her use of the main ﬂoor
when it is ﬁnished. “It should be a
deﬁnite plus,” she said. “I’ll have
to see how it’s going to be when
it’s all ﬁnished, but I’m excited.”

Brent Meyers, a junior, said
the redesign of the main ﬂoor
would be an improvement but not
a permanent ﬁx of what many stu-
dents consider to be an outdated,
unattractive building.

“I never thought it was great

architecture,” Meyers said. “I.

think as a temporary measure it’s
going to be a good thing. . .I think
what’s needed is to tear it down
and start from scratch.”

A total reconstruction of the
library is still far off, according to
Taylor. The building, which was
opened in 1979, is still relatively
young by architectural measures
and is likely to remain in use for
decades unless a large donation
allows for its replacement.

Not all opinions swing away\

from the block and brick build-
ing, however.

Sam Shore, an exchange stu-
dent from the University of St.
Andrews in Scotland, feels that
while the library may be archi-
tecturally anachronistic, it is
functional. Shore can relate—at
his home university, a thoroughly
modern library similar to Leybum
is surrounded by 15th century
buildings.

“Not every building is going to
be aesthetically nice,” Shore said.
“You go to the library for what’s
on the inside.”

All W&L students who are
residents of the United States and
are over the age of 18 are quali-
ﬁed to vote" in the Nov. 4 elec-
tion. Students living out of state
will need to register through their
local county registrar’s ofﬁce to
receive an absentee ballot.

“I -think that many students

ﬁrst complete an Absentee Voter
Request Application, found ei-
ther on the state registrar’s web-
site or sent to them via request by
the student. Students are required
to ﬁll out the request form and
return it to their speciﬁc board
of elections prior to receiving the
actual ballot.

“While the process of getting my absentee

ballot was tedious, I am going to vote to make

a change for my future  I want to do every-

thing I can to make a difference. ”

All Longobardo, ﬂrst-year

I

take advantage of the absentee
ballot and we are encouraging
students to apply for absentee
ballots if they have not done so
already,” Guynn said.

The guidelines vary subtly
from state to state but in the cas-
es of Maryland, Texas, New Jer-
sey, and New York, W&L’s most
represented states, students must

Research Rein >:
3~Y!X'< ms '5 751 C5!
;

Two to three weeks prior to
the general election date, stu-
dents will receive the ballot to be
returned to their local board of
elections via USPS or fax prior
to the polls closing on Election
Day. Even students who reside in
Virginia must ﬁll out an absentee
ballot if they cannot make it to
the polls in their speciﬁc precinct

LENORA NUNNLEY/ Staff Photographer

Clockwise from top: the research desk at its
temporary location on the first floor; a self check-
out station reduces circulation desk traffic; a sign
directs library users away from construction areas.

 

on Election Day.

“Even though I live in Vir-
ginia, I have to vote via absentee
because I’m not going to be near
my precinct on Election Day,”
said ﬁrst-year, Roanoke native
Megan Smith.

“It’s pretty inconvenient,
though. Considering I live 45
minutes away. It would be a lot
easier to drive there and back,
but my classes interfere.”

Many students are ﬁrst time
voters. There are special require-
ments for those students. If a
student is a ﬁrst time Voter from
Illinois or Michigan, he is not el-
igible to vote via absentee ballot.
Students voting for the ﬁrst time
from Tennessee are only eligible
to vote via absentee ballot if they
are registered as permanent ab-
sentee ballot voters. The states
of North Carolina, Connecticut,
and Nevada require ﬁrst-time
absentee ballot voters to submit
a copy of a photo ID along with
their ballot.

The majority of states have an
open policy for absentee ballots,
but there are a few exceptions.

elfcheck-Out

The states of Delaware, Florida,
Louisiana, Minnesota, Missis-
sippi, Missouri, Nebraska, Ne-

- vada, New Jersey, Rhode Island,

South Carolina, Texas, and Wis-
consin require a/notarized signa-
ture or a witness signature prior
to sending in the absentee ballot,
certifying that the voter is indeed
out of state and unable to attend
the general polling election. The
state of Maryland requires ab-
sentee ballot voters to sign an
oath certifying that he/she will
not be in the state or in a posi-
tion to vote at the general polling
election.

“While the process of getting
my absentee ballot was tedious,
I am going to vote to make a
change for my future. I feel as
though my opinions are not well
represented here, so I want to do
everything I can to make a dif-
ference,” said ﬁrst year Ali Lon-
gobardo. ~ '

station

  

 

3 ° THE RING-TUM PHI

M 0 N DAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2008

 

W&L professor challenges Virginia lottery

Claims the lottery “knowingly and deliberately ” provided

By Patrick Scully
STA FF WRITER

A recent lawsuit against the Virginia
Lottery has put the local and national
spotlight on a member of the Washing-
ton and Lee community.

Professor Scott Hoover ﬁled a law-
suit after questioning whether the Vir-
ginia Lottery has been entirely honest in

» its gaming practices.

In early August 2007, Hoover walked
into the Stop—ln on South Main Street
and bought a “Beginners Luck” scratch-
off ticket. Hoover, not a regular buyer of
lottery tickets, was counting on having
more than luck on his side.

A fellow professor had recently in-
formed Hoover of a “very good invest-
ment” opportunity in lottery tickets.
According to the lottery’s website, ap-
proximately half of the grand prizes still
remained unclaimed despite the fact that
over 90 percent of the scratch-off tickets
had already been sold.

The professors calculated that this
statistical anomaly made each ticket,
retailing at $5, worth about $7 each.

Poverty  

continued from page 1

Being a professor of Applied Business
Statistics, Investments and “Puzzles and
Critical Thought”, Hoover instantly rec-
ognized a potential for proﬁt.

He was not surprised when his first
few tickets came up empty. But af-
ter buying tickets at several locations

able to prove that in fact there was pre-
cisely zero chance to win because the
grand prize winners had already been
claimed.” Hoover felt this to be a clear
violation of the contract between the lot-
tery and its participants, which claims
that each ticket has a chance to win the

“After an extensive statistical analysis and ﬁling a

series of Freedom of Information Act requests, we

were able to prove that in fact there was precisely Zero

1

chance to win. ’

Scott Hoover, Lawrence Prof. of Business Administration

around the state with little to show for
it, Hoover began to question the con-
sistency of the lottery’s data. “The data
was simply wrong or the prizes were not
being distributed randomly,” he said.
“After an extensive statistical
analysis and ﬁling a series of Freedom
of Information Act requests, we were

grand prize.

“A bigger issue to me was that the
Lottery had knowingly and deliberately
posted false data on its website to dis-
guise the fact that no grand prizes were
available,” Hoover said. I

He hired several attorneys, some

of whom are alumni of the W&L Law

School

“We went with W&L attorneys be-
cause they came highly recommended
and because we presumed they would
be men of honor and integrity,” he said.

Hoover’s attorneys presented their
case to the office of the Virginia At-
tomey General. Hoover said he merely
wished to remedy the situation and
make the terms of the lottery more clear
to its participants. When lottery ofﬁcials
failed to act, Hoover and his attorneys
decided to make the then private dispute
a fully publicized affair.

They ﬁled a class-action lawsuit
against the Virginia Lottery hoping to
ensure that information about available
prizes is clearly presented to partici-
pants in future scratch-off games and to
compel the lottery to return the estimat-
ed $84.7 million dollars it had collected
under allegedly false pretences.

Hoover maintains that he is not pur-
suing this case for ﬁnancial gain other
than a refund of his ticket purchases.

“My stake in this is just over $100,”
he said. “My purpose is simply the pur-

false information

suit of integrity in govemment.”

Hoover’s case has already caught the
attention of the public in Virginia and
around the country.

Segments about the lawsuit have
appeared on local radio stations and
newspapers, “Good Morning America,”
Washingtopost.com and even on the
CNN and Fox news networks. Hoover
also recently taped an episode of the
Dr. Phil show which is scheduled to air
on September 25 featuring his and two
other cases.

For now, the case remains unre-
solved. The Virginia Lottery still up-
holds the integrity of its contests and no
court date has been set.

Hoover feels he has accomplished
his goal of bringing this issue into the
public eye and setting up a dialogue for
future reform. “We still hope that the
Lottery will do the right thing, in which
case a lawsuit will not be necessary,” he
said.

“A lot of them hadn’t been out of the state
of Arkansas. . .They didn’t have the opportunity
to.”

(K

t was almost like they were
stuck in the town. A lot of
them hadn’t been out of the

}

state of Arkansas. ’

Megan Steinhardt, Shepherd intern

Steinhardt said the weak job market pre-
vented upward mobility in the community. Low

B2 Networks

continued from page 1

-tribute the many feeds to the viewers; other-
wise, if W&L had to transmit all the feeds to the
games’ viewers, the school’s network would slow
down.

According to the company’s website, “B2
Networks is the industry leader in television-style
broadcasting on the Internet.” Laubsher stated
that B2 Networks hosts athletic events of “a smat-
tering of Division I, ll, and III schools.”

The athletic department found the need to
broadcast athletic contests over the lntemet be-

 

Mon., Sept. 15,2008
Tues., Sept. 16,2008
7 - 10 p.m.

Performance Dates
Nov. 13, 14, 15, 16,2008

theater.wlu.edu

W&L THeaTeR

education rates among the adults furthered the
problem, she said, because workers were often
not qualiﬁed enough to work elsewhere or attain
higher-paying jobs.

Yet, in spite of their poverty, the kids still had
fun, Dick said.

“They weren’t stuck there feeling sorry for
themselves. They were able to go outside and
play basketball,” he said.

With the money from the new grant, the
Shepherd Alliance will place interns in more or-
ganizations, including working with adult edu-
cation programs at a local community college.

“The students really bond and develop long-
lasting friendships,” Elrod said, "not only with
themselves but with the community."

Welemmes Yarn §$aQ§<.§

ﬁat Lucky at M£C@y’s§
Eroioer rifts.) avast?  iris-*<=_«r:—;* Classic Sat3<is‘s.zi<:i“i every
aaz<e<e:l<§ i..7‘r*;3sxxr§r‘3g is ieaiei ewreiry ‘v’\§<~::ti rsestiay.
and
ﬁiicaw mfifymur taletsﬁ
E\~"+'2';?§"‘:y” C>‘§.:i.’3€;’:§“ Ti‘2:..ri~3<ia;x is <:3;}:::t} :“*/iiz: Night?
£:3;><3::s to aaii gerares zégmil ail gagesi tixrtrag yaw?
t:r.:’;<:§4 s:;>§- §»’QL.zT§‘“ E§}:”».»‘t;E“t,§f’:-’3z';“:§"3‘»‘i‘; - £2}? »r:»::i}é":’}»:'3 erzsci :<:3t'3§<:::y
"ti;  }:‘><3%"i“O rm 2* rag?

é‘.’.:§ie<:§»:: meat: §‘%ft<:Cc«y’s Live Entertairamenti
» :_’;‘-33%;; ‘v‘s.f:«,:;§s2 — {?2r§g§§7al ,é.<:a.-,.sast:.~.;, }":E>’r;?~-»9:3§t’.',T>

Easpt 3:43  <.TjZ?,::wer:t M:§—r; Nigiai 7;:>rri~~*9:.”r§O;2rr::

Qseat New i-imam gssst has VQ§.f§
5*‘-at <3 rt; . -Ti 3 as re, ‘i ”? 3; in 453;.) m

i’°ri.-E3.-at, °i’i.arr;2-i%;>r'r'; {'§.ate:-r ‘l;t:3t§” live enteréaizimentﬁ

Q5-*».*">“§;'.  €23

cause of the school’s geographical diverse stu-

dent population.‘ As a national university, many
players’ parents are unable to attend games and,
now the school hopes, will make use of this new
feature. ‘‘I think they’re going to love it,” stated
Laubscher.

“We are excited to get this started and get some

Rerrserrsbea aacaeyss {fee all yams Taiigating

and Qateeaitag Needs?

PLAYITAGAIN, SAM

Johnson Theatre / Lenfest Hall

feedback,” he added.

  

Vﬁ .

Clvorrrons FOR.‘
STUDENTSHOWCASE zoos

with

to 

 

Wed., Sept. 17, 2008
Thurs, Sept. 18, 2008
7 - 10 p.m.
Johnson Theatre / Lenfest Hall

Performance Dates
Oct. 17 & 18,2008

For more information. Contact mcelhannonc@ wlu.edu

 

ﬁﬁﬁii 

  

AUDITIONS
for:

W&L REPERTORY
DANCE -COMPANY

Tues., Sept. 16,2008
4:40 - 6:30 p.m.
Keller Theatre
Lenfest Hall

    
  
 
   
   
 

For more information,
contact
daviesj @ wlu.edu

wet REPERTORY DANCE COMPANY

 
 

 

THE RING-TUM PHI ' 4

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2008

opinions

 

|

POliticizingAmerican dreams

‘American dreams ’ don ’t just belong toone party; Obama should knowbetter

By Abel Delgado
COLU M NIST

Democrats have long claimed,
sometimes rightfully, that Re-
publicans use the War on Terror
as a way to scare voters into vot-
ing Republican.

Fair or not, Republicans have
argued that Democrats have been
soft on America’s enemies since
the Carter administration.

Republican attacks On the »

patriotism of veterans like John
Kerry and Max Cleland have not
only been unfair, they have been
shameful.

But now the Democrats have
found a way to return the favor
with an even more shameful at-
tack.

By saying that “under eight
years of Bush and McCain,
the American dream is slip-
ping away,” Democratic Vice
Presidential candidate Joe Biden
didn’t just insinutate that Repub-
licans were weak on America’s
biggest enemies.

By warning that the “reckon-
ing is now,” and that this elec-
tion “may be our last chance to
reclaim the America we love, to

restore America’s soul,” Biden
insinuated Republicans them-
selves were the enemy.
According to the rhetoric of
Obama’s running mate, Repub-
licans are the biggest threat to a

ing, someone should have let my
grandfather know.

He spent nearly a decade as
a political prisoner in his home
land of Cuba.

But now, after nearly three de-

Now imagine how many
American dreams have come
true this year.

And that’s just one year -
America’s been in the business

of making American Dreams

Barack Obama is story could be called the embodiment of the Ameri-

can Dream. It often has been, in fact. But so could John McCain is

life story. And that is just the thing about the American dream — no one

party of politican owns it...n0 party has a monopoly On securing the

American dream.

dying American Dream.

And that’s not even counting
what Obama’s campaign surro-
gates and the attack dogs from
the Democratic Convention have
to say.

Democrats are using the
American Dream the same way
they accused Republicans of.us-
ing American Security during
past elections.

They are fear—mongering for
votes.

If the American Dream is dy-

cades of freedom in his adopted
country -- America -- he recently
became an American citizen.

' Joining him were over 2,000
new Americans from over 100
different countries, all with dis-
tinctly American dreams.

This was just one day in one
city.

Imagine how many Ameri-
can Dreams came true across the
country that day.

Imagine how many American
dreams came true that week.

happen for over 232 years now.

NO one who knows and re-
spects the American Dream will
tell you we need a politician to
save it.

Any politician who promotes
himself as the savior of the
American Dream obviously has
no respect for its resiliency.

The American Dream does
not need Barack Obama.

Electing him or John McCain
will not restore America’s soul.

Because America does not

need a savior.

It needs a President.

Washington is broken, not
America.

America will remain unbro-
ken as long as we have millions
of people seeking their Own ver-
sions of the American Dream
here.

The American Dream I know
will continue to endure regard-
less of who gets elected in No-
vember.

John McCain or Barack
Obama - it wOn’t matter for the
American Dream.

To claim otherwise is shame-
ful.

Of course, Barack Obama’s
story could be called the embodi-
ment of the American Dream. It
often has been, in fact.

But so could John McCain’s
life story. And that’s just the
thing about the American dream
- no one party or politician owns
it.

No party has a monopoly on
securing America and no party
has a monopoly on securing the
American Dream.

The American Dream I know

is about educational opportuni-
ties, not across the board entitle-
ment programs.

It’s about a government small
enough to get out of your way,
not big enough to be your only
obstacle.

It’s about individual ingenu-
ity, not government intervention.

I have always believed in the
American Dream just like my
grandfather taught me.

We believe the American
Dream is a product of the Ameri-
can People, not of the American
government.

This is part of the reason why
my grandfather and I are voting
in our ﬁrst presidential election
for a person and not a party.

This is why I am voting for
a person who has not only lived
the American Dream,,I am vot-
ing for a person who understands
the American Dream.

I am voting for the person
who actually does “get it.”

uneau, not “Juno”

There 3 nothing special about Bristol Palin is baby

By Ben Absher
COLUMNIST

Even with the billions of
dollars poured into sexual ab-
stinence education every year,
sex before marriage still hap-
pens.

Often with the help of al-
cohol, young men and women
can get caught up in the heat
of the moment and the ability
to make smart decisions disap-
pears.

but not one that is implausibly
rare.

As college students not
much older than Bristol her-
self, we can sympathize with
her predicament.

We’ve all probably known
a few pregnant teenagers.

This is not exclusively the
stuff of Hollywood tabloids.

And like the other thou-
sands and thousands of preg-
nant teenage girls in America,
Bristol Palin made a decision
and now she has to live with

old who made choices that got
her pregnant, however you
feel about those choices.

They are different individ-
uals capable of making their
own decisions.

Think of it like this: how
many of your parents taught
you not to drink underage,
smoke, or have sex before
marriage?

Most of us have heard these
values preached at length since
grade school.

However, despite our par-

NO matter how you feel about McCain 3 pick, it is still a shame

that media outlets are tearing apart the values of the Republican

Party by keeping Bristol Palin is pregnancy in the news... Taking

advantage of a pregnant, unwed I 7-year-old is low—class...

Girls get pregnant.

The issue of teen preg-
nancy is not one to be taken
lightly, of course, but worse, it
is often overlooked as a major
problem.

According to the Centers
for Disease Control and Pre-
vention (CDC), teen pregnan-
cies rose between 2005. and
2006 for the ﬁrst time since
1991, with 435,427 births in
2006 to mothers aged 15 — 19
years.

With that number so high,
what makes the pregnancy
of Bristol Palin - Republican
Vice-Presidential nominee
Sarah Palin’s unwed 17 year-
Old daughter - any more impor-
tant than the other 435,426?

Nothing. .

Bristol Palin isn’t too far
from being an average teen-
aged girl in an average family.

Yes, her “Juno” oriented
lifestyle has /put her in a situ-
ation that is less than ideal,

the consequences of that deci-
sion.

Those consequences in-
volve the burden Of taking
care of a child without a solid
ﬁnancial backing, the difﬁ-
culty of figuring out how to
attend college to further her
education, and isolation from
her non-parent friends.

These consequences are
understandable and unavoid-
able.

She, her child’s father, and
even her family all have to
live with her decision’s conse-
quences.

However, one consequence
of her choice she should not
have to face is the criticism
of her 44 year-old mother, the
Republican Vice Presidential
nominee.

Let us be clear on this
point.

Sarah Palin is not her
daughter Bristol.

Sarah Palin isn’t a 17 year

ents’ attempts to instill these
ideals in us, how many of us
do participate in at least one Of
these activities?

When you consider things
in that light you can under-
stand how little connection
there is between Bristol’s ac-
tions and her mother’s conser-
vative views and values.

Does Bristol Palin’s preg-
nancy have an effect on the
McCain-Palin campaign? Un-
fortunately, yes.

Sen. McCain took a bold
step by announcing Palin as
his running mate.

The maverick Republican
realized that he does not have
the rhetoric or showmanship
to appeal’ to the people that
Sen. Obama does.

He chose the candidate
who would best help him ﬁll
those voids.

He chose Palin to help lev-
el the ground between people
and politics—tO de-idolize the

political persona.

This was also an attempt to
draw Hillary supporters away
from Obama.

"I he irony is his decision to
go for broke and select Palin
as his running mate may have
further alienated many femi-
nists and pro-choice moder-
ates who were teetering on the
political fence.

But no matter how you feel
about McCain’s pick, it is still
a shame that mediaoutlets are
tearing apart the values of the
Republican Party by keeping
Bristol Palin’s pregnancy in
the news.

Any attempt to exploit Sar-
ah Palin’s daughter should be
considered low-class and dis-
respectful.

Taking advantage of a
pregnant, unwed 17 year is
low-class and disrespectful,
regardless of your political
leanings. I

You may Or may not have
the same views as the GOP,
but we are all human, and as
humans we deserve respect re-
gardless of our opinions.

Barack Obama’
jumped on this train, stating
that “people’s families are off
limits, and people’s children
are especially off limits. This
shouldn’t be part of our poli-

75

CVCII

tics.

Conservative or liberal, we
should all follow Barack’s ad-
vice, at least on this issue.

It’s time to leave Bristol
Palin alone.

..    WASHINGTON AND LEE Um/Epsnv ............................................................... ..

E RING—TUM PHI.

MANAGING EDITOR
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR

COPY EDITORS

CONTRIBUTING WRITERS

DESIGN EDITOR
ASSISTANT DESIGNER
STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER

BUSINESS MANAGER
DISTRIBUTION MNGR.

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE
RING—TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community for students, faculty,
parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire
to spark discussions that lead to discovering
information that prompts change.

THE RING—TUM PHI Is PUBLISHED MONDAYS
DURING THE UNDERGRADUATE SCHOOL YEAR.
THE RING—TUM PHI IS A MEMBER OF THE MEDIA
BOARD, BUT IS OTHERWISE INDEPENDENT.
QUESTIONS OR CONCERNS ABOUT THE PHI
SHOULD BE ADDRESSED TO THE EDITORS AT
PHI@WLU.EDU OR TO THE MEDIA BOARD AT
MEDIABOARD@wLU.EDU.
IS AN INDEPENDENT, STUDENT-RUN EDITORIAL
OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE WORKING WITH ALL
MEDIA OUTLETS ON THE WASHINGTON &

ALL INQUIRIES wILL REMAIN
OONFIDENTIAL. THE RING-TUM PHI wELcOMES
ALL LETTERS. wE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO EDIT

SUBMISSIONS FOR CONTENT AND LENGTH.

LETTERS AND ADVERTISING DO NOT NECESSARILY
REFLECT THE OPINION OF THE RING—TUM PHI
STAFF. THIS NEWSPAPER OBSERVES CURRENT
COURT DEFINITIONS OF LIBEL AND OBSCENITY.

THE RING—TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540) 458-4059
EMAIL: PHl@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

LEE CAMPUS.

ALLISON CHOPIN
JOHN HENDERSON
CODY BEAUCHAMP
WILL DORRANCE
CELESTE CRUZ-
CARANDANG
BRETT HOLTON
MICHAEL MORELLA

BEN ABSHER

ABEL DELGADO
BRIAN DEVINE
NEVILLE FOGARTY
STEPHANIE HARDIMAN
KATHERINE ROBERTS
PATRICK SCULLY

JEN SNYDER

BROOKE SUTHERLAND
VALAREE TANG
VICTORIA TAYLOR
ANNE VESOULIS
RUSS WEEMS

LARA JORDAN
DIANDRA SPICAK
RYAN ELSEY
LENORA NUNNLEY
STROCK MOORE
ROB GEORGE

THE MEDIA BOARD

‘I

 

 

S ‘- THE RING-TUM PHI-

 

M 0 N DAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2008

arts&life

 

 

Dragons take the stage

Golden Dragon Acrobats perform at
Keller theater, entertain a full house

By Stephanie Hardiman
STAFF WRITER '

By Valaree Tang
STAFF WRITER

Holekamp Hal1’s McCarthy
Gallery is hosting “From Life.”
This is an exhibition often paint-
ings by Tania Karpowitz. The
gallery is open to all members
of the Washington and Lee com-
munity as well as the residents of
Lexington and Rockbridge coun-
ty from 8:30 until 5:00 p.m.

The exhibit features oil paint-
ings on‘ both linen and canvas.
There are eight pieces for sale,
and two that were obtained from
private collectors. Surprisingly,
merely eight days after the ex-
hibit opened, the first painting,
“Roger in Rocking Chair” was
already sold. ’

Karpowitz’s work depicts

honest yet aggressive subjects.
She chose to portray these sen-
timents through her technical
skills regarding light and color.
“My work is about character
study. My method develops
through continual pursuit of
ways to make color, light, space
and gesture generate dramatic
tension, tell stories, and pose
provocative questions about the
person I’m painting,” Karpowitz
wrote in her statement. ,

The artist portrayed her ex-
pository style in “Marjorie,” a
portrait of a middle-aged wom-
an. The stark and serious expres-
sion of the ﬁgure, demonstrated
by the use of shading and the
subject’s facial expression, told
viewers the story that the subject

The Lenfest Center for the Arts kicked off its performance
season Thursday night with a visit from the Golden Dragon
Acrobats. This unique performance was a mixture of contor-
tionism and rhythmic gymnastics, complete with awe-inspir-
ing stunts. 0

Each of the 415 seats in Keller Theatre was ﬁlled for the

8:00 p.m. performance, and a waiting list for tickets began
weeks ago. Members of both the University and the sur-
rounding community were in attendance. Washington and
Lee professors and students, along with Rockbridge area
residents, children of all ages were in attendance.

The Chinese performing troupe is critically-acclaimed. It
has toured all over the world and has earned a number of
awards following a stint on Broadway. The Golden Acrobats
were then received with a standing ovation in Lexington.

Chinese acrobatics dates back to the Xia Dynasty, over
4,000 years ago. Centuries later, acrobatics became a popular
form of entertainmentfor Chinese emperors. Everyday items
such as plates and jars were common in these routines.

The Golden Dragon performers acknowledge this rich his-
tory of Chinese acrobatics by juggling common items such
as volleyballs, parasols, tables, and large painted pots with
their feet. Dressed in colorful, ornate costumes, the troupe
danced and perfomied for nearly two hours to Asian-inspired
and new—age music.

Performers showed a combination of poise and mind-blow-
ing strength scene after scene. They made it all look effortless.

“I almost had a heart attack,” said sophomore Hannah Kollef
after the performance. “I thought it would be ﬂips and stuff. I
did not expect that,” she said, referring to the acrobat who bal-
anced on one hand atop a ‘30-foot stack of chairs just feet away
from the crowd.

During another act, women twirled six to eight plates on long
rods while they danced to music. At the same time, gymnasts
bent their bodies over double into symmetrical formations. A
ballerina even did pointe workon the outstretched arm of her
male counterpart.

Audible “oohs” and “aahs” were heard throughout the the-
ater in response to feats truly indescribable and best viewed
ﬁrst-hand.

Junior Tim Kirby saw the troupe perform on a trip to New
York City. “I thought it would be a circus act,” he said. “Seeing
it live, you feel the energy; you see it is taxing on their bodies.
The amount of work they must put in is unimaginable.”

Work of this caliber was seen from the Chinese in the re-
cent Olympic Games in Beijing. The Chinese Olympic team
medaled in synchronized group events such as synchronized
divingfgyinnastics, and trampoline.

Professor Joan O’Mara, a member of the East Asian Studies
Program, was reminded of the Olympics when she took both of
her classes to the act. She believes in the importance of teach-
ing Asian studies to broaden ‘students’ horizons beyond Western
culture.

“China is on the scene internationally  It’s important for stu-
dents to get out of this Euro-centric world mindset,” she said.
O’Mara emphasized that ancient China provided things to the
world, likejpaper and the printing press, that many people are
unaware of.

Box office volunteer Linda Cummings said she expects many
other Lenfest events to sell out this year, including performances

by the Russian National Ballet as well as “Footloose” and “The

Secret Garden.”

The Golden Dragon Acrobats will be touring all over the
country through December. Their full tour schedule along with
video performances can be accessed on their website, www.gol-
dendragonacrobatscom.

KEVIN REMINGTON / for W&L

Top: Golden Dragon Acrobats perform a routine
with traditional silk fans
, Left: Acrobats demonstrate flexibility and strength

ALLISON CHOPIN / Managing Editor

Top: Artist chooses subjects that demonstrate an
honest aggression

Left: Karpowitz uses the nude to inspire reflection on
the part of the viewer

Gallery features artist
Tania Karpowitz

has survived a life of hardship.
In “Christina,” a portrait of a

pondering young woman, pro-

jected a feeling of intimacy, a

In “Reﬂection,” two nude
models pose with an armchair.
The standing model, whose front
side would be hidden from the

“My work is about character study...I strive

to create studies of individuals that are also

vivid meditaitons on themes such as reﬂec-

tion, transformation and creativity

Tania Karpowitz, artist

characteristic that Karpowitz
strives for in her work. Karpow-
itz tries “to establish a sense of
conﬁdence in the studio, of trust
and mutual intimacy,” as stated
in her statement.

viewers, is reﬂected off of a mir-
ror. The reﬂection of the front
side of the woman reveals her
wholly and completely.
Karpowitz has been working
with nude models for several

years and believes that “nude
bodies gesture more easily than
clothed bodies toward the realm
of abstract meaning,” as Karpow-
itz said in her statement. “With
the nude, I strive to create studies
of individuals that are also vivid
meditations on themes such as
reﬂection, transformation, and
creativity.”

Karpowitz successfully de-

picted mirror-imagery in “Reflec- ,

tion,” where the nude woman’s
entire form was both directly and
indirectly, through the reﬂection,
revealed to viewers.

Currently residing in Alex-
andria, Va. with her husband,
author Andrew Wingﬁeld, Kar-
powitz was born in Philadelphia,
receiving her B.F.A. at Boston

University and her M.F.A. at In-
diana University. Karpowitz has
been teaching at the Art League
School since
1996 after previously teaching
at Washington Studio School in
Washington, D.C. from 1996-
2001.

Her work has been displayed
in various exhibitions in New
York, Madrid, Washington, D.C.,
Boston, Philadelphia and other
cities. Her stay in Madrid lasted
two years and was funded by a
Fulbright grant. ‘

in Alexandria

 

 

 

 

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2008

    

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

- s

 

arts&|ife  

Hollins professorfeatured at W&L '

Christine Carr is photographs displayed in the Williams School gallery

By Victoria Taylor
sun warren

Washington and Lee has
brought the work of yet an-
other artist to our campus.
The creations of photogra-
pher Christine Carr will be
on display for all to view in
the Williams School.

The works will be on
display from 8:30 until 5:00
p.m., Monday through Fri-
day. Carr’s' exhibit, entitled
“Christine “Carr: Threshold
and Portal,” will be in the
gallery until January ﬁfth.

The color collection,
“Threshold,” contains imag-
es from an ongoing body of
work that Carr said began in
2003 on a driving trip. In an
introduction for the exhibition
of this series of photographs,
the William W. Parker Gal-
lery said of Carr’s work, “Her
dramatic images are not ma-
nipulated by a computer, but
rather by using long exposure
times. Carr takes advantage
of time, light and the environ-
ment that she photographs to
create ethereal landscapes. . .
The subjects themselves are

quite ordinary. Industrial
landscapes, buildings and
other structures were among
them. Yet, Carr photographed
them in an interesting and
captivating manner.”

The artist wished her audi-
ence to actively participate in
the viewing of “Threshold.”
That is to say, Carr wanted to
capture viewers in a different
and innovative manner.

“[The] key to the work is
the idea of escapism- through
process and imagination,”
Carr said in an interview with
Rockbridge Weekly. “While
these images are documents
of structures, my intention is
for the work to move toward
the imaginary or emotionally
evocative.”

Carr’s work also had a
deﬁnite point of view. She
expressed this through her
technical choices.“With this
work I am contemplating
some possibilities in indus-
trial and urban environments,
in particular, non-descript ar-
eas upon which the effects of
composition, light and color
become transformative.”

The exhibition has two se-

ries of photographs. Thresh-
old was the ﬁrst of these, but
it is followed by the second
half of the exhibition: Portal.
According to Carr, “Por-
tal,” the collection of black
and white photography, ex-
plores the idea of “intention-
ally ambiguous” portal-areas
of light. Like “Threshold,”
“Portal” is more than just a
collection of images.

Through her unique use of tography.
color and light, Carr creates She received her M.F.A in
images that may be described Photography from the Tyler
as supernatural. School of Art of Temple Uni-
“I am interested in the idea versity in Elkins Park, Pa.,
of illusion itself- the implied and her B.F.A from Corcoran

dimensionality of the created
area of light: that it could be
possible to physically, men-
tally or emotionally travel in
or through this space.”

The photography exhibit
seems to have been well re-
ceived by the W&L commu-
nity.

In a place as heavily traf-
ﬁcked as the Williams School,
the works are extremely ac-
cessible to many students
and faculty members. “I am
very happy that the univer-
sity thinks it important to

bring contemporary art work
into the academic buildings,”
said junior Michael O’Brien.
“These are great diversions
for students who don’t often
make it out to Wilson hall to
visit the Staniar Gallery.”
Carr is currently an Assis-
tant Professor of Art at Hol-
lins University in Roanoke
where she teaches color, digi-
tal, and black and white pho-

College ofArt and Design in
Washington D.C., where she
graduated with honors.

In 2006 Carr was granted TOP: “Thre5h0ld” eX'
hibit displays indus-
trial scenes.

Right: Carr uses light
in innovative man-
ners.

ALLISON CHOPIN / Managing editor

the Virginia Museum of Fine
Arts Fellowship.

One of her images was
included in the 2005 edi-
tion of the book Exploring
Color Photography: From
the Darkroom to the Digital
Studio by Robert Hirsch.

 

Nabors sponsors fair

Service league hosts second annual
community volunteer service fair

By Jen Snyder
STAFF WRITER

The Nabors Service League
is bringing the second annual
Community Volunteer Fair to the
Washington and Lee community.
On Tuesday, September 16, from
11-2 students will be able to ex-
plore about 13 organizations that
provide service opportunities for
W & L students.

It is an event organized and
run very much like the activities

“Our goal is to make
community service ac-
cessible and rewarding
for every interested in-
dividual and to spread
interest campus wide.
Everyone is welcome to

attend and "enjoy... ”

Brooks Vardell, member of
Nabors Servlce League

fair. Each organization will have
a table set up on Cannan Green.
However, instead of the array of
student clubs and groups, it in-
cludes a number of service organi-
zations. Some of the associations
and programs that are going to be
represented at the fair include the
Rockbridge Area Occupational
Center, Rockbridge County High
School Tutors, the Youth Literacy
Program, First Book, Big Brothers
Big Sisters, Habitat for Human-
ity, the Campus Kitchens Project,
English for Speakers of Other
Languages, General Service, the
Bonner Program, and the Literacy
Campaign. With such a variety of
clubs each student should be able
to ﬁnd a community service activ-
ity that caters to their particular
interests.

In addition to the organizations,
there will also be a performance
by a student band. Food will also

be provided. The Community
Volunteer Fair will serve to show
students the various ways in which
they can get involved around cam-
pus.

“Our goal is to make communi-
ty service accessible and rewarding
for every interested individual and
to spread interest campus-wide,”
said Brooks Vardell, a member of
the Nabors Service League. Ev-
eryone is welcome to attend and
enjoy the day’s celebration of ser-
vice.”

The Nabors Service League
is a student-run community ser-
vice organization containing over
500 students at W  L. They are
dedicated to spreading the spirit of
service throughout campus. The
Community Volunteer Fair is a
great way to show their commit-
ment to the community of W& L.
It also is a great way for possible
new members to ﬁnd a service op-
portunity right for them and join
the mission of helping others.

In addition to the Community
Volunteer Fair, the Nabors Service
League also sponsors other an-
nual events consisting of Dream
a Dream — Read A Book Literacy
Program, Faces of Homelessness
Panel, Midnight Runs, Thanksgiv-
ing Food Drive, Books for Africa
Drive, and Annual Hunger Clean-
up.

The Community Volunteer Fair
is the Nabors Service League’s
ﬁrst event of the year. It is a great
chance for everyone to take part
in their efforts. They put a lot of
work into the event and have im-
proved the fair through their new
ideas. The decision to have a stu-
dent band perform at the fair was
one of these new innovations. Matt
Amling, a Greek Life co-chair,
was able to ﬁnd the band and bring
them to campus for the Commu-
nity Volunteer Fair. The Market-
place has also helped make this
event special. The staff is allowing
to- go boxes in the dining hall so
students will be able to bring their
lunches to Cannan Green where
they can listen to the band and ex-
plore the service opportunities.

    
 

Crosswo rd of the wee

Be True to Your School
Neville L. Fogarty

ACROSS ‘ 2 l3 4 5

1. They help reset
bones

6. Setting for "Salute
Your Shorts"

10.
14.

Mongolian desert
Maui greeting

15.
16.

Biology lab supply
Arabian Peninsula

country

17. Type of reaction in

the lab

18.
19.
20.

It's under a foot
Dismal
1981 film "Mommy

22. Amend to sex?

24.
25.

Furrow maker
With 50-Across, its

motto is "Non
incautus futuri"

 

28. Son of Telamon 59
30. Magnetite, e.g. 64
31. Blackjack action

32. Face part you wipe 57

33. Chill out

37. Adam's madam @2008

38. Dusk, to Donne

39. Chi follower 53 Mere: *0 the

41. Put on TV Greeks

42. Something to be 69- "_~ of 3 W°ma“"

thankful for

44. '_ ex machina DOWN

45. Kind of approval 1. King 0|’ Queen

46. Openmouthed 2. Away from the

49. Like pie? Wind

50_ see 25-Across 3. Stain remover for
54. Band aid? the frugal

55. Genetic stuff 4. |t'S above the

56. Chinese fruits abdomen

59, Game delayer 5. Jazz instruments
61_ Carpenter's tool 6. Like many skillets
63. Like draft beer 7. Line flom

64, Gambling, e,g, "American Pie:" "A
65. Golf ball props long, long time
66. Rocket fuel ___"

ingredient, for short 8. BadmOU’Ell
67. "The Sun ___ 9. Fast, in music
Rises" 10. Pantheon member
11. 1935 Triple Crown

winner

 

12.

13.
21.
23.
26.
27.

28.
29.

32.

34.

35.
36.

39.
40.

43.

Low ranking British
peer

Signed

English county
9Lives mascot
Right this minute
it indicates a
maiden name
"Excuse me..."
Jazz style of the
30s

Partner of bed and
bath

South central
Louisiana town
Gives a hand

Like Superman's
vision

Above comparison
Like dishwater or
beer

PC part

47.
48.

49.
50.
51.
52.
53.
57.

58.
60.
62.

. Blonde‘s secret,

maybe

Fiesta piece
Pac-Man, to the
ghosts

Kind of cuisine
Caterpillar, for one
Screen letters
Beowulf and others
Desktop pictures
Bring home the
bacon

"See __ run
"The Matrix" role
Calzone’s middle?

N

 

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 15,2008

THE RING-TUM PHI - 7

 

sports

 

n’s soccer conquers rival 

After two losses to Roanoke last year, this year ’s team pulls a 4-1 victory over Maroons on Saturday

By Brooke Sutherland
STA F F W R l T E R

After going 1-1 in preseason
play with a 3-1 victory over
Centre and a 3-1 loss to Transyl-
Vania, the Washington and Lee
women’s soccer team held its
home opener Saturday against
Roanoke.

The game was a tale of rival-
ry and redemption after Roanoke
defeated W&L twice last year.
Roanoke pulled out a 2-1 victory
against W&L in the ﬁnal week of
the regular season and then went
on to defeat the Generals again
in the ODAC semiﬁnals, cutting
short their successful 16-4 sea-
son.
“This rivalry didn’t really ex-

ist for ﬁve or six years,” retum-
ing Generals’ head coach Neil
Cunningham said. “We always
beat them, but then last year they
stole two games from us in one
week. I think it became more
of a rivalry, especially for the
returning players. They felt like
they had a lot to prove.”

The pressure was only in-
tensiﬁed by preseason ODAC
rankings that placed Roanoke
in third, one spot ahead of W&L
in fourth. The rankings turned
out to be nothing more than a
number though as W&L got its
revenge and then some. Battling
through the humid September
heat, the Generals crushed the
Maroons 4-1.

After a shaky start that al-
lowed Roanoke to score within
the ﬁrst 1:30 of play, the Gen-
erals settled down and quickly
took command of the ﬁeld. First
year midﬁelder Allie Espina
from Gaithersburg, Maryland
netted the General’s ﬁrst goal of
the game and her ﬁrst goal of the
season.

“I was really excited,” Espina
said. ‘‘It was deﬁnitely a goal of
mine [to score].”

The Generals quickly fol-
lowed Espina’s goal with anoth-
er from forward Kat Barnes from
Charlotte, North Carolina, mak-
ing the score 2-1. Barnes contin-
ued her scoring streak, opening
the second half with a second

goal. Late in the game, Espina
broke away from the defense for
an open shot to give the Gener-
als their ﬁnal goal. Senior Anne
Van Devender also contributed
two assists to the victory.

Cunningham said he was
very pleased and excited about
his ﬁrst years’ performance.

“They are all going to be very
valuable assets to our team,” he
said.

‘‘I think at one point we had at
least seven of them on the ﬁeld
at the same time which is great.
I think they can really contribute
to our team.”

In addition to the freshmen
scorers, Cunningham also cited
the play of senior Sara Foster-

. Football beats Sewanee

Team rebounds after last weeks loss for a win of 24-1 2 over Sewanee Tigers

By Brlan Devlne
STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee
football, one week after
being shut out in their
season opener at Franklin
and Marshall, rebounded
on Saturday with a 24-12
victory over the Sewanee
Tigers. The win should in-
spire conﬁdence in a Gen-
erals team that desperate-
ly needed it, having been
limited to just 51 yards of
total offense against the
Diplomats under the wind

“ and rain of Tropical Storm
‘ - Hanna.

Leading the charge was
senior tailback Stuart Sit-
terson, whose 108 rushing
yards and two touchdowns
were the highlight for the
Generals’ offense. Fresh-
man quarterback Charlie
Westfal was solid in his
ﬁrstcollege start, gaining
92 yards on the ground as
well as throwing for 69.
The Tigers found it diffi-
cult to stop Westfal, who
showed signs of emerging

as a true dual-threat quar-
terback. Last season’s
starter, junior R.J. Vamer,
made only a brief appear-
ance in the second half,
throwing 2 passes for 24
yards after being roughed
up in the season opener at
F&M. Vamer is already
number nine on W&L’s
all-time career passing
yards list, but he may have
to compete for the start-
ers’ job this season, based
on Westfa1’s performance
this weekend. Sophomore
Patrick Rouse, who split
time with Vamer at the
end of last season, also
appeared in the game,
throwing an interception
after victory was assured.
The quarterback situ-
ation aside, the game re-
vealed certain strengths
that the Generals will
rely on the remainder of
the season. With Westfal
and Sitterson in the back-
ﬁeld, the Generals have a
solid running game that
Sewanee’s defense was
largely unable to stop.

By contrast, the Generals’
passing game was mostly
absent from Saturday’s
contest, as W&L never
trailed in the game. West-
fal was 5-for-ll with one
interception, not a bad
total considering last sea-
son’s top receiving threat,
two-time all-conference
selection Jack Martin, has
now graduated. Westfal’s
top target on Saturday
was junior receiver Ryan
Welsh, who caught three
passes for 39 yards.
While the Generals’
offense moved smoothly
upﬁeld, the team’s de-
fense played to its po-
tential. Having lost key
players from the “Blue
Crush” defense of previ-
ous years-‘ all-ODAC per-
formers Bryant Fulk, Kyle,
Luby and Mark Snoddy,
to name just three- the
Generals now rely on one
of the most talented and
experienced defensive
lines in the conference.
Seniors Tommy Matteo
and Scott Russell anchor

a line that held Sewanee’s
ground attack to 137
yards and no touchdowns.
The linebacker corps is
also strong. Juniors Matt
Cassilly and David Love
and senior Brad McAllis-
ter each had six tackles on
the day.

The Tigers, suffering
their ﬁrst loss of the sea-
son, did not have the de-
fensive might to stop the
Generals’ two-pronged
ground game. But their
own offense moved the
ball fairly well, amass-
ing 198 passing yards
and outgaining the Gen-
erals overall. But the Ti-
gers were unable to score
touchdowns when they
needed them most. Quar-
terback Patrick Shelton
threw a score with less
than three minutes re-
maining in the game but
were unable to capitalize
on their next possession.
Given great ﬁeld position
on the W&L 46-yard line
following Rouse’s inter-
ception, the Tigers drove

down the ﬁeld, down by
12 points and needing two
scores, but were stopped
atithe one-yard line on
the last play of the game
when Shelton was tackled
by Russell with one sec-
ond left. Shelton had been
unable to convert on third
and fourth downs once
his team went behind.
Combined with his two
interceptions and three
sacks, this left the Tigers
in a deep hole from which
even their late efforts at
heroics could not recover.

Fresh off this victory,
the Generals now have a
week to prepare for South-
ern Virginia University, in
the opening football game
at the newly renovated
Wilson Field. It will be
the ﬁrst home night game
in program history and
also serves as the annual
Hall of Fame game, where
players of all sports from
W&L’s past are inducted
into the University’s ath-
letic shrine.

Reeves in the back on defense
and juniors Maggie Sutherland
and Roz Klann at midﬁeld.

“It was just a really good team
performance all around after a
shaky start,” Cunningham said.
“We did a great job of ﬁghting
back.”

That ﬁghting back was vital
for 2007 ODAC Player of the
Year, Van Devender to whom the
victory meant more than just a
win.

“It was really important to
me to win this one, especially
after losing two games back-to-
back to [Roanoke] last year,” she
said.

“It was important to show
them that we are not number

four like the preseason rankings
said. We needed to beat them
and beat them badly to send a
message to the rest of the league
about how we’re going to play
this season.”

“We have such a young, new
team. I am ready for a fresh start
and I think this was the right way
to begin.”

The Generals will next face
off against Ferrum in another
home match on Wednesday, Sep-
tember 17 at 4:30 p.m.

careers@w|u.edu

SEPTEMBER EVENTS
ALL STUDENTS HVVITED.

TNTERVIEWING SKILLS
WORKSHOP
Wednesday, September 17
Commons 345, 5:00 p.m.
David Levinson ‘00
from Ernst & Young

ALL ABOUT INTERVIEWING
Thursday, September 18
Commons 345, 2:30 p.m.

Jen Moore
from Pricewaterlhouse Coopers
call for individual appointments from 10-12

CAREERS IN THE

- FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
Thursday, September 25

Commons 206 (Chavis), 5:00 p.m.

VVASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

CAREER©SERVICES

458-8595

htlp:I/careers.wlu.edu

 

  

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2008

sports

8 - THE RING-TUM PHI

 

 

   

    
 

     

   

    

MON WED

 

Tues Tlluns Flu Sllr

vs.
Football s°‘""°'"
Virginia
7:30 mm.
vs.
"F19?! Catholic
°° °y 1:00 p.m.
VS. at
3|'|dge- Eastern
Men's t
50%,, W3 6' Mennonite
4100 P-m- 7:00 p.m.
VS. at
woman!s Feffum Wesleyan
Soccer 4:30 p.m. 4:30 p_m_
at 3'1 EH10?! at Emory
Nolleyball R°a"°k° lnvItatlon— |nV|tat|ona|
6:30 p.m. 3'
Women's
X0
at
Menvs xc Dickinson
invitational
Women's
Tennis
Men's 1 at
Tennis "A
Invitational

 

numbers
62

The number of yards of Atlanta Falcons rookie quarterback Matt Ry-
an’s first career NFL pass on Sept. 7 against the Detroit Lions. Ryan
completed the toss to wide receiver Michael Jenkins for a touchdown.

The Falcons won the game 34-21.

58

Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim closer Francisco Rodriguez's new
record for number of saves in a season. Rodriguez broke former Chi-
cago White Sox closer Bobby Thigpen’s 1990 record of 57'saves on

Saturday in a 5-2 win over the Seattle Mariners.

82%

The completion percentage of Green Bay Packers quarterback Aaron
Rodgers in his first career start Sept. 8 against the Minnesota Vikings.

The Packers won the game 24-19.

0

The number of games started by New England Patriots quarterback
Matt Cassel since high school before Sunday. At the University of
Southern California, Cassel was back-up to Heisman winners Carson
Palmer and Matt Leinart. He has been a back-up to Tom Brady in his
three years with the NFL. After Tom Brady was injured for the season

in Week 1, Cassel started yesterday against the New York Jets.

 

“I will say that Donovan [McNabb] made me a

better receiver in Philadelphia, but I think Dono-
van would have a hard time admitting I made him
a better quarterback.”

Dallas Cowboys wide receiver Terrell Owens on his time with the
Philadelphia Eagles and the team's quarterback Donovan McNabb
from 2004 to 2005. The Cowboys host the Eagles tonight at 8:30 p.m.
on ESPN’s Monday Night Football, courtesy of espn.com.

‘‘I am going back to professional cycling. I’m going
to try to win an eighth Tour de France.”

cyclist Lance Armstrong on his decision to end his four-year retirement
to compete in five races in 2009, Including the Tour de France,
courtesy of vanityfalr.com.

 

  

W&L volleyball team
continues streak

RYAN ELSEY / Staff Photographer

Generals ’volleyball team wins tournament last weekend, scores a win in
straight sets over Randolph and Averett this week, and remains undefeated

By Russ Weems
STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee volleyball team improved
its undefeated record this weekend with home wins in
straight sets over Randolph and Averett universities.

Their record improves to 7-0 overall, the Generals’
 best start since they began their season 9-0 in 2003.
5 _ They also improved to 2-0 in the ODAC with their win

over Randolph. This isn’t surprising as the Generals
are looking for their eighth straight ODAC title and
were ranked ﬁrst in the preseason coaches’ poll. The
.. team returned including three All-ODAC First Team
1 selections from last year’s ODAC championship team.
The Generals showed why they haven’t lost a game
2 yet with a dominating effort against ODAC foe over
, 3-7 Randolph. They came out strong in the beginning
2 and _didn’t look back. They didn’t lose a set as they
took the game 25-12, 25-14, 25-10. The team was led
’ by junior outside hitter Rachael Phillips with 11 kills

tributed ﬁve kills. Senior right side Jessica Ulrich also
had a big performance with in four kills and ﬁve digs.
Junior setter Kristi Stevens contributed 16 assists.

The game against 1-9 Averett was not much closer.
The Generals won 25-20, 25-20, 25-12. Phillips, a re-
cent ODAC Volleyball Player of the Week, again put
in a double digit kill performance with 10. This is the
ﬁfth double—digit kill game in the Generals nine games
this year and the 32nd of her career. Jessica Ulrich also
had nine kills in the win. Sophomore middle blocker
Louise Brooks set a career-high with eight kills. Kristi
Stevens again led the team with 27 assists.

The Generals are satisﬁed with their start but are try-
ing to accomplish bigger things for the year. They are
looking for an eighth straight ODAC championship and
also looking to advance deep into the NCAA tourna-
'1 ment. The Generals made it to the Sweet 16 in 2006
and lost in the ﬁrst round last year.

The teamreturns to action on Tuesday as it heads to
Roanoke for an ODAC game at 6:30.

The volleyball team won a tournament at W&L last weekend.
Their current overall record is 7-0, a spectacular start for the
season.

and 10 kills. First year outside hitter Megan Daily con- -

   

Under the lights of Wilson Field
Football team pulls a victory over SVU in aclose game and the
first to be held atthe newly reopoened stadium

OPINIONS / page 4

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING-TUM PHI.

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 22,2008

BY THE STUDENTS AND FOR THE STUDENiTS SINCE 1897

VOLUME CXII, NUMBER 3

By Adrianna Alley
STAFF WRITER

This fall, the color that’s
sweeping the W&L campus is
green, green, and more green.
With the rise in environmental
awareness in recent years, the
administration is setting the tone
with initiatives intended to help
protect the environment.
President Ruscio opened the
year with the 2008-2009 Insti-
tutional Priorities. In this list of
priorities lies W&L’s mission to
be environmentally conscious.
“This initiative is creating
an overall structure to support

the individual initiatives that
are taking place,” said President
Ruscio. One, Ruscio said, is to
build, “awareness of how we can
do better with our use of energy,
with minimizing our carbon
footprint, and treading gently on
our local environment, such as
Woods Creek.”

Since the start of the environ-
mental studies program in the
mid 1990s, W&L has committed
to informing students about en-
vironmental issues.

“This year is different because
we are ready to move to the next
phase. This is a long term com-

mitment,” Ruscio said.
While there have been efforts
on campus to reduce waste with

recycling, the administration
recognized that was only the be-
ginning.

“Klean Kanteens” are one
way W&L is raising awareness
of the importance of sustainabil-
ity. With concern about plastic
causing cancer and polluting,
Klean Kanteens are an environ-
mentally friendly alternative to
Nalgenes or disposable water
bottles.

Some services on campus
have evolved to ﬁt this initia-
tive. In the dining hall, there

are no longer food trays, which

60049
green

W&L sets

Star Units that should result in
signiﬁcant savings in water and
energy consumption.

For take—out, the Co-op now

“It is going to be important for students to

accept the challenge. The University is try-

ing to set an example and minor changes can

make a real difference. ’

1

Kenneth Ruscio, University President

will save water and lessen food
waste. The washing machines
have been replaced with Energy

uses “greenware” containers that
are bio—degradable. Moving to
bio—degradable products saved

.

example, adopts
green standard

almost $7,000 last year for the
University.

“It is important to encourage
consumers to change their behav-
iors, but in this way the school
has taken a proactive approach
by making certain the products
are eco-friendly to begin with,”
said sophomore Ine Tovo.

The sustainability initiative
goes beyond the W&L campus.
W&L is focusing on working
with Lexington on promoting
sustainability.

Valerie Cushman, Ruscio’s
executive assistant, has been ap-
pointed as a representative to the

See “Sustainability” on page 2

' Monitors on safe-ride system

While students learn new Traveller routes, monitors are there to help

By Anne Vesoulis
STAFF WRITER

Traveller Monitors are help-
ing to clear up confusion on new
Traveller routes by guiding stu-
dents safely and systematically
onto buses.

Getting shoved and disorient-
ed on a Friday night while trying
to get home from a party can be

I a problem for many students, es-
pecially with the introduction of
the new routes and stops, so the
new system should make a dif-
ference.

“Traveller monitors assist stu-
dents, especially ﬁrst-years, with
learning the different bus routes
on Wednesday, Friday, and Sat-
urday nights,” said Traveller co-
ordinator Rebecca Koval.

“Since we have a new Travel-
ler system this year, we decided
in late August that it would prob-
ably be helpful to have Traveller
employees standing at the main

stops, directing students and an-
swering questions,” she said.

Traveller monitors gener-
ally work in groups of two at the
main stops along the blue and
red Traveller routes and various
other busy locations where stu-
dents will be during the night.
The monitors work on two shifts
from 10 p.m. to 12 a.m. and 12
a.m. to 2 a.m.. The job of the
Traveller monitor, in addition to
directing students to their desti-
nation, is to make sure students
board the Traveller vehicles in a
safe, organized manner.

“The purpose of the Monitor
system is three-fold,” said se-
nior David Vaught, a Traveller
Monitor. “Firstly, it is to promote
safety boarding and exiting the
Traveller vehicles. Secondly, we
are here to promote good behav-
ior while on Traveller. Lastly,
the‘ Monitors help students deter-
mine which bus and route to take

to get to any given place.”

Three to four Monitors work
on weekend nights and start off
at Red Square and the Baker-Da-
vis-Gillam quad to help students
get on the correct bus when head-

blue route and Windfall and oc-
casionally the cabins for the red
route. Monitors get on the buses
to ﬁnd out where to go once the
parties end. Sometimes Monitors
ride the buses with students to be

“I think that it is a good idea to have people-

assisting students...Many of us are in a new

environment and ﬁnd it hard to get around

under normal circumstances. ’

Anna van Erven, ﬂrst-year

ing out to parties. They also hand
out cards which illustrate the red
and blue routes. Monitors stay at
these locations until the majority
of the crowd has left.

Eventually, the monitors
move to the party scene: David-
son Park and Red Square for the

I

the eyes and ears for Traveller
director, Ed Bulger.

“The monitor system also
provides a coherent institution
and authoritative presence to
maintain order,” Vaught said.
“Sometimes, students can be
very disrespectful to the Travel-

ler drivers. What students need
to understand is while Travel-
ler is there for them, it is also a
privilege.

“I, as well as many of the oth-
er Traveller drivers don’t appre-
ciate getting cussed out by bel-
ligerent students trying to get to
a party or back to their places of
residence. 1 think that the moni-
tor system is helping to alleviate
this issue. It ‘is more effective
than simply an ad campaign,” he
said.

Vaught said keeping order
can be difﬁcult depending on the
assertiveness and crowd control
skills of the monitors. To ad-
dress this issue at a Windfall par-
ty, some monitors put students in
line and gave them numbers to
know how many people could ﬁt
on the next bus.

“This line helped to keep peo-
ple in order and prevented them
from running around attempting

to catch the bus in the middle of
the road,” said Vaught.

At present, the Monitor sys-
tem is being evaluated in order to
determine to what extent, if any,
the system will continue. Koval
said monitors would work on
Friday and Saturday nights until
September 27 and busy week-
ends such as Homecoming and
Alumni weekend.

“I think that it’s a good idea to
have people assisting students to
get on the correct bus,” said ﬁrst-
year Anna van Erven. “Many of
us are in a new environment and
ﬁnd it hard to get around under
normal circumstances.”

Many believe that the Travel-
ler monitor system has been an
effective and much-needed addi-
tion to the Traveller program.

“I’d give it 8 out of 10,”
Vaught said. “It’s been very ef-
fective in informing students of
the new routes.” I

 

l'‘'‘'’ n}. V I 5 -

_ .\.-"
WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY

   

LEXINGTON, VA 24450

 (.3 z-’. ".;?’?..
.,, .. L... ..

i i V‘.

2 - THE RING-TUM PHI

 

M 0 N DAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2008

 

Johnson Lecture Series begins

Brookhiser oﬂers lessons on leadership and insight into Washington 3 life

By Jesslca stralt
3 TA F F W R I T E R

Renowned journalist, biog-
rapher and historian Richard
Brookhiser spoke to a large audi-
ence of students, faculty and lo-
cals in Lee Chapel on Thursday.

Brookhiser is the first guest
of the Johnson Lecture Series
in Leadership and Integrity.
Brookhiser’s topic: one of Amer-
ica’s greatest leaders, George
Washington.

Brookhiser stood at the lec-
tern in a patriotic red and white
striped shirt. His speech on

Washington’s contributions as a
leader in the American Revolu-
tion and the founding of W&L
engrossed audiences for over an
houn

Brookhiser is a senior edi-

   
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
    
   

  rnoiinrnn

tor with the National Review,
the author of many books on the
/founding fathers and the creator
of a PBS documentary on Wash-
ington. Judging from his well-
attended lecture, which was open
to the public, many students and
locals wanted to get to know
George Washington a little bit
better.

Brookhiser discussed the
ways in which Washington was
a leader in all areas of his life,
including his positions as a poli-
tician, military officer and busi-
nessman, and argued that the

' same values and traits of leader-

ship still apply today. He focused
on the importance of facing and
solving problems, especially
when dealing with others, along
with the importance of accepting

As a. recent college grad, you may
, be eligible for a. $400 Incentive

on any new Toyota. of your choice
f   in addition to other iricentlves,”
See your Toyota. dealer for details.

  400 Incentive

  (College GI’€td Ppogmmu)
r J +

  V1I,SITb";W°Y0ta.com
01‘ additional offers

 

the reality of a situation.

“All leaders face problems,
especially dealing with people,
but most importantly,‘ in dealing
with themselves,” said Brookhis-
er. “Leaders have to know where
they are, who they are and what

of Washington, which proved ef-
fective as they both entertained
and educated the audience.

“You have to be interested in
history because history is inter-
ested in you,” he said. “It’s done
and it happened, but it keeps on

“All leaders face problems, especially dealing

with people, but most importantly in dealing

with themselves. Leaders have to know where

they are, who they are and what they are. ”

Rlchard Brookhlser, Johnson Lecture Serles speaker

they are, and be able to take that
somewhere else.”
Bro-okhiseralso told anecdotes

happening and affecting how we
live and what we do. You never
have a clean slate.”

Professor Rob Strong, head
of the Johnson Program, said
the decision to invite Brookhiser
was easy. Brookhiser’s talk on
Washington and leadership ﬁt
with the goals of the Johnson
Program.

“It made sense in a lot of
ways,” Strong said. “Washington
is a distant character everyone
knows is great, but they have a
hard time connecting with him.
We often look at him at a dis-
tance, from an angle.”

Brookhiser is the ﬁrst of
many speakers sponsored by the
Series. The Johnson Lecture
Series, made possible by a $100
million donation, is one of the
largest speaking endowments on
campus at $15 million.

The next guest speaker will

be Liza Mundy, a Washington
Post journalist and noted author,
who will speak in Lee Chapel on
October 7th.

“The possibilities for the pro- -

gram are endless,” said Strong.
“I hope to hear from a lot of stu-
dents with ideas.”

Students who attended the
presentation left with a greater
appreciation of Washington and
our school.

“It gives me a lot of pride
to know that W&L is founded
on principles of great men like
Washington,” said ﬁrst year Luke
Andersen.

When asked what he would
say to George Washington if they
ever met, Richard Brookhiser’s
response was “Thank you.”

  

Sustainability

contlnued from page 1

the city in ﬁnding ways to work with the
community on sustainability.

As well, dining services has forged
relationships with local farmers and
producers to bring fresh, local food into
the dining hall. Through providing 10-
cally grown food, local water supplies,
soil fertility and biodiversity are beneﬁt-
ted. Likewise, W&L has its own campus
garden to further these efforts.

Ruscio hopes the initiative will set

' the trend for future sustainability ef-

forts. .“It is going to be important for
students to accept the challenge. The
University is trying to set an example,
and minor changes can make a real dif-
ference,” Ruscio said.

“Sustainability is also being con-
scious about your decisions,” Cushman
said. “Power down, and think about the
length of your showers.”

 
 

®'rovoTA

Starting September 28, W&L will
hold a Campus Sustainability Week to
raise the awareness of the effort to be-
come a green campus. Events include a
kick-off concert featuring the Adrienne
Young Band, whose lyrics promote sus-
tainability.

Cushman said the administration
would continue looking for ways to im-
prove sustainability efforts on campus,
such as the widespread use of recycla-
ble stock, including paper and other of-
ﬁce supplies. “Of course there are still
things we are exploring,” she said.

The co-op demonstrates
“greenness” wlth blo-degrad-
able plates and cups.

BRETT HOLTON / Copy Editor

moving forward .

buyatcyotucom

  
 
      

 

     
  

THE RING-TUM PHI ° 3

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2008

opinions

 

Don’t I
know you?

Joining that Greek house didn’t
give you license to forget friends

By Gozi Egbuonu
COLU M NIST

I know you’re wondering if you have picked up the wrong
paper, but not to worry, you are reading the Ring—Tum Phi and
yes, Gozi is writing a piece for the Phi.

Oh, don’t be so shocked. I do know how to write something
besides random celebrity gossip.

I’ve decided to write this piece because something has really
been bothering me on this campus for quite some time, and I
would really like to address it.

My idea for this piece came about when I engaged in the most
awkward encounter I have ever had at Washington and Lee.

Yes, more awkward than when I was rapping Geto Boys as I
passed president Ruscio on the Colonnade.

The moment consisted of someone I had known freshman
year awkwardly avoiding eye contact with me so as to save him
the trouble of having to acknowledge my presence.

Messed up?

Yes.

I was immediately tempted to yell “Hi!” in the most awk-
ward way possible but restrained myself and decided that instead
I needed to write a piece addressing this incredibly unfortunate
epidemic taking over this campus.

The epidemic you ask?

The disintegration of friendships as a result of people joining
various Greek organizations.

Now, don’t get me wrong. There are certainly many people
who have been able to carry on relationships and friendships

I am not asking for a liver a pint of your
blood, your left toe, or your ﬁrst-born child,
but a simple “hello” to acknowledge that you
and I once knew each other shared a laugh
together, or maybe even cried over something

together once upon a time would be nice.

 

with people in a different Greek organization than theirs.

I have no problem with those relationships, and I am truly
happy that they exist. What frustrates me isn’t a simple matter of
‘I don’t get to pow-wow with Tom, Dick, and Harry because they
are out at the Poles and I live in Red Square.’

No, that is deﬁnitely not the issue that has been bugging me.

My frustration surrounds this misguided idea of a social hier-
archy that leads otherwise decent people to choose another ‘rung’
up on the so-called ‘social ladder’ over common decency.

I am not asking for a liver, a pint of your blood, your left
toe, or your ﬁrst-bom child, but a simple “hello” to acknowledge
that you and I once knew each other, shared a laugh together,
or maybe even cried over something together once upon a time
would be nice. 4 I

It saddens me to see people I once respected buy into (and
endorse) this idea that in order for my Greek organization to look
‘cool’ I have to immediately squash all relationships with people
who do not ﬁt into my social equation.

The fact that you hold yourself to this idea of a social hi-
erarchy that governs your every move is, to be honest, pretty
pathetic.

What does it say about your character if you’re legitimately
worried that you will lose the respect of your frat or srat if you

‘ don’t sell out the people who were probably your ﬁrst friends on
campus?

The phrase ‘social climber’ immediately comes to mind.

‘Vain,’ ‘delusional,’ and ‘lame’ are also ﬂoating around there,
too.

\ Ultimately, my only advice to you chronic offenders is to get
back to reality.
I Once you leave W&L, not many people are going to care
about how ‘cool’ your fraternity or sorority was on campus.

‘The Man’ won’t care (unless he was in your frat, and then
you schmooze until the cows come home).

Keep those old friends and say “hi!” when you see him or her
on campus. '

Please don’t try the awkward avoid-eye-contact game.

Also, the pretend-I—got-a-call—on-vibrate game doesn’t work
as well. We are all quite aware that your phone didn’t just go
off.

And the I-am-so-deep-in-thought-that-I-stare-off-into-the-
abyss game is also not kosher. We all know there is nothing else
going on in your mind that is preventing you from looking slight-
ly to the left or right to notice an old friend. That ‘cool’ frat or srat
of yours won’t drop you like a bad habit for opening your mouth
and saying “Hey.”

Being rude and avoiding those people who were once there
for you is really not the General way and frankly, I don’t think
either of our institution’s namesakes would be very happy with
such behavior.

‘Obamanomics’ load? I

Abel Delgado szzes all boats sinking under Dem. plan

By Abel Delgado
c o L u M N I sr

Barack Obama wants us to
move past the failed economic
policies of the past.

8 years and back to the failed
economic policies of the 1960s
and 70s.

Let’s start with Obama’s
promise to lower taxes on 95% of
American families.

Obama himself has said his
other plans would cost around $1
trillion over four years.

Lowering taxes and dramati-
cally increasing spending is ex-
actly what Bush did. There is no
possible way for him to do both
without ballooning the deﬁcit,
something he has criticized Bush
for doing.

Obama said he would pay for
his massive government increase
by closing corporate tax loop-
holes.

He offers no evidence clos-
ing those loopholes will generate
anything close to a trillion in rev-
enue and he ignores the fact that
the US already has the second
highest corporate tax rate in the
world. He somehow thinks that
raising business taxes will stop
outsourcing and create jobs.

Then there are theIinfamous
'top one percent’ income earners
that Obama has no qualms about
raising taxes on.

About 75 percent of them are

small-business owners - not mil-
lionaire CEOs.

Small businesses are the back-
bone of our economy, creating
jobs while employment has fallen
in every other sector. Raising tax-
es on their owners will certainly
put an end to that.

warned Americans that “a gov-
ernment big enough to give you
everything you want, is strong
enough to take everything you
have.”

Obamanomics may hold
weight in western Europe, but it
rings hollow in western Pennsyl-

Americans who take a close look at Obam-

. anomics will have little hope that if he wins

their pockets will be left with more than spare

change.

 

Obama’s claim that his tax
increases won’t hurt most Ameri-
cans assumes that most Ameri-
cans don’t buy from businesses
or work for them. An increase
in business taxes will certainly
lead to an increase in prices, a
decrease in wages, an increase in
layoffs, or all three.

Obama’s plan is eerily famil-
iar to Johnson’s ‘Great Society’
which most history books will
tell you didn’t turn out so great.

Obamanomics is all about
wealth redistribution, an inher-
ently socialist ideal that may not
be completely undemocratic but
it is utterly at odds with Ameri-
can ideals.

It was Thomas Jefferson who

vania.

Obama argues that McCain
would offer no tax relief for the
middle class. This assumes no
one in‘ the middle class has kids
since McCain plans to double
the child tax credit and no one in
the middle class pays for health
insurance since McCain would
give a $5,000 tax credit per fam-
ily for health insurance.

It’s little wonder that as ﬁnan-
cial markets came down crum-
bling this week it was Obama
who had no speciﬁc plan to offer
while McCain did.

I am not saying McCain’s
plans will avoid recession, but
considering Obama’s deﬁcit
spending and anti-business poli-

cies, at least McCain’s won’t
cause a depression.

With all this fear of the next
depression being near, it is impor-
tant to remember that protection-
ist economic policies were some
of the causes of the last one.

Obama is as protectionist as
you can get, speaking out against
free trade agreements with our
three biggest allies in the hemi-
sphere, Canada, Mexico, and Co-
lombia.

Obamanomics relies on the
John Edwards philosophy of two
Americas.

As someone who grew up
in what Edwards would call the
‘Second America,’ I can attest
that there is only one America
and it is hurting from Main Street
to Wall Street.

Working class Americans are
smart enough to realize an in-
crease in government spending
doesn’t always add up to a better
future.

They realize government
should play an important and
positive role in getting us out of
the mess we are in but an anti-
business government is no way
to promote a recovery.

Americans who take a close
look at Obamanomics will have
little hope that if he wins their
pockets will be leﬁ with more
than spare change.

‘fresh’ controversy

Grace Andrews wonders what to make of the ﬁrst years ’moniker

By Grace Andrews
c o L u M N I sr

A friend of mine, Billy Shake-
speare, once said, “What’s in a
name? That which we call a rose
by any other name would smell
as sweet.”

Would it really?

This year is the ﬁrst year of
‘ﬁrst-years,’ and that’s not a rid-
dle.

Washington and Lee Univer-
sity has let the title ‘freshmen’
go in order to embrace the term
‘ﬁrst-year. ’

When I was asked to write
an opinion piece concerning this
matter, I was a bit hesitant be-
cause I myself had yet to form
a strong opinion about the name
change. Thus began my search
for an answer.

I sought out opinions of stu-
dents and faculty in order to for-
mulate one for myself.

Reactions to the name change
range from outraged: “It’s ab-
solutely ridiculous! We can’t
change everything because some-
one might get offended at some-
thing, that’s part of life! People
get offended! Where will we
draw the line? It’s preposterous
and I’m going out of my way
to see to it that I’m still called a
‘freshman,”’ exclaimed ﬁrst-year
Robbie Uhlman; to educational,
“‘First-year’ reﬂects best prac-
tices in the ﬁeld of student affairs
and is the terminology used by
both of the primary national orga-
nizations that support students on
college campuses. The national
center is entitled the ‘F irst-Year
Experience.’ The terms ‘fresh-
men’ and ‘dorm’ will probably
always exist, but those of us that
work in the profession of student
affairs much prefer the terms
‘ﬁrst-year’ and ‘residence halls,”’
said Associate Dean of Student
Affairs and Dean of First-Year
Students Dean Leonard.

Obviously, both quotes show
there is diversity of thought con-
cerning the change.

However, the rumor-mill
states that the change has more to

do with sexist language than just
administrative changes in termi-
nology.

Professor David Novack stat-
ed, “I believe that the change is
appropriate as part of a broader
attempt to make certain that
women at W&L are considered
as central as men to our collec-
tive life. I see this move as part
of a general change from the use
of the generic masculine to the
use of a true gender neutral lan-
guage.”

Senior Director of Admis-
sions, Erin Hutchinson expressed
her opinion in a delightful yet
informative way, “I suppose I’m

Emily Leary makes a valid argu-
ment with these words: “It seems
kind of odd to me that the univer-
sity would insist on changing the
title to ‘ﬁrst-years’ as opposed
to ‘freshman.’ If the problem is
the ‘man’ in the term ‘freshman,’
then wouldn’t we also have to
stop using words such as fe‘male’
and wo ‘man’. It seems to me to
be a slight over-reaction.”

I asked many individuals how
they felt about the change, but
few actually knew or understood
why the university had made the
change.

Others had no idea what I was
talking about.

“To me, freshman ’and ﬁrst-year ’mean the

same thing, except the latter doesn ’t roll off the

tongue as easily. ”

Erln Hutchinson, Senlor Dlrector of Admlsslons

not as sensitive to nomenclature
as others are. To me, ‘freshman’
and ‘ﬁrst-year’ mean the same
thing, except the latter doesn’t roll
off the tongue as easily. I didn’t
feel excluded or unacknowledged
as a woman years ago when I was
a called a freshman. And as a
(gracefully, I hope) aging wom-
an, what I wouldn’t give to have
someone consider me ‘fresh.’
The name change doesn’t stir any
passionate feelings from me one
way or another, but in the deep-
est recesses of my heart, I guess I
feel that it is unnecessary. Adam
and I always tell our children, ‘It
isn’t what they call you (that mat-
ters), it’s what you answer to.”’

Yet, for me Hutchinson’s
words raise a very interesting
point.

If it’s what you answer to that
matters, should women have to
answer to a title that has ‘man’
in it?

If not, what would women re-
spond to?

Freshman (or First-Year?)

For me, this lack of knowl-
edge is one of the biggest prob-
lems with the name change.

For any sort of change to be
effective, the people who are af-
fected should know why things
have been changed.

Senior Jamila Seaton stated,
“As a feminist, I think we hinder
our progress if we pick at min-

.ute issues without looking at the

broader spectrum. Instead of try-
ing to ﬁnd new words to deﬁne
ourselves, maybe we should work
on changing the mentality and as-
sumptions behind the words. With
the rise of women in higher edu-
cation, when someone refers to a

First Year (or Freshman?)
Levi Throckmorton reiterates
a bit of Seaton’s perception, “I
feel as though they’re trying to
change it because contained in
the word ‘freshman’ is the word
‘man.’ And it seems as though
nowadays, any generic term that
contains the word ‘man’ is being
criticized as being excluding of
women, no matter how ridiculous
that accusation may be. I person-
ally think it’s silly if we’re trying
not to offend anyone when the
term wasn’t offensive in the ﬁrst
place.”

Throckmorton presents me

with a bit of a dilemma because
he may be correct about the ge-
neric all-inclusive being the term
‘man,’ but one may have to keep
in mind that linguistically and
historically speaking, most terms
are.

Will we be changing the Eng-
lish language entirely to make it
more neutral when we seem to
see gendered words as neutral

’ already?

‘freshman,’ it is very likely that I

they are referring to a female, so
the word has lost its gender ties,
which I believe is some show of
progress in itself.”

I have to agree with some of
what Seaton says. If it’s the lan-
guage we wish to change, that
itself maybe more difﬁcult than
changing the mentality behind
the words.

‘ Nonetheless, just because
someone may use the title ‘ﬁrst-
year’ doesn’t mean that they have
disregarded the idea that certain
stations in life are only for men.

I know that language can be a
powerful tool and that by using a
word that has ‘man’ in it, you are
ultimately excluding a subset of
the population, but my real issue
is that every word which we use
for women has a male gendered
noun as a portion of the title.

If awareness is what we seek,
then we should have open discus-
sions about gendered words and
truly attempt to understand the
effects of such words.

It is for that reason that I
continue to be neutral about the
change.

Sometimes, I will use ﬁrst-
years and other times, I will say
‘freshman,’ but I will always say
it in reference to all people, male
or female.

And that’s what’s important.

 

 

 

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2008

THE RING-TUM PHI 0 4

 

 RING -TUM 

ALLISON CHOPIN
JOHN HENDERSON
CODY BEAUCHAMP
CELESTE CRUZ-
CARANDANG

WILL DORRANCE

MANAGING EDITOR
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR

SPORTS EDITOR

CRIGHTON ALLEN
ADRIANNA ALLEY
GRACE ANDREWS
LIZ BLACKWOOD
LAURA CAMPBELL
ABEL DELGADO
BRIAN DEVINE
LIZZ DYE

GOZI EGBUONU
ELEANOR KENNEDY
FINDLEY MERRITT
CHRIS SCHNECK
JESSICA STRAIT
ANNE VESOULIS

CONTRIBUTING WRITERS

COPY EDITOR BRETT HOLTON
LARA JORDAN
RYAN ELSEY
MORGAN HARRIS
STROCK MOORE
CHARLES PERSONS
ROB GEORGE

DESIGN EDITOR
STAFF PHOTOGRAPHERS

BUSINESS MANAGERS

DISTRIBUTION MNGR.

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE
RING—TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community for students, faculty,
parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire
to spark discussions that lead to discovering
information that prompts change.

THE RING—TUM PHI IS PUBLISHED MONDAYS
DURING THE UNDERGRADUATE SCHOOL YEAR.
THE RING—TUM PHI IS A MEMBER OF THE MEDIA
BOARD, BUT IS OTHERWISE INDEPENDENT.
QUESTIONS OR CONCERNS ABOUT THE PHI
SHOULD BE ADDRESSED TO THE EDITORS AT
PHI@WLU.EDU OR TO THE MEDIA BOARD AT
MEDIABOARD@WLU.EDU. THE MEDIA BOARD
IS AN INDEPENDENT, STUDENT—RUN EDITORIAL
OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE WORKING WITH ALL
MEDIA OUTLETS ON THE WASHINGTON &
LEE CAMPUS. ALL INQUIRIES WILL REMAIN
CONFIDENTIAL. THE RING—TUM PHI WELCOMES
ALL LETTERS. WE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO EDIT
SUBMISSIONS FOR CONTENT AND LENGTH.
LETTERS AND ADVERTISING DO NOT NECESSARILY
REFLECT THE OPINIONOF THE RING—TUM PHI
STAFF. THIS NEWSPAPER OBSERVES CURRENT
COURT DEFINITIONS OF LIBEL AND OBSCENITY.
THE RING—TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540) 458-4059
EMAIL: PHI@WLU.EDU

  letter to the editor

W&L broadcast
article got facts Wrong  

Article failed to give WL UR due credit for its
role in contributing to B2 is broadcasts and
its prior work broadcasting W&L sports,

Crighton Allen can ’t help but think we ’re getting screwed

By Crighton Allen
C 0 L U M N I S T

Life in Lex is about as close
to perfect as we could reason-
ably expect it to be. That is, un-
til we all have to face the bane
of every student in every college
in the nation.

These times occur at the
beginning and end of each aca-
demic term. They are your fa-
vorite times and mine, textbook
buying and sellback.

Get excited.

This term, I spent close to
$600 at the bookstore. That is
absurd.

I could get a VIP ticket to
the Rolling Stones and still have
enough left over to pay for my
share of the after-party aboard
Mick Jagger’s tour bus for that
much.

And my case is by far the
rule, and not the exception.

It’s the premed students I feel
the worst for. The textbook for
organic chemistry alone costs
$170 this year. That stings, es-
pecially if your tuition-payer
happens to now be working
within a l0—mile radius of Wall
Street.

Well, you ask, if your books
cost you $500, surely you must
get about half of that back at
sellback time, right?

Yeah, and I just beat LeBron
James in a game of one—on-one.

If you’re lucky, you’ll get
back $100 of the $500 you origi-
nally shelled out. Between new
editions of text books coming
out, courses being dropped and

added, and professors amending
their syllabi, hundreds of dol-
lars worth of books you bought
just 12 weeks earlier are now
(monetarily, at least) worthless
to you.

The sole light in the darkness
that is text book buyback is the
large crate for Books for Africa
that is always overflowing with
now obsolete textbooks that
people have donated rather than
simply hurled into a trashcan
in a ﬁt of rage. Instead, those

sible to get out of there in less
than 30 minutes. Who at W&L
really has time to go to Wal-Mart
just for a pack of graph paper?

No one. Hence the $12 per
pack at the bookstore. They
charge that much because they
can get away with it.

Also, what was with the
course packs all being switched
over to the bookstore? At the
start of the term, I went to see
who usually handles the course
packs, the lovely ladies of New-

This term, I spent close to $600 at the book-
store. That is absurd. I could get a VIP
ticket to the Rolling Stones...for that much.

And my case is by far the rule...

books can go on for a higher
purpose.

Those in charge of that pro-
gram, keep up the good work.
People with books W&L won’t
take back, keep giving the gift
of education.

But I digress.

In a related note, just tonight
in fact, I heard someone remark
that they paid $12 for a spiral
notebook of graph paper at the
bookstore. That would cost
three, maybe four bucks at Wal-
Mart.

But going to Wal-Mart is
such an ordeal; no matter what
you run in for, it seems impos-

comb Hall, and they pointed me
back over to the Commons.

That was the ﬁrst I had heard
of it.

Where was the advanced
warning or perhaps an attempt
to solicit student feedback be-
fore making a change? If there
was, I never heard about it and
I keep an ear low to the ground
for tidbits like that.

I’ve heard from reliable
sources, but, to be fair, have not
conﬁrmed for myself, that this
change of location meant a jack-
ing up of prices.

If that is so, we’ve got a
problem. Because if it is indeed

true, that would mean by virtue
of saving us an extra stroll down
the Colonnade, prices can be
raised.

Just to rehash: it’s the same
packet, just on a different shelf.
And that makes it okay to raise
the price?

Not in my book, no way.
Trust me, you’re not doing us
that big a favor. I’ll suffer the
walk down an historic landmark
and take in the breathtaking
view of the mountains behind
Lee Chapel, it’s ok, really.

Bottom line, buying text-
books stinks.

I know it, you know it, col-
lege students and their families
nationwide know it. _

Administrators: please help
us out here; ﬁnd a way to re-
duce the book prices for your
students.

Washington & Lee provides
its students one of the best edu-
cational opportunities in the na-
tion, hands down.

However, on the way to us re-
ceiving that education, it would
be nice to not have to play the
victim of price-gouging of Ad-
vanced Principle of Managerial
Accounting, 7"’ Edition.

1 am in Economics 101 this
semester so maybe "we haven’t
gotten to this lesson yet, but I
am pretty sure that there is no
economic law that can make
$500 shrink to less than $100 in
three months’ time.

P1 BETA PHI &
Phi Beta Sigma  

Presents:

Dear Editor,

Your Sept. 15, 2008 front-
page article, “W&L sporting
events to be broadcast,” omits
two key pieces of informa-
tion regarding Washington and
Lee sports broadcasts. First,
the headline itself implies
that Generals games have not
been aired prior to the school’s
contract with B2. This simply
isn’t true. Since 1972, WLUR
has broadcasted Washing-
ton and Lee athletic contests,
from football, basketball and
lacrosse to more recent addi-
tions like soccer, volleyball
and ﬁeld hockey. These broad-

_ casts have also been available

online for nearly a decade. Nu-
merous students and alumni
have devoted countless hours
to provide commentary for
these events, and their dedica-
tion has meant a great deal to
W&L athletes, parents, alumni
and fans.

Secondly, I’m curious as
to why WLUR’s role in the
B2 Networks videocasts was
not mentioned in yourarticle.
The live audio that accompa-

nies every W&L game on B2
will be provided by WLUR
announcers. They’re even pro-
viding commentary for games
that do not air on the radio sta-
tion——including the Sept. 13
women’s soccer match against
Roanoke, which ran on B2
while W&L’s football contest
in Sewanee, Tenn., was broad-
casted live on WLUR.

The B2 Networks service
is a wonderﬁil opportunity
for Washington and Lee fans
to follow their teams online.
However, ~ WLUR’s long-
standing commitment to cov-
erage of the Generals—and
its direct contributions to the
B2 videocasts—should be ac-
knowledged.

Sincerely,

Jeremy Franklin ‘O4
WLUR General Man-
ager/Program Director

Bob de Maria

Professor of Journalism &
Communications F ~
Former WLUR General Man-
ager ~

Dance—a—thon
2008  

“Dancing around the world”

Beneﬁtting: the march of dimes &
Pi Phi philanthropy initiatives

September 26, 2008

Elrod Commons 8:00 PM
Prizes include Fancy Dress

6 package & much more!

it

opinions  

Bookstore breaking bank 

 

- THE RING-TUM PHI

MONDAY,

SEPTEMBER 22, 2008

 

arts&life

 

a 

donates blood

W&L and Red Cross
join forces to hold blood
drive, promote service

By Eleanor Kennedy
surr wanna

The Washington and Lee community re-
sponded to the Red Cross’s call for help by do-
nating blood on Tuesday.

The American Red Cross’s list of 50 facts
about blood donation makes the stunning state-
ment that “every two seconds someone in the
U.S. needs blood.”

Luckily, organizations and volunteers work-
ing to satisfy this need. And on Tuesday, Sep-
tember l6, the Washington and Lee student
body helped out, too.

“Donating blood is an easy way to do ser-
vice,” said Jenna Walls, the general chair of Na-
bors Service Leauge.

The Nabors Service League worked in con-
junction with the American Red Cross to coor-

“People are quick to list
excuses for not donating
blood... [but] many are ones
., that can be overcome when you
think about what your blood
donation would mean to a per-
son in need. ”

SAMARA FRANCISCO, Speclal Projects &
Events Co-Chalr for Nabors Servlce
 

dinate a blood drive this past week and W&L
students responded in force. .

The students involved wanted to send the
message that giving blood is an extremely pow-
erful form of service. According to the Ameri-
can Red Cross Website, “one blood donation
can save the lives of up to three people.”

Walls reported that approximately 65 stu-
dents signed up to donate blood. About 20 peo-
ple were deemed ineligible to donate blood due
to quick tests run by the workers, so a total of
about 45 people gave blood. Based on the esti-
mates from the Red Cross, that means that the
W&L student body was able to save 135 lives.

Samara Francisco, Special Projects and
Events Co-Chair for the Nabors Service League,
described more reasons to give blood. She ex-
plained blood donation is even more important
during natural disasters, such as the hurricanes
recently experienced in Gulf coast regions.

Even without natural disasters, both regional
and national supplies are still continually low,
needing to be replenished every day, Francisco
said.

It is this need for replenishing the blood sup-
ply that led Austin Rehﬁeld of the American
Red Cross to contact the Nabors Service League
about sponsoring a blood drive in an attempt to

i get large groups of students involved.

In the.past, the Nabors Service League has
held two blood drives a year. This year, accord-
ing to Walls, the club is doubling its effort. Four
blood drives will be held. The next one should
happen sometime in November. The other two
should occur in February and April.

Members of Nabors explained that students
who are interested in being involved with the
future blood drive have several options. First is,
of course, donating blood. Students who want to
donate should keep their eyes open for sign-ups
in the days leading up to future drives.

If students are interested in being involved
in the sign—up process or any other organizing
aspect, they should contact Francisco. She, ac-
cording to Walls, is responsible for almost all
aspects of coordinating the blood drive

Future drives may include incentives to at-
tract more donors, such as Sweet Things gift
cards, Francisco explained. Potential donors are
also reminded to eat iron rich foods and drink
plenty of liquids in the days leading up to the
day of the drive.

Walls and Francisco would like to see greater
participation in the drives in the future.

Francisco said that although “people are
quick to list excuses for not donating blood...
many are ones that people can overcome when
you think about what your blood donation
would mean to a person in need.”

Uniqueart “Stampedes”

STAFF WRITER

Former Buena Vista resident and
respected artist, J .J . Cromer, opened
his latest exhibit in the Staniar Gal-
lery, called “Our Stampedes Are Com-
patible,” on Sepember 1.

The works, on display until Octo-
ber 5, reﬂect a wide range of styles
the artist has tried. Yet, throughout the
collection, there is cohesiveness, es-
tablished through Cromer’s consistent
attention to detail, repetitious motifs,
and interesting use of bold color.

Cromer has created hundreds of
works, each of which he describes as a
“letter” in his own personal alphabet.
His art, he says, is constantly evolving.
Indeed, it is, and this evolution can be
observed best in one of his collections.
Although the collection in the Staniar
Gallery is by no means a large part of
all his created works, those selected to
be shown are representational of the
artist’s growth and experiment.

Cromer started with paintings but

.. ro .

By Llz Blackwood‘   " "  

(.4 . ltfv;({r": _

has gone on to master pen and ink,
colored pencil, and collage media. In
fact, in several of Cromer’s designs,
cutouts of various jungle animals
make an appearance. This is the result
of some careful scissor work applied
to old school textbooks.

Other pictures include slices from
some of Cromer’s old paintings. While
some artists would never dream of de-
ﬁling old artwork, Cromer has adopt-
ed a healthy philosophy in which he
believes that focusing too much on the
past or what you have already done
prevents moving forward and evolv-
ing. '

That’s not to say Cromer doesn’t
draw inﬂuences from older pieces.
Often, if he likes a certain shape or
speciﬁc design,.Cromer will incorpo-
rate it into another later picture. For
instance, the image of a phantom ghost
with its hands behind its back appears
in several pieces, both as a point of
focus, as well as a background pat-
tern. His images are fascinating and
curious——Cromer himself admits he

is unsure of where these ghosts origi-
nated from.

“His works are expressive and viv-
id. Often they are obsessively detailed.
Objects may be recognizable but al-
ways describe his special viewpoint.
They are sometimes witty, sometimes
satirical, or even sad, but rarely ‘nor-
mal,’” said Grey Carter, Cromer’s ten-
year agent, of the artist’s work on his
website.

“Normal” isn’t a word that can
describe Cromer in many ways at
all. Even the artist’s start into the
ﬁeld was an unusual one and is part
of the reason he has been branded as
an ‘outsider’ artist. Sometime during
the late 1990’s, Cromer and his wife,
a Washington and Lee University Law
graduate, decided they wanted to “live
with art.”

Unable to afford any, however,
Cromer picked up a children’s paint
palette one night while watching tele-
vision and began to paint. This event
sparked an obsession in Cromer, caus-
ing him to draw about ﬁve to six hours

BRETT HOLTON / Copy Editor
Cromer’s artistic tools include painting, pen and ink, colored pencil, collage and cutouts from previous works of art.

Buena Vista native J. J. Cromer showcases art in Lenfest

every night, a habit he has continued
to keep over the years.

Having earned a bachelor’s degree
in history and masters in both English
and library science, Cromer works as a
librarian in Virginia. At work, it’s his
job to be organized and locate answers
easily and precisely. His art, however,
is often a departure from his otherwise
very orderly lifestyle.

“When he works, he says, he has
no plan. Instead, he feels he is let-
ting free an expression that is not fully
within his control. He describes it as
a visionary experience, where all else
around him melts away and all that is
left is the rhythm and motion of cre-
ation,” said Roger Thompson, a pro-
fessor at VMI.

Pam Simpson, an art history profes-
sor at Washington and Lee University,
describes Cromer’s work as “so pow-
erful,” despite its “flatness.” His work,
she said, is far more than just lines. To
see Cromer’s fantastic work yourself,
visit the gallery Monday through Fri-
day from 8 to 5 p.m.

Fair to promote programs abroad

Study Abroad Fair will provide info, unveil new programs

By Laura Campbell
STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee’s Study
Abroad Fair will be held on Tuesday,
September 23 from 1 to 3 pm. on the
Stemmons Plaza in front of Leybum
Library.

Any students considering studying
abroad in the coming school years, or
who just want to ﬁnd out more about
the programs offered, are encouraged
to attend.

For ten years, the annual fair has
provided a glimpse of the numerous
study-abroad opportunities at W&L.

“Interest in and enthusiasm for
study abroad is high among students,”
said Latha Dawson, coordinator of the
Spring Term Abroad programs. “This
event is usually well attended.”

Hosted by the Center for Interna-
tional Education, the fair makes study-
abroad opportunities accessible to
students. The Center for International
Education will have a table at the fair,
and answer any questions-about study
abroad, whether they concern proce-
dure, course credits, or financial aid.

The fair is an especially good op-
portunity for ﬁrst- and second-year

undergraduates looking to learn more

. about their options.

W&L’s own international programs
will be represented at the fair, includ-
ing the Spring Terrn Abroad programs
for 2009. A variety of disciplines are

offered, ranging from Spanish lan-’

guage in Spain to drawing in Italy to
political economy in Ghana.

One of the W&L-sponsored‘ pro-
grams to be represented at the fair is
a three-week expedition to Greece and
Turkey, led by Professors Scott John-
son and Kevin Crotty. Students will
study the ancient, late antique, and
Byzantine cultures of those nations.

“This is a new addition of a pro-
gram that we did in the past, about
four years ago,” says Professor Crotty,
head of the Classics department. “We
have done this before, but this is an
edited and updated version.”

To learn more about this program,
students should make sure to stick
around for the latter half of the fair,
when Professor Johnson will be avail-
able to answer questions.

Theater Professor Joseph Martinez
has been leading an annual expedi-
tion to London for 25 years. Having
attended graduate school in London,

Professor Martinez is well acquainted
with the artistic scene in England, and
will provide students with a unique
chance to learn from professional art-
ists and performers. This ﬁve-week
program is available to all students
without prerequisite. Professor Marti-
nez will be available at the fair to give
further information relating to cost,
coursework, and speciﬁcs of the trip.
“I think the study abroad fair is a
good thing, not only in terms of infor-
mation, but students get to meet the

-director,” said Martinez. “If you’re

going to go abroad with someone, it’s
important that you get along with that
person. F ace-to-face, personal contact
is as important as the information it-
self.”

This year, students are offered a
special chance to deepen their un-
derstanding of honor—a uniquely
valuable asset to a W&L education.
Professors Lad Sessions and Harvey
Markowitz will lead a comparative
study of American Indian and Maori
cultures and their perceptions of honor.
Open to all students, this is a chance to
earn credits in 300-level Philosophy
and Anthropology while experiencing
the beauty of New Zealand.

“This is the first time, last time, and
only time we’re doing this,” says Pro-
fessor Sessions. ‘‘It is a one-of-a-kind
opportunity.” For more information,
he and Professor Markowitz will be
available at the Fair.

Representatives from over twenty
non-W&L organizations have also
been invited to give information and

answer questions. The Council on

International Educational Exchange
(CIEE), the Institute for Study Abroad
(IF SA), the Danish Institute for Study
Abroad (DIS), and Syracuse Univer-
sity in Florence, as well as many oth-
ers, will be represented. Many of these
organizations offer multiple programs;
the CIEE administers over 100 study-
abroad programs in over 35 countries.

Programs sponsored by other col-
leges and universities will be repre-
sented. The University of Virginia pro-
gram for Hispanic Studies in Valencia,
Spain and VMI’s Arabic Studies in
Morocco are open to W&L students,
as is Sweetbriar College’s coeduca-
tional junior year programs in France
or Spain.

In case of weather, the fair will take
place in the Great Hall of the science
center.

 

 

 

 

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2008

 

THE RING-TUM PHI -

 

arts&life

Supporting the arts

Fine arts faculty begins Grassroots Arts Movement

By Flndley Merrltt
STAFF WRITER

The ﬁne arts faculty of
Washington and Lee Universi-
ty are bringing together artisti-
cally geared students to partake
in what will be known as The
Grassroots Arts Movement.

On Wednesday, October 1,
students who have committed
to an intensive study in either
Art History, Art Studio, Music
or Theater and Dance will as-
semble in Wilson 2018 for a
conversation with the common
goal of creating camaraderie
among the ﬁne arts at W&L.

Though the project is being

. initiated by faculty members,

their hope is that students will
lead the discussions and poten-
tially create student-led organi-
zation.

One of the Movement’s
proponents, Professor George
Bent, said, “We want to help
get things started, but we also
recognize that it can only hap-
pen if students want it to.”

The ﬁrst meeting will pres-
ent a summary of what the ﬁne
arts department professors dis-
cussed, but it will mainly re-
volve around students’ input.

Bent said faculty will be
there for the “meet and greet”
part of Wednesday’s meeting,
but they will leave thereafter to
let students continue the con-
versation.

The Movement’s propo-

nents hope it will be a chance
for students interested in the
arts to talk about their needs
as individual artists as well as
their role in the broader com-
munity.

Another faculty supporter,
Art Professor Pamela Simpson
stated that “We want students
to brainstorm in addition to our
proposals. If an organization
comes out of that, then great!”

Simpsonestimatesthatabout

Washington and Lee’s artisti-
cally gifted students.

“We thought that if there
was a student arts organization,
that might be one thing that
would help,” said Simpson.

“But we know that it would
have to be organized and led by
the students to be effective,”
she added.

Simpson also stated that
there was only so much the ﬁne
arts faculty could do to foster

“Last year we had a number of freshmen

question their decisions to be atW&L.,..
they didn ’tfeel that as students interested

in the arts they were ﬁtting in socially. ”

Pamela Simpson, Art Professor

25 to 30 students will come,
although with the signiﬁcant
number of students enrolled in
arts programs, she hopes there
will be many more.

Simpson added, “Last year
we had a number of freshmen
question their decision to be at
W&L not because they were
unhappy with classes, but be-
cause they didn’t feel that as
students interested in the arts
they were ﬁtting in socially.”

As a result faculty members ‘

gathered this summer for some
“brainstorming” in order to find
more ways to build support for

campus wide enthusiasm about

the arts.

“We can send emails letting
students know about upcoming
showcases, but that can only go
so far.”

The movement has ulti-
mately received an enthusiastic
response.

Jennefer Davies, head of the
dance department, expressed

her eagerness for the project to ’

catch on.

“The concept is amazing,”
said Davies.

“lt’s all about creating a
group of artists who can sup-

port one another on campus.”

Professor Bent stated that
he hopes students who have
“Vested interest in living and
learning in an active and en-
gaged community of artists and
patrons will begin the process
of taking on some of the re-
sponsibility for nurturing such
an environment in Lenfest and
Wilson Hall.”

Faculty members have stat-
ed they are extremely interested
in seeing the movement grow
within the student body, as it
echoes a general trend toward
campus arts appreciation.

“The need for this kind of
group just shows how far the
W&L community has come,”
said Davies.

Despite there being over 50
students majoring in the ﬁne
arts, this is ﬁrst time anyone
has tried to initiate a broad arts
organization at Washington
and Lee.

“Other various departments
all make sure their majors have
support, so why shouldn’t the
Lenfest [programs]?” chal-
lenged Simpson.

On October 1 that could
well change as students from
across nearly a dozen ﬁne arts
programs have the opportunity
to form W&L’s ﬁrst Grassroots
Arts Movement.

Want to work for the Phi?

We are looking for writers, designers and

photographers!

Gain experience and professional clips

Contact managing editor Allison Chopin at phi@wlu.edu

 

5:00) pm.

Jenny Duval
will answer questions

WASHINGTON ANI) LEE UN

CAREERS IN THE
FEDERAL
  GOVERNMENT

THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 25
Chavis Board Room,.Commons 206

Federal Government Employee

0 jlolb Opportunities 
0 Federal Resumes
o Hiring Procedures‘

ALL STUDENTS IIVVI TED

about:

IVERSITY

careers@w|u.edu 458-8595

CAREERSERVICES

http:l/careers.w|u.edu

6,.

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2008

THE RING-TUM PHI 0 7

 

sports

TOP: Senior run-
nlng back and
team captaln
Stuart Sltterson
escapes a few
SVU Knights In
Saturday’s wln.
RIGHT: The Gen-
erals celebrate
their last second
win after scoring
twice In the final
6 minutes.
BOTTOM RIGHT:
Fans show

their support at
W&L’s first-ever
night football
home game.
BOTTOM LEFT:
Sltterson rushes
for one of his
two touchdowns
of the night.

  

Wilson Field is debut

MORGAN HARRIS / Staff Photographer

RYAN ELSEY / Staff Photographer

MORGAN HARRIS / Staff Photographer

Bone-Headed Plays

continued from page 8

committed the fourth biggest
bone-headed play in sports. In
a baseball game Larry Walker
caught an easy ﬂy ball, thought it
was the third out, tossed the ball
to a fan.

Two problems: There were
only two outs, and there was a
runner on base. He proceeded to
very eagerly ask the fan for the
ball back.

Another baseball player
topped Larry Walker though.
Sammy Sosa. During the 2003
season he was jammed on a pitch
and broke his bat.

Again one little problem, his
bat had cork in the middle of it.
Putting cork in a baseball bat is
illegal because it makes the bat
both lighter, easier to swing, and
gives it more pop. Essentially

corking a bat is a way to hit the
ball farther and harder.

Now Sammy Sosa said it was
an “honest mistake” and that he
was using the bat that he usually
uses for batting practice, but can
we really believe that?

Sosa is currently‘ in 4th place
for total career homeruns with
609. How many of those do you
think he used his “batting prac-
tice” bat for? We will never
know if it was an honest mistake
or intentional cheating but we
do know Sammy Sosa made the
third dumbest play in sports his-
tory, and that is not even consid-
ering his probable steroid use...

Some fans take wins and loss-
es a lot harder than the athletes
themselves do. So I am includ-
ing one “fan” in my list: Steve

Bartman, who made the second
dumbest play in sports.

He claims to be a Chicago
Cub fan, he wears the hat, the

MORGAN HARRIS / Staff Photographer

By Brian Devlne
STAFF WRITER

A brand-new stadium, a local oppo-
nent, under the lights for the ﬁrst time.
The scene was perfect.

The crowd of nearly 3,000 gathered

I at the new Wilson Field on Saturday

night should have known that something
special was going to happen.

And happen it did. In one of the most
exciting games in program history, the
Washington and Lee Generals came
from behind in the ﬁnal six minutes to
beat Buena Vista’s Southern Virginia
Knights 35-28 in the ﬁrst home night
game in W&L football history.

The Generals had to ﬁght every
inch of the way and were frustratingly
stonewalled on several chances to take
a more convincing lead against an SVU
team that had never played their cross-
county rivals before. The Knights play
most of their football games in the Na-
tional Association for Intercollegiate
Athletics (NAIA), a sister organization
to the NCAA for smaller schools, and
have only had a varsity football program
since 2003. Thus it was the ﬁrst edition
of the Rockbridge Rivalry, and from the
looks of Saturday’s game, it should not
be the last.

The fans were passionate, loud and
involved on both sides of the new sta-
dium. The teams were fairly evenly
matched and even have similar offen-
sive styles. Except for two drives where
the Generals, trailing by a touchdown,
went almost exclusively through the air,
both squads are run-ﬁrst teams.

Saturday was a tale of the schools’
two outstanding running backs: W&L’s
Stuart Sitterson and SVU’s Marcus Mc-
Collum. Both players were easily the
studs of their respective squads. McCol-
lum, despite being the number two run-
ning back on the SVU depth chart and
handling the ball only nine times (Harry
Collins, the nominal number one, rushed
seventeen times), ran over, around and
through the W&L run defense for an av-
erage of 8.6 yards per carry.

Running primarily delays and draws,
McCollum was rarely stopped by the
ﬁrst W&L tackler to reach him. His
combination of size, speed and power
was devastating. Sitterson, running a
combination of quick dives and options,
had 169 yards and two rushing touch-
downs. Overall, the Knights outgained
the Generals 475 yards to 365. In no
game this year have the Generals gained
more yards than their opponent.

But ultimately, the result was made
by a couple of key plays in the second
half that built to one of the most excit-
ing ﬁnishes in W&L history. Following
Charlie Westfal’s 2-yard touchdown
run to put the Generals up 21-14, W&L
linebackers Matt Cassilly and Chris Bal-
lantyne stopped SVU quarterback Sam
Trulock short of the ﬁrst down marker
on 4th-and-7.

With the ball back and a chance to
take a two-touchdown lead, the ﬁrst for
either team in the game, the opportunity
was lost when W&L fullback Harrison
Hudson fumbled the football and SVU
recovered. On the ensuing drive, Mc-
Collum broke away on 4th-and-2 for a
39-yard touchdown. The score was now
tied at 21 with 12:43 left on the clock.

The Generals then failed on a 4th-

" Generals outlast Knights

Behind RB Stuart Sitterson is two touchdowns,
the Generals came back to beat Southern
Virginia 35-28 in ﬁnal two minutes in the new

down conversion of their own when the
officials gave a questionable spot to Stu-
art Sitterson’s rush over the collapsing
offensive line. It appeared to.W&L fans
that Sitterson had reached the mark, but
the sideline ofﬁcial thought differently
and SVU regained the ball with 10:35
to go.

Trulock marched his team down
the ﬁeld, using up plenty of the expir-
ing clock, threw a 37-yard touchdown
pass, and just like that, the visitors were
leading by a touchdown with 6: 14 leﬁ to
play. Forlorn Generals fans thought then
that tying the game was not out of reach
but it seemed unlikely that the Blue-and-
White could score twice, and stop Mc-
Collum and Trulock, in just six minutes

I of play.

But the next play changed the entire
equation. Sitterson, back to receive the
kickoff, fumbled his ‘catch and had to
run backwards to his own 6-yard line.
With the defense closing in on him, Sit-
terson picked the ball up, out to his left,
outran several would-be tacklers, cut
back inside, made the ﬁnal two SVU de-
fenders missed and racked up a 94-yard
kick return for a touchdown. Instantly,
the home fans were back in the game
and the score was tied, 28-28. Follow-
ing as it did the Hudson fumble, the
Knights’ methodical drive and Tru1ock’s
touchdown pass, the return was one of
the most electrifying and invigorating
plays in recent W&L history.

Inspired by their teammate, the W&L
defense came out with a vengeance,
forcing a punt by SVU’s Stephen Web-
ster after Trulock went three-and-out,
W&L was unable to gain much trac-
tion on the ensuing possession and were
forced to punt as well. SVU’s Kyle Nel-
son fumbled the punt was able to dive
on it before W&L could recover. The
fansithought they had had their break.
But two plays 1ater’the‘Knights ran the
option to the right and Trulock threwithe
toss behind Collins. W&L’s David Love
pounced on the loose ball and W&L now
had possession, with a chance to win the
game, with 1:20 leﬁ.

But it didn’t take nearly’ that long,
as Sitterson electriﬁed the crowd again
on theﬁrst play of the drive, running 31
yards for a Generals touchdown. Tru-
lock now had 1:10 to drive down the
ﬁeld and tie the game. But W&L place-
kicker Tommy Kennedy, always will-
ing to make the game more interesting,
sent the kickoff out of bounds, and SVU
started their drive at their own 40 yard
line. Donovan Sawyer was then called
for defensive pass interference and the
officials placed the ball at the W&L 29-
yard line. ,

With 20 seconds remaining, the
Knights tried a trick play, handing the
ball off to Collins who pulled up and
threw towards the end zone. The pass
was too long for his target, and Sawyer
made amends by intercepting the throw
in the end zone for a touchback.

One kneel-down later the game was
over, the Generals having snatched vic-
tory from the jaws of defeat, winning
35-28. Those fans who left at halﬁime
are surely regretting their decision, as
they missed perhaps themost exciting
fourth quarter in W&L football history.

It was an auspicious beginning to the
Rockbridge Rivalry and to the new Wil-
son Field.

    

glove of Moises Alou in Game 6
of_ the 2003 NLCS between the
Chicago Cubs and the Florida
Marlins. The Cubs were in con-

The most bone—headedplay in the history of

sports belongs to Chris Webber...in college [in
the NCAA Championship game]...with 11 sec-
onds left he called a timeout. One problem:

His Michigan team was out of timeouts.

jersey, and he comes to the
games. But a real fan would not
have stolen the ball from the

trol of the game and were 5 outs
away from reaching the World
Series when Louis Castillo hit a

ﬂy ball down the left ﬁeld foul
line, right where Steve Bartman
was sitting.

Both Alou, the Cubs leﬂ
ﬁelder, and Bartman, a Cubs
“fan,” went for the ball. They
both had their own motivations,
Alou to win the game and Bart-
man, to get a free souvenir. And
a free souvenir it was. The Cubs
went on to lose the game and the
series and Bartman went on to a
life of shame in the smallest town
North Dakota has to offer.

But the most bone-headed
play in the history of sports be-
longs to Chris Webber. While
in college, his basketball team
made it to the NCAA Cham-
pionship game. Trailing 73-71
to North Carolina, Webber re-
bounded the ball with 19 seconds

remaining in the game. Webber
started dribbling the ball, he
crossed midcourt, he ran over to
his team’s bench, and to plan the
last play with 11 seconds leﬁ he
called timeout.

One problem: His Michigan
team was out of timeouts. The
technical foul and free throws
for North Carolina put the game
away and the Championship
went to the Tar Heels. _

Webber after the ‘game said,
“I just called the timeout and that
probably cost us the game.” Ap-
parently Chris Webber has a very
loose deﬁnition of probably. The
ocean probably contains a lot
of water, the grass is probably
green, and the Earth probably ro-
tates around the sun, but really,‘
who knows for sure?

 

  

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2008

  

8 0 THE RING-TUM PHI

sports

sadeck

  

Mon Tues WED Tiiuns FRI SAT
vs
Football AVGFGH
1 p.m.

at ' vs

H:':.'(:y Lynchburg St. Mary's

1 P-m- 1 p.m.
at at
Men's V.M.l. ’ Roanoke
s°°°°' 4 p.m. 3 p.m.
vs vs at
Women's Holllns Messiah Randolph
soccer
4 p.m. 1 p.m. 1 p.m.
at vs
Nolleyball Brldgewater CNU
11 a.m. 1 p.m.
at
wo|In°n’s U OT Mlnn.
xc Invite
9 am.
Men's xc
\lllomen’si at

ITA Region

Tenn“ Championships

Men’s

Tennis

 

The number of times that W&L’s football team had played its Rock-

bridge County neighbor Southern Va. before Saturday's 35-28 win.

5 - 1 5
The Milwaukee Brewers record in September after going 20-7 in Au-
gust. Before this month the Brewers were 5.5 games up in the NL

Wild Card. Before games started Monday, the Brewers sat 1.5 games

back in the Wild Card standings.

1,274

The number of hits by New York Yankees shortstop Derek Jeter at Yan-
kee Stadium as of press time Sunday. Jeter broke Lou Gehrig's record
of 1,269 Tuesday in a 6-2 loss to the Chicago White Sox. This record
will never be broken as the Yankees played their last game at Yankee
Stadium Sunday. The team will be moving to the new Yankee Stadium

next year.

 box

“I had  get out there and hug everybody. We

 

did the appropriate hugging in the dugout, then
we took it out on the ﬁeld. I had to. I’m a hugger.

And I’m a Crier.”

Tampa Bay Rays manager Joe Maddon after beatlng the Mlnnesota
Twlns 7-2 Saturday to cllnch a playoff berth for the ﬂrst tlme In the
organIzatIon’s history, courtesy of the St. Petersburg Times.

“It was a little nerve-wracking going into our
fourth overtime of the season of ﬁve games, but
I had conﬁdence in my teammates, and I’m glad
that we could pull through for a win.”

W&L ﬂeld hockeyjunlor forward Steph Mansey after the Generals won
their first game of the season Saturday 1-0 against Catholic Unlverslty.
Every game this season has been decided by only one goal.

“Things happen. It was just one of those things. I
was just overexcited, just trying to have some fun.
I’m young, but I’m kind of mad at myself. I could
have had a touchdown.”

Phlladelphla Eagles wlde recelver Desean Jackson after he prematurely

dropped the ball before crossing the goal Ilne In celebratlon of what

he thought was a touchdown In the Eagles’ 37-41 loss to the Dallas

(N:owboys on Monday Night Football, courtesy of Phlladelphla Dally
ews. -

 

, Washington and Lee’s footbaii team beat southern Virginia 35-28 Saturday in thrilling fashion.
or Saturday wasa night of firsts: W&L’s'first‘-ever night home game, the first game on the newly reno-
vated Wilson Field, and the flrst~ever meeting of R
Virginia. ‘see page 7 for a full recap of. the game. i

ockbrldge county schools W&L and Southern

      

RYAN ELSEY / Staff Photographer’

Recounting sports’ dumbest plays

Jackson is sports ’newest bone head after MNF celebration mishap

By Chris Schneck
STAFF WRITER

The world of sports provides us with
an inﬁnite amount of heroes. As young
kids we grew up impersonating the great-
est athletes in the world — doing Tiger
Woods’ patented ﬁst pump as we drain a
putt, sticking out our tongue as we make
a layup pretending to be his Aimess, Mi-
chael Jordan, or even pointing our bat to
the outﬁeld calling our own shot in the
neighborhood whifﬁe ball game a la Babe
Ruth. Images such as these and the games
that accompany them will stay with us for-
ever.

These players and others have provided
role models for youth and even adults for
hundreds of years, teaching us work ethic,
teamwork and dedication. Other athletes
and sports personas make their name by
being the dumbest, the most idiotic, the
biggest bone-heads.

‘ So my question is,_who have made the
dumbest plays in sports history?

Sports are good for many reasons in-
cluding providing American viewers with
a very goodlist of things never to do. Take
last week’s Monday Night Football game
for instance.

It was an important division game be-
tween division rivals, the Philadelphia Ea-
gles and the Dallas Cowboys. The winner
of the game would take the lead in argu-
ably, the toughest division in football. The

game was close throughout, but Dallas
won in the end by a score of 4'1 -37.

But the actual game was outshined by
the actions of one man, DeSean Jackson,
who put his team’s success at risk. In the
second quarter McNabb dropped back and
threw a deep ball to a wide open Jackson.
The Eagles were going to score and take
the lead back from the Cowboys. Jack-
son proceeded to waltz into the end zone

Jackson was playing in the All-American
game, where similar to Monday night

his quarterback dropped back, threw the

ball to Jackson, and it seemed as though
Jackson would score a touchdown. But, in
celebration for his “touchdown,” he swan
dove for the endzone starting at the ﬁve
yardline, needless to say, he didn’t make
it. And he received a 15 yard unsportsman
like conduct penalty for his actions.

My question is, who have made the dumbest plays in

sports history? Sports are good for many reasons includ-

ing providing American viewers with a very good list of

things never to do.

untouched for an apparent’ touchdown,
except for one thing: he forgot to take the
football with him.

In celebration of his “touchdown,”
he ﬂicked the ball into the air before he
crossed the end line thus voiding the
touchdown. That’s like pulling the cord on
your parachute while still in the airplane
and then jumping.

But DeSean Jackson should have known
better, not because of common sense or
logic, but rather that this was the second
time he did this! As a senior in high school

So much from learning from your mis-
takes DeSean. But at least you are the
most recent addition to the dumbest plays
in sports.

Athletes’ schoolwork and learning usu-
ally take a back seat during high school
and college to sports. Many times profes-
sors and teachers are more than willing to
simply give star athletes a good grade. But
Larry Walker should have paid a little more
attention in math class during school. He

See “Bone-Headed Plays" on page 7

Field Hockey earns ﬁrst win

Team beats Catholic 1-0 in fourth overtime game of season

By Will Dorrance and Llzz Dye
SPORTS EDITOR & STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee University
ﬁeld hockey team was 0-4 entering Satur-
day’s home game against Catholic Univer-
sity. All four of those losses were by one
goal; three of them went into overtime.

It seems only ﬁtting that the Lady
Generals won their ﬁrst game of the sea-
son by one goal in overtime. Junior for-
ward Christina Merchant scored to end
the game just 54 seconds into overtime to
hand W&L the 1-0 victory.

The close match was a showcase of
strong defensive play as the game saw
combined only six shots on goal. Junior
keeper Caroline Habliston made two saves
for the Generals while earning her ﬁrst
shutout of the season. The Cardinals ju-
nior netminder Marian Cassilly registered
four saves in her team’s second loss of the

season.
As the horn blew to signal the end of
regulation, the Generals knew they still

While we had a tough
beginning of the season,
we ’ve improved in each
game and we really came
together as a team for the
win.

Emmy Mathews, mldflelder

had some work to do in overtime. Junior
Steph Mansey said, “It was a little nerve-
wracking going into our fourth overtime

of the season of ﬁve games, but I had con-
ﬁdence in my teammates and I’m glad that
we could pull through for a win.”

The game-winning goal came off of
W&L’s only second offensive comer of
the game. Merchant deflected junior cap-
tain Sallie Arrnstrong’s shot into Catholic’s
cage to end the sudden-death overtime.‘

Merchant’s goal gave the Generals
their ﬁrst win, and the team hopes it will
provide much-needed momentum as they
head off to a 1:00 p.m. bout Saturday with
two-time defending conference champion
Lynchburg College for their ODAC-sea-
son opener.

“While we had a tough beginning of the
season, we’ve improved in each game and
we really came together as a team for the
win,” said sophomore midﬁelder Emmy
Mathews.

xi‘

 

Q)

 

  

  Dancing fordimes

Students danced all night to .a:m.oney:orr.., Marcliof Dimes and
Rockbridge. literacy programs in the second annual Dan_ce—a-ttion.

 lAnrsf&LIr=E/ page 7

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING-TUM PHI.

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2008

BY THE STUDENTS AND FOR THE STUDENTS SINCE 1897

VOLUME CXII,

The future

of American
diplomacy
Morella on expectations of
next administration

By Brooke Sutherland
STA FF W R IT E R

Ambassador Constance Morella took the
stage in Lee Chapel Wednesday night to speak
about “Global Expectations for the Next Admin-
istration” in the inaugural address of the Francis
McNulty Logan Lewis annual lecture series.

Morella was a ﬁtting choice for the lecture,
which is sponsored by the George C. Marshall
foundation: Morella served as the U.S. represen-
tative for the eighth district of Maryland for 16
years and was Permanent Representative to the
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development for four years in Paris. .

“As a United States representative in the
OECD, Ambassador Morella is a testimony to
George C. Marshall and the Marshall program,”
said politics Professor William Connelly. “I be-
lieve her remarks were very timely, especially in
light of the current ﬁnancial crisis.”

“I think [the lecture] was a great opportunity
for Washington and Lee University students and
faculty alike to learn firsthand about the global-
ization of politics and economics, “ he said.

Turnout at the event was low, despite the no-

“Ambassador Morella is a tes-
timony to George C. Marshall
and the Marshall program...I

believe her remarks were very

timely, especially in light of the

}

current ﬁnancial crisis. ’

Wllllam Connelly, Professor of Polltics

table relevance of Morella’s speech to today’s
electoral climate.

“I felt like too few took advantage of the
opportunity to learn from someone with direct
practical experience on globalization,” Connelly
said.

Drawing from her extensive experience in
both national and international politics, Mo-
rella stressed to the audience the “need to re-
store [America’s] leadership in the free world”
through cooperation with international trends
and by’ setting an example for developing and
developed nations alike.

Morella stressed that perceptions about the
United States as a world superpower are chang-
ing and that “sentiment about America has dra-
matically declined.” She highlighted six areas
of concentration where the United States could
improve its leadership: energy supply and envi-
ronmental protection, trade, immigration, edu-
cation, research and scientiﬁc innovation, and
the economy.

Morella called upon the next leader of the
United States to take initiative in these areas.
She stressed the need to act to “change the way
we use energy and spread technology” in or-
der to become more environmentally efﬁcient,
to move past growing attitudes of isolationism
and protectionism towardsmore expansive free
trade and bilateral treaties, and to create a more
effective immigration policy.

‘Morella speciﬁcally called upon the future ad-
ministration to rethink immigration policies that
prevent educated foreign scholars from gaining
the visas they need to study in the United States
and adamantly urged America’s next leader to
pursue recruitment and retention of engineers, a
career that has seen a steady decline in profes-
sionals. I

See “Morella” on page 3

:

DUls

on the

rise

SJ C chastises students after four DUIs reported I

By Allison Chopin
MANAGING EDITOR

Despite the availability of extensive
transportation services for students who
choose to drink, police have reported four
DUI charges among Washington and Lee
students so far this year.

This number was cited by Brandon Dot-
son, Associate Dean of Students, who re-
ceived reports from the Lexington, County,
and State Police.

“Clearly, some students are making
poor decisions,” Dotson said in an e-mail.
“This level [of] behavior is not consistent

.with the standards of the Washington and
Lee University community.”

According to Director of Public Safety
Mike Young, this number is not necessar-
ily a major increase compared to previous
years. In the ﬁrst month of the 2007-2008
school year, two DUIs were reported.

But Dotson holds that students" and

“There s nothing you can say
to justiﬁz it...It is unbelievable
that no one in recent years

has been killed or maimed ” .

Chrls Tutor, SJC Secretary

administration still‘ have reason to be
alarmed.

“Anytime that the number that is greater
than zero, I cannot say this year is any bet-
ter than previous years,” he said.

A DUI or other violation of a Virginia
State Alcohol and Drug Law in Rockbridge
County also violates the university’s Initia-
tives on Alcohol and Other Drugs, as ex-
plained in the student handbook.

The Student Judicial Council (SJC) is

currently working to process these viola-
tions and issue proper sanctions. According
to the handbook, sanctions can vary from
ﬁnes and mandatory “education and coun-
seling” up to suspension or dismissal from
the university.

SJC Chairrnain Riley Barnes explained
that the handbook includes suggested sanc-
tions, but the council makes decisions on a
case-by-case basis, and sanctions can vary
based on circumstances.

Some circumstances, however, leave lit-
tle room for negotiation. Barnes explained
that a DUI with a Blood Alcohol Content
(BAC) of .15 or greater automatically mer-
its suspension from the university.

SJC Secretary Chris Tutor noted that
one student has been suspended this year,
and others have received “sizeable amounts
of community service.”

See “Dnrnk Driving” on page 3

NUMBER 4

Wall Street scare rocks W&L investments

Williams Investment Society rides shaky market, looks for opportunities

Bylames Dick
STAFF WRITER

The recent economic woes on
Wall Strect—including the buyout
and bankruptcy of some of the largest
investment banks-—has made some
students in the Williams School of
Commerce, Economics and Politics

more concerned than usual about the ~

performance of the stock market.

Since January the Williams Invest-
ment Society (WIS), a student gr ‘ p
that manages about $1.5 million of
Washington and Lee’s endowment,
has lost 15 percent or approximately
$225,000 of their investments. WIS
manages less than 1% of the school’s
Endowment.

No one questions that playing the

‘stock market is a dangerous game,

and for WIS participants, it is also a
learning experience. While the loss
of several hundred thousand dollars
has dampened spirits, the investment
society is determined to get it back.

As WIS’ executive director An-
drew Sims said, losses are to be
expected when you take the risk of
investing in stocks. Stocks can be
unstable if not volatile, and in the

"A lot of what we ’ve
seen in the market re-
cently has been driven
by fear——some legitimate

and some not. ”

Andrew Sims, Executlve Dlrector
of Wllllams Investment Soclety

current economic climate anyone
with stock runs the risk of losing.
Sims considers the investment soci-
ety’s recent losses to be “systematic
setbacks.”

One of the investment societies’
strategies will be to invest in com-
panies with unique products and low
stock prices. The theory proposes
that if a company has been underval-
ued, the market will correct itself and
the value of the stock will rise.

Sims said the investment society
is in a position to make proﬁts while
fear of volatile stock prices pervades
the market. “A lot of what we’ve
seen in the market recently has been
driven by fear—some legitimate and
some not,” he said.

Prof. Dennis Garvis, department
head of business administration and
advisor to the Williams Investment
Society, suggested that many of the
problems in the stock market today
reﬂect poor business models and an
overreliance on borrowed money.

“If a company that needs to bor-
row money can’t borrow money at a
good rate, it’ll have serious issues,”
he said.

On other hand, companies with

sound business models such as Mi-
crosoft are still doing well, Garvis
said. The software company recently
announced it would buy back a por-
tion of it’s own shares, taking those
shares out of the stock market and
making the leftover shares more
valuable.

Garvis feels that if companies like
Microsoft can afford to buy their own
shares, they are probably wealthy
enough to keep their operations going
at a steady pace. Companies with the
ﬁnancial strength of Microsoft “keep
producing, no matter what happens
in New York and on Wall Street,”
making them a sound investment, he
said.

Sims said he is excited about the
prospect of buying stock in sound, if
undervalued, companies while fear is
still keeping share prices low. Sims
is conﬁdent in the investment soci-
ety’s ability to make money despite
the economy’s uncertain future.

 

 

UNIVERSITY UBRARY
. ton a LEE UNIVERSITY

'\~.i'=25<lkl@1’9N.,VA"Q24450
SEP is  3388

   

2 ' THE RING-TUM PHI

MONDAY,

SEPTEMBER 29, 2008

n ews

 

ampus Sustainability Week '

University uses music, lectures and local food to promote sustainability at W&L

By Llzz Dye
STAFF WRITER

In promotion of Washing-
ton and Lee’s recent efforts to
become more environmentally
friendly, “Campus Sustainabil-
ity Week” has kicked off with
events and activities that strive to
support environmental sustain-
ability at W&L and in the greater
Rockbridge community.

The Adrienne Young Band
began the week with a concert in
the Cohen Amphitheater near the
Commons on Sunday.

Adrienne Young is a Spot-
sylvania, Virginia-based singer,
songwriter, and founder of Ad-
dieBell Records, a production
company. Young has given inter-
views on NPR, been nominated
by the International Bluegrass
Music Association as Emerging

Artist of the Year, and toured
throughout the U.S. and Eng-
land.

She is also a spokeswoman
for Food Routes Network, a Web
site that aids organizations in re-
building local, community-based
food relationships. It aims to in-
crease capacity to design, launch
and implement successful “buy
local” food campaigns across the
country.

Monday is “Water Aware-
ness Day,” on which professors
Humston, Carey and Harbor will
speak on water-related issues of
their interest or specialty. Prof.
Carey will discuss glaciers, a
subject he will focus on during a
one-year study of glacial melting‘
in South America. Prof. Harbor
will discuss the cleanliness of the
Maury River.

Prof. Humston will speak on
what the Chesapeake Bay was
like before the emergence of
environmental awareness, the is-
sues confronting the Bay today

tied together. If we can make 10-
cal changes, then we can have
broader impacts on places such
as the Chesapeake Bay.”
Tuesday is “Climate Action/

“T he Blue Bike Program gives students other

options for travel  If people use bikes in-

stead of cars, the University will save a lot of

money and there will be less air pollution. ”

0

Chris Wise, Environmental Management Coordinator

and certain changes that can be
made to help restore it.

“It crosses on so many is-
sues,” Humston said of the Bay.

“All environments are intimately

Community Service Day.” The
Blue Bike Program at W&L will
be prominently featured. The
bike loan program will provide a
free clean form of transportation

for W&L community members.

“The Blue Bike Program
gives students other options for
travel and its aim is to get peo-
ple excited about biking,” said
W&L’s Environmental Manage-
ment Coordinator Chris Wise. “If
peopleuse bikes instead of cars,
the University will save a lot of
money and there will be less air
pollution.”

Wednesday is “Local Food
Stewardship Day.” The Local
Harvest Dinner in the dining hall
will include food from various
farms and vendors in Rockbridge
country, including the Shenan-
doah Produce Auction, Sweet
Treats Bakery and Papa Weaver
Farm.

Marketplace Manager Don
Kendall said, “The university
supports local farmers, which

says a lot about the university’s
commitment to the community
and sustainability.”

Other features of interest in-
clude the W&L garden, which
the biology department started
last year to incorporate fresh-
grown produce and herbs into
the students’ food. The garden
also contributes produce to the
Campus Kitchens Project.

“By growing our own vegeta-
bles, we are not wasting money
on canned food,” said junior
Rosemary Kelley who volun-
teers in the garden.

Campus Sustainability Week
will be an opportunity for W&L
students to learn about altema-
tive environmental practices that
can result in cleaner and greener
communities.

Schedule of Events

  Monday

   

p.m.

  

 

2:25

0, Water Awareness Day, Eirod Com-
mons, room 114 V
—‘ - Prof. Robert i-Iumston- “Why Chesa-
¥~55'peake Bay? A Look at its Past, -Preset‘ 
out and Future"-11:30 a.m. to 12:15

0 Tamim Younous- “interdependency _
 and sustainability of Enery & Water
H Production Systems,”-12:15-1:15

’ « 0 V Prof. David l-lar_hor- “Your Water-

What is the Source of the Maury River

and How clean is It?”-1:20-1:50

« 0 Prof. Markicarey- “Water and Soci-
 ‘ ety: when the Glaciers Meit”- 1:55-

Tuesday  

- climate Action/ community Ser-
vloe Day, Stemmone Plaza, 10:00

a.m. - 2:00 p.m.- displays on water
  
energy, biodieeei, the Blue‘ Bike »

Program, the Presidents" climate

and waste minimization 1 i,

*-"~\\¥‘»<'.>5.&z~:~V)i—-:at4v¢~‘*tb.q-3: -

Y Wednesday      p

. Local Flood Stewardship “ i
bay, Elrod commons Mark’

A locally

commitment/Tallorles Declaration,
W&L’s green house gas inventory

  
   

 

Rockbridge Report
wins award

Student production gains national recognition
for the second time in the three years

By Barbara Knlpp
STAFF WRITER

The Rockbridge Report, a
multimedia news website pro-
duced by Washington and Lee
University journalism students,
was nationally recognized for its
production of local news by the
Society of Professional Joumal—
ists this past April.

This is the second time in the
last three years that the Rock-
bridge Report has received top
recognition in the “Stand alone
onlinei category” at the SPJ re-
gional conference '

This is no small feat, as the
W&L production is competing
with large programs from other
major universities such as Ari-

‘ zona State University and North-

western University.

Professor Brian Richardson,
head of the journalism depart-
ment, said that it was “the out-
standing students and faculty that
made the difference” in produc-

ing the Rockbridge Report.

The Rockbridge Report is
a converged, multimedia news
website that produces the news
of Rockbridge County through
print, broadcast and interactive
media. It is the only TV news
station that is broadcast from
Rockbridge Country.

While the Rockbridge Report
has been at W&L for years, it was
just in the past six years that the
project became the converged
news program that it is today.

The project involves students
of the higher—level journalism
classes who work together with
faculty members to report on the
local news of Rockbridge Coun-
ty.

Richardson said he has been
involved in the newscast for
years, particularly in the last
year. He said he enjoys working
closely with the students, who
are largely responsible for run-
ning the project.

The students are in charge of
reporting, interviewing, writing,
compiling, editing and docu-
menting each aspect of the Rock-
bridge Report. On the third ﬂoor
of Reid Hall, groups of journal-
ism students can be found work-
ing together on this and other
projects.

Caroline Davis, a junior, said
she enjoys her time in the lab
working on the Rockbridge Re-
port because of “the great chem-
istry among co-workers” and the
“close-knit” bonds formed while
compiling the Report.

While students do much of the
work, faculty members oversee
the project and work closely with
the students.

Students who participate gain
real-world experience in writing
and editing, while also learning
the technologies of broadcasting,
podcasting, and creating web-
sites.

éreat food & (1
Antique Pedal

!'
gezéq c 2 
PE[)A.L CAR DINER & Tm Tov CAFE

Order from our complete menu
0r Join usfbr one of our ALL YOU CAN EAT Buffets.’

Friday Night Seafood Buffet with Crab Legs 5pm-10pm
Saturday Night Prime Rib Dinner 5pm-10pm
Sunday Baked Chicken, Pork Loin, & Pot Roast 11am-9pm
Friday & Saturday Late Night Breakfast Bar 10pm-2am
Breakfast Bar 7 Days a Week Sam-11am
Daily Hot Country Bar 11am—’lOpm
Daily Soup, Salad, &. Fruit Bar 1 ‘lam-10pm

Order Breakfa.st 24 Hours a day, 7 days a wee'l<'¥

Home CoakedMea1s & Soutlzern Haspitalityt

Located at

LEE Ii MEL PLAZA

1-81 & D64, Exit 195, 25 In l\l(}t'l.l‘l Lee llwy.., Lsstxington, VA

540-4463-3478

great collection of
Cars all Tin Toys!

    

 

 

 

3 o

THE RING-TUM PHI

MONDAY,

SEPTEMBER 29, 2008

 

Drunk Driving

continued from page 1

of community service.”

“We just want to remind people that adult
choices mean adult consequences,” he said.

Barnes pointed out other severe consequences
that can result from a DUI charge. “It will be with
you throughout your life,” he said. “It can be a ca-
reer-ruining experience.”

Tutor echoed Barnes and Dotson’s sentiments
in declaring that these incidents are unacceptable
by university standards.

‘‘It is a breach of the community’s trust to drive
drunk,” Tutor said. ‘‘There’s nothing you can say
to justify it."

“It is unbelievable that no one in recent years
has been killed or maimed,” he added.

The recent conduct incidents prompted Dotson
to advise Barnes and Tutor to send a campus-wide
e-mail reminding students of the seriousness of al-
cohol violations and the dangers posed to the com-
munity by these behaviors.

“The riskier the conduct, the more likely a ter-
rible tragedy could befall our community,” said
the e-mail. “The first several weeks of the year are
exciting and warrant celebration, but they do not
warrant the e remely dangerous behavior exhib-
ited by some.”

In addition to holding hearings and issuing
sanctions for conduct violations, the SJC has been
active in the “educational aspect” of encouraging
students to make healthy decisions, according to
Barnes. _

“Any decision to drink and drive when we have
resources here is a bad one,” Barnes said, citing
the availability of Traveller and other safe-ride op-
tions.

“Students that host social outings should be
sure to provide safe rides and understand that the
consequences for violating state and local alcohol
laws are severe,” said Dotson.

“Someone’s going to die if people don’t
change,” concluded Tutor.

Morella

continued from page 1

Her final call to America’s future leader
focused on the economy and the United
States’ role as “a crucible of conﬁdence in
global capitalism.” Morella emphasized the
need to generate both a short term struc-
tural ﬁx and a long term prevention plan for
the good of the global economy. I

Morella’s lecture made a strong impres-
sion on many attendants.

“I really enjoyed it,” said senior Rebec-
ca Taylor. “I thought [her topic] was really
relevant. The characteristics the world is
looking for in the next American leader are
very important to the election. The world
is waiting to see what direction the next
president will take us.”

Added ﬁrst-year Hannah Deming, “I
thought it was really interesting how up-
front she was about the international view
of America. It really stood out when she
talked about France, which most people
see as a developed nation, and having such
high security [as an American ambassador].
I thought that example pointed out what’s
wrong with international relations.”

Ambassador Morella wrapped up her
stay in Lexington with two lectures at VMI
for the Women in Leadership Luncheon
and a Seminar on International Relations
and a special visit to Professor Connelly’s
Politics 100, American National Govem-
ment class.

SENIORS!

- December and January

Get all the details!

SESSION
Wednesday, Oct.
12:15 — 1:15

Elrod Commons‘ 301

CHECK THIS .OUT!

SELECTIVE LIBERAL

ARTS CONSORTIUM
Off-Campus Recruiting Days
in Chicago, Boston, NYC, DC in

DEADLINES SOON

INFORMATION

in Career Services

VV'.ASHINGTON AND .I.,}.'IE UN.IVERS.I’I‘Y

1

careers@wlu.edu 458-8595

CAREER@SERVICES

http://careers.wlu.edu

MYSPACE.COM/UTIMATECOLLEGEBOW

EGISTER‘ '1'O"VOT£

tittﬁiatti 913%

4~.\~u'=.

ﬁnaﬂf‘

1-.. 3!-
vi-um

AE?GRC!.lilE.€§i’t"i

 

 

THE RING-TUM PHI - 4

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 29; -2008

opinions

 

 

F ofrget the economy, says Abel Delgado, this election is still about the Iraq War

By  Delgado
COLUMNIST

The ﬁrst presidential debate
made it clear that the choice in
this election comes down to one
of two bracelets.

During the debate, Senator
McCain told the story of how
fallen soldier Matthew Stanley’s
mother asked him to wear her
son’s bracelet, making him prom-
ise that, “You’ll do everything in
your power to make sure that my
son’s death was not in vain.”

This is at the heart of why
Senator McCain supported the
surge.

Senator Obama also wears a
bracelet, that of fallen Sergeant
Ryan David Jopek, given to him
by a mother with a different mes-
sage. She wanted the Senator to
“make sure another mother is not
going through what I’m going
through.”

This is at the heart of why
Senator Obama opposed the

surge.
Few people, not I, not Senator
McCain, and not Senator Obama,

can understand the grief these _

two women have experienced.

Even when it is a result of a
war, burying one’s child must
be so unnaturally painful that no
grief we’ve ever experienced can
compare. But the grief led the
women to come to two complete-
ly different conclusions, and now
the country must choose one.

This is not just about who
was right and who was wrong
about Iraq.

I believe both men made their
decisions based on principles
and not on politics.

McCain supported the surge
even when it could have cost
him the presidency, because he
believed winning the war was
the right thing for America.

Obama, even after admit-
ting the surge succeeded, says
he would still oppose the surge

because it wasn’t about succeed-
ing to him. It was about stopping
bloodshed.

This the fundamental differ-
ence in philosophy that should
determine the election.

Voters have good reason to

cal perspective between McCain
and Obama encompasses Iraq,
the economy and every other is-
sue.

The question here is not about
supporting the surge or $700 bil-
lion bailouts.

Voters have good reason to say the economy

is the most important issue, but our economy

will be in tough shape regardless of who gets

elected Presidents get too much credit.

say the economy is the most im-
portant issue but our economy
will be in tough shape regardless
of who gets elected. Presidents
get too much credit when the
economy is good and too much
blame when the economy is bad.

The difference in philosophi-

The question is what beliefs
should be behind the choices we
make.

If you believe that America
has fallen, that we are losing
but have not lost quite yet, that
we should cut our losses, accept
defeat and call it a day, then you

should vote for Senator Obama.

If you believe that tough
times mean there is something
fundamentally wrong with our
nation, and that the wars we ﬁght
for our freedom and the freedom
of others should stop because
people will die, then you should
vote for Senator Obama.

If you believe that our capital-
ist economy should be complete-
ly reconﬁgured because the gov-
ernment can do a better job, or
that cost of defending principles
of free people and free markets is
too high in terms of lives or wage
differences, then you should vote
for Senator Obama.

But if you believe a fallen
America needs to stand up, and
if you believe it is not our prin-
ciples that have failed us but our
leaders, then you should vote for
Senator McCain.

If you believe that an America
that cuts its losses can never win,
and that America should always

win, you should vote for Senator
McCain.

If you believe that free people
and free" markets’ when led by an
effective and reformed govem-
ment will ultimately lead to less
bloodshed and greater wealth
for all, then you should vote for

‘Senator McCain.

If you are prepared to go
through the tough times that we
face regardless of who gets elect-
ed president, if you can stomach
the tough ﬁght we have ahead to
make sure that all those soldiers
who died protecting America’s
principles did not die in vain,
then your vote will go to John
McCain- Mine will.

This is about two bracelets
that represent honor and sacri-
ﬁce, but one that represents that
our sacriﬁces‘ are far from over
and our leader should be honor-

‘able enough to make them.

No trays, no justice

Scott Graham Centorino wants to know why we can ’t have dinner trays anymore

By Scott Graham Centorino
COLU MNIST

As we all know by now, our
beloved dining hall has decided
to remove trays from its menu in
the name of ‘sustainability.’

What does that even mean,
sustainability?

Now, I have a high school di-
ploma, have taken a couple sci-
ence courses in my day, and con-
sider myself a mildly intelligent
person. Never has ‘sustainabil-
ity’ ever been used as an excuse
to change something before.

When you sustain something,
you keep it the same. So, where
are the_ trays?

I understand this initiative’s
purpose. I get it. Over the years,
I have attained some notoriety as
one who will enjoy a wholesome
environmental green-fest. I’m all
for it. However, I am also for jus-
tice and civil liberty. Let’s face
it — the United States of America
would. not be where it is today
without trays. From the Revo-
lution and Manifest Destiny to
the Gilded Age and Technol-
ogy Boom, trays and American
greatness have become interde-
pendent.

After all, could we even begin
to imagine Jim Bowie, William
Travis, and Davy Crockett jug-
gling their ﬁnal bullets through
the hallways of the Alamo on

bare plates? No. They had trays.
Trays of bullets. E

Real men carry their bullets
on trays.

When you’re in the operating
room, with your life hanging in
the balance, you don’t want to
glance to your left and see Dr.
Trayless cradling all his scalpels
and forceps between each ﬁnger.

No. You want to see your
doctor rocking a tray, working
his instruments one at a time.
Trays save lives.

In that operating room, you
don’t want to turn to the nurse
and hear, “Oh, don’t worry. The
hospital is starting a new initia-
tive for ‘sustainability’.” You
would undoubtedly say, “Hey,
how about sustaining my life?”
Life or sustainability? Hmmm
- tough question made even
tougher by my complete lack of
knowledge as to what ‘sustain-
ability’ means.

Shall we analyze the stated
reasons for this shift in culinary
vision?

Actually, you have no choice.
Signs appearing in the dining
hall list ﬁve major reasons for
going “Tray-less.”

First of all, the sign itself is
anti-American. Who puts up
signs just declaring decisions in
which you had no say? It might
as well say — ‘Hey piggies- we’re

doing this, and you can’t do any-
thing about it because we made
the decision in a dark, backroom
without your meaningless opin-
ion. Shut up and take it.’ A i C N l

The last time Americans
saw such oppressive posters,
they were English colonists and
they had a King. His name was
George. The Third.

The sign begins, “The Mar-

vices on the evening of the 30”‘.
It suggests an anti-sustainability
regime has been subverted by
administrative mercenaries via

V regicidelbelfore propping uplthis

false, pro-sustainability puppet.
The next time you are in the
D-Hall, look into the eyes of our
friends behind the food. In their
eyes, you will see the dangerous
sublimity of cautious waiting.

The sign begins, “The Marketplace is going

T ray-Less! ” I ’m not making this up. What

kind of audacity is required to end such a

sentence with an exclamation point?

ketplace is going Tray-less!” I’m
not making this up. What kind of
audacity is required to end such
a sentence with an exclamation
point?

Humans should never be sub-
jected to such things.

It continues, in a very cheery
font, “Beginning Sunday, Au-
gust 31, 2008 Washington and
Lee Dining Services supports
sustainability.”

This implies that there must
have been some kind of planned
coup d’état within Dining Ser-

They hate sustainability, because
people hate things they don’t un-
derstand. I don’t understand sus-
tainability, therefore I hate it.

You also may ‘notice a subtle
but visual hint of their quiet but
ﬁrm insubordination. What do
the workers use to serve their
food? Trays. That’s right - dirty,
costly, anti-sustainability trays.

They are communicating
with us.

They are with us.

All we have to do is listen,
wait, and stand ready.

The poster continues with
“The simple act of going tray-
less will: minimize food waste,

reduce the release of chemicals
into the environment, reduce
costs, support the University’s
enviromnental sustainability ini-
tiatives.”

Whoa.

Hold the phone — ﬁve whole
reasons we should sacriﬁce
our freedom? You could have
stopped at four and had me.

Whichever puppet govem-
ment bureaucrat wrote this poster
has obviously never tried to carry
two plates of tater—tots, Chilean
sea bass, a glass of sweet tea, an
appetizer salad, a lemon for the
tea, and four plates of angel food
cake - at least not without a ‘tray.

If he had, he would never de-
scribe it as a “simple act.”

Food waste?'Maybe.

Water and energy usage? I’ll
buy it. ,

Reduce the release of chemi-i
cals into the environment? Wait
a minute. What on earth were
these people up to back. there
when we had trays?

And reduce costs? When does
my tuition drop?

Finally, the real star attraction
of this checklist - supporting the
university’s environmental sus-
tainability initiatives.

Isn’t this that very initiative?
Even the sleaziest used car sales-
man would never try to pitch to a

redlice _water’a‘.h‘d‘  usa"ge“"_q§udker custdfrfef “Oh, and your
~«uu.m.\n ').x\:C1J‘) clywqx/\ '.\_ .§A\3

purc ase of thisucar will support
your initiative to buy a car.”

. It then closes with the jolly,
“Please join us on the path to
sustainability!” Perhaps I missed
something, but I only see one
path - their path.

Well, thank you for the in-
vitation to your forced march!
Much appreciated; I’ll be sure to
attend.

I’ll tell you what path I will
take - I’ll follow Davy Crockett.
Huddled in the dark and musty

rooms of the Alamo, during the

most famous siege in American
history, surrounded by» thou-
sands of approaching Mexican
soldiers, the men of the Alamo
never could have imagined a
world where people would give
up such basic liberties as trays
without __a ﬁght.

Davy Crockett, I salute you.

Nobody ever cried, “Remem-
ber , the Sustainability ‘Initia-
tive!” ;

I believe in freedom. I believe
in traysf  I .

At least until someone actu-
ally explains just why they need
to disappear that is.

Thinkthe financial crisis doesn’t affect you? Think again.

It doesn ’t matter what your major is, you are going to be affected by the impending ﬁnancial meltdown. So pay attention!

By Jacob Geiger
COLU MNIST

Think the ﬁnancial crisis
doesn’t affect you? Think again

Unless you’re one of those
unlucky business majors in the
C-School who watched his Wall
Street job offer vanish into bank-
ruptcy ;last week, you may not
have paid much, attention to the
current ﬁnancial crisis.

Well, I’ve got bad news for
you. Whether you’re a ﬁrst-
year, senior, or faculty member,
and whether you work in the C-
School, Science Center or Wilson
Hall, this ﬁnancial crisis matters.

Congress is busily debating
a $700 billion bailout proposal
from Treasury Secretary Hemy
Paulson that would — in theory
— stabilize the ﬁnancial markets

and help keep faltering compa-
nies in business.

The plan calls for the govem-
ment to buy up mortgage-backed

'securities; these securities have

lost value in the past year as mil-
lions of Americans fell behind
on mortgage payments and lost
their houses to foreclosure. The
government hopes this will be a
short-term ﬁx that lets compa-
nies get these bad assets off their
books. In theory, the government
can then sell the assets back to
the companies a few years from
now.

How much is $700 billion?
Well, since the federal budget for
2008 is about,$3 trillion, the bail-
out represents about a 20 to 25
percent‘ increase in spending for
the government this year.

The problem, of course, is

that the federal government only
collected around $2.6 trillion in
taxes last year, far less than the
$2.9 trillion it was already plan-
ning to spend. With the cost of
the bailout, thatispending total is
now well over $3 trillion.

Deﬁcit spending is nothing
new to our government. Aside
from a few unusual periods, in-
cluding the tech boom of the
late-19905, the government has
run on deﬁcit spending since the
Great Depression.

But deﬁcit spending by the
federal government is kind of
like taking your credit card down
to Pumpkinseeds. If you run up
a big bill, you don’t have to pay
it all back right away, but you
do have to make regular interest
payments. Right now the govem-
ment is spending $460 billion a

year on interest payments. That’s
about 15 percent of the federal
budget for 2008.

The new bailout is going to
push the national debt up closer
to $10 trillion, meaning those
interest payments are only going
to get bigger. If we assume there
are about 300 million U.S. citi-
zens, that’s more than $33,000 of
debt for each of us.

Here’s the problem: At some
point, the rest of the world’s
going to be forced to stage a ﬁ-
nancial intervention. China, Sin-
gapore, Dubai and other nations
that keep loaning us money are
going to cut us off and tell us
we can’t have any more until we
ﬁgure out how to stop spending
more than we earn.

Who do you think is going
to pay up? Not the grandpas and

grandmas who run.Washington,
D.C. They’ll probably be dead
before this ﬁnancial intervention
takes place. Not our parents, who
will be heading off to retirement
in the next 15 years (assuming
their 401k plans recover from the
disastrous last few weeks).

Nope, we’ll be stuck paying
for our parents’ Social Security
and dealing with the colossal
debt we’ve been handed. Gee
mom and dad, thanks for all your
love and support and a crushing
federal debt!

I understand that the ﬁnancial
crisis is diﬁicult to understand.
Even a lot of people who’ve
made their careers in business
have had to learn a boatload of
new terms in the last few months.
How many people knew what a
subprime mortgage or a credit-

default swap was a year ago? (If
you did know, thanks a lot for not
warning us).

We’re less than six ‘weeks
away from a pivotal election.
Frankly, neither one of these
candidates looks particularly
well qualiﬁed to lead us out of
this mess. In fact, I’m not sure
anyone on Wall Street or Capitol
Hill can really be trusted to look
aﬁer the next generation. ’

Regardless of who wins on
Nov. 4, a new age is coming.
The days of borrowing obscene
amounts of money to pay for
immense federal government
programs have got to end. If we
don’t wake up and make Amer-
ica’s leaders stop selling the fu-
ture to pay for today, what sort of
country are we going to inherit?

he bracelet election ’

O

 

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2008

THE RING-TUM PHI ' S

 

opinions

THE KING-T UM PHI.

IT III GTIDIITI AIS III III IIDIIIII IIICI IIII

MANAGING EDITOR
NEVIS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR
ARTS A LIFE EDITOR

ALLISON CHOPIN
JOHN HENDERSON
CODY BEAUCHAMP
WILL DORRANCE
CELESTE CRUZ-
CARANDANG
BRETT HOLTON
MICHAEL MORELLA

COPY EDITORS

counilumio mmsns ANDREW BONDS
ADAM CANCRYN
scorr GRAHAM
ceuronmo
ABEL DELGADO
BRIAN DEVINE
JAMES DICK
uzz ova
GOZIEGBUONU
I Mean GEIGER
‘b, suuu KECKLER
BARBARA KNIPP
WILL MAYS
noon: SUTIIERLAND
LEE ucxsrr
VALAREE TANG

DESIGN EDITOR
STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER
BUSINESS MANAGERS

LARA JORDAN
MORGAN HARRIS
STROCK MOORE
CHARLES PERSONS
DISTRIBUTION MNGR. ROB GEORGE

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE
RING-TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community for students. faculty.
parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire
to spark discussions that lead to discovering
information that prompts change.

THE RING-TUM PHI IS PUBLISHED MONDAYS
DURING THE UNDERGRADUATE SCHOOL YEAR.
THE RING-TUM PHI IS A MEMBER OF THE MEDIA
BOARD, BUT IS OTHERWISE INDEPENDENT.
QUESTIONS OR CONCERNS ABOUT THE PHI
SHOULD BE ADDRESSED TO THE EDITORS AT
PHIGWLU.EDU OR TO THE MEDIA BOARD AT
MEDIABOARD@WLU.EDU. THE MEDIA BOARD
IS AN INDEPENDENT, STUDENT—RUN EDITORIAL
OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE WORKING WITH ALL
MEDIA OUTLETS ON THE WASHINGTON &
LEE CAMPUS. ALL INQUIRIES WILL REMAIN
CONFIDENTIAL. THE RING-TUM PHI WELCOMES
ALL LETTERS. WE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO EDIT
SUBMISSIONS FOR CONTENT AND LENGTH.
LETTERS AND ADVERTISING DO NOT NECESSARILY

REFLECT TH;E OPINION OF THE RI.NG..-.T.U_M .
STAFF. THIS NEWSPAPER OBSERVES CURRENT
COURT DEFINITIONS OF LIBEL AND OBSCENITY.
» THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
‘WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540) 458-4059
EMAIL: PH|@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

Flowers &
Things

Fresh ﬂowers,

balloons, gift & fruit
0 baskets and birthday
cakes all delivered!!!

Call 261-6300

Solid wood kitchen sets and 4 chairs-
$300 to see call Flowers and T hings—
261 -63 00

,'I We deliver!

 

Where have all the
good men gone?

Wherever you ’re hiding, its time to ask a girl out

By Gozl Egbuonu
COLUMNIST

As Homecoming is about to be upon us,
I thought it would be poignant to discuss
the unfortunate predicament that many
campus women ﬁnd themselves in: a Date-
less Homecoming weekend. ,

Being that this will be my ﬁrst dateless
Homecoming, I immediately found myself
in a frenzied panic that involved me going
out several nights this week in the hopes
that I would stumble on a possible date, but
sadly, I was highly unsuccessful.

Aﬁer my failure, I had a moment of re-
ﬂection that sort of went like this:

‘Why am I out trying to ﬁnd a date?
Shouldn’t someone be looking for me in-
stead? I am a ﬁne woman (thanks, Oprah)
and I deserve to be chased.’

And like that, I immediately knew what
was wrong. All of the good men on this
campus are missing. I have since put out
an Amber Alert for them, but have not re-
ceived any information or helpful leads.

But in all seriousness, where are you
guys? I know you are all out there, but I
have yet to see you unless you are already
with someone else and in that case, I am
very hurt.

Sure, many of you are probably think-
ing, ‘Well, maybe something is wrong with
you that is preventing you from getting as
much as a measly date to homecoming.’ I

Like you, I thought the same thing un-
til I went out into the world beyond Rock-
bridge County and realized that I am doing

pretty well. I am not morbidly obese and
forced to stay in a bed because I cannot
move. Nor do I suffer from a serious case
of bad body odor. Additionally, I lotion so I
do not feel like an alligator, I try to spruce
things up in the wardrobe department, and
I have been known to put on a little rouge

Homecoming weekend or inviting her to
join you at a cocktail party. Chances are
that buddy of yours who is giving you lip
probably has a long-distance girlfriend at
Sweetbriar or Hollins and just wants you to
join him in misery. Don’t join him.

Be the great General that I know you are

The ball is in you guys ’court. There are assort-

ments of gorgeous, outgoing, friendly, and beau-

tiful single women out there who remain dateless

and it is a shame.

 

when the mood strikes me. I also happen to
be one of the least awkward people on this
campus. Yes, I may shout loudly across the
BDG quad or blow my nose loudly in the
commons, but I take that all as a sign of just
how comfortable 1 am with myself.

Hey, guys like a conﬁdent woman (don’t
laugh, you know you do).

So, with that settled, the ball is in you
guys’ court. There are assortments of gor-
geous, outgoing, friendly, and beautiful
single women out there who remain date-
less and it is a shame.

Don’t let your friends tell you that you
are lame for asking a girl out to dinner

and go out there and ﬁnd a date. Believe
me, there are many girls dateless out there,
so do not succumb to that horrible inﬂic-
tion of thinking someone has already asked
her to be his date. Ask her if she has a date
and if she does, go on to the next girl.

I know that may sound awful, but tough.
You can’t have your cake and eat it too, so
let the guy go ﬁnd a date. I am a strong be-
liever in sisterhood and we sisters have to
be understanding in these situations.

Ultimately, if you are a single gal and
you still don’t have a date, just go out any-
ways, or ﬁnd your girls and have a girls’
night out. Every girl loves a GNOI

Four DUI arrests
' I Weeks?

  
  

A has‘ a drinking and driving problem.

 

in as many
" -. "It seems that Washington and Lee

[ Considering the abundance of re-
sources that exist for transporting

students home from parties, this num-
-  ber-—in fact, any DUI incidents at Do anything, but don’t get in your car

 driving 3 a game, it is too deadlyfor 

Call a sober driver-~fratemities
hire these for the sole purpose of mak-
ing sure students get home safe.

Call Traveller Dispatch.

Call W&L Public Safety.

Make plans before youvgo out so
you’ll avoid these perilous situations.

 I Students brag about how they don ’t even remember

I ij » getting home last night, but somehow, they made that

*tr_z}:> driving in their own cars. Does that sound like

 something to be proud of?

 

 all-——is unfathomable.
And unacceptable. .
y ' The Traveller system developed in
I 0 response to drunk driving accidents
3 that occurred several years ago.
 Now we pour lots of money into
I . that system to make sure those trag-
- edies don’t happen again.
: _ So why are we seeing these num-
bers?
 Sometimes the crowd of passengers
. g trying to board Traveller creates a frus-
tratingly long wait.
, I A Sometimes you’re out on a Tuesday
is night when Traveller buses aren’t mn-
 ning, or you’re in a location not on the
route. I
 _ But call a friend.

drunk.
What’s been prompting students to
make such poor decisions when all of

the resources make this completely un- p

necessary?

We’ve been trying to ﬁgure that out.
For students at W&L, partying-just
like sports and academics—.~seems to
be a competition. Students think it’s a
game. I

It’s not.

Students I think they’re invincible,
and they feel the need to prove it by
taking as many risks as possible.

T hat’s dumb.

You know you’ve heard it before.

Students brag about how they don’t
even remember getting home last night‘, '

. drunk driving related death. 

  
   
  
  
  
  
     
   
  
   

but somehow, they made that tri
ing in‘ their own cars.’ ‘  It
- Does that soundelike;:0n?Ie '
be proud of? I  
If the answer to that is 
have good reason to be scared
Drinking and driving is mi
It’s not a way to have 
Some students seemed to: spy
veloped the mentality that sinceeo
isn’t quite the real world, the 
do here don’t really rnatfer. I ‘I
decisions are real. I
People can die. , . _
Frankly, ivsiramazingy for d
that drinks as heavily and I
we do that no one has  1
It’s a minor miracle that
the }’hi woud just as soon 
ued. ’ ‘ — .  
Perhaps we’re being 
and lecturing. But when“ itc
something this serious, weas
would rather bluster than hay
‘we told you so.’ _ I’
In October 2000, Waslun 
Lee lost two students tofdnmk’
! Since then, there hash

ti

  
    
 

When it comes to ‘no do I
drunkdriving’ no streaI<is,ton to
even one Stretching nearly :5:

So don’t be the next one.

You "know the risks... The:
rewards. I '  I I

Don’t be stupid.

 

 

THE RING-TUM PHI - 6

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2008

opinions

 

letter to the editor

Spin cycle civility. It happens.

Sam Gilleran would like to thank the Laundry God/Goddess. They ’re nice, amen.

Someone folded my laundry. Twice.

I have no idea who did this. In fact,
I’m secretly hoping that this person will
continue to fold my laundry. This being
Washington and Lee, we have constant-
ly malfunctioning dryers, so I had to
re-run some clothes at 2 AM last night.
Needless to say, they haven’t been tak-
en out of the dryer yet, unless this kind
soul has already done it for me.

Allow me to explain my sudden exu-
berance for laundry.

It was about noon yesterday and I re-
alized that I had to do laundry. It should
have been done about a week earlier.
However, due to the stress of school,
attempting to get back into the routine
of writing papers, and my now—chronic
illness, I was more than content sim-
ply to deal with the ever-growing pile
of clothes later. Then I ran out of clean
clothes and realized that something had
to be done NOW.

So I trekked over to Woods Creek
West, carrying an overﬂowing basket
of laundry. I calmly placed my clothes
in the washers, put the quarters into the
slots, left the building, and promptly
forgot aboutmy clothes.

See, I had to go to the business of-
ﬁce, and I had to go the bank, and I had
to take a shower after PE, and I had to
eat lunch, and I had to ﬁnish reading

for my class that was in two hours. You
know how it is. The thought of laundry
did occur to me while I was supposed
to be thinking in class about why a
picture of southern Africa and the In-
dian Ocean was on the cover of Stanley
Lombardo’s translation of the Odyssey,
but alas! there was no time to walk all
the way back to Woods Creek, transfer

my phone. It was 8:30 PM. My clothes
had been sitting in the washers for eight
hours after their cycle was complete. Or
so I thought.

I left the Commons, where I was
attempting to slog through the history
of cow herding in East Africa, and I
walked over to Woods Creek West
Laundry Room. And there were my

I quit believing in ﬁctional characters around the

age of eight, you know, Santa Claus, the Easter

Bunny, the Tooth Fairy. However, I have concluded
that there is a Laundry God/Goddess.

my clothes from the washers to the dry-
ers, and make it to Lex Coffee by 3:45
to have an important conversation about
... procrastination, actually.

Then it was off to Chamber Sing-
ers. Then I had to start reading for class
the next day, a 200+ page book called
“Antecedents to Modern Rwanda.” 1
love my class on Rwanda, 1 really do,
but David Vaught and Steph Schafer
will attest to the fact that I was whin-
ing about this book all night. I looked at

INC/ENTNE

As at recent college grad, you my

clothes. Folded. Wet, but folded. Now I
knew they would be out of the washers.
I myself pulled that trick several times
freshman year — you need a washer, the
time display.says “00,” you throw the
clothes out onto the table and put your
own in. (By the way, Microsoft Word
just tried to correct my usage of “fresh-
man year.” I think I’m going to scream.)
However, my clothes were not dumped
onto the table. They were neatly folded
on top of the dryers. l was shocked,

be eligible for a, 3400 Incentive

on any new Toyota of your choice
3 in addition to other incentives. ”
? See your Toyota dealerfor details.

l

frankly. So I put the clothes into the
dryers, did the quarters thing, and went
back to the Commons to ﬁnish the his-
tory of cow herding.

I made it through the book. It was
about 1:30 AM. My clothes had ‘been
ﬁnished and sitting in the dryers for
about 4 hours or so. Or so I thought.
I dragged myself back over to West,
wanting nothing more than to just dump
my clothes into the basket and fold them
later, the next morning.

BEHOLD!

My clothes — folded neatly on top of
the dryer. At least the ones that were dry
(stupid nonfunctioning dryers, waste of
a perfectly good dollar). I quit believing
in ﬁctional characters around the age of
eight, you know, Santa Claus, the Eas-
ter Bunny, the Tooth Fairy. However,
I have concluded that there is a Laun-
dry God/Goddess. Not only that, but
this Laundry Deity loves me and has a
wonderful plan for my life, which ap-
parently involves never having to fold
clothes ever again.

I was in such shock that I immedi-
ately gently placed my folded clothes
into the basket, dropped them off in my
room, walked back to the laundry room,
and placed a notice on the door. It read
something like:

“DEAR LAUNDRY GOD/GOD-

DESS: WILL YOU MARRY ME? {:1
YES El NO”

This anonymous offer of marriage
still holds. (Note: If you’re a laundry
god and not a goddess, I don’t swing
that way. I wasn’t thinking clearly at
that time of night. Sorry to disappoint.
But maybe we can bro out and play
Rock Band or something.)

This is all very humorous, at least
I think so, but there is an intelligible
point. During one of my study breaks
last night (read: gripe session about cow
herding), I read Gozi’s editorial about
the effect of the Greek system on the
Speaking Tradition. I found myself pi-
ously nodding in agreement with her in-
sight about this evil impact of our social
hierarchy. I was in complete agreement
with her assertion that neither Wash-
ington nor Lee “would be very happy
with such behavior.” Actually, I still am
in complete agreement with that state-

' ment.

However, I don’t think it’s quite as
bad as Gozi perceives. Kindness and
civility may indeed be somewhat un-
fashionable in our brave new world.
But somebody folded my clothes last
night. Twice.

Sam Gilleran

moving forward

buyatoyotatom    

g,»

7 ' THE RING-TUM PHI -

MONDAY,

  arts&|ife

 

n «V Ha.-.» MAE‘

Ashna Sharan and Anna Van Erven, two first-year contestants, show off their moves at the second annual Dance-a-thon

Dance-a-thon raises over $1,000, 21 students compete for full FD package

By sarah.Keckler
STAFF WRITER ,

The commons living room
played host to one of this year’s
longest dance parties: Phi Beta
Sigma and Pi Beta Phi’s Dance-
a-thon.

The event was themed “Danc-
ing Around the World” and ben-
eﬁted the March of Dimes and
Rockbridge County literacy pro-
grams, the philanthropy initia-
tives of the sponsoring fraternity
and sorority.

From Friday evening to the
earliest hours of Saturday mom-
ing, students from every class
were trying to stay on their toes
and dance to the sounds of music
from an array of different coun-

.tries. The last one dancing was

to be awarded a full Fancy Dress
package.

The second annual Dance-
a-thon was held in the Commons
living room with DJ (and alum)
David Graves. It began ofﬁcially
at 9:40 p.m. Friday night and
ended at around 4 a.m. Saturday
morning. Twenty-one students
registered to compete for the
grand prize. Many more students
came to dance without having to
abide by the stringent rules for
contestants.

Besides the FD package
grand prize, runners-up received
gift certiﬁcates from local busi-

nesses. Participants could also
win prizes in a raffle.

Jessie Wang, Vice President
of Philanthropy for Pi Beta Phi,
said she appreciated the support.
“I really want to thank all the
organizations who donated gift
certiﬁcates, and also a big thank-
you to all the contestants for sup-
porting our cause,” she said.

Wang noted that this year’s
contestants were more intense
than last year. “People came in
workout clothes and everything,”
she said. One contestant, ﬁrst-
year Jenny Pritchett, went on an
all-carb diet for a few days lead-
ing up to the competition.

Chris Rucker, president of
Phi Beta Sigma, explained that
this year’s Dance-a-thon includ-
ed new rules. The competition
involved trivia questions with
which, for each correct answer,
a contestant was awarded points,
which could help determine the
Winner in case of a tie. Partici-
pants also received break tickets
at the beginning of the dance,
which they could exchange for
break time or keep for points.

The main rule was simply to
not stop dancing.

Wang mentioned that this
year’s competition raised almost
twice as much as last year’s, de-

spite that fact that nearly the same
number of dancers registered.

“The raffle tickets and t-shirts
made the difference and so far
we’ve raised over $1,000,” Wang
said.

The t-shirts certainly received
a lot of raving reviews. Junior
Kim Holland said, “I love the
shirt design with different lan-
guages!”

Rucker joined Wang in thank-
ing student organizations such as
PAACE and GRC who helped
decorate and support the event.
“We’re going to try to make this
event bigger and better every
year,” he said.

6 Students dance the night away

 

KEVIN REMINGTON / for W&L

Sometime around, 4 a.m., se-
nior Shreya Durvasula and soph-
omore Becky Guynn tied for ﬁrst
place with three correct trivia
questions each and decided to
split the FD package rather than
compete in a dance-off.

Last year’s ﬁrst-place win-
ner, sophomore Hannah Kollef
showed up to dance and support
friends, but refused to register to
defend her title, “mostly because
I puked for four hours aﬁer it
ended last year,” she said.

Australian comedian performs in Stackhouse Theater

James Smith ’s hilarious performance was well received by the W&L community, GAB to bring in more comedians

By Mlchael Morella
STAFF WRITER

While the presidential elec-
tion is‘ making headlines for al-
most every news publication in
the country, it is making some-
thing quite different for come-
dian James Smith: punch lines.

The Australian-bom comic
spent a fair portion of his hour-
long set at Washington and Lee
on Tuesday focused on political
issues, particularly involving the
ongoing presidential race.

Before a crowd of several
dozen in Stackhouse Theater,
Smith parodied everything from
political activism among celebri-
ties to the issues of race and gen-
der that have come up through-
out the campaigns.

Smith added a trace of his
deadpan, dark humor to stan-
dard-fare standup comedy top-
ics — politics, dating, the Jonas
Brothers — and was met with
roars of laughter from those in

attendance.

“It was pretty much what I
had hoped for,” said senior Mor-
gan Harris, acting comedy chair
and Common Grounds chair for
General Activities Board (GAB).
Morgan introduced Smith at the
beginning of the night.

“There was actually some
intelligent humor,” Harris said.
“But that was just a small indi-
cation of things to come.”

Harris, who’s tried his hand
at standup at various events in
his time at W&L, has seen the
amount of money and interest
in standup comedy at W&L in-
crease dramatically over the past
four years.

“We get comedians right
before they blow up,” he said.
Smith’s performance marked
a premiere event in the GAB
Comedy Series for the 2008-
2009 school year. Harris says
the GAB’s goal is to bring in one
comedian each month.

While his material was fa-
miliar to many, Smith’s path
to comedy is most assuredly a
unique one. A graduate of Bond
University’s law school, one of

out high school and college, he
found no outlet for what he felt
was his innate desire to perform.

Smith was selected to de-
bate at the 1995 World Debating

“It was pretty much what I had hoped for...

But it was just a small indication of things

to come... We get comediens right before they

blow up”

Morgan Harrls, GAB comedy chalr
 

Australia’s most prestigious uni-
versities, Smith was a practicing
banking and ﬁnance lawyer in
Sydney before he entered into
the world of comedy.

“I was always the wise guy
[in school],” Smith explained in
a post-show interview. “I was
always the class clown.” After
participating in debate and pub-
lic speaking activities through-

Championships at Princeton Uni-
versity and won the Australasian
Public Speaking Competition in
Melbourne that same year. After
college, Smith began performing
comedy at open mics as an outlet
for his urge to perform outside of
the courtroom.

While practicing law in Syd-
ney, Smith had an epiphany:
comedy seemed to him the only

thing he could do effortlessly.
Within two months of his debut,
Smith was dubbed “Comic of
the Year” at the Sydney Comedy
Festival, according to Comedy
Central.

Even with all his accolades,
Smith’s favorite part of comedy
is still the purity of the profes-
sion. He loves just having a con-
versation with the audience and
draws most of his material from
issues that he feels passionately
about, and hopes that the crowd
can laugh right along with him.

Now a regular in the New
York City comedy circuit, Smith
has made good ﬁiends with the
community of performers there,
and has been particularly inﬂu-
enced by popular comic Chris
Rock,

Inspired by his friend and
mentor, Smith is currently in
the process of writing an HBO
special he hopes will give him
greater exposure. He plans to

-devote the next 12 to 18 months

perfecting his material and de-
livery in comedy clubs all across
the country.

“You have to treat it like a
football season,” he said.

He also spoke highly of his
stop in Lexington, reminiscing
about his own undergraduate ex-
perience in Australia and com-
plimenting his listeners’ intellect
and welcoming environment.

Perhaps Smith’s sincerest
form of ﬂattery during his per-
formance was in his parody of
the W&L community itself.
From jokes about Ralph Lauren
in the bookstore and sorority row
looming like the palaces of Bev-
erley Hills, Smith sarcastically
found comfort in the ﬁner things
that the hard work and intellect
of W&L students has afforded.

“It’s nicer when everybody’s
rich,” he said with a grin.

 

  

SEPTEMBER 29, 2008

 

 

 

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2008

 

THE RING-TUM PHI '

 

arts&life

Scholar addresses free thought ~

Rebecca Lilly discusses creative ideas in “Freedom from habitual perception ”

By Valaree Tang
s r A F F w R IT E R

The Washington and Lee com-
munity seems to want some new
ideas. With the upcoming elec-
tion and controversy regarding
some of the school’s new poli-
cies and “phraseology”, an origi-
nal thought or opinion would be
welcome. But it seems that there
may be something blocking an
inﬂux of creative thinking. In her
lecture, Rebecca Lilly presented
her theories about what prevents
innovative thought.

Lilly, a poet, philosopher and
thinker, presented her ideas at the
2008 Root Lecture on September
23 in a lecture entitled “Freedom
from Habitual Perception”. Held
in Huntley Hall, the lecture was
free and open to the public.

Lilly presented the differenc-
es between the mind and aware-
ness. She held that the mind is
“mental software” whose “basic
mechanism is identiﬁcation”.
Awareness, on the other hand,
is non-dual unconditioned “pure
potential” that is non-resisting
and “goes with the ﬂow”. Real-
izing the distinction between the

two helps us to think, as the cli-
che’ goes, outside the box.

Lilly asserted that life apart
from habitual perception allows
for humans to have “original
or creative ideas and solutions,
compassion or unconditional
love, and inner objectivity...”

She then claimed that the
mind is the origin of condi-
tioned and negative emotions,
while awareness is “the source
of unconditioned well-being
or happiness and (conditioned)
positive emotions, which result
from identiﬁcation,” wrote Lilly
in her lecture handout. Identiﬁ-
cation causes emotional reactiv-
ity. In order to rid ourselves of
the negative emotions put forth
by the mind, we must disassoci-
ate ourselves from our mind and
allow awareness to control our
thoughts in a process she called
disidentiﬁcation.

Lilly asserted that “aware-
ness removes us from this un-
conscious personalized relation-
ship with everything, and affords
self-understanding, and an ob-
jective view” which will, in turn,
prevent the experience of nega-
tive emotions.

The Triumphant return
of The Walkmen

Will Mays reviews the new album
released by the indie rock band

By Will Mays
sun WRITER

When faced with the ques-
tion, “Hey, have you heard the
new Walkmen album?” many
of W&L’s students revealed that
not only had they not heard the
album, but few had even heard
of the band at all.

While the community might
not yet be acquainted with the
band, the group’s album may
make its mark on this year’s mu-
sic scene. The Wa1kmen’s most
recent effort, You & Me, released

albums, and the overall result is
more mature songwriting.
That’s not to say You & Me
is without its fair share of fun
though. Such standouts as “In the
New Year” and “Postcards from
Tiny Islands” each roar with en-
ergy the band rarely displayed in
the past, and the softer tunes fea-
ture subtle strings and horns that
lead to a more ﬁlled—out sound
from the band. The Walkmen
may have not innovated much
in their songwriting department,
but what changes were made are

The Walkmen 3 most recent eﬂort, You &

Me, released last month, is easily one of this

year ’s best forays into indie rock... This album
ﬁnds The Walkmen at the top of their game.

last month, is easily one of this
year’s best forays into indie
rock. “It’s good. I really like it,”
senior Morgan Harris said.

You & Me marks the New
York quintet’s ﬁrst album of
original material since 2006’s
sonic departure, A Hundred Miles
Oﬁ‘. Unlike the Latin-inﬂuenced
Miles, though, You & Me ﬁnds
the band returning, yet expand-
ing upon the sound of their ear-
lier work. The guitars jangle in
their clean tones and the upright
piano and organ sound straight
out of vintage American guitar
rock. 4

The album’s opener, “Donde
Esta la Playa” whirs to life with
somber bass, drums, and organ.
The listener is immediately im-
mersed into lead singer Ham-
ilton Leithauser’s tale of life
after parties. The album takes a
more cynical tone towards the
late-night lifestyle than previous

both noticeable and add new-
found depth to their sound.

While You & Me is on the
whole excellent, the album does
have a misstep here and there.
The ﬁrst half of the album is
exceptionally strong, yet the
second half meanders to a de-
gree, and the songs are notice-
ably less memorable. That being
said though, “In the New Year”
stands not only as one of The
Walkmen’s best songs to date,
but also one of the best songs
released in 2008.

You & Me’s production is
crisp and clear, and the overall
effort ranks among one of the
year’s best. This album ﬁnds
The Walkmen at the top of their
game. All qualms aside, You &
Me is heartily recommended to
any and all who enjoy indie rock
at W&L.

Disidentiﬁcation, also called
“detached witnessing,” allows
people to be apart from the
mind, and “experience non-dual
awareness, of being disidentifed
from the mind,” wrote Lilly. She
differentiated between disidenti-

identiﬁcation through analyz-
ing, judging, and bargaining
processes. However, a spiritual
paradox rules disidentiﬁcation.
Lilly elaborated by saying that,
“The mind can’t free itself from
the mind; the mind (as the seat

“The mind can ’t free itself from the mind;
the mind..cann0t propel itself directly into

awareness; it can only indirectly achieve

awareness. ”

Rebecca Lllly, Root Lecturer

ﬁcation and indifference, where
disidentiﬁcation is intended to be
more experiential. Disidentiﬁca-
tion, according to Lilly, is “an
inward turning of attention” that
ponders the questions of what
is occurring in one’s experience
currently, as well as whether one
can embrace that situation.
Though disidentiﬁcation is
ideal, Lilly highlighted the fact
that it is often quite diﬁicult to
achieve. The mind resists dis-

of will) cannot propel itself di-
rectly into awareness; it can only
indirectly achieve awareness.
The mind’s basic operation is
resistance, whereas awareness
doesn’t resist; it’s all-embrac-
ing.”

Lilly went on to say that the
more removed one is, the closer
one becomes with one’s experi-
ences. However, the apparent
paradox with awareness is that
“both are completely detached

and completely intimate with
experience at the same time,”
wrote Lilly.

Students from various phi-
losophy courses attended the
lecture.

“I haven’t studied much phi-
losophy other than for the class
I’m in now, so the lecture taught
me about something I wasn’t
very familiar with,” said sopho-
more Anna Herrnesmann.

Although students may not
have frilly understood Lilly’s
ideas, they were able to appre-
ciate the concepts. “The ideas
of the lecture were interesting,”
said Hermesmann.

Students also preferred at-
tending Lilly’s lecture as op-
posed to reading about the same
concepts from text.

“It was refreshing to have
an actual lecture as opposed to
a lecture where a scholar reads
from a manuscript on which they
are working,” said Paige Wiley.

However, Hermesmann and
Wiley were not the only stu-
dents who found Lilly’s con-
cepts interesting. Ashna Sharan,
a philosophy student, related the
ideas presented in the lecture to

her own life.

“I found the lecture very in-
teresting because I related it
to one of my philosophies that
branch from Indian culture: ful-
ﬁll your dharrna (duty) because
you should and not for the re-
wards or result. There are many
chores which I might not prefer
to do, such as folding laundry,
but I detach myself from the
emotions and fold the laundry
because I should,” said Sharan.

Lilly received her B.A. from
The College of William and
Mary, a Ph.D. in philosophy
from Princeton, and an M.F.A
from Cornell. She has taught
courses at assorted universities
on philosophy, including W&L.
She is also the author of The
Insights of Higher Awareness:
Understanding Spiritual Truth
and Egoand the Spiritual Self: A
Path to Awareness. In addition,
Lilly has written poems and ar-
ranged them into two separate
collections- You Want to Sell Me
a Small Antique and Shadwell
Hills, a collection of Haiku po-
ems.

 

 

Anticipation
Neville L. Fogarty
ACROSS 1 2 3 4 5 7 8 9 1o 11 12 13
1. 1994 film: "___ and 14 15 16
Present Danger"
6. Beach Boys hit "Do 17 18 19
You __ Dance?"
11. Employ 0 1 22
14. Eagle's home
15. Brainstorms 23 24 25 27 28
16. Chicken __ 29 31 32 33 34
17. October event to
look forward to 35 35 37 33
19. Quote from Homer ‘
20. Type of day 40 41 42
21. Catherine the
Great, e.g. 45
23. Pack animal
25. Pierce 9 5° 5’
23- Bumpklll 52 53 54 55 56
29. Ten
Commandments 57 58 59 0 61
word
31. Google search 62 3 64 65 66 57
type
34. Like Dumas who 8 9 70
wrote "The Count 71 72 73
. of Monte Cristo"
35. Outcast @2003
37. Swap _ _ _
39' December/January 70. Hosiery material 18. "To be, or __ to 46. Keyboard key, in
event to jock 71. Street in "Harry be" full
forvvard to Potterz" Spinner's 22. Lured 47. Look into again, as
43_ Jeans material _T__ _ 23. Cleo's undoing a cold case
44_ Author Jong and 72. Like dessert wines 24. "Pygmallon" 48. Add on
others 73. Consumed playwright 50. Type of school
45_ Ages 25. Hindu garment 53. Speaks like Cindy
49. word said 132 DOWN 27. it may match_the Brady _
times in a 1970 1_ Saturn, e_g_ shower cortalns 55. Bother, like some
--Monty python" 2_ civil war general 30. Lohan of Mean vlves
sketch 3. Baseball stat Gills" 58- 5- ‘PDT
51, Foreword, for short 4. Helps out 32. Like Tiger Woods 59. Elpar, e.g. .
52, Flower part 5. Bring back 33. After—Chrlstmas 61. ‘(RON ratura's piece‘
54. Astronaut's drink 6. Tepee alternative eV9"l 54- —_ G0‘ *’=‘_3e°'9t'
56_ Dam 7_ sum up 36. Coop group 65. "C'__ _ la vie!"
57_ Scribe 3_ straight, at the bar 38. "The Golden 66. Potentially pale
50_ Mother of the 9, Votes no Compass" potent potable
Titans 1g_ Examine transport 67. Boy toy?
52 King Kong, a_a_ 11_ "Rabbit, Run" 40. Actor Tom
63. April event to look author 41- BOOK before
forward to 12. Oklahoma athlete Romans. familiarly
68. Ballpoint, e.g. 13. 1995 film "Waiting 42. Lively
69_ "K . to " 45. Farm female

 

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 29,2008

  

.‘_.

THE RING-TUM PHI - 9

 

sports

(JR

  

     

   

By Lee Tackett
STAFF WRITER

As the 2008 Major League
Baseball season comes to a
close, we look back on a year
that deﬁed tradition, rewrote the
record books and said goodbye
to one of the most sacred struc-
tures that the game has ever
seen.

One major story that has re-
ceived little to no national me-
dia attention is that there have
been zero positive steroid tests
at the major league level this
season.

In 2005, when Commis-

   

  
  

  

TT“fF¥ELDAﬂ9¢Kl§Yi
T  miaaeen.'-  I I
sterii :Me?i1nonAlte

 
   

 

the issue of steroid abuse with

twelve players tested positive
and served their mandatory
ten-game suspensions. Among

Hall of Famer Rafael Palmeiro,
who vehemently denied ever
using steroids at a Congressio-
nal hearing earlier in the year.
Palmeiro’s suspension brought
lots of negative attention to
the game, and to date, he is the

 
 

    
   
   
   
   
   
 
  
 

  
    
 

  

 
  
 

  
   
 
   
  
    
 

for the organization, few of

 

wasHliasrout’a Liza. 3-1  

    
   
   
  
   
   
 

  
  
   

'  T ,  . TV ~ . — T  their top draft choices were able
Rparmke A‘ _ 3.1 to ever make a splash in the big
  1-2' leagues until 2002 ﬁrst-round
arrazawatei      1-2 °h°‘°°.'i.'-J‘ “$59” Y.” “El? ‘°
  cemen imse in e s ing
er lford 1-2 ; T,
" C 1-3: 5-3
01-3 1-5
0-4 C (2-,7}i
ji T VOLLEYBALL , . , . t B A d 30 d
 g . I  ynrew ns
.   c   ‘V _ sure WRITER
   . 1   T —T Throughout the ﬁrst three
AS}!-]’|T.NGTQN,& LEE .  T C; A’  V 9, weeks of the NFL season, the
g|l'lAlAafA\N5:A85§OAAY3.AI‘kA. A ‘     “ NFC East as dominated us op-
~  .. r 2  .: L .  _ .. . . ponents with an overall 10-2 re-
 rg  e 2'1 T 5‘ cord, two of the losses coming
-  A (T  from teams within the division.
 3 2 Without a doubt the NFC East
 ' T, is poised to bring home anoth-
'  er Lombardi Trophy, with the
2_3‘ reigning New York Giants, the
.4 if virtually unanimous NFL-best
AA  j. Dallas Cowboys, the always sol-
 0-"-4 id Philadelphia Eagles, and the
I 0_5 A rising Washington Redskins.

Although the passionate fans
within the division may disagree
as to which team is the best, the
statistics prove that they are col-
lectively the best in football.
With three of the top six offens-
es, the NFC East is averaging
about 40 points per team more
than its opponents in non-divi-
sional games combined.

However, often fans of AFC
teams and other NFC teams are
too concerned with their own
hometown favorite to admire
the complete domination by the
NFC East. Yet, as the vast major-
ity of football fans on this cam-
pus can attest, Fantasy Football

riT’s_ cross country team finished firsttt jg
ttteams at the Washington’ 8; L,e‘e.;,. A 
aziai, fifth out of 8 teams,_at,the,_Jarrie$, ,
invitational, and tenth outlofvzs team

 
   
   
    
 

 
  
 
 

 

 _ jpnai, Tfliet onto? 10 '[tea;m‘si1atf he

V   Lee lnvitation"a‘£, 
 I ;aAri;is.,fe;i't"ti1e Royieriavkvlnv#fatlohaI..af‘(
¥sItiiA‘of*MlaneSota,     i -

 
  

  

V 2.0‘ ' ' p highest proﬁle player to ever
- T _  I " ;. servea steroid sus ension.

 W -.2“‘°  -ff, '3; , _ T1, Although the casual fan ex-

7 A2.A._1" A, - A g .‘ I pects for professional athletes

2 2 . —   A " not to knowingly cheat, it says

.; . .  ‘ilk T  a lot about the state of the game

I V1-1T _‘ V. . T A that only three years after new

   Al AA AA restrictions and punishments

, '_  ‘  were ut in place for steroid use

-1»: ~ ~ 1’
  _ :  w c   that no players were taken off
_   T —  -of the..roster,ibecauset:of‘t1legai‘E~:;...

  A ‘  1'2 A  AT    Ster8ii1z1u1S3ec>Asitive note the stoI'Y
 & LEEA ‘A 0'l2"’f"'AV  A7; - A ’ A of the year is the emergence of
 8: Henry 0-2; " A. the Tampa Bay Rays. Relegated

, _ A1 I 3 I . ~  to complete futility for its entire

A ‘ .  V _ _ v .T_  tenure as a franchise, the Rays

V, .“woM'EN7AsVsA°ccER __   .1.  were quietly mentioned as an

 V . T  is P .  ~T  improving franchise.

_ H   _  ,    After ﬁnishing in the cellar

 ' AA3.0  V , of the American League East
 T 3 A A . H . ' _ I ’ every year except for 2007, the
wgsleyan . 0 1 V‘   Rays were able to accumulate
‘l-Vl'I;clfi!,2uf§ , =2,-_0-1 . 5 P high draft picks. Unfortunately

lineup.

Many of the current Rays
have been developed through
the organization, which has
been very patient with most
of its prospects, and are now
showing the world the reasons
for their high amateur billing.

One off-season trade seemed
to set the season in motion for
the new-look Rays. Delmon
Young had been a Baseball
America top prospect for two
straight years and had success
in his rookie year with the big
league club; however, some

who can ’t compete in free agent
signings and are forced to build
their team from the ground up.

It isn’t very often that a sure-
fire first ballot hall of famer is
traded from a contender to a
team on the brink of elimina-
tion, but the Manny Ramirez
saga that captivated our atten-
tion during the trade deadline
became one of the biggest sto-
ries of the year.

Ramirez had become a main-
stay in the Boston lineup and
was an integral part of the two
World Series championships

sioner Bud Selig ﬁrst addressed [With] the lovable Chicago Cubs and the

3 complete testing program, new  On   in   

history will be written for sure this October

questions about attitude and
dedication led to Young’s being
dealt to the Minnesota Twins
for two other former top pros-
pects, pitcher Matt Garza and
shortstop Jason Bartlett.
Inserting Bartlett and jour-
neyman free-agent signee Eric
Hinske and placing Matt Garza
and thirty-nine-year oltf closer
Troy Percival on the pitch-
ing staff drew some criticism
league wide, but the Rays were
committed to sticking with their
plan. Many teams started out as
fast as the Rays did but eventu-
ally faded; theARays were able
to stay aﬂoat for the entire year.
The Rays were able to tap
into contributions from ﬁrst-
round studs like rookie-of-the-
year candidate Evan Longoria
and scrap-heap acquisitions
like Carlos Pena to weather the
storm of injuries in their rota-
tion and their bullpen to clinch a
playoff spot for the ﬁrst time in
franchise history. The Rays not
only serve as a source of valida-
tion for the much maligned Col-
lective Bargaining agreement,
which is meant to level the
playing ﬁeld for smaller mar-
ket teams, but they also serve
as a blueprint for other teams

is what really matters. Whether
in a league for big time money
(sorry all NCAA athletes), play-
ing for free online or in the con-
stantly smack-talking group of
friends, Fantasy Football has
become a cultural phenomenon
within the NFL community. It
unites and divides, both building
friendships and breaking them.
On whatever level though, own-
ers are always searching for that
edge: This year it can be found
in the NFC East.

The NFC East is a hotbed for
fantasy stars this year, from top
to bottom. Popular sleeper picks
such as Philly’s Desean Jackson,
or value picks like Washington’s
Santana Moss or Dallas’ Jason
Witten, have outperformed ev-
ery conceivable prediction of
success. Once again, to throw
out some statistics, all four NFC
East quarterbacks are in the top-
ten in terms of fantasy points,
averaging close to sixty on the
season. Furthermore the running
backs continue to dominate:
Marion Barber ranking second
in the NFL with 64 points and
Clinton Portis heating up with
44—points, more coming in the
last two weeks after a poor ﬁrst
week performance.

that the Red Sox have won in
the past four years. His jovial
personality and savant-like hit-
ting ability made Ramirez a
loveable character in Boston
folklore; however, he seemed to
have worn out his welcome in
the month of July when many
fans questioned his effort after
his sometimes lackadaisical
play. The Red Sox may have
thought of the trade as addition
by subtraction and didn’t come
out of the trade empty handed,
landing former All-Star out-

ﬁelder Jason Bay, 7but>Ramirez’s ‘.
performance after his trade" had A“

been nothing short of remark-
able.

Despite the circumstances
of the trade, which was specu-

FA»

Reviewing the year in 

Lee Tackett recaps the baseball season is highs and 

At the trade deadline, the
Dodgers were on their way out
of the playoff race, but with a
slump from the Arizona Dia-
mondbacks and an MVP perfor-
mance from Manny Ramirez,
the Dodgers have clinched the
NL West title. After some early
talk of Brewers hired gun CC
Sabathia’s possibly taking the
NL Cy Young Award for best
pitcher, Ramirez has stolen all
buzz about post-season awards.

Since the trade, Ramirez has .

led the National League in all
Triple Crown categories and
has raised the question of how
many games a player needs to
play to truly be considered the
most valuable player.

Love ‘em or hate ‘em, the
New York Yankeeshave made
baseball what it istoday, from

. . t  A‘ tl t
the convlcted was potential   Ruth 0 Ma1’1S,t0 Man 5 0

Jeter, the Yankees are the most
polarizing and most followed
team in the sport. Many people
who dislike the Yankees were
displeased with the fact that
they were always ,a factor in
October, but for theﬁrst time in
ﬁﬁeen years, the Yankees will
be absent from the post season.
In a season with such fail-
ures as an organization, Yankee
fans have had another goodbye
to say to their cathedral of his-
toric Yankee Stadium. From the
white fencing on  tops of the
bowl of the stadiumeto the faces
of famous Yankees encrusted
over the center. sag feg,ce,_ the

'Atr‘iiAditidii biAll3Avi/As A‘from tlAiAe'7gA§tes

of Yankee Stadium. Although
the new Yankee Stadium is
built right next to_the old one
and the structure~Ais’*said to be

lated to be a direct result of ‘nearly identical, the tradition

Ramirez’s being manipulated
by his new agent, Scott Bo-
ras, to gain a more lucrative
contract, Ramirez has been far
and away the best hitter in the
National League in the second
half. Ramirez’s stats haven't
been his only contribution, as
he has been a great inﬂuence
on the young Dodger hitters,
who have picked up their play
dramatically over the past two
months.

 l\lFC E ast do minatiri

Andrew Bonds argues that NFC East is best in N

In addition, Brian Westbrook
ranks seventh, after only playing
a quarter of last week's game.
As every fantasy owner knows,
running backs are the most es-
sential tool for league domina-
tion, and each team provides
viable options should a star go
down. As was the case with
Westbrook and the Eagles, util-
ity man Correll Buckhalter eas-
ily compensated, outperform-
ing many league starters last
week. The Handcuff for a NFC
East running back (“handcuff’
meaning their back up, who you
picked jut in case your star goes
down with an injury) in most
instances is better than other
starters, such as Buckhalter, the
over-performing Felix Jones,
Derrick Ward, or even Ladell
Betts on occasion.

In addition to running backs,
the NFC East has three top-ten
receivers in Terrell Owens, San-
tana Moss and Plaxico Burress.
The high-ﬂying passing attacks
in the division are not only ben-
eﬁting the receivers but also the
tight ends. Jason Witten domi-
nates all statistical catergories
for the position, yet L.J. Smith,
Kevin Boss and Chris Cooley
are also having solid seasons.

will never be the same as one
of baseball’s most recognizable
stadiums. ‘.

With some of the usual sus-
pects prepped for a_,run at Oc-
tober like the Boston Red Sox,
Chicago White Sox, Los An-
geles Angels of Anaheim, and
Philadelphia Phillies, the lov-
able Chicago Cubs and the new
kid on the block in .Tampa Bay,
a ﬁtting history will be written
for sure this October.

A

To put it simply, the NFC
East is running ‘the table in
Fantasy Football. With the top
player at every position (other
than kicker, but 'w'lio cares),
and at least three players in the
top-12 of every position (sorry,
kickers), you really; can’t go
wrong. One more thing to think
about, though, is the fact that
the teams within the division
play every team ,twice, giving
each team six divisional games.
The defenses in thedivision are
weak against passl,A,:coverage,
giving up disproportignate pass-
ing yards and pointspbeneﬁting
both quarterbacks and receivers
in the league. ,3.

To everyone whoggplays se-
riously: we all know its more
than just some online pastime,
“fantasy world,”A or for that mat-
ter, a game. It is life or death
every Sunday whengyou check
your players’ statistics, holding
out hope that your one receiver
playing on Monday Night Foot-
ball can get you 18 points to beat
your obnoxious friend. across the
hall. If you really want to win,
both in real football and fantasy,
pick the NFC East. It truly is un-
stoppable.

 

  

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2008

10 ° THE RING-TU.M PHI

sports

 

 

deck

Mon Tues WED Tnuns FRI SAr SUN
vs
Football "““"°"""
Macon
1:30 mm.
vs vs
Fleld EMU UMW
"°°k°y 6:30 p.m. 2 p.m.
at vs
Mon,‘ Emory & Randolph-
socco Henry Macon
4:30 p.m. 3 p.m.
at . vs
womgn'g Sweet Randolph-
s“°°° Brlar Macon
5 p.m. 12 p.m.
vs vs vs
ilolleyball E"‘°" 8‘ Ferrum "MW 8‘
Henry 8:30 p.m. Mac
6:30 p.m. 1:00 p.m.
at
woman’; Va. State
Xc _ Meet
10:30 a.m.
at
M°"'9 Hanover
V xc Invlte
"°"" at ITA Reglonals
Tennls
at
Rldlng Radford
Invlte

 numbers
21-0

Unranked Oregon State's lead over ﬁrst—ranked Southern California

 

(USC) at halftime of its game Thursday. Oregon State went on to win

the game 27-21 to hand USC its ﬁrst lost of the season.

4

The number of consecutive starts on 3 days‘ rest by Milwaukee Brew-
ers pitcher CC Sabathia to end the regular season. Sabathia pitched
against the Chicago Cubs Sunday in a 3-1 win to advance his team to

the playoffs as the National League Wild Card.

3

The number of touchdowns scored by Penn State senior wide receiver
Derrick Williams in his team's 38-24 win over Illinois Saturday. Each
touchdown was scored in a different way: 21-yard reception, 5-yard

run and 94-yard kick return..

 box

‘“‘The game was by far the best game I've been

 

involved with coaching wise... you can’t get any
one as good as this game for the spectacle of soc-

7!"

Cer.

W&L women's soccer coach Nell cunnlngham after the Generals lost
4-3 In overtime to natlonally ﬁrst-ranked Messlah Saturday.

“You don't pay someone $60-something million
and then sit him on the bench...l’m not the only
one who feels this way.”

St. Louls~Rams running back Steven Jackson after head coach Scott
Llnehan benched quarterback Marc Bulger In lace of 38-year-old
Trent Green for Sunday's game against the Bu alo Bllls. LInehan’s
declslon came after a 0-3 start, and his job has been rumored to be
In questlon. Undisclosed team sources have reported that Bulger has
said that he doesn't want to ever play for Llnehan agaln, courtesy of
espn.com.

"lt’s always a good time to buy a good baseball
team.”

Dallas Mavericks bllllonalre owner Mark cuban who Is one of ﬂve
people Interested In buyln the Chicago cubs. Cuban was asked If he
thought the current ﬂnanc al crlses would make It a bad tlme to make
such a large purchase. He met with cubs ownership this weekend,
courtesy o the chlcago Sun-Tlmes.

Women’s soccer falls to
national powerhouse

F irst-ranked Messiah scored with 8 seconds left in ﬁrst overtime to beat
Lady Generals 4-3 Saturday in rainy conditions at Watt Field

By Adam cancryn
smrr warren

Rain-soaked Watt Field played host to
a soccer classic on Saturday, as Washing-
ton & Lee’s women’s soccer team came
within minutes of upsetting number one
ranked Messiah University.

Using speedy forwards and set piec-
es to pressure the Messiah defense, the
Generals showed no fear of their highly
touted opponents.

“We were always consciously not
playing the writing on their jersey, we
were playing our game,” said senior
forward Anne Van Devender, who set up
two corner kick goals and added another
of her own. “We came out with conﬁ-
dence and nobody came out scared.”

In the end, Messiah’s offensive attack
was too much for the unranked Generals.
But, for the majority of the game, it was
W&L that looked like the nation’s best.
After Messiah jumped out to a lead with
a goal in the 10“‘ minute, the Generals
took control.

Using a counter-attack designed to
take advantage of W&L’s quickness up
front, the Generals pressured Messiah
into conceding corner kicks.» Off of the
set pieces, junior Maggie Sutherland and
ﬁrst-year Corinne Smith converted head-
ers to give their team the lead.

However, the Falcons showed the
resilience of a top-ranked team, coming
back to even the score two separate times
in the second half.

After controlling possession early in
the 2"“, Messiah got off a long shot that
slammed off the crossbar. The rebound
settled perfectly in front of Messiah’s
Rachel Loya, who put in the easy goal.

The tie was short-lived, though, as ten
minutes later Van Devender gave Wash-
ington & Lee the lead once again.

Taking a pass just outside the 18-
yard line, the senior captain maneuvered
around her defender, leaving a clear path
to the goal. A couple of dribbles later,
Van Devender netted her team-leading
eighth goal of the year.

With only twenty minutes left follow-
ing the goal, W&L tried to preserve the
victory by falling back into a defensive
shell. But the strategy could not with-
stand the ensuing barrage of shots.

Given space in the middle of the ﬁeld,

and—forth period, Erin Hench struck
again. The sophomore forward beat
her defender to a loose ball and spoiled
W&L’s upset bid, sneaking the ball past
Moreo as she came out to challenge.

Messiah University narrowly escaped
Watt Field with their perfect record, but
also served notice that this young W&L
team can be a national force.

Van Devender, one of just ﬁve seniors
on a roster of 28, felt conﬁdent the team
would beneﬁt from such a hard-fought
game.

“It’s deﬁnitely the best game we’ve
played all season,” she said. “If we can

“It is deﬁnitely the best game we ’ve played all season...
If we can take this kind of intensity and kind of mental-

ily in our ODAC games we 71 be really successful this

season. ”

Anne Van Devender, senlor forward

Messiah’s Erin Hench launched a 25-
yard strike. W&L goalie Kiki Moreo had
no chance to prevent the equalizer.

Coming into Saturday’s game, Mes-
siah averaged nearly 28 shots per game,
an attack W&L fended off for much of
the afternoon. Eventually, though, the
Falcons began to create more scoring op-
portunities.

“They kept going and going and
ﬁnished some really great chances that
most other teams wouldn’t score,” said
head coach Neil Cunningham.

ln overtime, Messiah needed only
one chance.

With time winding down on a back-

take this kind of intensity and kind of
mentality into our ODAC games we’ll
be really successful this season.”

Coach Cunningham stressed that the
game could be a stepping stone as long
as the team responds well in spite of the
loss. More importantly, he was in awe of
the quality of soccer everyone had wit-
nessed.

“The game was by far the best game
l’ve been involved with coaching wise. ..
you can’t get any one as good as this
game for the spectacle of soccer.”

With the loss, the Generals are 4-3
(2-1 in the ODAC) going into the rest of
their conference play.

Football captures last-
second win once again

Team withstands late fourth-quarter push to beat Averett 31-23 Saturday
behind another strong performance by senior RB Stuart Sitterson

By Brian Devlne
STAFF WRITER

In their past two games, Washington
and Lee football has developed a ﬂair for
the dramatic. Last week in its home open-
er, the team scored two thrilling touch-
downs in the fourth quarter and needed
a last-second interception in the end zone
to prevent Southern Virginia from rety-
ing the game, and won 35-28.,This week
it was more of the same, as the Generals
scored 24 unanswered points to start the
second half and withstood a last-minute
comeback drive to beat the Averett Cou-
gars 31-23 in Salem, Virginia.

Again the hero for W&L was reign-
ing ODAC Offensive Player of the Week
Stuart Sitterson, who followed up his
electrifying two-touchdown, 311 all-pur-
pose yard game against SVU by leading
the Generals in rushing, receiving and re-
turn yardage. He also scored W&L’s ﬁrst
touchdown of their 24-point run with a
6—yard rush into the end zone to ﬁnish a
61-yard drive and make the score 14-7 in
W&L’s favor.

W&L extended its lead when the'Cou-
gars, set up to punt from their 33-yard
line, committed an awful mistake. The
snap went over punter Nathan Davis’
head and all the way out of the back of
the end zone. The referees awarded a
safety to the Generals, and the score was
16-7, midway through the third quarter.
Sitterson then returned the ensuing kick-
off 50 yards to the Averett 19-yard line.
With great ﬁeld position, Charlie West-
fal led his team into the end zone in just
three plays and freshman running back
Jonathan Clemo, beginning to emerge as
a reliable change-of-pace for Sitterson,

scored from three yards out. Sitterson
then scored on the two-point conversion
attempt to put the Generals up 24-7.

After three failed drives, the game en-
tered the fourth quarter. Westfal complet-
ed a six-yard touchdown pass to Tucker
Laurens, and Martin Prichard converted
the PAT, to put the Generals up by 24 and
the game seemingly out of reach. But
Averett quarterback Shan Fairbanks was
not ﬁnished yet. With ﬁve minutes on the
clock Fairbanks completed a touchdown
pass to Steve Oristian and Dontavius Wat-
son ran into the end zone for a success-
ful two-point conversion. A bad Spencer
Richards punt on the ensuing W&L drive
gave the Cougars good ﬁeld position and
Fairbanks capitalized, converting twice
on third down before throwing to Antho-
ny Squillini for his second passing TD of
the game. After Fairbanks passed to Wat-
son for the 2-point conversion the Gener-
als’ lead was only eight points.

To cap it all off, Averett recovered
their onside kick and had possession,
trailing by a touchdown, with 1:10 on the
clock. Just like last week against SVU,
the Generals had allowed their opponent
to make it close in the ﬁnal minute. But
this time no interception was needed as
Fairbanks threw three incomplete passes
and was sacked by Scott Russell to force

a turnover on downs. After a kneel-down,
the game was over with the Generals on
top 31-23.

Several bright spots emerged from the
game- for the ﬁrst time all season, W&L
gained more total yards than their op-
ponent. Prichard proved himself to be a
reliable placekicker and should have the
starting job next week. Westfal again was
solid, going 13-for-24 for 145 yards with
two touchdowns and no interceptions.

Until Averett’s late heroics, the defense A

was solid. Donavon Sawyer led the blue-
and-white with four tackles.

The Generals will suffer, however, if
they leave their guard down the rest of
the season. W&L begins conference play
against Randolph-Macon, who ﬁnished
second in the conference last year, next
week at Wilson Field. The Yellow Jack-
ets are an old-school football team, led
by bruising tailback Zak Thornton and
the conference’s best defense. The squad
has stumbled in pre-conference play, los-
ing to Johns Hopkins in triple overtime j
before beating Catholic in their confer-
ence opener last week. The game, Satur-
day at 1:30 p.m., will be the centerpiece
of Homecoming Weekend and the clash
of stars between Thornton and Sitterson

should be a great battle.

 

 

 

2 » .
~&a..u;xac..w.m.«.‘.:.-..u.-... ...  4., ,   -... . ...«»-.~-2.  V ,,., '\ . ..... .... , ,,

/531*’? 

   

-Columnist Jean. Chapman defends Coming out Week and E ii
tcondemns W&L for its homophobic attitudes. ,

OPINIONS / page 2  

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

RING-TUM PHI.

MONDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2008

Race for the

White House

Former Va. Gov. Linwood

Holton ‘44 calls for a
changing of the guard

By Vlctorla Taylor
5 TA F F w a IT E R

The political panel held Friday in Lee
Chapel could not have come at a more ap-
propriate time.

A small but engaged group, of alumni,
students, faculty and the public listened to
former Virginia governor Linwood Holton
’44 discuss the coming presidential election
with politics professors Mark Rush and Bill
Connelly.

Holton predicted Sen. Barack Obama
would win the 2008 presidential election.

“If the Democrats can’t elect a president
under these circumstances, they ought to go
into the aluminum siding business,” he said.

Rush added, “I do think this is probably
one of the two most important elections, at
least in my lifetime.”

Connelly said party success on the na-
tional level can lead to losses in Congress in
the following mid-terrn elections.

“If Barack Obama wins...history suggests

the Democrats will lose seats in Congress

two years from now in 2010,” he said.
When he was elected governor in 1970,

Holton became Virginia’s ﬁrst post—Recon-

struction Republican governor. Although he

“If the Democrats can ’t elect
a president under these cir-
cumstances, they ought to

go into the aluminum siding

business. ”

Llnwood Holton, Former Va. Governor
 

is supporting Obama, Holton still considers
himself a Republican. Having been accused
of being a “maverick and a traitor,” he out-
lined a few reasons for his decision.

Holton said that he does not want to cause
a family rift since his daughter, Anne Holton,
is married to Virginia Gov. Tim Kaine, a
Democrat. He also believes that Obama has
the “brain power” needed to be president of
the United States. Furthermore, Holton high-
lighted some of what he views as the failures
of the Bush Administration like the Iraq War
and the national deﬁcit.

“We’re in a mess and we need to make
the changes that are available by going to the
other party,” Holton said.

Discussion of political parties was a key
aspect of the panel. Holton said the very con-
servative core of the Republican Party can be
traced back to white supremacy in the south.
He stressed the need for the party to attain a
more universal appeal.

“I hope the Republican Party, if it does
lose as I think it will, learns the lesson to
get away from what started a hundred or so
years ago as southern strategy,” Holton said.
“They’ve got to come back to the middle.”

Holton brought up what he said has been
his political philosophy his entire career.

“Just vote for the way that it ought to be
for the outcomes of this country, and not for
the party,” he said.

Junior Catherine Carlock found the dis-
cussion “informative and enlightening.”

“Gov. Holton’s views challenged the
status quo and I think provided interesting
insight into the Presidential election,” she
said.

BY THE STUDENTS AND

Q minor
I11II’Et£IlZ

Bylamle Klm
STAFF WRITER

For the ﬁrst time in Washington
and Lee’s history, students will be able
to minor in their secondary area of in-
terest.

Passed by the faculty Monday,
Sept. 29, the decision to have minors
will take effect starting as early as the
next academic year.

But it will be up to individual de-
partments to decide whether they are
going to create minors.

The decision to adopt minors at
W&L began with the Environmental
Studies department. About a year ago,
the department was upgraded from an
interdisciplinary program to a major,
according to Dean Hank Dobin.

“The department said that it also
wanted to keep the original interdisci-
plinary program and interdisciplinary
programs are somewhat similar to mi-
nors,” Dobin said. This created a bit of
a crisis for the university because that
meant allowing a two-level structure

2. » P~—é 

in the Environmental Studies depart-
ment and not in other departments.

At the same time, the administra-
tion was reviewing the academic life

“Its up to individual
departments to decide
the structure and require-
ments for minors...some
are quite anxious to do

it.”
Prof. Kevln Crotty, Mlnors
Commlttee chalr
 

initiative, which included shortening
spring term and reducing graduation
requirements. The shortened spring
term would make it harder for students
to double major, so the administration

FOR THE STUDENTS SINCE

1897

VOLUME CXH, NUMBER 5

began to look at the issue of allowing
them to minor in a secondary area of
interest.

“Additional pressure and urgency
[for creating a minor] were added by
the initiative,” Dobin said.

In response to the rising demand
and questions, Provost June Aprille
formed a special task force committee
to examine “whether interdisciplinary
majors may also maintain interdisci-
plinary programs; and whether minors
should be established,” according to
the Minors Task Force Report.

Prof. Kevin Crotty, who chaired the
committee, said the committee talked
with department heads at W&L, con-
tacted other schools that offer minors
and reviewed literature about minors.

“What we learned was that schools
with minors had no problem,” he said.

Some controversery over adopting
minors does exist. Students might be
so focused on amassing their credits
that they would Veer away from the
true liberal arts education, which en-

     

ALLISON CHOPIN / Managing Editor

Faculty vote to offer minors, departments will have ﬁnal say

visions providing general knowledge
in various ﬁelds of studies. Another
concern is that double-major students
might decide to change one of their
majors into a minor, which would re-
sult in a decrease in majors in some
departments.

“It’s up to individual departments
to decide the structure and require-
ments for minors,” Crotty said. “Any
department can do whatever it wants.
Some are quite anxious to do it.”

Journalism Prof. Pamela Luecke
said that she sees advantages and dis-
advantages of having minors.

“It could attract students to devel-
op some expertise in other areas,” she
said. “But it would be a disadvantage
if it led to fewer people becoming pro-
ﬁcient in one area.”

The Journalism department has not
yet decided to create a minor. “We’re
split. We’ll probably meet again,” Lu-
ecke said.

See “Minors” on page 3

Greek Summit aims to align Values

Students, administration discuss ways to close gap between expectations and behavior

By Joel Poelhuls
STA F F W R I TE R

Representatives from nearly every
fraternity and sorority on campus met
at the Greek Summit Oct. 27 to dis-
cuss the problems of sexual assault,
hazing and substance abuse. Both
student and administrative organiza-
tions took part in organizing the sum-
mit, which meets every three years to
address issues relevant to the Greek
community.

The theme for the day focused on
values congruence — on improving the
gap between institutional standards
like the W&L Honor System and be-
havior that is inconsistent with these
principles.

Topics for tlie summit arose from
the results of a survey administered by
the Greek Vision Council last spring.
The GVC was, in turn, founded in
response to several chapters’ suspen-
sions on hazing violations and alco-
hol-related hospitalizations on tear
night last school year.

Burr Datz, Director of Leader-
ship Development and Coordinator
of Religious Life, said his purpose at
the event was to start a conversation
among students to see if there was a
common purpose and direction. On
hazing, Datz expressed conﬁdence
that the greek community is making
progress, and that student leadership
is active on this and other issues.

Clay Coleman, the new Director
of Student Activities and Greek Life
said the initiative now lies with the
individual chapters and student gov-

ernment. He said greek organizations I

should maintain contact with their na-
tional leadership and hold each other
accountable to the values expressed in
their rituals.

Datz directed an interactive work-
shop at the summit in which attendees
determined which actions and activi-
ties constituted hazing. Groups came
to a consensus and stood if they be-
lieved a certain behavior qualiﬁed as
hazing. Examples ranged from “play-
ing drinking games until vomiting”

to “cleaning the chapter house once a
week.”

The itinerary also included presen-
tations by Dr. Jennifer Sayre, Campus
Psychologist, and Dr. Jane Horton,
Director of Health Services on sexual
assault and alcohol abuse. The presen-
tations addressed both hard statistics '
on these issues and misperceptions by
the student body.

According to Horton, high-risk
drinking has been steadily declin-
ing at W&L for the last decade, but
students don’t perceive this change.
Horton attributed this to a small but
highly visible group of students who
sway public perception.

Sayre presented some startling sta-
tistics about sexual assault on campus.
Though it is one of the most underre-
ported crimes, data show that sexual
assualt is about twice as prevalent at
W&L compared with the national av-
erage on university campuses. Sayre
says this means about twenty women
a year are victimized.

During Sayre’s presentation there

was audible giggling from isolated
parts of the audience. Carson Bruno,
who served as Master of Ceremonies
for the event, characterized this as an
immature way of dealing with uncom-
fortable material.

“It’s a tough topic to discuss. It
makes a lot of people uneasy ,and
nervous. I think the reaction was a
way for those people to deal with the
topic.” '

The summit was sponsored by Or-
der of Omega, Panhellenic, the Inter-
fraternity Council, NPHC, the Office
of Student Activities & Greek Life,
and the Greek Vision Council.

Bruno said the event was a learn-
ing opportunity.

“We have one of the strongest - if
not the strongest - Greek communities
in the country, but that doesn’t mean
we are perfect. We do stupid things
sometimes, but if we can learn from
those and improve our chapters from
those lessons, we will build a strong
Greek community.” '

 

 

UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINVGTON. VA 24450

SCI 0 7 2008

 

THE RING-TUM PHI ' 2

MONDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2008

opinions

 

Vice Presidential alin

Abel Delgado saw Palin do what she needed to in the

By Abel Delgado
COLUMNIST

For Sarah Palin, the Vice
Presidential debate‘ could not
have been more dangerous.

She could have killed any
chance Republicans had of stay-
ing in the White House with one
poor response at the vice presi-
dential debate.

Instead she held her own
against Joe Biden, once again
beating expectations and con-
necting With the heartland and
‘silent majority.’

The past two weeks have been
one knife stab after another into
the McCain Campaign culminat-
'ing with the mindboggling deci-
sion to pull operations in Michi-
gan and keep them in Iowa.

Whether fair or not, McCain
is blamed for the Bush economy,
so it makes sense that recent
polls have him dropping faster
than the Dow Jones.

America’s love affair with
the Governor of Alaska was also

Homophobia shows disrespect

beginning to look like a short
ﬂing due to some embarrassing
responses to media questions.

What McCain needed was
a change of subject. He needed
people to stop thinking about
bailout and go back to what they
were thinking in early Septem-
her.

He needed Palin to legitimize
herself while attacking Obama,
and Palin did just that.

No, Palin did not beat Joe
Biden, but that wasn’t her inten-
tion. Biden had a great debate
answering questions and attack-
ing John McCain like any good
Democratic Vice Presidential
Candidate should.

But people weren’t paying at-
tention to Biden before the debate

and probably will not after. That.

might be good news for Demo-
crats, as Biden has the uncanny
ability to remind voters he has a
higher IQ than them, criticize his

own campaign’s “terrible” ads,.

and disagree with his running

mate on everything from troop
funding to clean coal. .

CNN’s David Gergen called
this the best debate of Biden’s
career. What was important was
more what Biden didn’t say than
what he did say.

rot, blaming the government for
corruption and mismanagement
and speaking straight to an angry
“Middle America.”

She had a folksy line here and
there but she had her fair share of
zingers too. She did two things

Palin was the main story coming out of the

debate and thats back to being a good thing

for Republicans. She was one part Ronald

Reagan and two parts Ross Perot...

Restrained doesn’t begin to
describe Biden’s responses in_ St.
Louis.

Palin was the main story com-
ing out of the debate and that’s
back to being a good thing for
Republicans.

She was one part Ronald
Reagan and two parts Ross Pe-

exceptionally well.

She repeatedly pointed out
how Biden criticized Obama
during the Democratic debates
for things that McCain is criti-
cizing him for now.

She also reminded everyone
that Biden once said he’d be
honored to run with McCain.

l/zce Presidential Debate

The second thing she did
was toss away the Bush-McCain
comparisons with one line, say-
ing that for a ticket committed to
the future Obama and Biden sure
focused a lot on the. past.

Apparently McCain’s laundry
list of examples where he fought
the Bush administration have not
been enough, so Republicans
might be better served making
Democrats look like they are
just whining about the past eight
years while McCain and Palin
focus on the future.

Palin drilled away at her topic
of expertise, energy indepen-
dence.

She avoided or quickly an-
swered some questions in order
to spend more time talking about
energy, something that connects
with voters every time they see
gas prices.

She lost the debate on foreign
policy, no surprise there, but she
arguably won the debate early on
domestic policy by connecting

with working-class Americans.
More importantly, she far sur-
passed the low expectations the
mainstream media set for her.

Palin didn’t have to win the
debate.

She doesn’t have to prove
she is experienced enough to be
president.

She has to prove she is expe-
rienced enough to be vice-presi-
dent and that Obama is not expe-
rienced enough to be president.

She needed to connect with
center-right America and she
needed to justify McCain’s
choice of her.

She took many steps in that
direction.

Perhaps the best indicator of
how Palin did was that a Demo-
cratic strategist said she set her-
self up well for 2012.

If McCain manages to con-
nect with Americans’ concerns
the way Palin did, Palin won’t
have to wait that long.

Its time to call out homophobia at W&L for what it is--disrespectful of GLBT students

By Jean Chapman
co rum msr

Monday, Sept. 29 marked the
start of National Coming-Out
Week on campus.

I know that as this is be-
ing read, it’s likely that the vast
majority of readers either aren’t
aware of this fact or are roll-
ing their eyes and saying “who
cares?”

That’s a problem, folks.

Whenever a gay rights is-
sue or statistic about the GLBT
community is presented, apa-
thy is rampant. Those statistics,
however meaningful, poignant,
or downright shocking, go right
over the heads of our oblivious
student body.

I don’t.mean to imply that
no one on campus cares, or that
things aren’t getting better. In
fact, there are quite a few people
who care, and things are getting
better.

The ﬁrst GSA meeting of
the year ﬁlled the Women’s Re-
source room in the Commons
to capacity. The Safe Place

Program, which offers students
an accepting and comfortable
location to talk about issues
of sexuality, gender, and other
personal issues, has been grow-
ing steadily since its inception.
Last spring, the GSA handed out
a record number of “Gay? Fine
by me” shirts on campus, and
students and teachers alike wore
them with sincerity, pride, and
enthusiasm.

So why, despite all of this
progress, do so many people
simply not care?

Or, what’s worse, why do so
many individuals on this campus
treat the issue of gay rights with

‘an utter lack of respect and out-
right contempt?

Why did the members of GSA
get openly laughed at as they put
up ﬂyers around campus?

Why did many of those same
ﬂyers get torn down by the next
morning?

‘ That’s right, it’s true. Several
of the volunteers putting up ﬂyers
were mocked right from the very
beginning of their midnight cam-

paign. One member of the GSA
reported that only minutes after
she put brochures in the lobby of
the Science Center, she saw stu-
dents who were studying there
gathered together making fun of

There are a lot of ﬂyers on
campus bulletin boards, dorm
halls, and academic buildings.

Just on my way to class this
morning I saw advertisements for
upcoming theater events, speak-

Apparently, our campus as a whole respects

the rugby club more than they respect their

fellow students. And, apparently, our campus

ﬁnds this discrepancy amusing as well.

the information in the pamphlets
and laughing out loud.

Flyers that were placed in the
academic buildings on the colon-
nade were torn down by 7:45 the
morning after they were put up.

Last year during this same
week, I saw several of the GSA
ﬂyers graﬁitied with obscene
and offensive phrases that don’t
bear repeating in decent conver-
sation.

ers, and concerts. I saw several
that provided me with statistics
and information on people who
were displaced by ﬂooding and
natural disasters in Asia; posters
like these are very common.

I found it particularly interest-
ing that no one tears these post-
ers down hours after they are put
up, and no one writes obscene
comments on them, either.

Apparently, our campus as a

whole respects the Rugby Club
more than they respect their fel-
low students. And, apparently,
our campus ﬁnds this discrep-
ancy amusing as well.

Let’s be honest with our-
selves here, people. Why is this
disrespect so funny?

Aren’t we all mature enough
as adults to take this kind of is-
sue seriously?

Read those statistics on the
ﬂyers, or pick up a brochure and
read it carefully.

Suicide, harassment, discrim-
ination, basic civil rights: none
of that is funny.

Issues inﬂuencing the GLBT
community affect us all. We
all have classmates, peers, and
probably friends or family, who
are gay, lesbian, bisexual or
questioning their sexuality.

At the very least, it’s our
responsibility to them to be in-
formed and respectful.

I know it can be difficult to
overcome old ways of thinking,
and I know that thinking about
these issues can feel uncomfort-

able sometimes.
That’s ﬁne. No one said this

‘had to be easy, noone said it was

going to be totally comfortable.
But when things are difﬁcult,
that’s when they’re the most im-
portant.

That’s when integrity and
honor really matter.

I’m not trying to get anyone
to radically change their opinion
here.

I’m not saying you have to
go vote for a certain candidate,
donate money to a cause, or vol-
unteer your time.

What I am asking for, though,
is for everyone who reads this
article to read one piece of infor-
mation about a GLBT issue this
week.

Read it and think about it
seriously, without laughing and
mocking. It’s not that hard.

Just think of it as an exercise
in respect, because in the end,
that’s what National Coming-
Out Week and the GSA are all
about: respect.

Your television is ruining America

Call him an old fogey if you want, but Crighton Allen sees little but swill on our television channels

By crlghton Allen
0 0 L U M N I ST

There is a pressing issue in
America that needs addressing
immediately: the swill that is
currently on my TV.

Make it stop.

Cable TV is one of the great-
est inventions of our or any other
time, but this is getting out of
hand. Have you ever seen The
Hills? I saw a rerun once this
summer and about ﬁve minutes
in, I began desperately longing
for Calculus class.

I know Lauren Conrad, Spen-
cer Pratt, and Co. aren’t exactly
Rhodes Scholar material, but
would it be a burden for them to
like, you know, speak a coherent
sentence in like, English?

I saw that Lauren will begin
writing a series of young adult
ﬁction novels called L.A. Candy
that will be “loosely based” on
her life. Oh, do tell. For those

English professors who are
scrambling to amend next year’s
syllabi, that’s C-0-N-R-A-D.

Some other offerings make
The Hills look like a Ken Burns
documentary.

How about Paris Hilton ’s My
New BFF or Busted? That sec-
ond offering might need some
further elaboration.

Two couples are brought to a
swanky resort, and then prompt-
ly separated and one partner is
paired for a romantic weekend
with one of their former squeez-
es. Their current partners are
then given various means to spy
on the newly reunited couples via
hidden microphones and touch
sensors. Alter the weekend, the
partners are forced to choose be-
tween their old or current signiﬁ-
cant other.‘

Classy.

Word of advice: if you must
watch it, don’t do so with Great
Aunt Mille or Father Joe. Talk

about awkward.

Unless you yourself are a
total hedonist, you have come
to realize.that we as a public do
not exactly possess the highest,
classiest taste.

Show a little skin, throw in
some male-female interaction,
struggle for a prize, and you’ve
got a show that will enthrall mil-
lions.

Sex and competition, that’s
what America does baby.

In that vein, how about this
for a show title: Dirty, Sexy Mon-
ey. I expect that show to have a
long successful run.

From what I’ve heard about
Gossip Girl, federal law should
require a warning disclaimer be-
fore public showings, but my 16-
year-old sister and her friends are
all up on Serena’s most recent
late-night cavorting involving
booze and boys.

Warms my heart.

The kicker in all this, though,

is that these shows are on the
air because they are demanded.
American television producers
may come up with dumb shows,
but they themselves are not.
They are smart enough to gauge
the tastes of the American pub-
lic.

After all, this is the same
American public that made Ti-
tanic the highest-grossing ﬁlm
ever.

I know we all are at once at-
tracted and repulsed by all this,
I get it. But I seriously believe
that Americans’ utter obsession
with this sleazy programming is
hurting us in the more ways than
one.

According to Nielson Media,
the average American watches
four and a half hours of TV a
day. I wonder how many hours
the average Chinese or Indian
watches per day?

I bet you Southern Inn brunch
it’s a darn sight less than 4.5.

As their economies continue
to grow and diversify, coupled
with their national cultural re-
spect for hard work, how much
longer can we expect to hold our
advantage when we can’t tear
our eyes off MTV?

People oftentimes bemoan
that “traditional values” — what-
ever that really means — have
eroded in America. I agree and I
think that these shows may have
something to do with it all.

Call me an old fogey, but
when kids today grow up in a
culture that promotes promiscu-
ous, immoral behavior, can we
really expect anything else?

Kids are going to watch TV;
there’s no way around that, but
when most of what is on the
tube today would make Britney
Spears blush, one has to ask if we
are shirking our duty in providing
our most impressionable citizens
with the proper role models.

Because like it or not, celebri-

ties, television personalities, and
athletes have vaulted into that
hallowed spot in the minds of
many American youth.

America, you’re better than
this.

Have your guilty pleasures;
everyone needs them, but back in
the day that used to mean Rocky
Road ice cream at midnight or
David Hasselhoff’s Greatest
Hits. .

We as a nation all are called
to a higher standard than most of
what cable TV has to offer. We
as a public have to power to take
back our televisions.

Refuse to watch these shows!
They’re trash and you know it.

Expect better of yourself. If
your life is that devoid of mean-
ing that you need to live vicari-
ously through reality TV stars,
go volunteer in a soup kitchen.

That is a far truer reality than
anything MTV or Fox can ever
have to offer.

 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2.008

 

THE RING-TUM PHI ° 3

opinions

THE RING-TUM PHI.

MANAGING EDITOR
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR

SPORTS EDITOR
COPY EDITOR

CONTRIBUTING WRITERS

DESIGN EDITOR
STAFF PHOTOGRAPHERS

BUSINESS MANAGERS

DISTRIBUTION MNGR.

LEE CAMPUS.

Iv Tl! Itubelil II! run In! Hunzlrl Illa: III?

ALLISON CHOPIN
JOHN HENDERSON
CODY BEAUCHAMP
CELESTE CRUZ-
CARANDANG

WILL DORRANCE
MICHAEL MORELLA

_CR|GHTON ALLEN

LIZ BLACKWOOD
ADAM CANCRYN

JEAN CHAPMAN

ABEL DELGADO
BRIAN DEVINE

LIZZ DYE

NEVILLE FOGARTY
STEPHANIE HARDIMAN
MORGAN HARRIS
JAMIE KIM

WILL MAYS

JOEL POELHUIS
BROOKE SUTHERLAND
VICTORIA TAYLOR

LARA JORDAN '
RYAN ELSEY
MORGAN HARRIS
STROCK MOORE
CHARLES PERSONS
ROB GEORGE

MISSION STATEMENT: it is the mission of THE
RING—TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community for students, faculty.
parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire
to spark discussions that lead to discovering
information that prompts change.

THE RING-TUM PHI IS PUBLISHED MONDAYS
DURING THE UNDERGRADUATE SCHOOL YEAR.
THE RING-TUM PHI IS A MEMBER OF THE MEDIA
BOARD, BUT IS OTHERWISE INDEPENDENT.
QUESTIONS OR CONCERNS ABOUT THE PHI
SHOULD BE ADDRESSED TO THE EDITORS AT
PHI@WLU.EDU OR TO THE MEDIA BOARD AT
MEDIABOARD@WLU.EDU.

IS AN INDEPENDENT, STUDENT-RUN EDITORIAL
OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE WORKING WITH ALL

MEDIA OUTLETS ON THE WASHINGTON &

ALL INQUIRIES WILL REMAIN
CONFIDENTIAL. THE RING—TUM PHI WELCOMES
ALL LETTERS. WE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO EDIT

SUBMISSIONS FOR CONTENT AND LENGTH. ,

LETTERS AND ADVERTISING DO NOT NECESSARILY
REFLECT THE OPINION OF THE RING-TUM PHI
STAFF. THIS NEWSPAPER OBSERVES CURRENT
COURT DEFINITIONS OF LIBEL AND OBSCENITY.

THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540) 458-4059
EMAIL: PHI@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

THE MEDIA BOARD

Central Elementary ‘School has

 long beneﬁted frorn_the support
. of members of the Washington
and Lee community -4 students

have mentored our students and
volunteered at the school, em-
ployees have rservcdon the PTA

 and faculty have shared their ex~

‘ pertise in our classrooms. Wash‘-

have installed the ﬁrst phase
. of our playground and hope to
complete the project during’ this
school year. ‘ A
In June, the University gener-
ously awarded the PTA $2,500
through its initial community
grants program, and in September,
15 student organizations planned

. ‘for coordinatingthefeve 
2 includedfthei Support of

-jpha, Nabors Service Leaggne, 

Thank you fofsltaring your time, talents, and treasures

with our school. ’ students beneﬁt from your interac-

tion with them,  our PTA is grateful for your ﬁnancial I

support. You are part of Central is’ village, and we invite

I , you to come play with us anytime.

ington and Lee has been partic-
ularly generous to Central this
year as the PTA has embarked on

a $35,000 fundraising project’ to

, install much-needed playground
, equipment for our students. We

and implemented a fantastic car-
nival attended by Central fami-
lies and members of the larger
community. We had so much fun
and were delighted to add more
than $2,000 to our playground

, Kappa Psi, Phi Kappa"

’ ‘ Thank you for ..sl1a_r_zng yo

fund; 
Kelly Bandy. and psy he

professor I Dr. wlulre «

  

Alpha, Chi Omega, Illjijeil ; Slginag
Theta, K3PP3*MPha.;tKa .

    
  
   
      
   
  

_ . PP
pha Theta, 'Kappa,13elta,f-—Kappa,,

Kappa Gannna,,.LambCla

A Sigma , P. pie:
Beta ‘Phi, Pi Kappa *1? Si V
Chi and Sigma Pni1Eps

‘ti_me,= talents, and. 
our school. .Our’,’students neﬁ
from your interaction , 

and our PTA is ‘for-your";
ﬁnancial support, Yozfiarejpart ;;
Central ’s » village, _ and ‘we,  e. .1
you to come play.;w‘ith=u‘s=‘an 
time. ~  I 

Wendy Lovell  I   I by   V
Central Playground Cotnrrnttee

 

Washington and Lee
Panhellenic Council
is hosting its
annual Halloween
Carnival!

October 26th from 12-3 PM
in the Wal-Mart Parking Lot  

Join us for fun filled family games, face
painting and food!

lllinors

continued from page 1

Professor Dennis Garvis of
Business Administration said
his department would not have

~ a minor.

“There was a wide variety of
opinions within the faculty. We
couldn’t reach an agreement,” he
said. “Even though some people
think we have a business school,
we don’t have a business school
here. We don’t have the typical
business major.”

Normally, a business school
will divide into many sections
such as marketing, management,
banking and entrepreneurship,
but that kind of curriculum is not
available at W&L, Garvis said.

“Some people might say we
have a general kind of degree,”

he said. “There is no specializa-
tion.”

The Business department is
concerned with the content of the
minor, if it were to have one.

“How much exposure to the
topic could you get?” asked Gar-
vis.

The Politics department is
also not planning to have a mi-
nor, said Politics Prof. Mark
Rush.

“At this point, we just don’t
feel the need to create minors,”
he said.

The English department, on
the other hand, is considering
proposing a creative writing mi-
nor, according to English Prof.
Lesley Wheeler. I

“Students have expressed in-
terest in studying creative writ-
ing before,” she said. This way,
those who want to study in Eng-
lish and another subject but do
not have the time for a double
major will be able to choose the

editorial

A minor thank you

Minors will make students more academically free

We all have good reason to be singing
praises for the faculty and administration
this week: last Monday the faculty voted
to allow academic departments to offer mi-
nors.

Thank goodness!

Of course, a lot of what makes W&L
such a ﬁne institution comes from what
makes us unique—things we have that other

education, in which students sample a wide
variety of courses rather than focusing on
one or two areas. But if this open-ended
education is so important, why were we ul-
timately limited to double majoring if we’re
interested in more than one area?

It’s true that employers and graduate
schools will want to see the variety of inter-
ests that comes with the liberal arts, but they

W&L students had been given a severe disadvantage in

not being able to minor in aﬁeld... The new minors will

allow many more students to tack on an extra ﬁeld of spe-
cialization...thank you, W&Lfacully! Itiv about time.

 

universities don’t. Spring Term. The Honor
System. Dressing up for football games. In
some areas, we’ll always have other schools
beat.

But W&L students had been given a se-
vere disadvantage in not being able to mi-
nor in a ﬁeld of study.

The reason for the lack of minors was,
supposedly, to encourage the liberal arts

also want to see a specialization. Or two.

It’s pretty difﬁcult to double major, es-
pecially for students with diverse interests
that require a dual degree. The new minor
will allow many more students to tack on an
extra ﬁeld of specialization.

Now professors and cleans have always
told us that it doesn’t matter that we don’t
have minors. We can take the classes we

want, and they will all show up on our tran-
scripts. But is every potential employer go-
ing to even see our transcripts? Probably
not. Even if the same courses are involved,
an applicant whose resume reads “Jounal-
ism major and French minor” is going
to look much more impressive than one
with “Joumaliam major and 12 credits in
French.” This is a case‘ where the title does
make a difference.

Some departments are worried that they
will be hurt by the change, anticipating that
fewer students will major if they have the
chance to minor. But the current situation
hurts students who give up their secondary
interest because they are unable to double
major. Students should be our ﬁrst priority.

Plus, minors will likely give rise to ﬁelds
of study that we haven’t seen before at
W&L. The English department would like
to create a minor in creative writing. Maybe
we’ll also see minors like photojournalism,
ﬁlm studies, or other new ﬁelds.

If we truly consider ourselves to be a
school that competes with other top col-
leges, this is something we’ve needed for
a while.

So, thank you, W&L faculty! It’s about
time. i

 
     
        
  

 

    

option of a minor.”

“The double major locks you
out of the elective courses and I
think one of the ideals of a liberal
arts education is intellectual ex-
ploration,” she said.

Wheeler expressed concern
that if some departments decide
not to create minors, it could
have a negative effect on depart-
ments that do have minors.

For example, students who
try to double major in English
and Politics and need to scale
down later would have to choose
an English minor and Politics
major.

“I wouldn’t like to see such
pressures dampen enrollments in
our upper-level courses,” Wheel-
er said.

Junior Darinka Truebutschek
had similar notions with regard
to having individual departments
set different policies for minors.

“That’s not fair,” she said.
“The school should have the

same policy in all departments.
You either have a minor or don’t
have a minor.”

“I think you don’t need the
title [of] ‘minor’ if you’re really
interested in a subject. You can
still take classes,” she said.

Spanish Prof. Florinda Ruiz
emphasized the practicality of
having a minor.

“It’s a result of the changing
nature of the job market,” she
said. “The university is trying to
accommodate the needs of the
graduates.”

Many students majoring in
one area don’t take all the cours-
es necessary for the Spanish ma-
jor, Ruiz said. And when they
go out into the job market with
a resume that says “near-native
Spanish” instead of “Spanish mi-
nor,” employers will most likely’
favor applicants with the latter
credentials.

“I only see it as an improve-
ment for offering the need to stu-

I

dents. I work outside the Univer-

_sity a lot and I can tell you that

many job markets want speciﬁc
certiﬁcates,” Ruiz said. “I’m all
for it. In language, a minor is
deﬁnitely a plus.” ,

Russian Prof. Anna Brodsky
expressed a similar view.

“Science major students just
don’t have the time to take cours-
es in the Russian language ma-
jor,” she said. “It’s great, I think,
for science majors to have an op-
portunity to minor in other areas
that they might be interested in.”

Sophomore Granvil George,
a Philosophy and Neuroscience
double major, said, “I think
some departments, like music,
will beneﬁt from having a minor
because most students who are
interested in studying music but
not to the extent of majoring in
it will gladly choose the option
of a minor.”

He said he would not choose
to minor himself, however.

‘‘I will still double major
because I want to leave my op-
tions open when I go to graduate
school,” George said.

“W&L students are awfully
bright and awfully ambitious,”
Crotty said. “Doub1e-majors
[changing to a minor] won’t be a
big problem.”

So far, most departments are
still in the process of deciding
whether to create minors. With
certain complexities that may
arise out of the situation, the ef-
fect of implementing minors is
hard to determine.”

“I think it’s a good move,”
Dobin said. “It allows students
to follow a coherent, structured
study in a secondary area of in-
terest and to show it on the di-
ploma. It’s a necessary option for
students.”

 

 

 

4 ' THE R.|NG-TUM PHI

M 0 N DAY, OCTOBER 6, 2008

arts&|ife

 

By Morgan Harris
STAFF WRITER

porch soul” style of Grey’s favorite
artists Otis Redding, Bill Withers,

Hot off the release of their new
album “Orange Blossoms,” criti-
. cally acclaimed Jacksonville, Fla.
blues-funk band J J Grey and Mofro
stopped by the Lime Kiln Theater
on Wednesday night for W&L’s
2008 homecoming concert put on
by General Activites Board (GAB).
Local bluegrass greats Larry Keel
& Natural Bridge kicked off the
evening with a stellar acoustic set.
 Grey*- and company played a
mix of tunes from all their albums,
opening and closing with two hot
numbers from their latest release—

and Donny Hathaway. Lime Kiln’s
beautiful outdoor setting perfectly
complemented the tunes.

The band got the okay from
Lime Kiln’s management to per-
form in an elevated area to the right
of the main stage that has never
been used before, but proved to be
a great spot nonetheless. Mofro’s
only complaint was “we eouldn’t

see anybody in the crowd because 
the lights were right in our eyes.”  *

Though Lime Kiln is often used
for concerts, this is the ﬁrst time

, the local landmark has been used

James Brown proud.

the roots-rock anthem “Everything
Good is Bad,” and “On Fire,” a hot
and funky jam that would make

To many fans’ surprise, there
was no encore, but the main course
was so good there was no need
for a dessert. The band featur-
ing JJ Grey on vocals, keys, and
guitar, Daryl Hance on electric
guitar, Adam Scone on the Ham-
mond Organ, Dennis Marion on
trumpet, Art Edmaiston on tenor
sax, and Anthony Cole on drums
was incredibly tight despite re-
cently adding a horns section and
transitioning to a new drummer.
They seamlessly segued between
blues, funk, soul, and R&B, pay-
ing homage to the eclectic “front

for a General Activities Board

Blues-funk at W&L

. MORGAN HARRIS / Staff Photographer
W&L students usher in this year’s homecoming to the sounds of J] Grey and Mofro

GAB hosts concert at Lime Kiln,JJ Grey and Mofro perform

event. “We’re really happy with the
results,” said GAB co-chair Grant
Thomas of the event. “We’ll deﬁ-
nitely be doing rnore events here in
the future.” Despite being further
away from campus than the Pavil-
ion, Limekiln was actually easier to 7
get to thanks to Traveler escorting
hordes of students in constant loop
from the quad.

This year’s Homecoming con-
cert was all about trying new
things- ;Though t11<:_...sliou didn’t
sell outisthose who atteéndedixliad a 2»-
great time and will surely be telling
all their friends about GAB’s awe-
some new venue that’s been in our

backyard the whole time.

    

MORGAN HARRIS / S f Photographer

1.! Grey was allowed to perform off the main stage

Artist exhibits landscape photos‘

Local photographer captures scenes of ‘natural beauty ’

By Liz Blackwood
STAFF WRITER

The Kamen Gallery in Washington
and Lee University’s Lenfest Center
will feature one of Lexington’s own
local photographers, Lloyd Goad.

The exhibit will be open for view-
ing until Dec. 4.

A tech coordinator at the univer-
sity, Goad lives in town and regularly
makes the beautiful scenery around
him the subject of his powerful pho-
tographs. Ranging from landscapes
of Virginia’s countryside to long
stretches of train track, “My Path,”
Goad’s current exhibit, is a reﬂeetion
of his goal to “capture the beauty of
ordinary situations.”

Although greatly inspired by his
local surroundings, Goad has trav-
eled to places as far away as Italy and
Greece to take his photographs. F 01-
lowing his wife’s death, Goad started
a fund to continue a trip she, as a local
high school Latin teacher, sponsored
to the Mediterranean each year.

During the trip, Goad took sev-

eral pictures. These photographs, of
the Aegean Sea, that are showcased
in his exhibit, are a personal favorite
of mine. Taken from the deck of a
ferry traveling from Italy to Greece,
two of the photos were shot at ﬁve
o’ clock in the morning. The smooth
luminescence provided by the rising
sun is just one of the many instances
in which the artist plays with varying
light.

No doubt the exhibit is uniform in
its selection of favorite landscapes;
however, the times of day and year
in the pictures range dramatically.
Snow, sunshine, clouds are featured
stars in his pictures.

“I try to capture the natural beauty
in the world,” Goad said in a recent
interview. “The moment I realize I’m
looking at something spectacular, I
take a picture ofit.”

Landscapes, however, are not
Goad’s only subjects, although, they
are greatly favored in his portfolio.
The artist has taken portraits of some
that are close to him, but usually his
pictures that feature people are those

IGoad’s preferred medium.

that he takes of his colleagues in the
Williams’ School. “You know, for
books or something. I’ll do head-
shots.”

Photography hasn’t always been
In col-
lege, he wanted to paint. “But I
was pretty lousy at it,” he said with
a laugh. Soon after this realization,
Goad picked up a camera and began
taking pictures. “I was told my pho-
tographs were pretty good, so I kept
taking more.”

Obviously, what was once just
an alternative to Goad has become a
full-ﬂedged passion of his. The Cor-
pus Christi, Texas native carries his
camera everywhere he goes in case
he stumbles across something “spec-
tacular.”

“I like photography because I’m
capturing scenery instead of creating
it on a canvas like with painting.”

Yet, Goad has managed to create
several striking windows in his ex-
hibit. Check out Lloyd Goad’s photo-
graphs yourself anytime from 9 a.m.
to 4 p.m., Monday through Friday.

Gay-straight educates "

GSA spreads the word about coming out week

By Stephanie Hardlman
surr wnman

Washington and Lee’s Gay-Straight
Alliance (GSA) celebrated National Com-
ing Out Week last week with an attempt to
educate the campus about gay issues.

GSA president Krishna Rao said the
group posted ﬂiers around campus late
Sunday night with facts and statistics about
being gay. They left Skittles candies with
myths and facts about the _ gay community
stapled to them in Leyburn Library, Elrod
Commons, and the science center for any-
one to take.

National Coming Out Week is orga-
nized by the Human Rights Campaign
which supports equality through lobbying
for gay people. The week is ofganized and
observed internationally. The goal is to
discuss alternative lifestyles and celebrate
the lifestyle choices that everyone, gay or
straight, has made.

GSA also showed the ﬁlm Boys Don’t
Cry in the Stackhouse Theatre on Thurs-
day. The movie follows the real life of
Brandon Teena, a transgendered young
adult who chooses to live her life as a man.
When Brandon’s friends discover he is not
who he seems, the consequences are fatal.

Boys Don ’t Cry is now available along
with over 60 other ﬁlms and books on les-
bian, gay, bisexual, and transgendered is-
sues in Leybum Library. GSA donated the
media over the summer after realizing the
library lacked material on this subject.

GSA vice president Tim Kirby believes
this material is vital to the campus. “It’s a
basic thing that the university should have,
and it’s very relevant to today,” Kirby
said.

Rao made a point to mention that in

addition to ﬁctional ﬁlms, GSA included
many scholarly sources in their donation
such as the Encyclopedia of Gay and Les-
bian Popular Culture.

The gift known as the Leybum Library
Project was valued at over $3,000, said
Kirby who compiled the list of media dur-
ing spring term.

Kirby hopes that GSA’s initiatives will
create a more accepting environment for
LGBT students on campus. Statistically,
Kirby and Rao both said that there should
be more gay students on campus.

With approximately 10 to 15 W&L
students out of the closet, Kirby wonders
where the others are. “What is going on?
[The situation] raises that question,” Kirby
said. “If there really are only 12 [gay stu-
dents], why is that? You have to look at
the atmosphere of the campus . . . why are
people still in the closet?” Kirby said.

W&L’s GSA hopes to address some
of these questions. The group has about
30 active members and is open not only
to those with a LGBT lifestyle but also to
straight people, commonly known as “al-
lies,” who support an open and safe cam-
pus for alternative lifestyles.

Rao said that GSA will sponsor its An-
nual Drag Show on Saturday, Oct. 18 on
the law school lawn. The event will be
a fundraiser for the Human Rights Cam-
paign. The event will be free to the public,
but donations are welcome. Rao said the
best way to enjoy the Drag Show is to par-
ticipate with an act. Participants dress up
as the opposite gender and may sing, lip
sync, or perform an act of their choosing.

Individuals interested in the Drag Show
or in joining GSA can contact Krishna Rao
at raom@wlu.edu

  Way-ttoonormal

Ben Folds ’latest album lacks his classic edge

By Michael Morella
c o PY E o ITO R

Ben Folds has always been deft at han-
dling life’s quirky little details: from de-
manding dinners back from ex-girlfriends
to delicately rendering Dr. Dre songs for
piano, the man has a way with words. But
on his third solo album, the pioneer of pia-
no rock delivers an album caught between
styles and moods, but lacking in the edge
that made him famous.

Way To Normal is Folds’ third solo stu-
dio album since he ditched his backing
band, Ben Folds Five, in 2000. Yet it’s
something like his ninth or tenth actual re-
lease, including live material, b-sides, and
his amazing work with his former group.
The proliﬁc 42-year-old music school
dropout has always has a penchant for
stringing together perfect little pop narra-

Regina Spektor, who provides a cute com-
plement to Folds’ ode to words best¥left
unsaid. Like so many of the songs on the
album, the track is undeniably catchy, but
nothing too far out of the ordinary from his
previous work.

Songs like “Free Coffee” and “Brain-
wascht” sound like familiar tracks in the
Ben Folds catalogue, but something about
them just doesn’t hold up. Folds has some
tricks up his sleeve, as he demonstrates
with the synth loop that begins “The
Frown Song” and the brief instrumental
interlude that introduces “Cologne,” ap-
propriately titled “Before Cologne.” But
even with all the frills, some of the songs
fall ﬂat, ﬁnding Folds treading over the
same subjects and employing some token
piano-pop conventions. Even while the
Billy-Joel-meets-Charlie-Brown arrange-
ment of “Eﬂington” sounds fresh and ex-

Ben Folds has always been deft at handling life is quirky
little details ﬂom demanding dinners back from ex-girl-

friends to delicately rendering Dr Dre songs...But on his

third solo album...delivers an album...lacking in edge

tives. And just as Folds has always used
pop culture against itself - see “Rockin’
the Suburbs,” Folds’ ode to his own lame-
ness — he weaves references to Anthropol-
ogie and CourtTV into this album’s lyrics,
always good for a chuckle.

This album is book-ended by two fan-
tastic songs: the ﬁrst, “Hiroshima,” recalls
an embarrassing performance injury in
his trademark epic goofball fashion. And
the closer, “Kylie From Connecticut,” is a
gorgeous little lament for a former lover,
complete with swirling strings and some
of Folds’ most impassioned vocals to date.
“Cologne” is another nice vignette, recall-
ing “Fred Jones Pt. 2” and some of the
other somber work he has done. And “Er-
rant Dog,” with its pulsing bass and spastic
drums, recalls the glory days of Ben Folds
Five. Folds continues to demonstrate that
he can switch from silly to serious with a
simple ﬂick of the wrist on the keys.

The album’s ﬁrst single, “You Don’t
Know Me,” ﬁnds Folds sharing vocal du-
ties with fellow singer/songwriter/pianist

citing, the lyrics fall ﬂat, almost too clever
for their own good.

One need only take note of the Paren-
tal Advisory sticker on the cover of the
album: Folds litters Way To Normal with
enough cursing and vulgarity to make even
Tipper Gore squeamish. While swearing
can be an art form, Folds splatters it all
over his canvas, marring what might oth-
erwise be a ﬁne collection of songs with
urmecessary “character” and over-the-top
gooﬁness. This album will grow on you,
but I don’t know if you’ll see it at the top
of any “Best of 2008” lists. At this stage in
his career, it would be hard for Folds to not
catch ﬂak from fans with whatever move
he makes, so at the very least he sounds
like he’s having ﬁin.

But while I still know all the words
to “One Angry Dwarf and 200 Solemn
Faces,” I can only hope that I’ll know the
words to some of these a few years down
the line.

 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2008

THE RING-TUM PHI ' 5

 

arts&life

Poet goes
beyo_n_d literary
trad rtlon  

Jeﬂers ’ poetry inﬂuenced
by Biblical and Native
American themes

By Jean Chapman
STAFF WRITER

Honoree Fanonne J effers, poet and associate professor of Eng-
lish at the University of Oklahoma, read from her work on Thurs-
day in the Staniar Gallery in Wilson Hall.

The event was sponsored by the Glasgow Endowment for vis-
iting writers which brings several writers to campus each year.
Professor Wheeler, Chair of the English Department and head of
the committee for the Glasgow Endowment, said that Jeffers was

“I don ’t do humorous poetrjy...it doesn’t
hurt my feelings when people say it is

sad. ”

Honoree Fanonne Jeffers, poet and OU professor of
English

chosen as the ﬁrst in this series of writers because of her incred-
ible talent and because of how well her work corresponded to
Professor Deborah Miranda’s course on twentieth century litera-
ture by women of color.

The gallery was ﬁlled with students, faculty, and staff, greeted
by Professor Wheeler who introduced J effers, praising her poetry
for its incorporation of spiritual, secular, and musical elements.
In particular, Professor Wheeler praised J effers’ ability to connect
the location of the writei toltlie meaning of the po'em.a*nd her i'1bil-
ity to “respect literary tradition by challenging it.”

After this brief introduction and a few additional comments,
J effers opened the reading by reciting a poem from her first book
of poetry entitled “The Gospel of Barbecue.” She prefaced her
reading by explaining to the audience that for a short period she
discontinued reading the poem “Tuscaloosa River Song” because
of the repetition of the name of Tuscaloosa, which is considered
disrespectful in Native American culture. However, after receiv-
ing a vision of Tuscaloosa himself giving her permission, she felt
called to continue reading his story.

Once Jeffers began to read her poem, the audience was hyp-
notized by the power and the emotion of her reading. Her style of
poetry is at once musical, rhythmic, enchanting, intimidating, and
fascinating. In between poems, Jeffers herself admitted that her
poetry often makes people “feel sad.”

However, as she put it, “I don’t do humorist poetry. . .it doesn’t
hurt my feelings when people say it’s sad.” Despite the serious
nature of her poetry, Jeffers was an engaging performer, joking
and laughing with the audience as well as taking requests.

Jeffers later read a selection of poems from the perspectives
of the Old Testament ﬁgures Abraham, Sarah, Hagar, and Lot’s
wife. The latter poem in particular stood out as a challenging,
deep, and poignant piece by simultaneously narrating the story of
Sodom and Gomorrah while also capture the intensely emotional
character of Lot’s wife.

To conclude her reading, Jeffers ﬁnished with three poems fo-
cusing on Native American culture and life. She connected her
personal genealogy and her current residence in Oklahoma as well
as a vision of her ancestor who demanded to be remembered.

The third of these poems, which had been requested earlier by
junior Lucy Hundley, was dedicated to a former student of Jef-
fers’ who was a Sun Dancer in his tribe. The ritual of Sun Danc-
ing, Jeffers said, is an annual spiritual celebration of the earth in
which men are able to honor the pain of women in childbirth. The
ritual is extremely physically demanding, yet the Sun Dancers
claim that, when they are connected with the spirit moving them
to dance, they are unable to feel the pain at all.

After the reading had ﬁnished, sophomore Carson Haddow
described the reading as “interesting, engaging...dramatic, but
not overdramatic.” '

He added that he was impressed by the way in which the poet
highlighted the musicality of her verse and the way in which Jef-
fers’ distinctive voice reﬂected her poetry.

Miranda expressed similar sentiments, complimenting Jeffers’
voice and intonation.

“It is always different to‘ watch and see the poet reading” their
work, and “not all poets are good readers, but she [Jeffers] is
good,” she said. '

Ultimately, the entire audience was entranced by Honorée J ef-
fers’ unique style of poetic presentation. She captivated. both the
emotions and the attention of the diverse audience by presenting
her work with energy, sincerity, and incredible skill.

Art students take charge

Students organize, attempt to build arts community

Bywlll Mays
smrr warren

“This building was not con-
structed for the faculty, it was
constructed for you. It was con-
structed for the students, and you
should have a sense of owner-
ship,” Professor George Bent
said with regards to Wilson Hall
on Wednesday.

Bent was addressing a con-
gregation of Washington and
Lee students and professors alike
gathered in Wilson Hall for the
sake of establishing a true arts
community here at W&L.

After elaborating on efforts
made by previous students at
W&L, Bent gave the ﬂoor to his
fellow professors, or “the croco-
diles in the back of the room,” to
pipe in before leaving the class-
room and allowing the students
to voice their suggestions.

Bent was adamant that stu-
dents should lead the front for
any and all efforts made towards
promoting and supporting W&L
arts and improving Wilson Hall.
Furthermore, Professor Gordon
Spice encouraged students to
“think about what isn’t in Wil-
son,” while Rob Mish, the Di-
rector of the Lenfest Center for
the Arts, reminded students that
“When things are done and done
well and are good for the Univer-
sity, they are done by students.”

With a few more words and
suggestions from the faculty, the

“crocodiles” exited and the stu-
dents began a sort of forum for

inaugurating this new society.‘

Students from all facets of the
arts spectrum discussed what
they want and need from Wil-
son Hall to transform the Lenfest
complex into a truly idealized
“arts village."

Students and faculty agreed
that Wilson is an academic cen-
ter and, more importantly, a stu-
dent center, yet the Hall itself is a

bit sterile and uninviting to those

members of the W&L communi-
ty who don’t have classes there.

Students discussed many
ideas to better Wilson and make
it a building in which the whole
community, regardless of their
arts aﬂiliation, would want to
spend time.

Students initially threw
around ideas for a lounge or
hangout in Wilson. The building,
dedicated in October of 2006, is
one of W&L’s newest resources
and is of great value to the arts
community here, yet nearly ev-
eryone involved in the meeting
concurred that the Hall severely
lacks a place for students to meet
and do work.

Many students agreed that
Wilson’s isolation and distance
from the rest of campus only em-
phasizes the fact that it needs a
better place for students to con-
gregate than the existing atri-
um. With the idea of something

“Starbucksy” in mind, students
couldn’t stress enough that a
lounge in the vein of a true cof-
fee shop would not only provide
people with a place to meet, but
it would also be a great resource
to those in search of food or caf-

“This building was

not constructed for

the faculty...It was
constructed for the
students, and you
should have a sense of

ownership. ”

George Bent, Professor of Art
Hlstory
 
feine who don’t want to make
the long hike across campus to
the Co-op. Many students also
seemed content with, if nothing
else, couches and a coffee kiosk
similar to those in the Leybum
Library.

While still discussing Wil-
son, students lamented the fact
that there wasn’t an ideal place
to study or otherwise do work in
the Hall. There are many exist-

ing computer labs in Wilson, yet
students noted that these labs are
usually to be used exclusively
by students in certain ﬁelds of
the arts. With these labs being
opened to all students, the con-
gregation noted Wilson could be
a good alternative to Leybum for
doing work.

The meeting was called to
discuss Wilson Hall, but its other
purpose was to establish a new
society to promote and foster the
arts outside of Wilson. Students
agreed that, in general, such
promotion as posters and cal-
endars should be better utilized
and placed in very visible loca-
tions around campus while also
possibly extending promotion to
such online sources as email and
Facebook.

Also, the ideas of an Arts Fes-
tival, student critique nights, a
newsletter, and the possibility of
tying the Art department to other
departments on campus were met
with much approval by the gath-
ering.

On the whole, the gather-
ing was intent on establishing
a sense of an Arts community
at W&L and getting the school
excited about the Arts. Meetings
will be held in Wilson weekly on
Wednesdays for all those inter-
ested.

Crossword of the week

Course Offerings
Neville L. Fogarty

ACROSS
1. Score
6. Energy drink brand
10. Movement of Man
Ray
14. Where oogenesis
occurs
15. it may require a
blue book
16. Like some cheese
17. Convention center,
e.g.
18. Middle: Prefix
19. Jamie Lynn and

Britney Spears
DANC 390
Homeland of Kahn
on "King of the Hill"
"Triple" Long
lsland lced Tea
ingredient

Tase

It comes right
before
hammertlme
Soaks

Ages

Sheltered, at sea
Language spoken
in a "—stan" country
LATN 201

TV studio sign
Venetian
magistrate

Start to freeze?
Prepared a pretzel,
perhaps

Smelting waste
"Silent Night"
adjective

51. __ de Triomphe
53. 11,000-foot Italian
peak

BIOL 243

Was in the red

On guard
Dentist's order
Caspian Sea
feeder

Buffalo's county
Big dipper

20.
23.

24.

25.
28.

30.
35.
37.
39.

40.
43.
44.

45.
46.

48.
50.

55.
62.
63.
64.
65.

66.
67.

 

 

1 2 3 4 5
14 15
17 18
2o 21
3
25 26 27 8
35 3e 37
4o 41
43 4 5
46 ' 47 8 49 so
52 53 54
58 59 so 61
62 3 4
65 6 7
es 9 70 3
@2003
68. Hunt and peck 12. Audition tape 47. Remunerator
69. Managed, with 13. Commercials’ 49. Hip—hop duo "__
_ "out" 21. General Mills Barkley"
70. Turkey's skin flap - cereal 52. Dean's role
22. Misbehave opposite Teri
DOWN 25. "Beetle Bailey" and 54. For the birds?
1_ PBS program "Holes" characters, 55. Haywire
2_ Dennyrs dish for two 56. Tide type
"Moons My 26. Madison Square 57. Like some threats
Hammy'7""' Garden, e.g. 58. French cheese
3_ space drink 27. Audience many 59. Chinese leader?
4_ Dracorrran Catholics hope to 60. 1952 Olympics site
5, shenzr, Banzai, have _ 61. He played Mike
and Ed 29. Cowboy Bill Brady
5_ Dough or gelatin, 31. Book before 62. In the open
e_g_ Nehemiah
7. They tend to die 32- |v0ry’s partner
when you try to 33. Basil-based sauce
ford rivers 34- V Of 99339
8. Diamond corners? 35- Clubs. Perhaps
9, Acts 38. Observant 1
10. What Rhett Butler 41- Freshwater fish
doesn’t give 42- Not o'er

1 1. Awestruck

 

  

 

 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2008

THE RING-TUM PHI

    

- 6

  sports

 

 

Football wins first ODAC game

Defense steps up in 28-16 win over Randolph-Macon

By Brlan Devlne
STAFF WRITER

The new Wilson Field is
proving quickly to be a stage
for the dramatic. In the football
opener at the new venue two
weeks ago, Washington and
Lee beat Southern Virginia in
the ﬁrst game ever between the
two local rivals.

This time the occasion was
Homecoming, with all its asso-
ciated spectacle, and the oppo-
nent was one that the Generals
have come to know very well.
W&L responded beautifully,
opening its conference sched-
ule with a comprehensive 28-16
victory over Randolph-Macon.

The Yellow Jackets have re-
cently been one of the weaker
teams in the Old" Dominion
Athletic Conference, but last
season they shocked every-
one by ﬁnishing second in the
conference after being picked
to ﬁnish last at the start of the
season. i

This year the Yellow Jack-
ets, and their dynamic tailback
Zak Thornton, would sneak up
on nobody. Thornton was the
conference’s leading rusher last
year and easily R-MC’s most
important player.

When asked before the game
how he intended to stop the vis-
itors’ otfensive talisman, Gen-
erals’ head coach Frank Miri-

    

ello said, “We’ve faced some
good running backs the last few
weeks. We’ll be ﬁne.”

And true to their coach’s
word, the Generals’ defense
held Thornton to his worst per-
formance in a season that'has
already started to go wrong for
the Jackets -— just 37 yards on
14 carries.

The Yellow Jackets never
held the lead in the contest but
did not elect to rely on their
passing game until the fourth
quarter, when they were already
down 28-3. When they did so,
quarterback Austin Faulkner
was impressive; he ﬁnished just
short of 300 yards passing but
fell two scores short of an im-
possible comeback.

The victory, then, was won
early in the game, on the shoul-
ders of ﬁrst-year quarterback
Charlie Westfal. With the visi-
tors’ defense no doubt plan-
ning to stop W&L’s outstand-
ing rusher Stuart Sitterson,
they seemed unprepared to deal
with the ﬁrst-year signal-caller.

I /""‘ ' i .
INGENTIVE
As a recent college gra.d,‘you may
be eligible for 3.3400 Incentive

on any new Toyota. of your choice
 in addition to other incentives.”
A See your Toyota dealer for details.

Westfal had his best day on the

stat sheet, 127 yards and two
touchdowns through the air plus
87 yards and one touchdown on
the ground. Sitterson turned
in another solid performance,
if not the electrifying display
from two weeks ago. He racked
up 135 yards rushing and the
Generals’ ﬁrst touchdown.

But the biggest credit for
the win has to go to the W&L
defensive front seven. The de-
fensive line pressured Faulkner
all day and plugged the gaps
that Thornton, fundamentally
a “north-south” or “downhill”
runner, needed open to gain
yardage.

Behind them the linebacking
corps was outstanding. Right-
side standout Matt Cassilly had
twelve total tackles, a fumble
recovery, an interception and a
sack.

The entire unit logged 22
tackles and the defense as a
whole limited the Jackets, a run-
ﬁrst team through and through,
to just 92 yards rushing. This
forced R-MC to play catch-
up through the air, when the

Generals’ pass defense proved
much more suspect. Faulkner
threw for two touchdowns, but
needing a third, the Jackets de-
cided to go to the ground game
once again after getting inside
the W&L three yard-line. True
to form, the W&L front seven
stopped four consecutive rushes
up the middle and the Jackets’
momentum was halted.

W&L now emerges with a 4-
lrecord(l-1 in ODAC play) and
have not lost at home in eleven
games. With Randolph-Macon
slipping to 2-3 (1-1 ODAC) the
Generals have to be considered,
along with defending champi-
ons Hampden-Sydney, among
the favorites for this year’s con-
ference crown. But slipping in
the fourth quarter, as they did
this week and last week against
Averett, will not be an option
against a relentless and talented
Tigers team. First, however,
the Generals will travel to our
nation’s capital to face Catholic
University, another weaker con-
ference foe, next Saturday.

Volleyball Wins
two matches

Team beats Mary Washington and
Mary Baldwin in straight games

By Wlll Dorrance
SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee
volleyball team tallied two
more wins Saturday to an
already impressive season.
The Lady Generals beat Mary
Washington 3-0 and Mary
Baldwin 3-0 in the double
header to bring the season’s

. record to 14-4.

W&L’s ﬁrst opponent was
Mary Washington, who entered
the contest with a record of 11-
8. The Eagles fell behind early
and were never able to get back

into the game, losing 25-18, 26-

24, and 25-21.

Junior outside hitter Rachael
Phillips led the Generals in the
early game with 11 kills, but
senior right side Jess Ulrich
was not far behind with nine.
Junior setter Megan Steinhardt
notched 31 assists while junior
libero Kelly Harrison dug 21
balls._

In W&L’s second match of
the Homecoming weekend, the
team faced off against familiar
Mary Baldwin. The Generals
played the Fighting Squirrels
for the second time this season.
The teams’ ﬁrst meeting of the
season was back on Sept. 5 at
the W&L Invitational. W&L
held the upper edge that day,

sweeping Mary Washington
3-0.

Sophomore defensive
specialist Summer Goldberg

thinks that the earlier meeting -

helped prepare the team for
Saturday’s match-up.» “[On
Sept. 5], we thought it was
going to be easy, but we
realized we had to work just as
hard.”

A different day brought the
same result: W&L did not drop
a game, winning 25-21, 25-20,
and 25-10. Ulrich led the team
in this one with 11 kills and
seven digs. Sophomore outside
hitter Marah Schmitz and
senior right side Alex Scaggs
tallied eight and six kills,
respectively. Steinhardt earned
17 assists while sophomore
setter Jenna Finger contributed
1 0.

With the non-conference
victories, the Generals brought
their win streak to four after
dropping four out of six
matches. Next up for W&L is
an ODAC match Tuesday at
6:30 p.m against Lynchburg.
“The wins [Saturday] helped
build our conﬁdence after
having a not-so-great weekend
in Atlanta [Sept. 19-20 at the
Emory Invitational] to get
us ready for Tuesday against
Lynchburg.”

  ®TovoTA

moving forward

   lluyatoyotacom

 

  

 

 

 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2008

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

7

 

sports

Junior forward Stephanie Mansey scores the tying
Generals went on to win the game 3-2 in overtime.

MORGAN HARRlS/ Staff Photographer

goal in Friday’s game against Eastern Mennonlte. The

Field hockey splits series

Team I§eat.s7Eaisirer1?zilllennonite 13-2, loses  -2 

By Lizz Dye
STAFF WRITER

The Generals’ home ﬁeld hockey game
Friday night ended in a stunning 3-2 over-
time victory against the Eastern Mennonite
University Royals.

Down by two goals in the second half,
the Generals rallied back during the last
17 minutes to tie up the score and go into
overtime. Junior captain Sallie Armstrong
scored the game-winning goal just two
minutes into overtime off an assist from
sophomore midﬁelder Emmy Matthews.
It was her ﬁfth of the season.

Armstrong stated, “It was a team effort,
and you could really feel the momentum
change on the ﬁeld. EMU couldn’t keep up
their intensity as we began to dominate the
play.”

Eastern Mennonite took the lead 10
minutes into the ﬁrst half with a goal from
junior midﬁelder Julie Denlinger. EMU
scored again in the second half at the 40:19
mark with a goal from sophomore forward
Katie Cimini.

The tide changed whensSenior forward
and captain Christina Merchant lifted a ball
over the goalie’s head off of a pass from
senior defender and captain Liz Garson to

bring the score to 2-1.

A goal less than 5 minutes later from
junior forward Stephanie Mansey, assisted
by ﬁrst-year forward Christina Benedetti,
tied the game up and took the ODAC bout
into overtime.

Junior defender Grace. McGee would
like to think that Friday’s second-half mo-
mentum will propel the Generals to more
victories. “We fought hard in the second
half, and it paid off. We played our game
and set the bar for the rest of the season~—it
was liberating!”

Armstrong’s clutch goal kept the Gen-
erals undefeated at home and brought the
ﬁeld hockey team to an overall 3-5-0 re-
cord and a 1-1 record in ODAC play.

Garson noted the importance of this
comeback ODAC win. “Beating EMU
was a huge win for us. It was great to prove
to ourselves that we can come from behind
to win a big game.”

Junior goalkeepter Caroline Habliston
had three excellent saves while sopho-

more defender Jennie Norcini came up
with a scrappy defensive save on a corner
for the Generals. Habliston truly saved the
game for the Generals, who were outshot
13-9 by EMU.

Merchant summed up the game: “Fri-

day’s win over EMU was huge for us
since they were ranked ﬁrst in the ODAC.
The energy on the ﬁeld was incredible,
and once we scored, the tide of the game
shifted completely, and EMU was caught
off guard.”

“Once we began playing like a team
and connecting our passes, there was no
hope for EMU,” she added. “Even though
they were still winning at one point, we all
seemed to know that we would do what-
ever it would take to win the game.”

In the second game of the Homecoming
series, W&L faced off against Mary Wash-
ington in a non-conference match-up Sun-
day. The game went scoreless through the
entire ﬁrst half, but the fans saw a sudden
spurt of three goals in ﬁve minutes.

Mary Washington got on the board ﬁrst
with a goal from junior forward Chelsea
Brown, but the Generals responded with a
goal of their own by sophomore forward
Kathy Brown. The tie was shortlived as
junior Sarah Trirnble’s goal handed the
Eagles the lead they never gave up.

The team returns to action Thursday at
7 p.m. against Roanoke.

 

MORGAN HARRiS/ Staff Photographer’

The field ‘hockey team celebrates junior forward Sallie Armstrong’s overtime goal.

Located at

Great food «ii a great collection of
Antique Pedal Cars a Tin Toys?

L_""=‘—.._."""

458-8595

careers@w|u.edu

39%;; 4 Peatmmcmt
PEDAL CAR i)m«;R & TIN Tor Cmi

Order from our complete menu
arm»: Mfr’0J’0W1Ll.*’01+’.941‘f¥%tU?¥£/liiiri    

.~. .-‘-w£:.‘'vt 4?»

Friday Night Seafood Buffet with Crab Legs 5pm~10pm
Saturday Night Prime Rib Dinnar5pm-10pm
Sunday Baked Chicken, Pork Loin, & Pot Roast 11am-9pm
Friday & Saturday Late Night Breakfast Bar i0pm~2am
Breakfast Bar 7 ‘Days a Week Sam-11am
{Daily Hot Country Bar Mam-10pm
Daily Soup, Salad, & Fruit Bar 1 lam-10pm

(i)rcier B.reakfast 24 Hours a day, 7 days a. weekl

Home‘ Ca(2kedMet11s & Stmrheriz Hospglality.’

LEI IIIMIIIPMZI

1-81 & L64. Exit 195. 2516 North 1,.ee1‘!vry.._ Ltzxizigioii. VA

541}-4636478

 

 

"‘THE CAREER
COUNSELOR
IS IN. . 

DURING
READING
«DAYS
Oct. 10-11

DROP BY FOR V
MINTS and ADVICE!

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

CAREERSERVICES

http://careers.w|u.edu

  

MONDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2008

8 s

sports

 

 

Mon Tues WED Tnuns FRI SAT SUN
at
Football catholic
1 p.m.
at vs
H9“ Roanoke KenY0n
Hockey
7 p_m_ 11 a.m.
vs at
Men's Lynchburg] Guiiford
s°°°°' 4 p.m. 1 p.m.
‘'5 at
ws‘““°“’5 Eastem Lynchburg
0|:
‘:9’ Mennonite 7 mm
4 p.m.
at
volleyball Lynchburg at Averett Invitational
6_:30 p.m.
VIIomon’s
X0
Men's
X6
Women's:
at ODAC individual Championships
Tennis
at
Rldlng Hoilins »
Invite

  

  numbers

0

The number of times that the Ball State University football team had

 

been ranked in the Associated Press Top~25 Poll before Sunday.

5

The number of professional athletes to win both the Rookie of the Year
and MVP in the same season. The WNBA’s Candace Parker, a forward
for the Los Angeles Sparks, garnered both awards after averaging I

18.5 points and 9.5 rebounds a game in 2008.

10,074

Career receiving yards by Kansas City Chiefs tight end Tony Gonzalez,
who broke Shannon Sharpe's record of 10,060 career receiving yards

in Sunday's 34-0 loss to the Carolina Panthers.

The number of points scored by the Indianapolis Colts in the final
2:10 of Sunday’s 31-27 victory over the winless Houston Texans. The

comeback win kept the Colts from going 1-3—what would have been

the team's worst start since Peyton Manning’s rookie seasonlin 1998.

box

“Once we began playing like a team and connect-

 

ing our passes, there was no hope for EMU. Even
though they were still winning at one point, we
all seemed to know that we would do whatever it

would take to win the game.”

W&L ﬂeid hockey senior captain Christina Merchant after the team
beat Eastern Mennonite 2-1 in overtime Friday. EMU was In ﬂrst place
In the ODAC at the time.

“It’s not shocking. Nothing is shocking. l’ve said
once you get into the postseason, all eight teams
start equal and they all have chances. I was con-
cerned about our offense coming into this thing,
I'll be honest with you. And basically my concerns
were realized. What can I say?”

Chicago Cubs manager Lou Plniella after his team lost Saturday 3-1
to the Los Angeles Dodgers to be swept out of the National League
Division Series for the second straight year. in the regular season,
the cubs had the best record in the National League.

RYAN ELSEY / Staff Photographer

First-year forward Allie Espina maneuvers the ball around a Randolph-Macon defender Saturday. Espina
scored her seventh goal and added her second assist of the season in the Generals’ 3-0 win.

3 ﬁrst—years score to put team past Randolph-Macon

By Adam cancryn
STAFF WRITER

A relentless attack led by a trio of ﬁrst-
year forwards carried the Washington and
Lee women’s soccer team to a 3-0 win
over Randolph-Macon on Homecoming
weekend.

Despite playing without leading goal-
scorer Ann Van Devender, the Generals
spent the match almost entirely in their
opponent’s territory, peppering the goalie
with a total of 34 shots.

First-year Allie Espina opened the
scoring in the 13"‘ minute, chasing down
a through ball and ﬁring a shot past the
keeper. The goal gives her seven total on
the season, but it was the only time in the
ﬁrst half W&L could ﬁnd the back of the
net. A few unlucky breaks and solid goal-
keeping from the Yellow Jackets’ Mary

Jocelyn kept the game close going into .

halftime.

The Generals came out with energy in
the second half, just missing on a number
of scoring chances. With the ball con-

“[ Coach Cunningham] talk-

ed to us before the game,
and he told us that it is all on
us [ﬁrst-years], basically. ”

Allie Espina, ﬂrst-year forward

stantly around the goalmouth, it was not
long before W&L extended their lead.

Taking a pass from sophomore mid-
ﬁelder Taylor Garrett, ﬁrst-year Kat Barnes
found herself one-on—one with the keeper.
She easily converted her ninth goal of the
year and gave the Generals some breath-
ing room.

Shortly after, ﬁrst-year forward Anne
Masich put the game away. Sitting in
the middle of the 18-yard box, she took a
well-placed cross from Espina and headed
it past the goalie.

For the Generals, it was a dominating
performance but, more importantly, evi-
dence that they could succeed with young
players at key positions.

“It’s rough, it’s hard because they’re
still learning... it’s a big burden for them
to carry, but they’ve got to do it,” head
coach Neil Cunningham said of the re-
sponsibility given to his ﬁrst-year players.

The team consists of 13 ﬁrst-year play-
ers, making up more than half the roster.
With senior captain Van Devender out
with a quad injury, they will be expected
to step up much like they did against Ran-
dolph-Macon.

“He [Coach Cunningham] talked to us
before the game, and he told us that it’s
all on us, basically,” said Espina, who ﬁn-
ished with a goal and an assist.

So far, so good, though, as the win puts
the Generals’ record at 5-1'in the ODAC
and 7-3 overall. W&L will play host to
current ODAC leader Eastern Mennonite
University at 4 pm. on Tuesday.

Merfs soccer crushes ODAC foe

Generals earn second ODAC win in a 4-0 over Randolph-Macon

By Brooke Sutherland
5 TA F F W R IT E R

Washington and Lee’s men’s soccer
team complemented the H+omecoming
spirit this weekend with a 4-0 victory over
Randolph-Macon.

From start to ﬁnish, the Yellow Jackets
just couldn’t keep up with the Generals.
W&L overcame a slow start at the begin-
ning of the ﬁrst half to take the lead with
a goal by senior midﬁelder Tommy Pig-
natelli. Pignatelli later added an assist on a
goal by junior midﬁelder Drew Crowley.

“It was great to get that ﬁrst goal on
Homecoming weekend,” Pignatelli said.
“With the assist, I was happy because I
felt like we were putting the game away.”

The Generals completely dominated
the second half, cashing in on goals by
junior defender Ted Grover and senior
forward Whitt Larkin to round out the
victory.

The game was truly a team effort, how-
ever, and Washington and Lee’s defense
was phenomenal in the shut-out.

“Defensively, I think we’re really
starting to lock it down,” said ﬁrst-year
defender Stiles Harper. “We’ve got a new
formation, and I think you are going to
start seeing a lot more shut-outs in the
games to come.”

Head coach Rolf Piranian said he was

savoring the solid win after some battles
earlier in the season.

“This was big,” he said. “We were a
little worried about the match-up. We
thought it was going to be a tight game.
We had a very average ﬁrst half, but then
in the second half, we really stepped it

95

up.
Piranian was especially pleased with

people out, it helps for sure.”

But the game was about more than just
a homecoming victory.

“What was most important to me was
getting that second win in the ODAC,”
Pignatelli said. “I think this is a great win
to propel us through the next couple of
games.”

Piranian added, “We were stuck in the

“We were stuck in the bottom of the ODAC and we ’re
ﬁghting our way to make it into the tournament. Only 8

our of I I teams make it, and we were really on the bubble.
This win puts us on the middle of the table. ”

Rolf Piranian, men’s soccer head coach

the efforts of the team’s substitutes. “We
used our bench and got a lot more players
out on the ﬁeld,” he said. “I think we just
needed more energy and we got that in the
second half with our subs.”

Despite the frenzy of Homecoming
events, the stands were packed with fans
and alumni.

“It was nice to have so many fans out,”
saidPiranian. “Anytime you get that many

bottom of the ODAC and we’re ﬁghting
our way to make it into the tournament.
Only 8 out of the 11 teams make it. and
we were really on the bubble. This win
puts us on the middle of the table.”

The Generals will next face off against
Lynchburg Wednesday in another ODAC
showdown.

 

   

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

  

WSHINGTO“ LEE UNIVERSITY

 

Cody Beauchamp and Abel Delgado debate who
they think you should ‘vote for on November4.

  

OPINIONS / page 3

I
4
I

THE RING-TUM PHI.

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2008

BY THE

STUDENTS AND

FOR THE STUDENTS SINCE

1897

VOLUME CXII,

NUMBER 6

 

Renovated Wilson
Field rededieated

Ceremony recognizes new
Hall of Fame inductees

By Jesslca Stralt
STAFF WRITER

The opening ceremony of the renovated Wil-
son Field last Saturday served as a reminder of
past successes on the old ﬁeld and the potential to
continue that tradition on the new one. ,

A large crowd of students and visiting alumni
cheered on the Generals in the Hampden-Sydney
game Saturday afternoon. At half-time, President
Ruscio and Athletic Director Jan Hathom took the
ﬁeld to ofﬁcially open the athletic complex, the
construction of which was made possible by a do-
nation from Dick Duchossis and his family.

“It is a distinction and ‘an honor to accept the
ﬁeld on the behalf of the staff, faculty, students
and alumni,” Ruscio said.

During the ceremony, four athletes and the
1961 Washington and- Lee football team were
inducted into the Hall of Fame. The inductees
include Jack Berry ’76, Andrew White ’88,,Beth
Stutzmann ’90 and Dave Warﬁeld ’75 for athletic
achievements in track and ﬁeld, lacrosse, swim-
ming and soccer.

The 1961 football team, which had a perfect
season record of 9-0, was inducted next as the 2 1 st
class into the Hall of Fame. The Touchdown Club
of Washington, D.C. named W&L’s 1961 team
“Outstanding Small College Football Team”.

“I think the ﬁeld is absolutely
gorgeous and the facilities are as
good as any in the country. It is
both aesthetically pleasing and
functional, and I am thrilled to
be a part of it. ”

Mlckey Walker ‘63, 1961 football team
 

Mickey Walker ’63, a member of the team,
came from Virginia Beach this weekend to be part
of the ceremony.

“I think the ﬁeld is absolutely gorgeous and
the facilities are as good as any in the country,”
Walker said. “It is both aesthetically pleasing and
functional, and I am thrilled to be a part of it.”

It was Walker’s ﬁrst time to step back on the
ﬁeld since playing for the team from 1959-1963.
For many members of the 1961 football team, it
was the ﬁrst time they had seen each other in over
40 years. More than half of the original team made
it back to W&L for the induction ceremony.

The team toured the renovated athletic com-
plex Saturday morning. Walker recalled how the
press box used to be set so low that the people
inside narrating and recording statistics for the
game would often not be able to see properly if
the crowd blocked the window. Walker, who also
ran track, said the new track is an improvement on
the old cinder track he used to run on.

Renovations to the ﬁeld began in October
2007. The ﬁeld features a new brick stadium that
seats 3,500 on the home side and 500 on the visi-
tors’ side, a two—story press box, an upper court
with concessions stands, chairs and tables, a syn-
thetic turf ﬁeld, an expanded track, new lighting
and a new wrought-iron gate which players run
through at the beginning of every game.

A number ll encircled on the left comer of the
playing surface honors the late Rob Lindsey, one
of the top two athletes in W&L’s history, Ruscio
said. Lindsey’s family was present at the ceremo-
ny, along with many of his former teammates and
classmates.

For many years, the rusting, metal bleachers
where football fans used to sit drew complaints
for not matching the aesthetic appeal of the rest of
the campus. Now, Wilson Field is the latest gem
to adorn W&L.

“I feel like it has deﬁnitely strengthened school
spirit,” senior Chris Tutor said. “I think people are
proud of it, and I really like how it blends in with
our campus. The old ﬁeld was somewhat of an
eyesore.”

The renovations have also affected the way
players feel about their football games.

“Playing on Wilson ﬁeld has always been fun
but now there is even more pride to play well and
be a General,” junior Jeffrey Boateng said.

The transformation of Wilson Field should
“beneﬁt the Washington & Lee community for
many years to come,” Hathom said.

 

  Move over,  

Gossip Girl

Juicycampus.com makes gossiping even easier at W&L

By Queenie Wong
STAFF WRITER

A controversial campus gossip
Web site has Washington and Lee
students dishing the dirt about their
peers anonymously online.

Called Juicy Campus, it’s a col-
legiate version of a cyber bathroom
wall where users can post anonymous
comments about students in 500 col-
leges nationwide. Students here be-
gan posting on the website last month
and popular topics include “hottest
girl in each srat,” “worst hazers” and
“most beautiful penis.”

It’s the latest online craze to hit
college campuses, but some critics
say the online tattling goes too far.

“I was angry at ﬁrst, but now I
have come to accept that our campus
deﬁnitely talks the talk but doesn’t
walk the walk when it comes to hon-
or and integrity,” said a W&L stu-
dent, who discovered she had been
gossiped about on the site.

“I am more aware of what the stu-

dent body is truly like and I am less
trusting of my peers,” she said.
Student body organizations
quickly responded to the site by
sending a mass e-mail to the campus
community. They called Juicy Cam-

“I have come to accept
that our campus...talks
the talk but doesn ’t walk
the walk when it comes

to honor and integrity. ”

A W&L student who was
referenced on Julcycampus.

pus “inconsistent” with the school’s
honor code and community values
and reminded students to respect and
honor others.

“For our part, we advocate only
what is expected of every W&L stu-

dent: respectful, honorable conduct
toward your peers and the members
of this community,” said the c-mail.

The e-mail was signed by the
student heads of the Executive
Council, the Student Judicial Coun-
cil, Resident Advisers, the Student-
Faculty Hearing Board, the Panhel-
lenic Council and the Interfraternity
Council.

The Dean of Student Affairs,
Dawn Watkins, said she immediately
contacted the Executive Committee
after she began receiving student e-
mails complaining about the site.
Although some colleges have looked
into blocking Juicy Campus, Watkins
said the best solution is in the hands
of the students.

“I saw our student leadership re-
spond in a powerful way and I saw
our student body rise to that level,”
she said. “This was student self-gov-
emance at its best.”

Other students agree that the site
is harmful.

“I think the anonymity of it pro-

vides students an opportunity to say
things they normally wouldn’t say
and that probably has a detrimental
effect on social life at this school,”
said junior Ben Goetsch.

Sophomore Austin Bone called the
site “juvenile and seventh-grade.”

But for those who have been de-
famed on sites like Juicy Campus
there is little they can do, said jour-
nalism professor, Adedayo Abah.

Abah, who teaches a course on
communications law, referred to the
Communications Decency Act of
1996. The Act pr0teets,Web publish-
ers from liability for libelous com-
ments posted by third parties.

Yet protection of anonymous
speech is hardly new, Abah said.

“Anonymous speech was pro-
tected prior to the popularity of the
Internet to protect speakers against
the tyranny of the majority,” she
said. “However, in the online world,
anonymous speech has become a
guise for some speakers to smear
other people.”

The fourth presidential debate

College Democrats, Republicans hola’ mock debate in Lee Chapel

By Anne Vesoulls
STA F F W R I T E R

As presidential candidates Barack
Obama and John McCain duke it out
in the national media, students at
Washington and Lee are carrying on
the debate on campus.

Politically-minded students gath-
ered in Lee Chapel .on Tuesday,
Oct. 18, to observe and participate
in a mock presidential debate be-
tween representatives of the College
Democrats and College Republicans.
Politics Prof. Bill Connely presided
over the debate.

Both organizations came to the
debate ready to defend their candi-
date and attack the other side on six
areas, including the economy and
taxes, national security, energy and
the environment, healthcare, domes-
tic and social issues and character.

“We researched Barack Obama’s
position on the various issues, brain-
stormed what the College Republi-
cans might attack about it and tried
to come up with counter punches,”
said College Democrats debater
Summer Lollie.

“To prepare, [we] got together
and brainstormed,” said College Re-
publicans President Scott Centorino.
“We practiced, our answers and fol-
low-ups to the expected Democratic
answers and attacks. We knew the
Democrats would come out swinging
and that the only way to beat them
would be to ﬁght back aggressively
and keep them on the defensive.”

The questions were negotiated by
the participants prior to the debate.

Each response was to last one minute ‘

and the opposing side had a one min-
ute rebuttal. Participants were per-
mitted to call for a second rebuttal.

The College Democrats presented
Barack Obama as a man who was
for the middle class with relation to
the economy, the environment and
healthcare while accusing McCain
of being too “big business.”

“The United States should oper-
ate under a ‘Pay-Go’ system like the
rest of the middle class. If we don’t
have the money, we can’t spend it,”
said College Democrats debater Jor-
dan Wilson.

The College Republicans focused

on John McCain as an American
hero with war experience, senatorial
experience and the best interest of
America at heart.

“One candidate has rhetoric; the
other has substance behind his words.
One candidate has slogans, the other
has solutions...One pledges to ﬁght
for some Americans. The other has
already fought for all Americans...
The people of America know John
McCain,” Centorino said; _

Reactions to the mock debate
were mixed.

“Overall the debate was a suc-
cess,” said ﬁrst-year Robert Day.
“The College Democrats and College
Republicans faced off, and generally
supported their party lines .”

“As a strong Obama supporter,
this was the ﬁrst debate of this elec-
tion season I’ ve seen the Republicans
win. Each side had strong and weak
arguments and plenty of ideas, but I
believe the ideas articulated by the
Republicans put the Democrats on
the defensive throughout,” he said.

‘‘I thought the debate was interest-
ing to watch,” said ﬁrst-year Joshua

Posner. “The Democrats and Repub-
licans both appeared strong, but the
Republicans tried to act like they
knew everything_ while the Demo-
crats seemed overly nervous.”

“I don’t think anyone ‘actually
won the debate because no one re-
ally took their opponents point and
accurately criticized it or came up
with a reason their idea was better,”
he said.

Participants on both sides main-
tained their side had won the debate.

“I think the debate was more sub-
stantiate than the real Presidential
and Vice Presidential debates,” Lol-
lie said. “We got to the key issues
and actually debated policy. As far as
the outcome, in my opinion, there is
no doubt that the Democrats won.”

“I really enjoyed the debate,” se-
nior Chris Tutor said . “I thought the
discussion was fascinating and I felt
like I learned a bit. It was very con-
structive and I am happy that I had
the opportunity to participate. Not
surprisingly I think the Republicans
won, and I think the audience would
agree.”

   

UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
WASHINGTON & LEE UNl'\tERS.‘TY
l£)L'£NGTON_ VA 2445;;

 2 4 2898

 

2 0

news

THE RING-TUM PHI THURSDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2008

 

an,

The Virtue of
being cheap

Personal ﬁnance columnist
says America is a nation of
debt-lovers and credit is evil

By Alllson chopln
MANAGING EDITOR

Credit is evil and frugality is the only path to ﬁnan-
cial freedom and a blissful life -- at least, that’s the view
taken by Michelle Singletary, personal ﬁnance columnist

for the Washington Post who spoke in W&L’s Stackhouse ‘

Theater last Tuesday..

Singletary said her message not only holds true for
personal ﬁnance, but also explains the causes of the cur-
rent ﬁnancial crisis, which she described as “credit, con-
sumerism and contentment, or lack thereof.”

“We are a nation of debt-lovers,” she said. lel House, a $4 million project make an ‘“"°S““‘_"“ 1“ What “"11 I_8 1

Singletary cited the total consumer debt in America as that Will result in 3 neW facility p“_)Ve to be an. Important Cam" Exlt 2 00
$2.6 trillion and the average credit card debt as $10,000. f0r Washington and Lee’s Hillel. palgn f°_r Washmgton and Lee’” L 0 C ate d in

No debt is good debt, she said. Even if debts are paid With $1.5 million left to raise, the stud Chlldress 0“ W&L’s Web" ,‘
off each month, credit cards still encourage more spend- Childress challenge represents 3 slte; F alrﬁeld
ing because they eliminate the feeling of actually paying third Of the remaining fui1dii1g- There are many needs and S qll are

for purchases.

“Write that down: credit is evil,” she told her audi-
ence.

Singletary also accused the culture of consumerism
that encourages unhealthy spending habits, such as un-
necessary purchases, the reliance on credit and debit cards
and the attitude that bargain shopping saves money.

“You never save when you spend,” she said.

Singletary said she learned her frugal habits from a
grandmother who raised her and her siblings, and it is
this ﬁnance-savvy lifestyle that protects her from worry-
ing about the current crisis. ‘

“l’ve lived a frugal life,” she said. “I’m cheap. 1 breast-
fed my three children because the milk was free.”

In advising the audience on how to live with ﬁnancial
security, she said that putting everything into saving ac-
counts or cash is not the way to go.

But people should not rely entirely on investment
portfolios either. Singletary told her audience that they
should “diversify” where they put their money, making
sure to keep some cash on hand while putting the rest in
a variety of stocks and bonds.

Her advice changes for different age groups. For ex-
ample, she suggested that workers in their twenties have
90 percent of their money in stocks, but from age 60 and
above, this amount should be 50 percent

She emphasized that easy credit, which until recently
prevailed in borrowing and lending, is the cause of the
economic crisis, not its solution.

“You want to know how to weather this crisis?” she
asked. “Do the opposite of what everybody else is do-

97

mg.

Investors should also educate themselves about how
markets perform over time so they can make the best de-
cisions, said Singletary. They need to be prepared, since
the current bail-out plans for the economy are “only a
temporary Band-Aid.”

“[The crisis] is going to happen again,” she said. “Are
you going to learn from what is happening now?”

Singletary’s most ardent advice was to save money
and spend it wisely when necessary. ~

“My husband and I probably live on 30 percent of
our income,” she said. “You have to live below your
means.”

J. Donald Childress gives $5 million

Grant will fund two professorships and jumpstart the $4 million Hillel House

By Brett Holton
COPY EDITOR

Washington and Lee received
a $5 million grant last week that
will create new teaching posts
and help further the University’s
forthcoming capital campaign.

J. Donald Childress, rector of
W&L’s Board of Trustees, is al-
locating $2.5 million of his gift to
create the J. Donald Childress Pro-
fessorship in Foreign Languages
and the Sidney Gause Childress
Professorship in the Arts.

Another $500,000 of the gift
is being used to jump start a chal-
lenge fund for the new W&L Hil-

Two million dollars of Chil-
dress’ gift remains to be desig-
nated.

According to the W&L web-
site, the Childress Professorship in
Foreign Languages will “support

a distinguished professor who is
both an accomplished scholar and
an exceptional teacher in one of
the foreign languages, preferably
Spanish.” This is the ﬁrst time a
professorship has been offered for
a foreign language.

‘The Sydney Gause Childress
Professorship in the Arts is named
for Childress’ wife, and will sup-
port a professor in the performing
or visual arts department. Pref-
erence is given to art or art his-
tory. This also represents the ﬁrst
professorship exclusively for the
arts.

“l was pleased to be able to

many opportunities in our educa-
tional priorities, which stem from
the strategic plan. There are many
aspects of this plan, and they all
cost money. I thought it was my
obligation as an alumnus and as a
trustee to step up with this gift.”

 

   
 
 

 

Visit Southern Inn.’s
Sister Restaurant!

540-3 77-9.492

Open Daily ]1am—9pn1

Wachovia freezes short-term fund
W&L gets 40 percent of $1 .5 million while 60 percent remains frozen

By Jacob Gelger
STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee was one of
hundreds of universities that got a
nasty shock on Sept. 29 when Wa-
chovia decided to freeze the Com-
monfund Short Term Fund.

W&L had $1.5 million frozen
in the fund, about six percent of
the $25 million in cash W&L usu-
ally has available during a ﬁscal
year.

Since the freeze, W&L has been
able to get about 40 percent of the
cash back, said Steven McAllister,
the university treasurer and vice
president for ﬁnance and admin-
istration. But he and Controller
Deborah Caylor are closely watch-
ing other cash investments worth
$8.6 million.

“We still think the actual as-
set is good,” McAllister said. “We
just may not be able to get it right
away.” '

Commonfund is a Connecti-
cut-based non-proﬁt that handles
money for nearly 1,000 colleges,
including 72 of the 100 largest en-
dowments. The Short Term Fund
was a hugely popular fund de-
signed to let colleges and universi-
ties invest cash for several months

at a time, then withdraw that cash
whenever the school needed the
cash for paychecks, debt payments
or other expenses. Nearly 1,000
colleges were members, and just
weeks before the freeze the fund
was worth $9.3 billion.

Colleges usually get most of
their cash at the start of each se-
mester, when tuition is due. But
expenses trickle in on a monthly
basis as the school pays employ-
ees, vendors and bills. That means
the pile of tuition cash sits around
for months on end.

To make sure that money didn’t
go to waste, schools started invest-
ing in supposedly ultra-safe ac-
counts like the Short Term Fund.
The school could put in large
amounts of cash and then with-
draw whatever cash it needed on
the ﬁrst day of each month.

That was the theory, at least.

The funds ran into trouble af-
ter buying mortgage-backed se-
curities and corporate debt. When
Lehman Brothers collapsed and

-AIG was nationalized on Sept. 15,

commercial credit markets froze
up and those securities became
virtually worthless. The plunge
in value occurred because inves-

tors were only interested in buying
extremely safe government debt,
Bloomberg News said.

Wachovia’s decision to freeze
the fund and give members access
to only 10 percent of their invest-
ments left some schools scram-
bling to make payroll or pay the
electricity bill.

_McAllister said the crisis was
never that serious at W&L. He said
the school has enough cash on hand
to continue operations through the
end of the school year, even if the
$8.6 million in other troubled in-
vestments remains frozen. That
seven month cash cushion leaves
W&L in far better shape than most
schools, he said.

As McAllister has kept an eye
on W&L’s cash holdings, he’s also
been watching the value of the
university’s endowment rise and
fall with the stock market. He said
the last quarter didn’t treat many
endowments well. W&L’s endow-
ment, worth $719 million on June
30, was probably worth about $660
million on Sept. 30.

“My sense, from what l’ve seen
and the reports l’ve gotten, is that
we’ll be down about 10 percent,”
McAllister said. “That will be sim-

TO CAMPUS
joiN US FOR A

CAREER SERVICES

TO CAREER”

1:30 -2:30 PM

CAREER SERVICES
WELCOMES PARENTS

CONVERSATION ABOUT HOW

PARTNERS WITH STUDENTS

“FROM MAJOR

Friday, October 24,

em to zeemwwmt
Prim. CAR I)iNi:.R & TIN Tor Cm‘:

Order from our complete menu
0;" Join usjbr one ofour ALL YOU CAN EA T.Bujfets!

Friday Night Seafood Buffet with Crab Legs 5pm~1Dpm
Saturday Night Prime Rib Dinner Spm-ttipm
Sunday Baked Chicken, Pork Loin, 8. Pot: Roast 11am-9pm
Friday & Saturday Late Night Breakfast Bar 10pm~2am
Breakfast Bar 7 {Days 2 Week 6am~t ‘tam
Daily Hot Country Bar ttamwtﬂpm
Batty Soup, Salad, Si Fruit Bar 1tam—10pm

Order Breakfast 24 Hours a day, 7 days a week?

Home Cooked Meals & Southern Hospitality!
Located at

ilar to what we see at other" endow-
ments and universities.”

The treasurer said one of W&L’s
fund managers reported that every
major index and asset class lost
value in the last quarter, meaning
there were no good‘ places to put

-money. The university. did ﬁnish

the last ﬁscal year, which ended
June 30, with a positive return on
the endowment. McAllister said
that was a distinction not many
universities could claim.

One key role of the endowment
is to provide leverage and collat-
eral for the school when it takes on
major debt for building projects.
Even though major renovations
on Newcomb Hall will begin next
year with renovations of the other
Colonnade buildings to follow,
McAllister said W&L wasn’t cur-
rently looking to take on any new
debt.

“The goal for the Colonnade is
for it to be fully fund-raised, and
theearliest we’d have to look at
borrowing money to start work
while the pledges came in would
be summer 2009,” he said. “I think
we’rc in a good position on that
and have ﬂexibility because of our
ﬁnancial strength.”

RED IS THE
NEW BLACK

The Red Hen serves the finest, heshest local iood lot dinner Mondag through
Saturdag and Sundag Brunch. loin us ior an exceptional dining experience or

 

Ill ll mm. PM

l~8§ &l~6-1, Exit 195, 2536 North Lee l?'lW}’.. lexingtori. VA

540-463-3478

érzcit food & a great collection of
Antique Pedoi Cars & Tin Toysi

drop bg with hie-nds {or some great wine, beer, and light late until midnight.

Room 345, Elrod Commons

Please call 404.4401 or email tese1'vations@redhenlexcom for reservations.

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

CAREERSERVICES

careers@w|u.edu 458-8595

ll E. Washington Street

WWW.R€Cll_l(-}l’ll..€*X.COII1

 

http:IIcareers.w|u.edu

 

 

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 23,2008

THE RING-TUM PHI - 3

 

opinions

jl ~~~~~~ -—----M-—~— WASHINGTONAND LEEUNIVERSITY —-----— 

THE RING-TUM PHI.

3

MANAGING EDITOR
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR
ARTS 8: LIFE EDITOR

COPY EDITORS

CONTRIBUTING WRITERS

DESIGN EDITOR
STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER

BUSINESS MANAGER

DISTRIBUTION MNGR.
MISSION STATEMENT; It is

ALLISON CHOPIN
JOHN HENDERSON
CODY BEAUCHAMP
WILL DORRANCE
CELESTE CRUZ-I
CARANDANG
BRETT HOLTON
MICHAEL MORELLA

CRIGHTON ALLEN
ADAM CANCRYN
ABEL DELGADO
BRIAN DEVINE
LIZZ DYE

JACOB GEIGER
STEPHANIE HARDIMAN
WILL MAYS
FINDLEY MERRITT
COLLIN NEAL
JOEL POELHUIS
JESSICA STRAIT
ANNE VESOULIS
RUSS WEEMS
QUEENIE WONG
LARA JORDAN
RYAN ELSEY
MORGAN HARRIS
CHARLES PERSONS
STROCK MOORE
ROB GEORGE

the mission of THE RING-

TUM PHI to accurately. truthfully, and thoroughly report
news affecting the Washington and Lee community
for students. faculty, parents and alumni. Our goal

is to look deeper into news

affecting campus life and

hold leaders accountable. Through our reporting, we
aspire to spark discussions that lead to discovering
information that prompts change.

I THE RING—TUM PHI IS PUBLISHED MONDAYS DURING THE

UNDERGRADUATE SCHOOL YEAR. THE RING—TUM PHI IS
A MEMBER OF THE MEDIA BOARD, BUT IS OTHERWISE
INDEPENDENT. QUESTIONS OR CONCERNS ABOUT THE PHI

SHOULD BE ADDRESSED TO

THE EDITORS AT PHI@WLU.

EDU OR TO THE MEDIA BOARD AT MEDIABOARD@WLU.

EDU.

THE MEDIA BOARD IS AN INDEPENDENT, STUDENT-

RUN EDITORIAL OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE WORKING
WITH ALL MEDIA OUTLETS ON THE WASHINGTON & LEE

CAMPUS.

ALL INQUIRIES WILL REMAIN CONFIDENTIAL.

THE RING-TUM PHI WELCOMES ALL LETTERS. WE
RESERVE THE RIGHT TO EDIT SUBMISSIONS FOR
CONTENT AND LENGTH. LETTERS AND ADVERT/SING DO
NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE OPINION OF THE RING-
TUM PHI STAFF. THIS NEWSPAPER OBSERVES CURRENT
COURT DEFINITIONS OF LIBEL AND OBSCENITY.

THE RING-

TUM PHI

UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341

WASHINGTON AND

LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060

FAX: (540)

458-4059

EMAIL: PHI@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

 

 

 

 

Stop by our Main Street office to
pick up a ﬂyer and a map!

The Sommst at o°“""”wm

Wood» Creek 4

RWR(®Town & COIIIIITY

31 South Main Street

Lexington, Virginia 24450

Ofﬁce: (540)463-7629

Fax: (540)463-1068
www.remax-towncntry-Iex-va.com

Why I’m Voting for...

Senator Barack Obama (D — Illinios) and Senator Joe Biden (D, - Connecticut).

By Cody Beauchamp
OPINIONS EDITOR

A little over a week ago, I ﬁlled
out an absentee ballot and mailed
it on home to Texas.

You’d think that, as a Texan,
I voted for John McCain. Or,
depending on how you look at
things, against Barack Obama.

I didn’t. I voted for Barack.

If you’re willing to keep read-
ing, I’d like a few minutes to try
to convince you to join me. Why
not, anyway‘? It’s Parents Week-
end, and you likely need a break
from the packed schedule any-
way. <

I want you to know, ﬁrst of all,
that ifl could’ve voted in 2000, I
would have voted for Bush. I’m
not a lifelong partisan, “yellow-
dog” Democrat.

I’m persuadable and moderate,
I really am.

I actually had to think about
who I was voting for, in other
words.

When I did think about who to
vote for, a few things struck me.

The ﬁrst is how absolutely
trivial a lot of the normal criteria
for deciding who to vote for have
become. l~or this election cycle at
least, I simply do not believe that
there’s much disagreement about
what the issues are, and (gener-
ally) what we need to do about
them.

Both Obama and McCain
agree the economy is priority
number one. Both candidates now
agree that the economy needs to
be ﬁxed. Let’s take care of good
01’ Joe the Plumber.

The two also agree on Iraq,
more or less. Both agree we need
to leave, and to do so honorably
and intelligently. Yes, I can admit

TWILIGHT
OPEN HOUSE

TOUR

‘S299 500

4 hitmore St.

 

Hosted by: RE/I'IPX®towN & coumm
Friday, October 24th, 4:30— 6:30 pm

PUBLIC INVITED!

299 900 .

-lomatic, sane one.

Obarna’s opposition to the surge
is troubling. But I can also admit
McCain’s support of the 2003 in-
vasion is equally ~ if not more -
troubling. It’s a tie, in my book.

So what did I base my vote
on? ,

Simply — temperament.

Our last President has a tragi-
cally un-presidential tempera-
ment. He showed time and again
he was incapable of making rea-
soned, calculated, thought-out
decisions. He ignored facts and
expert analysis in his formulation
of long term goals and plans. Too
often, W. acted like the cowboy he
wants to be, and to tragic effect.

It’s not that George W. Bush
is stupid or evil — it’s just that his
‘shoot from the hip’ tendencies
caused him to behave stupidly
and evilly. He always opted for
the bold ‘meet me at sundown’
gesture over the reasoned, dip-
We cannot
afford even four more years of
such a temperament in the White
House.

Examine the_two candidates
~ which one would you trust to be
the calm voice of reason in a cri-
sis? To beat an old talking point
to death - who do you want an-
swering a phone to bad news at 3
a.m.?

McCain favors the bold, often
ill-advised gesture. He’s a mav-
erick, yes, but that’s not always
to his credit. During the recent
bailout legislative battle Sen-
ate leadership on both sides of
the aisle told both McCain and
Obama they shouldn’t come back
to Washington.

The reality was that the me-
dia circus that now follows both
candidates would throw a danger-
ously bright spotlight on delicate

legislative negotiations.

Neither would be of much
help either, so they needed to stay
away and let their still-working
peers work (make no mistake,
neither McCain nor Obama has
been much of a legislator for the
past 6 months). _

McCain returned, against good
advice. He claimed he had helped
push the bailout -bill through. A
few days later, Republicans in the
House voted it down.

Thanks Mac.

Another contrast comes when
you examine the two men’s Veep
picks.

Obama showed a lot of humil-
ity in his pick. He proved he un-
derstood his weakness was in for-
eign affairs by picking Joe Biden,
perhaps one of the most experi-
enced Senators ever in that area.

McCain ~ rather — went for
the grand stunt. After spending
months knocking Obama for a
lack of experience, he picked the
least experienced running mate
seen on a national ticket in de-
cades.

It showed not only an inability
to reconcile his actions with his
statements — when precisely, Sen-
ator, did you quit thinking expe-
rience was stillimportant? — but
also a troubling inability to fore-
see the fallout of his decisions.

Running on a platform of ex-
perience ﬁrst, for the morally
conservative party, in a political
climate sick of a scandal-plagued
administration, McCain picked

"an inexperienced mother of an

unwed, pregnant teenager, who
would also soon be facing an in-
dependent investigation for abuse
of power.

I don’t want a man with those
kind of reasoning capabilities

anywhere near nuclear launch
codes.

The cruxes of my argument
are these.

If you want to base your vote
on the policy differences between
the two men, be my giest. Pun-
dits of either political ideology
freely admit the differences are
few and minute this election.

If you — like me — feel that you
must base your vote on character
in the absence of a deﬁning policy
clash, please vote for Obama.

John McCain is surely, abso-
lutely, and unquestionably a hero,
a great public servant, and a good
man.

But this does not mean he has
the temperament to lead our coun-
try. I

In today’s fragile economic,
diplomatic, and social environ-
ment, reason and calculated ac-
tion need to return. Obama has
been nothing but a cool, calm,
and collected hand throughout his
campaign.

He has never once veered from
his campaign’s clearly established
long term plans in favor of a bold
gesture.

In part, he has never needed
to. That tells us something about
the type of government he would

‘lead.

Our country will reward John
McCain one day by placing him
in Washington, make no mistake.

But for the sake of our country,
we must place him there in statu-
ary, as a marble bust commemo-
rating, his public service, not as
our 44“‘ President.

Please vote for Barack Obama.
Because we need change, yes, not
errant and dangerous stunts.

 

8 Whitmore St.

 

801 Stonewall St.

The Summit

$589,800

165 Lilly BellLn.

5

  

574,900

I 20 Lilly Bell Ln.

6

    

:$227,800

111 Taylor St.

§;2,375,o0

  

10 Stratford Ln. I

  

 

...Senator John McCain (R -

Sarah Palin (R - Alaska).

By Abel Delgado
COLU M NIST

If you look beyond all the talk about “change”
and “experience,” if you ignore pundits, if you
realize that Barack Obama and John McCain are
closer in political philosophy than most oppos-
ing politicians in other countries, your choice
this election comes down to one factor: trust.

Granted, I agree with Senator McCain on the
most important issues of our times much more
than I agree with Senator Obama, but even if I
agreed with them equally, I would adamantly
support McCain because I trust him more than I
can possibly trust Obama.

I cannot trust a man to ﬁx my little brother’s
education system when he sends his own chil-
dren to private school and refuses to give that
opportunity to poorer but highly motivated stu-
dents.

I trust a man who calls education the “civil
rights issue of our time” and promotes competi-
tion and higher teacher pay as a way to give my
brother a better education and my sister a better
salary.

I cannot trust a man to bring about peace
when he has already said he would bomb one
of our most crucial democratic allies. I cannot
trust him to win the war in Iraq when he is more
concerned with placing blame and hasn’t even
acknowledged the succeeding strategy he once
opposed. -

I trust a man to work for peace when he
knows the horrors of war and has two very per-
sonal reasons not to send our troops into unnec-
essary wars. I trust a man who was one of the
ﬁrst to point out the error of our strategy in Iraq
and spent years rallying his party and his country
to ﬁx them.

I cannot trust a man to solve our impending
energy crisis when he supports corn ethanol that
scientists have proved is ineﬂicient and environ-
mentally problematic while opposing nuclear en-
ergy that can legitimately help solve our energy
crisis and not worsen gt obal climate change.

I trust a man to solve our energy crisis when
his Lexington Project involves all forms of alter-
native energy while using our nation’s resources

Arizona) and Governor

wisely.
I cannot trust a man to be bi-partisan when his
greatest claim of crossing party lines is an anti-

proliferation bill that had the unanimous support _

of his party.

I trust a man to be bi-partisan when he has
co—sponsored more bills with the opposing party
than his own the past 4 years and has made a
career out of crossing party lines to address ev-
erything from climate change, to torture, to cam-
paign ﬁnance reform.

I cannot trust a man to lower my taxes when
he has voted to raise them far more times than
he’s voted to lower them. I cannot trust a man
to lead America’s free market when his policies
are protectionist in nature and far too similar to
democratic socialism.

I can trust a man to keep my taxes low and
cut taxes where he responsibly can when he has
voted to do both his entire career. I can trust a
man to lead America’s free market when at the
heart of his ideals is his faith in the market.

I cannot trust a man to battle corruption when
a convicted felon helped buy his house and he
has raised and spent more money on his cam-
paign than anyone in the history of American
politics. '

_ I can trust a man who has battled corruption
in his own party in Congress for decades and has
fought to lessen the inﬂuence special interest
money has in politics. I .

I cannot trust a man to lead my country when
he has never led anything.

Despite his wonderful eloquence and his in-
spiring story, Barack Obama has done absolutely
nothing to cam my trust. Whether he wins or
not, I hope I am wrong about him. I hope he is
everything his supporters say he is and more, but
I cannot vote on hope alone.

I do not just trust John McCain more than I
trust Barack Obama, I trust him more than any
American alive to lead our country. John Mc-
Cain was not just given the titles of hero, reform-
er, centrist, maverick, and leader. He has earned
them.

This is why Senator McCain has earned my
admiration, my trust, and my vote for president.

Flowers & Things

Fresh ﬂowers, balloons, gift & fruit baskets and I
birthday cakes all delivered!!! Call 261-6300

Solid wood kitchen sets and 4 chairs-$300
to see call Flowers and Things-261-6300
We deliver!

 

 

THE RING-TUM PHI ° 4

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 23,2008

pinions

 

Time for W&L to invest in students

Washington and Lee cannot raise tuition and expect to Stay a liberal arts school

By Jacob Geiger
COLU M NIST

As parents arrive on campus
this weekend, some of them may
be pondering a frightening ques-
tion: Can I still afford to send my
child to Washington and Lee?

Most parents have probably
watched investment portfolios ~
whether they’re retirement plans,
college funds for a younger sib-
ling or savings for a new car ~
plummet in value during the past
year. Now there are signs across
the nation that many parents and
students are reevaluating the col-
lege payment plans that seemed
solid six months ago.

President Ken Ruscio said
protecting next year’s ﬁnancial
aid budget will be a high priority
as the school decides whether or

not it needs to trim back expens-
es. He also said the university is
prepared to handle increased de-
mand for ﬁnancial aid.

It’sno secret that the cost of
a W&L education has advanced
at a numbing pace in the last de-
cade.

Ten years ago, the univer-
sity was ﬁnally forced to pay
for years of holding tuition at
levels much lower than our com-
petitors. That’s led to a decade
of cost increases that averaged
about 8 percent a year. Despite
these massive increases, W&L
has only caught up in cost with
other liberal arts schools in the
past two years.

The school has made some
dramatic moves to improve ﬁ-
nancial aid, and by fall 2012,

the Johnson Scholarship will
be paying for 10 percent of the
student body. Other merit- and
need-based programs help out
even more students. The Johnson
donation has also allowed W&L
to convert many loan deals with
students into outright grants.

But students here and around
the country are still piling up
huge amounts of debt each year.

The New York Times report-
ed last week that many private
lenders have tightened credit
standards and raised interest
rates in the last month.

That means students will owe
more money down the road when
these loans come due. And with
W&L’s annual cost approaching
$50,000, an already heavy debt
load could get even worse.

As private lenders cut back,
more students nationwide are
turning to the federal govem-
ment, which handles about three-
quarters of student borrowing.
Loan applications for this year
are already up to 13.5 million, an
almost 10 percent increase from
the 12.3 million applications last
year.

The biggest problem with
student debt is that leaves many
students feeling trapped. If you
know you’re going to graduate
with $100,000 in debt, taking
that teaching job you’ve always
wanted suddenly become a bit
less appealing.

Ivy League schools have
been dealing with this problem
for years, as students feel they
need to earn big salaries to jus-

tify the amazing bills that their
parents — and student loans
— helped cover.

I’d hate to see that happen
at W&L, where our emphasis
on liberal arts has always led
students into aiwide variety of
careers.

So what can W&L do? I
doubt we’ll see a drop in tuition,
though that would certainly be
nice. Even when the school year
_shrinks by two weeks next year,
I doubt many expenses will go
down. But the university could
make an important gesture by
pledging to leave tuition un-
changed for one year.

Still, that’s unlikely to hap-
pen. One problem is W&L’s
endowment, which has been
buffeted by the market chaos.

Steven McAllister, the univer-
sity’s treasurer, said the endow-
ment lost about 10 percent of its
value in the 3rd quarter.

And with the endowment
down and donations under pres-
sure from the poor economy (if
alumni make less money, they
have less to donate), the ﬁnancial
aid office may be hard-pressed
to ﬁll the gap when families sud-
denly discover they’re short on
money.

W&L works hard to make
this school affordable. But be-
fore the school can worry about
taking care of the Class of 2013,
it may need to spend some cash
on the students who are already
here.

You weren’t raised to act like that

 

 er to the editor

Time for a serious talk

Are W&L is gender relations discussions flawed?

The members of KEWL (Knowledge
Empowering Women Leaders) would like
to inform the W&L community of the June
27, 2008 report compiled by the President’s
Committee on Women regarding the.condi-
tions of women faculty and staff at Wash-
ington and Lee.

The committee, which consisted of both
men and women faculty and staff, met from
February 2007 through May 2008, and so-
licited the expertise of an outside task force
to evaluate and make recommendations for
the climate at Washington and Lee as it per-
tains to women faculty and staff. Initially
due in March, the Committee requested
an extension from President Ruscio and
delivered their ﬁndings over the summer,
largely unbeknownst to the W&L commu-
nity. Through surveys and interviews with
faculty and staff, the committee concluded
in its report that “[m]any women on this
campus do not feel valued, respected, fairly
compensated, empowered, or even safe.”

To quote the Committee’s report:

Disturbing anecdotal evidence of gender
inequities abound, including but not limited
to the following:

I) holding women workers to a higher
standard than their male counterparts,

2) promoting a man when a woman has
more experience,

3) regularly holding managers’ meetings
without the woman manager being present,

4) paying the man who replaces a wom-
an more than the woman was paid.

The report goes on to state that “[t]here
are still academic departments where fac-
ulty and staff are not even close to the na-
tional percentage of women. Women report
that they have felt silenced when they have
tried to point out a number of issues dealing
with climate.”

Lesley Wheeler, Chair of the English
Department, writes “I am very pleased that
various staff inequities will be remedied,
especially salaries for administrative assis-
tants. However, the excellent report by the
President’s Committee on Women rightly
uses the words ‘discrimination’ and ‘harass-
ment,’ but President Ruscio’s October 8th
‘Letter to the W&L University Community’
pointedly does not. I am disappointed that
the President has not fully acknowledged
the extent of the problem. Even in faculty
meetings woman administrators and faculty
members are often cut off, belittled, or in-
appropriately touched; such bad behavior
is condoned here and known offenders are
allowed to continue in positions of author-
ity.”

While KEWL commends the Universi-
ty’s initiative to create a supportive environ-
ment for its faculty and staff, the relatively
secretive distribution of the report and its
ﬁndings is disappointing. We write this let-
ter not out of spite, but out of support for
the repo1t’s recommendation that change
A ought to occur in an “open” and “transpar-
ent” manner. We do, however, take issue
with both the questionable exclusion of
Women’s and Gender Studies faculty from
the President’s Committee on Women, and
the decision to ignore the climate women

students face at W&L.

The Committee itself notes that “[w]hile
several committee members felt that the
charge should be extended to include stu-
dents, the report was limited to the scope of
the faculty and staff...’Recent events asso-
ciated with derogatory comments towards
women students in a campus newspaper are
but the latest example of how the climate
among the students affects the everyday life
of the University. We as an entire commu-
nity are all concerned about actions taken
against our women students, and it is coun-
terproductive to think we can work on the
climate for only one group of women and
make a lasting change in our community.
Thus, we concluded that many of the cli-
mate issues related to gender must be looked
at and addressed in an holistic manner.”

KEWL hopes to see that any further steps
taken by the Committee on Women orany
like group includes the broader campus com-
munity, notably the student body. According
to ITS Director and Committee member Ju-
lie Knudson, “I believe that any committee
charged with improving the campus climate
cannot go forward without students and also
logically must include the Program Head of
Women’s Studies.” Following last year’s
divisive bracket, it is contrary to all reason
that the student body would be exempt from
a comprehensive study. Since W&L’s inte-
gration of women on campus in 1985, the
university has achieved equal numbers of
men and women students, yet as the report
explicitly states, equality and harmony of
the sexes is still something to be desired.

The report cites many of the issues fac-
ing our institution as “community” and
“climate” issues, rather than exclusively
women’s issues. The "Committee recom-
mends that “[i]n any effort at changing the
climate, the University must realize that the
problems that exist are often not restricted
to women staff and faculty or even just to
women.” The visiting team echoed the com-
mittee_’s feelings, reporting that they also
felt that it would be “prudent and effective
to broaden the topic of women’s issues to
issues of diversity in general or community
building.”

“It seemed appropriate to us to include
issues relating to students and gender rela-
tions between male and female students in
the campus discussion,” they said, accord-
ing to the Committee’s report. “Our general
feeling is that any steps or actions that help
one marginalized group tend to help every-
one who may be marginalized.”

KEWL strongly believes the ﬁndings of
this report to be the responsibility of every
student and faculty member, not limited to
the women of this community, to be aware
and proactive about the issues facing our
institution.

“I would just like to be a good teacher,
writer, and member of this community--to
do my work well--and that is inordinately
difficult in this climate,” Wheeler writes.

The report can be found in its entirety at:
http://www.wlu.edu/ x l 5 l07.xml
K.E.W.L. -
Knowledge Empowering Women Lead-

6fS

Parents Weekend should remind us of our potential for civility

‘By Crlghton Allen
C 0 LU M N I ST

Hiya Hiya Hiya. Is everyone
having a good semester? Mine’s
been great, but I am ready to get
my parents up here. A nice South-

ern Inn brunch, a set of fresh sheets -

on my bed, clean clothes, I’ve been
yearning for all those and more
since my parents dropped me off to
start the year.

It’ll be nice to have all those
things again, even if it’s just for
a weekend. (I’m just joking; of
course I’ve had Southern Inn since
my parents left. I’m not totally
helpless up here alone.)

Clean boxers and ﬁlet mignon
aside, I think we would all be bet-
ter off if we had our parents up here
more often. And I’m not talking
about just physically, either.

Too often, I feel, when our par-
ents drop us off for our four years
here at W&L, we see it as four years
apart not only physically but also as
the ﬁrst real chance to break away
from the yoke of rules and expecta-
tions we felt at home.

At home, we have to be well be-
haved, mannerly, responsible, and
accountable, but at college, not so
much. H

If I stayed out until 2 a.m on a
random Wednesday night back in
high school, there would be three
words to describe my immediate
future: Georgia Military Academy.
But here, I and anyone else can do
it and Momma never has to know
you ever left the library.

College is designed to foster an
intellectual and social maturation in
an environment unlike the one from
home. How else, then, could one be
expected to learn and grow past the
person you were in high school?

Although you may be taken out
of your home, don’t let your home
be taken out of you. Because you
know what occurs when you let that
happen: arrests, poor grades, prob-
lems with alcohol and other drugs,
the list can go on ad nauseum.

I will bet you that none of the
things that befall students here
were as much of a problem in high
school.

If you failed classes in high
school, or got arrested, or struggled
with alcohol, odds are quite good
you wouldn’t be here now. And I
think that is so because each of us
here had an amazing support sys-
tem of parents, family, friends, and
teachers who loved and supported
us and urged us to ﬁnd and utilize
the best parts of ourselves.

Now that we ﬁnd ourselves here,
far away from those nurturing net-
works, let us not forget those who
encouraged us and loved us and
sacriﬁced on our behaves to get us
here to our university today.

Forget not the lessons that they
taught you back home that made
you want to attend W&L and made
W&L want you to attend equally as
much. For W&L would not have
accepted any of us, not a solitary
one, if it did not sense that we came
from a background that fostered a
person capable of living the life of
honor that our school requires of all
its students.

The social pressures here to be
someone different than who we
really are manifest themselves tre-.
mendously every day.

I know I have given into those
pressures more times than I wish to
count. Yet, every time I stumble on
my walk to be the person my par-
ents raised me to be, I pick myself
back up, for I know that the sup-

port they gave, and continue to give
me, is stronger than anything I can
ﬁnd here that would seek to pull me
down.

Freshmen, I am talking to you
here.

This year will be the most trans-
formative year of your life; just
make sure that what you learn about
yourself is more along the lines of
discovering your hidden love for
cognitive psychology rather than
your skill with bourbon pulls.

Do not forget who you are and
where you came from. ’

Your parents raised you to be
better than a lot of what goes on
here after dark. You know it, too.

As long I am being sappy here, I
can be cliché too. Polonius, no great
man himself, but a loving father
nonetheless, told his son Laertes in
Shakespeare’s Hamlet: “To thine
own self be true,.and it must follow,
as the night the.day, thou canst not
then be false to any man.”

His words strike a powerful cord
then and now. The best version of
yourself is the person you truly are.
If you want to be liked, drop your
front and be yourself.

So parents, welcome to Wash-
ington & Lee this weekend.

You are sending us, your chil-
dren, to a school that offers us every
advantage -in the world. But if not
for you and your love and support
of us, we would be far, far away
from where we stand today, proud,
accomplished students of one of the
nation’s ﬁnest schools.

In all we say and do here, though
it may indeed be great, we are go-
ing to rely on you all to keep us
grounded, to keep us humble, and
to keep us mindful always of who
we really are.

 

Tex-Lex  

October 25,2008

  

 

 

° THE RING-TUM PHI

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2008

 

arts&Iife  

“Forbidden Broadway ” and
student talent blend ﬂawlessly

By Flndley Merritt
STAFF WRITER

Part Broadway revue, part satire, and all
student talent, the Student Showcase was an
excellent display of Washington and Lee’s
diverse array of theatrical skills.

Members of the Washington and Lee
Theater department and Mindbending, a
student directing group, treated audiences
to the 2008 Student Showcase with “For-
bidden Broadway” this past weekend. The
show ran from October 17 through the 19 at
the Johnson Theatre in Lenfest Hall.

Written by Gerard Alessandrini and di-
rected by Marquita Robinson, the perfor-
mance was a Broadway parody interspersed
with student talent. “Forbidden Broadway”
was a revue that spoofed show tunes, char-
acters and plots of contemporary and cur-
rent Broadway musicals, and targeted well
known American lyrists.

Broadway classics such as “Annie,”
“Into the Woods,” “Hello Dolly,” “Les
Miserables,” “Rent,” “Mamrna Mia “and
“Wicked” were among the satirized group,
not to mention a few others.

The play opened with a spoof on “An-
nie,” in which Annie had been reduced to an
unemployed, chain-smoking thirty-year-old
hoping that someone would “revive” her.

The performance ended with a spoof on
“A Chorus Line” in which the actors urged
audiences to “Kiss Cliches Goodbye.” In
between, the show poked fun about the
excessive length of shows, especially “Les
Miserables.”

With songs like “Somewhat Overindul-
gent,” “Call on Carol,” and “The Phantom
and Ethel: The Mucus of the Night,” the
play attacked iconic Broadway ﬁgures like

’ Mandy Patinkin, Carol Channing, and Ethel

Merrnan. It also spoofed major theatre top-
ics such as the confusion between Chita Ri-
vera and Rita Moreno, and the difﬁculty of
Sondheim’s lyrics.

Apart from “Forbidden Broadway,” the
2008 Showcase featured plenty of other
W&L student talent. There were eight show-
case numbers ranging from monologues,
musical performances, skits, and dance per-
formances.

Some work was original, in that the per-
formers had written their own monologues
and choreographed their own dance pieces.

Others covered well known work and

sometimes added their own interpretation.

The covered work included a musical
performance of Guns N Roses’ “Don’t Cry,”
“Thoroughly Modern Millie’s” “Gimme
Gimme,” a dance performance titled “Reth-
gio de Amor,” and “What Is This Feeling”
from “Wicked” “Lexington Gay Bar” was
a sketch based on The Ice Cream Socialists’
“Gar Bar,” in which students added their
own interpretation to the original content.

Overall, the performance was met with
ultimate success. Box office officials con-
ﬁrmed that tickets had been sold out before
opening night. The audience turnout was
mixed each night in that Lexington locals,
parents, and W&L students all came to see
the performance. There was laughter, silent
appreciation, and an air of satisfaction.

First-year student James Pickle came
to see the performance Friday night. He re-
marked how he felt “it was a hilarious sati-
rization of Broadway.”

W&L sophomore Graham Sheridan also
had praise for the show.

He thought that “the Johnson Theater
was a small and intimate setting that was
cohesive to appreciating the many students’
talent.”

Another ﬁrst-year student, Brooks Sim-
mons, came to see the performance Saturday
night. “It was deﬁnitely a great experience.
When you think of Washington and Lee, you
mainly think of academic talent. This show
was a great way to see that W&L students
have a lot of artistic talent as well.”

Members of the Theater department
and Mindbending rehearsed every night for
three weeks before opening night. “It was
deﬁnitely a lot of work,” explained junior
and participant Markheavens Tshuma.

And for the most part, the experience
was great for the performers as well.

Tshuma also explained how this show
was different than any other show he had
done at Washington and Lee.

“This was the ﬁrst time we combined
the 2008 Student Showcase with a thematic
performance. The two worked really well
alongside one another.”

In the long run, the grueling.rehearsal
schedule paid off because the performance
was met with huge success.

MORGAN HARR|S/ staff photographer

Above: Juniors Tlm Kirby and Hannah Kate Mitchell bring a Latin flavor to the showcase
Bottom rig”: lsophomores Ellie Duvall and Jean Chapman show off their moves in a spoof of
“Mamma a ”, .

GREAT INVESTMENT PROPERTY FOR YOUR STUDENTl!
Please drive by 880 Union Run‘Rd while you are visiting W and L this weekend. This 3 BR, 1 bath home would
be great for your son/daughter to live in while attending school here.
Central air and heat, all appliances, full basement with rec room, and gorgeous views, just minutes from W and
I L!
Take Jackson Ave. to right on Ross Rd, follow until road intersects with Union Run Rd, turn right and watch for
' house on right.
Call Carolyn Kuper at Re/Max to see it or for more info.
Cell 540-460-4147

 

 

   

6 ° THE RING-TUM PHI

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2008

arts&life

 

Chorus sings folk songs, prepares for South Africa

Choral concert takes on an international theme, with music inﬂuenced by both South Africa and Renaissance Italy

By Stephanie Hardiman
STAFF WRITER '

The Washington and Lee Uni-
versity Chorus began its season
with a sampling of American,
African, and African-American
folk songs on Tuesday in Wilson
Hall. The concert also featured
selections by the University
Chamber Singers, General Ad-
mission, JubiLee, and Southern
Comfort.

The chorus, led by Professor
Jerry Myers, will head to Cape-
town, South Africa for spring
break. They will perform four
concerts there and two of them

will be with local choirs.

Keeping with this intema-
tional theme, the chorus was
joined by two African drummers
who played the djembe, a skin-
covered hand drum.

Drummers Mirabai Mcleod
and Lamine F arras live in Rock-
bridge County and presented a
drumming workshop in the El-
rod Commons last year.

The pair will join the chorus
at the holiday concert later this
term and will present another
drumming workshop in Febru-
ary. Myers hopes for a few stu-
dents to learn the dj embe to trav-
el with the chorus this spring.

The chorus began the per-

formance with singers entering
from all sides of the hall to cre-
ate a truly surround-sound ex-
perience. The musical selection
was a processional song often
used in Nigeria when greeting
important leaders such as tribal
chiefs.

Sharon Chu, a junior clarinet-
ist, accompanied the chorus for
a Scottish-American folk song
popular in the southern Appa-
lachian region. Following the
American folk song was "The
Battle of Jericho”, an African-
American spiritual composed by
the late Moses Hogan.

While the chorus focused on
folk songs, the Chamber Singers

explored music of the Renais-
sance.

Most of the selections were
taken from Morten Lauridsen’s
“Madrigali: Six ‘Fire Songs’
on Italian Renaissance Poems.”
The selections were also accom-
panied by Renaissance artwork
projected onto a screen behind
the singers. The art was ar-
ranged by two senior art history
majors, Mallory Ruymann and
Brittany Simpson.

Myers said before the per-
formance began that the images
were a mixture of sacred and
secular that could conﬂict or
mesh with the selection’s lyrics.
He said he thought this was ap-

propriate since the realms of life
are often conﬂicting as well.

The performance was Myers’
debut as the Chamber Singers’
director. He said he chose the
two very different subject mat-
ters for both groups as a way to
showcase their differences.

“The two groups have dis-
tinctively different sounds . . . I
try to bring out what students in
each group do well and challenge
them to do better,” he said.

The University Chorus,
Chamber Singers, and Joyful
Noise Gospel Choir will per-
form on Friday at 8 p.m. for the
Parent’s Weekend Choral Con-
cer_t.

Southern Comfort, General
Admission, and JubiLee will
perform for the Parent’s Week-
end A Cappella Concert Satur-
day at 6 p.m.

Tickets for both events are
free to students. Contact the
Lenfest box oﬁice at (540) 458-
8000 to secure seats ahead of
time. Box Oﬁice hours are Mon-
day - Friday, 9-1] a.m., 2-4p.m.
and two hours before each per-
formance.

A full music department cal-
endar of events can be found at
http://music.wlu.edu.

Service carnival helps students give back to community

Student body comes together to serve the community, Nabors Service League boasts increased participation

By Joel Poelhuis
STAFF WRITER

Giant multi-colored inﬂata-
bles ﬁlled Cannan Green Sunday
as students arrived for an after-
noon of volunteering and service.
The tenth annual Nabors Service
Day brought together about 180
W&L volunteers for projects in
the Rockbridge County commu-
nity. The inﬂatable games were
there for a children’s carnival,
though some W&L students
tried them out beforehand.

The students volunteered
in groups and worked on tasks
from landscaping at Central El-
ementary School to picking up
trash along stretches of highway.
Other groups went to Boxer-

wood garden, Montessori, a car
.wash, and the Rockbridge Area

Occupational Center.

“This year we really wanted
to increase student participa-

tion,” said Samara Francisco,
Special Events and Projects Co-

Chair. Francisco said a good
sign was the large number of

ﬁrst-year students who partici-
pated. One of the organization’s
goals with Nabors Service Day
was to get students involved in
community service earlier.

“We did our sign-ups earlier
this year,” said General Chair

Jenna Walls. “We actually start-
ed signing people up at the cam-
pus activities fair the ﬁrst week
of school.”

However, while the sign-up
list was close to 300 names long,

/""""
INCENTIVE
As a recent college grad, you may
be eligible for a 5400 Incentive

on any new Toyota of your choice
 in adldition to other incentives.“

See your Toyota, dealer for details.

under 200 students actually at-
tended.

“We had a lot of people sign
up and then a lot of people not
show up, so something to work
on is student commitment,”
Francisco said. Walls attributed
the low turnout to the midterm
crunch. Participation was up
from last year, but down from

« two years ago, when Walls said
about 300 students took part in
the event.

One student who showed up
was Lev Raslin, who said his
Resident Advisor. emailed his
hall about Nabors three weeks
ago.

“I felt it would be a good way
for me to give back to the com-
munity and explore Lexington."
said Raslin, who ended up work»

ing on the W&L garden. Raslin
said he would have preferred to
be out in the community, but en-
couraged others to participate.

“The work’s not that hard,
and it only takes a little time, so
it’s deﬁnitely worth it.”

In addition to sponsoring
Nabors Service Day, Nabors
Service League promotes indi-
vidual volunteering opportuni-
ties in conjunction with campus
and local agencies.

“What we do is try to get the
entire community involved.”
Francisco said.

The Nabors program began
in 1999 in memory of W&L
student Jonathan Nabors. His
parents, Eddie and Doris Nabors
founded the organization, and
ride the trip from Birming-

ham, Ala. Sunday to address the
volunteers. The Nabors will be
hosting the service learning al-
ternative spring break trip this
year.

Biology Professor William
Hamilton instructed the teams
of students assisting with the
W&L garden. The garden uses
compost from the dining hall’s
waste, mulch from leaves picked
up by campus mowing crews,
and work from students and fac-
ulty.

Produce from the garden sup-
plies both the W&L dining hall
and Campus Kitchens, an orga-
nization which serves meals to
area residents who need them.
According to Hamilton, locally
grown produce is much richer in
healthy antioxidants and vitamin

C than imported stock. Students
prepared the garden for winter,
working on harvesting, mulch-
ing, and woodchuck deterrence.

Volunteers who arrived at

noon ate a free lunch consisting
of sandwiches and chips. Each
volunteer received a red T—shirt,

cup, and pen with the name of

the event on them. Upcoming
on Nabors’ calendar are a Hal-
loween carnival and Hunger &

Homelessness Awareness Week

the week of November 3'“.

For those interested in ex-
panding their communiry in-
volvement after Nabors Service
Day, contact Jenna Walls at
wal lsj@wl u. edu

  ®rovo'rA

moving toward

 uyatoyota.com

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2008

THE RING-TUM PHI -

7

 

arts&life

Dead ﬁsh in Staniar Gallery

Artist/llberto Rey s exhibit features aquatic creatures as an environmental message

By Collin Neal
STAFF WRITER

Scholars and artists have
varying opinions regarding the
purpose of art. However, there
are always those who choose
to challenge these assumptions.
The fruits of this challenge,
whether it is to the detriment or
gain of the artistic world, is al-
ways interesting. In his exhibit,
“Life, Death and Beauty” Alber-
to Rey shares with viewers his
stance on how art itself can act
as a medium for social justice.

On October 15, The Wash-
ington and Lee Arts Commu-
nity welcomed back acclaimed
artist Alberto Rey for a lecture
‘and reception in honor of the
opening of his new exhibit here.
Rey, visiting artist at W&L this
past term, titled the presentation
covering his work since 1985
“Looking for a Home.” His

work encompasses many differ-
ent media, from canvas and oils
to video, successfully keeping
the viewer entertained.

Rey describes his earlier
work as heavily inﬂuenced by
his Cuban roots combined with
his American experience as a
child. His family ﬂed Cuba to
come to America at the age of
three given the political climate.
Through his early adulthood,
he moved around sixteen times,
giving himself what he calls a
broad, unique perspective of
American culture.

His Cuban subjects range
from regional food dishes to
portraiture in both Miami and
Havana. His ﬁrst ﬁlm, entitled
“Seeing in the Dark” memorial-
izes the artist’s ﬁrst foray back
to Cuba since seeking political
refuge. Combining video, mu-
sic, and text, the video gives the

viewer a lonely, haunting feeling
of disconnection.

“In Cuba the Past is the Pres-
ent. Little Improves and Little
Changes.”

After returning from Cuba,

His latest exhibit here at
Washington and Lee focuses
on a term he calls “Biological
Regionalism,” a response to the
latest focus in the art world on
globalization and nationalism.

“The use of art as a medium for political or

social expression is, quite frankly, an abuse
of art. And while it was beautiful, I found it

upsetting. ”

Merritt Poling, sophomore

Rey had a realization that his ob-
session with Cuba was based on
nostalgia. Since seeing the real-

ity of Cuba, he decided to move _

on and his work took a different
turn. According to Rey, in Cuba
he “understood the importance
of family and fragility of life.”

His work is more of a retum
to a locally focused scope. He
strives to bridge the disconnect
between humans and the natural
world around them. The exhibit
combines large, wall-sized com-
positions of dead ﬁsh in varying
states of decay along with video

screens beckoning the viewer
through the sounds of water and
visuals of creekside activity.
These images are meant to com-
pel the viewer to consider the
most pressing environmental is-
sues of today. When questioned
about the choice of dead ﬁsh as
subject matter, Rey responded
that there was deﬁnite sadness,
but something peaceful as well
about all of them.

The exhibit’s opening was
celebrated with a reception that
included a powerpoint presen-
tation and a lecture from the
artist himself. Several faculty
members and students from
the newly formed, and still un-
named, student art league were
in attendance.

However, some students had
an objection to the subject and
Rey’s purpose behind his works.
Merritt Poling, a sophomore art

history major, found the paint-
ings’ connection to political is-
sues rather appalling.

“The use of art as a medium
for political or social expression
is, quite frankly, an abuse of art,”
Poling said. “And while it was
beautiful, I found it upsetting.”

Although the pieces were re-
ceived with some negativity, it
was still very much appreciated
by even its harshest critics. The
beauty and complexity of Rey’s
paintings make it obvious why
his work is displayed in over 20
museum collections and featured
in 130 exhibitions. It is refresh-
ing to see this university bring in
and support such an innovative
artist.

Rey’s exhibit runs through
November 5 at the Staniar Gal-
lery in Wilson Hall. The gallery
is open from 8:00 a.m. until 5:00
p.m.

DJ W illi
P ' kt takes the CTOSSWOM
Few concert-goers in attendance   
treated to one of W&L is best shows
By Wm Mays Parents Weekend Agenda
5”” WW“ Neville L. Fogarty
It was Shakespeare who penned the lines, “We few, we 1 2 3 4 5 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 A I

happy few, we band of brothers...gent1emen in England now  V

a-bed shall think themselves accursed they were not here.” Yes, 1 ' Theif speak 14 15 16

these lines were written about the Saint Crispin’s Day battle English and

.1 in Henry V, but the meaning still holds true for students who Deltsch _ 17 1 18 319
i missed the DJ Williams Projekt’s free concert on Cannan Green 5- Pond Organism M i A ‘ K ‘
on Wednesday, October 15. 10- Frat Part)’ attire, 20 1
With less than 30 conceit-goers, the audience was indeed a perhaps ............................... .. 
happy few. The turnout was predominantly male. Even the band 14. 1 942 Copland 2 23 24 25
recognized the majority of “brothers” in attendance. 1 Pallet - H 26 27 28 29 30 131
-— The attendees also found themselves witnessing a sonic bat— 1 5_ Smallvme role fgr . 1

tle on stage. Those happy few witnessed arousing set blending Kreuk 32 33 34 '35 36 37 38 39 40

funk, blues, soul, jazz, and rock into and incredible display of 16_ Outis partner

musical proﬁciency. 1 1 1 1 I 17_ What to do on 41 42

Richmond’s DJ Williams Projekt is made up of vocalistl Thursday of
_ _ _ Parents Weekend 43 ii‘
Whether it was a lack of..advertzsmg... 2o_ Fastbaii 5 46 7
' . 21. B hf
that caused a lack of student enthusiasm... 22 Sﬁggtaﬁgt on "You 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55
it is...disappointing to be able to count the Can't Do That on
Television" 56 57 58 59 0 61 62
number of attendees...on a single hand 25_ mowed to and fro
26. Where Samson 63 1 54 65 ,
30. Evict

guitarist D] Williams, saxophonist Gordon Jones, trumpeter 32, What to do to 59 70 71

Mark Ingraham, drummer Dusty Simmons, and bassist Todd pledges

Herrington. To put it bluntly, D] Williams is an incredible 35_ Gave up a right ©2008

guitarist. His playing style ﬁnds him somewhere between the 41. What to do on

bluesy pyschedelica of Jimi Hendrix and the fantastic freakout Friday of parents 70. Cub SCOUT groups 27. Bartlett's abbr. 51. Some girls in the
of Funkadelic’s Ernie Hazel. His lightning playing was abun- Weekend 71_ Key word? 28_ Tubes on the table chorus

dant through such crowd-pleasers as “What It Is,” “Recess,” 43‘ Takes out like a 29_ At the summit of 52_ Raccgon Cogper of
and their new song “Hypnotizer.” His rhythm section of Sim- marksman  31 _ Deuces Video games
inons and Herringtorl Provided a solid groove to each of the 44. Shomlived Jason 1‘ Type of rival 33_ What a neat drink 54. 1970 hit n-1-hank
eight songs played, and the horn section of Jones and Ingraham . r . . 1aCkS You 1-_-a1ett1nme Be

1 d t. 11 .th lful f 1 th 1 Alexander sitcom 2. ABC eallty series, 1 1

p aye CXCCII) 10113  S011 CI'OClty me W1 jazzy OIICS. 45'    ".l..he"  llThe   Aglnyr
OV:a“’th‘?ban‘.1wa.S‘nht°p f°”\;1ll. 1d d .ﬁ f h 47 Lion-S Share 3_ concept Rises" -55. Bob's companion?
son t0(I:1<lI1at1(:1ll:i‘.)1tIl11:sIiEI31Si(::fSl1eitS’ baiidaiirilisrvdgilse alihmotuot svhicii 48- Son of iapetus and 4' Plane reservation 36‘ Genesis guitarist 57' was in debt

he vig/ouldyroar in with an exhilarating soib. For exzimple, during Asia 5-‘ Works on a Ski" 37' Couple’ Siangly 59' Sherman Hemsley
their “Simple Song” medley, the band tore through a rendition 53- Ofi'kiiter 6- Matterhorn: e~g- 38‘ Where to ﬁnd Sltcom

of The Police’s “Roxanne” with Ingraham’s trumpet providing 56. Edible member Of 7- N0|'lCieTlQ3i ' Ventas _ 60' Couretney COX

‘,1 the vocal melody, and during other such jams snippets of The the lily family 8. Spiritual lhi§Uli|Ol’lS 39- Outback birds Arquette tabloid

Simpsons’ theme song and “Take Me Out to the Ball Game” 58, Like some g|as3 9_ Fluish feelmg 40. Type Of store, show 1

could be picked out ofa ﬂurry ofnotes. and gas ‘ 10. Trunks bneﬂll 51- Aiter_”at'VeiY ,

Despite the band’s loud ampliﬁers and huge noise, and Can- 63_ What to do on 1 1, Roundish 42. Succumb i0 62. Textile worker
nan Green’s proximity to Graham-Lees and the BDG quad, the Saturday of , 12_ (;,—y3ta|-|ined stone quicksand 64. Jack's inferior?
crowd was sparse. Whether it was lack of effective advertising Parents Weekend 13_ packing heat 46, Ag ricolae or 65, Mins, and mins.
« or the fact that it was a Wednesday night that caused a lackof 66 _Eu1.Opean 13_ Amazoncom, e_g, agricolis, 

student enthusiasm for Williams’ band cannot be certain. Still, 67‘ Drew Barrymore 19‘ What Patrick 48_ Jemed garmsh

it is disappointing to be able to count the number of attendees to mm .. Afteru Henry Smeﬂed 49_ Macbeth, e_g_

a SCl'10(l)l iunction, a free coiicerigt rgil less,don a single hlﬁlng. Onef 68. It Can’-——be free 23. Tiny bit 50_ Cooking fats

 ::inyar1:pbeles1;:ll(i“:vents in t e ture 0 not meett e ate 0 69- Type of pool 24' some Ce1_ea1S

' 26. Musicians‘ jobs

 

 

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2008

THE RING-TUM PHI

- 3

ports  

 

Swimming splits with Mary Washington

Men 3 team wins I 70-92, women
fall 110-152 in season sﬁrst meet

ByRussWeems
STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee
men’s and women’s swim
teams opened their seasons this
Saturday against Mary Wash-
ington. The men came away
with a 170-92 blowout vic-
tory while the Eagles edged the
Lady Generals 152-110.

W&L men’s team had 10
event victories in the meet Sat-
urday. Junior Winston Stagg
led the way with two individual
victories and a relay win. He
won the 100 breast (1202.79),
the 200 breast (2218.65), and
was a part of the winning 200
medley relay (l:38.53). First-
year Brian Stirling, junior
Brandon Bamds and senior
Paul Crook joined Stagg in the
relay victory.

Crook and Stirling (along
with senior Brett Tatman and
ﬁrst—year Brad Harder) also
won the 400 free relay in a time

Lady Eagles have ﬁnished ﬁrst
in the Capital Athletic Confer-
ence. “We’re deﬁnitely closing
the gap between us and teams
like Mary Washington,” said
Gardner.

Both teams are looking to
build on their strong 2007-2008
seasons. The men were 9-2 last
year ﬁnishing in second place
at the Bluegrass Mountain Con-
ference Championships and in
8th place at the NCAA Cham-
pionships. Graduation did hit
the Generals hard, however,
as they lost BMC Swimmer of
the Year Alex Sweet along with
All-BMC swimmers Will Hart-
mann and Tim McGlaston.

Junior Winston Stagg is not
worried about replacing last
year’s seniors. “We look at los-
ing considerable talent last year
as an opportunity -— an oppor-
tunity for teammates to step up
and to carry last year’s momen-
tum into this season.”

“We look at losing considerable talent last

year as an opportunity —— an opportunity

for teammates to step up and to carry last

year s momentum into this season. ’

I

Winston Stagg, junior swimmer

of 3:18.67. Crook also regis-
tered two individual wins in
the 200 free (1244.15) and the
500 free (4:47.99). Junior Dan
Austin came out on top in the
1,000 free (10:19.5l).

Three ﬁrst-years won in-
dividual races in their debuts:
Chris Washnock took the 200
back in a time of 1:59.61, Ryan
Hartman won in the 200 butter-
ﬂy (2200.66), and Harder added
to his relay win with a victory
in the 100 back (55.52).

The women were defeated
110-152 but had some strong
individual perfonnances.
First-year Dana Fredericks was
a bright spot in the loss. She
opened her college career with
two victories. She took the 100
breast in 1:10.41 and the 200
individual medley with a time
of 2:18.25. Senior Lindsey
Strachan also had a good day
individually, winning the 200
back in a time of2: 13.80.

Despite the loss, women’s
head coach Kami Gardner said,
“I think they [W&L swimmers]
are very happy with their per-
formances.” The Mary Wash-
ington women’s swimming
team is known as one of the bet-
ter programs in all of Division
III. For 18 straight seasons, the

After swimming a good
meet Saturday, many are ex-
pecting the men’s ﬁrst—year
swimmers to have a great im-
pact on the team this year.

“Saturday’s performance
showed our freshmen are im-
mediately capable of contrib-
uting. The freshmen class has
serious talent,” said Stagg.

The women finished sec-
ond in the ODAC last year and
were picked to win it this year
in the ODAC Preseason Poll.
The Lady Generals lost All-
ODAC swimmer Amy Rober-
son to graduation but will re-
turn ODAC Rookie of the Year
Tess Hayden.

Gardner said, “As a whole,
I want the women to develop
into a great team that is sup-
portive of each other’s goals
and obviously to succeed at the
ODAC and national level.”

W&L’s women return to

-the pool Saturday at 11:00 a.m.

when they host the ODAC Fall
Invitational for Parents Week-
end. On the other hand, the
men’s team does not compete
again until Oct. 31 when they
travel to Transylvania.

TOP: Junior Jenna Worsham swims freestyle in
the Lady Generals 110-152 loss to Mary Wash-
Ington.

MIDDLE: Senior Jule Miata swims the butterfly,
the stroke that earned her a first place finish in
the 200-yard race and a second place finish in
the 100-yard race.

BOTTOM: Sophomore Ryan Hanson swims the
100-yard breaststroke as a part of the men's
team’s 170-92 win over Mary Washington.

RYAN ELSEY / Staff Photographer

 

W&L ri

Generals place eighth at
Hollins and Randolph
Invitationals

Junior Emily Coyle places sixth in the open fences at the
Hollins lnvitatlonal on Oct. 10. Washington and Lee finished
eighth out of 10 teams with 22 points, 19 behind the winner,
James Madison. Sophomore Allison Lemon led the way for
the Generals with a blue ribbon in the Intermediate flat and a
second-place finish In the open fences.

On Oct. 17, the riding team travelled to the Randolph lnvita-
tional and once again placed eighth out of 10 teams — this
time 18 behind the winner, Hollins. Sophomore Caitlin
Mccurdy placed second in the advanced walk-trot canter,
qualifying for the IHSA Zone IV Region 2 Championships.

Next up for the riding team Is the Brldgewater lnvitatlonal on
Nov. 1 at 9:30 a.m.

RYAN ELSEY / Staff Photographer

 

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2008

THE RING-TUM PHI ' 9

 

sports

Junior forward Stephanie Mansey battles for a ball with a Blue Marlln defender In Saturday's 5-1 blowout of Virginia Wesleyan.

Field hockey crushes Virginia Wesleyan 5-]  
A Saturday but falls to Sewanee 2-0 Sunday

By Llzz Dye
STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee’s ﬁeld
hockey team had reason to cele-
brate with its fourth consecutive
win against Virginia Wesleyan
Saturday. The Generals ﬁnished
the game with a 5-1 victory over
the Blue Marlins.

W&L jumped out to a quick
lead, scoring two goals within
the ﬁrst 5 minutes. Junior mid-
ﬁelder Alex Caritis thought that
the momentum from the two
early goals carried the Generals
throughout the entire 70 min-
utes. “It was great to get a lead
early on and then maintain that
lead throughout the game. The
offense did a great job, and the
defense really stayed strong the
whole game.”

Junior forward Sallie Arm-
strong put one up on the board

when she dribbled around the
Virginia Wesleyan’s ﬁrst-year
goalie Chelsea Baker just 1:33
into the game. A little over two
minutes later, senior forward
Christina Merchant shot another
one by Baker to hand the Gener-
als the early 2-0 lead.

Assisted by Merchant, ﬁrst-
year Christina Benedetti scored
the Generals’ third goal at 21:26.
Benedetti noted that W&L’s
scoring attacks came from many
different players. “I knew it
was going to be a good day for
the Generals when all three for-
wards scored in the ﬁrst twenty
minutes. It was great to get my
fourth goal of the season during
such an exciting game.”

After surrendering three goals
in 15 minutes, Baker was pulled
from the game and replaced by
sophomore Kieara Mowery. A

new goalie, however, did not

prevent the Generals from creat-

ing more scoring opportunities.
Sophomore Kathy Brown

senior forward Melissa Dolan
tacked on a ﬁfth goal.

It seemed that the Generals
defense was going to secure its

“Saturday is game against I/zrginia Wesleyan
showed how dynamic W&L ﬁeld hockey can
be. We scored off of fast breaks and penalty

corners; we were strong offensively and

defensively; and our transitions made the

1

game. ’

Caroline Habllston, junlor goalkeeper
 

ended the ﬁrst half by bringing
W&L to a 4-0 lead with an unas-
sisted goal at 33:11. With eight
minutes to play in the game,

ﬁrst shutout of the season when
Virginia Wesleyan’s Whitney
King scored on a defensive cor-
ner with three seconds left in the

game.

Nonetheless, the Generals
played one of their best games
of the season. Junior goalkeeper
Caroline Habilston relished the
blowout victory. “Saturday’s
game against Virginia Wesleyan
showed how dynamic W&L ﬁeld
hockey can be. We scored off of
fast breaks and penalty corners;
we were strong offensively and

I defensively; and our transitions
made the game. It is always fun
to be a part of a team that scores
early and often.”

Habilston played the entire
game in goal and saved four
shots. The Generals had 23 shots
on goal and ﬁve penalty corners
while Virginia Wesleyan tallied
nine and ﬁve, respectively. Dur-
ing the four-game winning streak
between October 9 and 18, the
Generals outshot their opponents

MORGAN HARRIS / Staff Photographer

94-30 and outscored them 14-6.

W&L returned to action Sun-
day in a non-conference bout
with Sewanee. The ﬁrst half
ended scoreless after going back
and forth.

Just 11 minutes into the sec-
ond half, the Tigers got on the
board with a penalty comer goal
from senior midﬁelder Claiborne
Buckingham. Senior forward
Lynn Hancock added an insur-
ance goal ﬁve minutes ‘later.
Sewanee’s senior goalkeeper
Clarkie Crawford came up big as
the Generals outshot the Tigers
20 to 6.

W&L returned to ODAC ac-
tion Wednesday travelling to
Randolph-Macon, but results
were not available as of press
time. The Generals face Sweet
Briar next Saturday at 2:00 p.m.
for Parents Weekend.

Women’s soccer beats Mary Washington

F irst—year Kat Barnes earns hat trick in Saturday 3 5-2  has 14 goals this season

By Adam Cancryn
STA FF WRITER

Forward Kat Barnes can now
add perfect timing to her long
list of ﬁrst-year contributions.

Coming off of last week’s
close conference loss to Lynch-
burg, Barnes turned in her best
performance of the year. The
forward’s three goals put the
Generals back on track with a 5-
2 blowout of Mary Washington
University.

With crucial ODAC games
coming up, the women’s soccer
team wasted no time in putting
its opponent away. Taking ad-
vantage of Mary Washington’s
shaky defense, W&L scored
twice in the ﬁrst 15 minutes.

Barnes notched the ﬁrst one,
taking a left foot cross from
senior forward Anne Van Dev-
ender and heading the ball past
the keeper.

A few minutes later, senior
midﬁelder Katie Kern extended
the lead with a point-blank shot
off of a corner kick. She would
score again later in the half, giv-
ing W&L a 3-1 lead going into
halftime.

According to head coach
Neil Cunningham, the Gener-
als found offensive success by
capitalizing on their opponent’s
unusual defensive formation.

“I told them [the team] to
quit trying to ﬁgure it out and
just play,” Curmingham said of

his strategy.

The simple ‘approach worked
especially for Kat Barnes, who
broke out in the second half.

Playing against just three

The keeper deﬂected her initial
shot, but the rebound settled’ in
front of Barnes, who converted
to make it 4- 1.

The ﬁrst-year forward com-

“It was a combined effort of all the forwards
that I got open. Because they had three in

the back, [our forwards] were basically one

v. one the whole game

Kat Barnes, first-yearforward

defenders, senior Sara Foster-
Reeves won a loose ball and
centered it to Van Devender.

pleted the hat trick in the 60”‘
minute. One-on—one with a de-
fender, Barnes worked the ball

down the right side of the ﬁeld,
cut it back to her left foot, and
launched a curling shot that hit
the far post and deﬂected in.

“It was a combined effort of
all the forwards that I got open,”
she said of her offensive suc-
cess. “Because they had three
in the back, [our forwards] were
basically one v. one the whole
game.”

Saturday’s match was
Barnes’ ﬁrst career hat trick and
5“‘ multi-goal game of the sea-
son. She leads the team with 14,
four away from tying the ﬁrst-
year record set by Erica Reineke
in 1994. _

More importantly, though,
the win gives the Generals mo-

mentum with the ODAC tourna-
ment less than two weeks away.
The team is third in the confer-
ence with a record of 6-2.

Coach Cunningham believes
they have a great chance if they
can duplicate Saturday’s suc-
cess. '

“We could win the next three
games and...make a run in the
tournament,” he said. “1t’s a
matter of, we’ve got to win on
the road.”

W&L played host to Emory
& Henry Wednesday, but results
were not available as of press
time. Next up for the Generals
is a home ODAC match against
Guilford Saturday at 3:00 p.m.

 

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 23,2008

10

0 THE RING-TUM PHI

sports

 

 
    
 

   

Mon

Tues Wr-:o

vs
Football Guilford
1 p.m.
vs
vs
Flak] Sweet cNU
HOCKOJI Briar
A 2 p.m.
2 p.m.
vs vs
Mews Virginia Randolph
soccer Wesleyan 4 Wm V
11 am.
vs at
Women's Guilford Bc
Soccer
3 p.m. 4 p.m.
h vs
31 andolph-
N I
0 hyba“ Juniata Invitational Macon
7 p.m.
Women's
X0
Men's xc
c if at
0 Guilford invitational
ODAC
Women's
iswlmming Fa"
invite

 

numbers .
200-1

The Tampa Bay Rays odds of winning the 2008 World Series at the
start of the regular season, according to Las Vegas Hilton race and
sports book director Jay Kornegay. They are now favored to win the

World Series over the Philadelphia Phillies.

9-1

The Boston Red Sox record in American League Championship Series
(ALCS) elimination games under manager Terry Franconca. The Red

Sox lost to the Rays 3-1 Sunday in game 7 of the ALCS.

box

“It was just such a hoot to play with him. He

 

showed me things I never even thought about.
Like when he walks into a sand trap, he feels with

his feet. It was just so neat. It really was.”

59-year-old John Abel after Tiger Woods caddled his round of golf
Monday at Torrey Pines, the course where Woods came back to win
the 2008 U.S. Open against Rocco Mediate in a playoff. Abel was
the winner of a contest to have Woods caddy for him, courtesy of
espn.com.

“He contacted them? I don’t respect that. If they
call him and he gives them information, that's

one thing. But to seek a team out and to feel like
you're trying to sabotage this team, I don ’t respect
that. I know he's been the greatest player around

here for a long time, but there's no honor in that.”

Green Bay Packers cornerback Charles Woodson after foxsports.com
reported that New York Jets quarterback Brett Favre called Detroit
Lions coaches to provide a scouting report of his former team before
the Lions-Packers Sept. 14 game, courtesy of USA Today.

“[ I] looked at [Nolan] and he looked at me, and
before I said a word, he said, ‘I want you to take
this job. I know that you have the heart of the
players at hand, and I know they're important to
you.  If you do not take the job, I will be very dis-
appointed in you as my friend.”’

San Francisco 49ers Interim head coach Mike Singletary, who was
hired Monday after the team fired Mike Nolan, Singietary’s good friend
and coaching mentor, courtesy of espn.com.

  
   
  
 
  
 
  

3 receiver
Cody Smith

I as he makes
one of his 11
catches from
, fellow first-

; year quarter-
: back charlie
’ Westfal.

MOGRAN HARRIS /
Staff Photographer

Generals lose Second Straight game, fall to I -2 in ODAC

By Brian Devine
snrr wmrsn

Before Washington and
Lee’s home football game
against Hampden—Sydney,
Generals head coach Frank
Miriello described a simple
path to victory: discipline, in-
tensity and enthusiasm. To the
team’s credit, they lived up to
the last tw_o.

But when all was said and
done, W&L had lost its ﬁrst
home matchup in 13 games,
falling 39-29 to the nationally
ranked Tigers.

Lack of discipline certainly
played a role in the loss, but
both teams suffered from stu-
pid turnovers and penalties.
The real difference, then, was
that the visitors showed in the
second half why they are the
cream of the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference this sea-
son, by outclassing the Gener-
als in just about every way.

The Tigers boast one of the
best dual-threat backﬁelds in
recent ODAC history. .Senior
quarterback Corey Sedlar and
senior tailback Josh Simpson
are among the top two at their
respective positions in the
conference and led H-SC to
the conference title last year.

Now one year older and
wiser, they have brought their
squad to the No. 20 national
ranking (before Saturday’s
game at Wilson Field) and a
more or less clear path to a
second consecutive confer-
ence title.

It took a while for the Ti-
gers to get going on Saturday.
W&L actually led at the half
by a single point, 22-21. The
Generals also scored ﬁrst in
the third quarter and it seemed
to the few brave fans assem-
bled in the cold that W&L

could pull off a marvelous up-
set victory.

But after W&L ﬁrst-year
quarterback Charlie Westfal
fumbled the football for the
second time, it took the Tigers
only three plays to tie the score
at 29 following a successful
two—point conversion. Later
in the third quarter Sedlar
led his team on a time-heavy
86-yard drive that included
two successful fourth-down
conversions and ended with a
ﬁeld goal. On W&L’s ensuing
possession Westfal fumbled
again, and it took the Tigers
just ﬁve plays to reach the end
zone, putting themselves up
by ten.

If not for his three fumbles,
Westfal probably would have
had the best game of his col-
lege career. He completed 25 of
46 passes for 252 yards, most
of them to fellow ﬁrst-year
Cody Smith. Smith, playing a
signiﬁcant role in the offense
for the ﬁrst time, tied a school
record with three consecutive
touchdown receptions, and

nearly had a fourth that was
just over his head after a de-
ﬂection. The understanding
between Westfal and Smith is
promising, and we should see
great things from both of them
over the next four years.

But part of the reason the
Generals took to the air with
such frequency was the injury
of tailback Stuart Sitterson.
Sitterson, the team’s best of-
fensive player this year, was
removed in the second quarter
with a rib injury. With its cap-
tain and leader gone, the rush-
ing attack vanished. Westfal
ended up as the team’s lead-
ing rusher on the day with 88
yards.

The Generals defense also
failed to stop the Sedlar-Simp-
son combo when it needed
to. The hosts yielded a total
of 467 yards, including 363
through the air. Sedlar was
rarely troubled in the back-
ﬁeld, and when he had time
to throw, he picked apart a po-
rous pass defense.

Junior linebacker Matt

Cassilly was again the bright
spot of the defense, recording
11 tackles and recovering one
fumble. The defense also in-
tercepted Sedlar twice, though
the team was unable to capi-
talize on these opportunities
the way its opponent did.

In the end, then, the Tigers
were a better team, perhaps
the best team in the ODAC for
the last several years. But dis-
cipline was once again sorely
lacking from the Generals’ ef-
forts.

If W&L hopes to salvage its
season (they are now 4-3, 1-2
in ODAC play), they will have
to commit fewer turnovers and
capitalize on the chances they
have. Their ﬁrst opportunity?
Parents’ Weekend, when the
squad hosts Guilford Col-
lege at 1:00 p.m. Saturday. It
should be a high-scoring af-
fair, as Guilford quarterback
Josh Vogelbach is among the
conference’s all-time leaders
in passing yardage, but Guil-
ford also has the worst pass
defense in the conference.

 

MORGAN HARRIS / Staff Photographer

 

.__,,...\....t...-.-v.~«—ﬂ-i...-, . 4i..~—.-..;.a... :\Vr .,...>.- .1-

 

   

‘ 7
Women S In aletterto the editcaalocal high

school teacheraccuses President
Russia of failing to respond to ‘

issues,

women’s issues on campus.

‘per se’?

oPINIoNs / page 4

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING-TUM PHI.

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2008

BY THE

STUDENTS AND

FOR THE

STUDENTS SINCE

1897

VOLUME CXII,

NUMBER 7

before the election. Democrat su
ing and interning for the Barack

BRETT HOLTON / Copy Editor

Members of. college Republicans make calls to get support for John Mccain on the last weekend
pporters have been just as involved in canvassing, phone bank-
Obama campaign.

 

 
 

 

inner A   

   siuderzison both
sides are campaigning    
hard to swingihe vote

By Dlandra splcak
suxrr wmrsa

As voting day gets closer, cam-
paigning for ‘ each Presidential
candidate" has been in full swing
all throughout the swing state of
Virginia. ,

Election fever has also caught

up with students‘ at Washington

and Lee,‘ many of whom are cast-

. ing theiriballots for the ﬁrst time.

state.‘
“Now the two groups have the

if ability to watch the Presidential _

election up close and personal.”
“Since the candidates are ﬁght-

ing over battleground states such g»

as Virginia, not only do .thc'Col-
lege. Democrats and Republicans

have much more of an opportunity»

to participate, but so does W&L’s
student body.” ‘

f?Sirzce the candidates are ﬁghting over battle-

ground states‘ such as ,iVirgz'nz‘a,i not only do the

College Democrats and Republicans have much‘

more of an opportunity to participate, but so
does W&L is student body. ”

am Cormelly, politics professor .

With theinatiotfs largest elec-
tion right around the corner, stu-
dents have found themselves par-
ticipating more and more actively
in the democratic process.

“Because Virginia is a swing

, state, the College Republicans and

College Democrats are working
hard,” said Bill Conneliy, politics
professor. “In years past, they used
to travel to places like Ohio to get
out the vote. Thingshice door-to-
door visits were out of play since
Virginia was such a historically red

Students like ﬁrst-year Stephen
Wilson of ‘ the Young Democrats

have shown their political fervor "

by trying to get the vote out in Lex-
ington. Wilson, who was a student
intern with the Obama campaign,
said he has been canvassing and
phone banking for Obama.

“When I was phone banking,
We didn’t just. ask who they were
voting for. We asked if they need-
ed a ride, if they knew where their

see “Election” on page 2

" Obama roundtable discussion

W&L professors from four departments discuss effects of an Obama presidency

D,

By Michael Morella
C0 PY EDITO R

For many Americans, what
happens on Tuesday will mark
the end of countless months of
voracious debate, media cover-
age and Saturday Night Live par-
ody. It is safe to assume that by
the end of the night - or at least
into the wee hours of Wednesday
morning — Americans will know
the identity of their next presi-
dent.

While Tuesday’s presidential
election results will likely signal
the end of the campaigns, several
Washington and Lee professors
involved with the African-Amer-
ican Studies Program suggest the
conversation about this election
will not end with the punch of
the ballot.

‘‘I think everybody’s kind of
got their ears perked up more
so than usual,” said Prof. Lucas
Morel of the Politics department.
Morel was one of three profes-
sors featured in last Monday’s
panel, “The Obama Candidacy:
What Does it Mean for (Black)
America?” which took place in
Commons 345.

Morel explained that the fo-
rum was not held to provide any
sort of last-minute publicity for
Barack Obama’s campaign, but
to allow students and faculty to
engage in a critical discussion of
his position as an African-Amer-
ican from a variety of different
perspectives.

In his presentation, Morel
analyzed Obama’s candidacy
from a political perspective and

the opportunity it provides for
Americans to reﬂect on what it
means to be a citizen. Morel,
who teaches courses on Black
American politics and the politi-

American culture, he is not bound
to it and might best be viewed as
an American candidate, not sim-
ply an African-American one.
Morel phoned in his inter-

“We ’re all thz'c/«skinned enough to give

and take in this way and still remain friends

I

afterwards. ’

Lucas Morel, politics professor .
 

cal philosophy of Abraham Lin-
coln, encouraged listeners and
potential voters to focus on the
message, rather than the color of
the messenger.

He asserted that while Barack
Obama is rooted in African-

view from Princeton University
in New Jersey, where he is cur-
rently doing research for an up-
coming book on Abraham Lin-
coln.

“I would have liked to
have been there,” Morel said.

“Through the wonders of tech-
nology, of course, I came via
speakerphone.”

Morel’s political perspective
was complemented by two other
presentations from professors of
history and English. Prof. Dayo
Abah, who mediated the panel,
offered the occasional insight
from her position as a professor
of journalism and mass commu-
nications.

Morel described this multi-
faceted approach as the hallmark

. of the African-American Studies

Program. The program, which
began at W&L in 2005, is like
many of the University’s non-
major concentrations in its inter-
disciplinary approach to a topic
of study.

“We really didn’t just pay lip

service to the interdisciplinary
portion of the program,” Prof.
Morel said in response to the
discussion.

Prof. Marc Conner, current
chair of the African-American
Studies program and professor of
English, offered a variety of per-
spectives in his own discourse.
Conner’s portion of the discus-
sion focused on the paradoxical
nature of Obama’s candidacy —
how race means both everything

' and nothing in his campaign.

His presentation assessed the
power of the candidate’s rhetoric
and composure in translating the
founding documents of our na-
tion in a living and vital way.

In his analysis, he cited New

See ‘‘Obama’’ on page 2

,4

 

  

  

0 THE RING-TUM PHI

  

'NWERSlTY LIBRARY‘

M 0 N DAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2008

Drinking deb ate

Dean Watkins attends Amethyst Initiative panel

By Katherlne Roberts
STAFF WRITER

As part of the national conversation
concerning the drinking age, W&L Dean
Dawn iWatkins participated in a panel
called “Responsible Drinking Redeﬁned”
at Ball State University last month.

The panel, which was hosted by one
of Indiana University’s debate classes,
was a response to the Amethyst Initiative,
a movement of college presidents to call
national attention to the drinking age. The
initiative states that its mission is to sup-
port “informed and unimpeded debate on
the 21 year-old drinking age.”

While the general sentiment among the
343 people in the auditorium was for re-
ducing the drinking age, Watkins said the
questions were well balanced.

In the middle of this discussion, Wat-

Election

polling place was. It was more of go-
ing through everything they need to know
to vote. It’s really coming down to the last
few phone calls, last few visits to people’s
houses. By offering rides, we are trying to
get people out to vote and really give them
no choice not to vote,” he said.

On the opposite side of the political
spectrum, the College Republicans have
pursued a similar line of action to raise
voter awareness, such as going to rallies
and canvassing, said College Republicans
president Scott Centorino.

“Two weekends ago, a group of us
went all through downtown Lexington. We
spoke to folks and passed out literature not
only to increase voter awareness but also
to get W&L students involved with the
election,” Centorino said. “[Saturday] we
went phone banking again, where we also
met up with Congressman Bob Goodlatte.
Afterwards, we split up and went door-to-
door, talking to potential voters in efforts
to mobilize the populace.”

Instead of travelling away from Lex-
ington and campaigning in neighboring
states like Kentucky, the College Repub-
licans opted to stay on campus and further
their efforts locally.

“There really is no need to leave Vir-
ginia. It is a swing state, and we need to
get a higher voter turnout,” Centorino said.
“Now the strategy in general is not trying
to convince undecided voters. What we
want to do is turn out core supporters and
mobilize them. That’s the name of the
game: get out the people you need to get
out to the polling places and make sure
they cast their ballots.”

“What’s great about going to school
here is that we’re on a college campus
that’s not oriented with one particular
state,” Centorino said. “You interact with
students from all over the country, and
from other swing states like Ohio, Penn-
sylvania, and Florida. You come in contact
with so many other outside views, regional
views from all across the nation. You can’t
do that on other campuses.”

“I actually registered to vote here in Vir-
ginia,” Wilson said. “South Carolina has
pretty much been a republican stronghold
for quite a while now. It’s deﬁnitely more

contlnued from page 1

. encouraging to work here as a volunteer

in Lexington than it was back home. Here
you can see how important the canvassing
is, phone banking is, door-to-door visiting

Obama

York Times Political Commentator
David Brooks right alongside 20th-centu-
ry author and political scholar Ralph El-
lison, in discussing the power of Obama’s
language. -

Prof. Theodore DeLaney moved be-
yond words and focused on the symbol-
ism of Obama’s candidacy for the Afri-
can-American community. Yet, DeLaney
asserted that an Obama presidency will
not signal the end of racism in the United
States.

“I certainly hope that it’s going to be a
greater thing than race,” DeLaney said.

He said that the symbolic importance
of the campaign is that it demonstrates
possibility for theAfrican-American com-
munity, but not necessarily a clear sign of
racial harmony in the United States.

“He also came at it from the perspec-
tive of a black man who’s been around
the block longer than anyone on the pan-
el,” Morel said of DeLaney.

DeLaney was instrumental in the de-
velopment of the African-American Stud-
ies Program three years ago. The panel
discussion was co-sponsored by the pro-
gram and the Ofﬁce of Student Affairs.

Aside from the occasionally muddled

continued from page 1

kins spoke from a university administra-
tor’s standpoint to discuss what a college’s
role should be in alcohol education.

“What I see is higher-risk
drinking among first-

years. ”
Dawn Watklns, Dean of Student

“What I talked about was, ‘Well, this is
what I see,’” she said. “And what I see is
higher-risk drinking among ﬁrst-years.”

Alcohol is a kind of forbidden fruit for
those under 21, Watkins said, and students
tend to drink less heavily once they are le-
gal. Watkins also appeared a guest on a
local radio show to share her comments.

is, just to change votes and increase voter
awareness. In South Carolina, it’s nearly
impossible to convince voters to vote lib-
eral since it’s such a red state.”

While political frenzy has taken over
much of the student population, the race
has not ended yet and anything can hap-
pen. Connelly offered his insight as to
who might become the nation’s next chief
executive.

“It looks like it’s Barack Obama’s race
to lose — meaning, it’s his race to win,”
Connelly said. “It’s been his race to lose
for some time now because of a few key
fundamentals like an unpopular president,
unpopular war and a sour economy: Bush
is an advantage, the Iraq war is an advan-
tage, and the ﬁnancial crisis is deﬁnitely
an advantage. Not to mention, the demo-
crats have the natural advantage. Histori-
cally, Americans tend not to elect the same
party two times in a row.”

Centorino, much like other Republi-
cans, have not seen this as a setback.

“Of course the outcome is difﬁcult to
predict. The polls say Obama, but it’s not
over until it’s over,” Centorino said. “If
we didn’t think there were as a chance for
McCain, we wouldn’t be out there can-
vassing, phone banking and going door
to door. No poll is going to stop us from
believing. “

Virginia Congressman Bob Goodlatte
also commented on the likely outcome of
the election, citing that the decision ulti-
mately lies in the hands of the voters and
not on the predictions of the polls.

“I think John McCain’s chances are
still very good. The momentum is still
building, and the election is only a couple
days away,” Goodlatte said. “The momen-
tum will still keep growing, especially
thanks to all the volunteers we’ve had
— including W&L students who made over
1,000 phone calls [on Friday]. It’s going to
become a real contest between these two
politicians.”

Left-wing and right-wing beliefs aside,
both the College Democrats and College
Republicans want all eligible voters to
make their voices heard.

“We’ve got to have faith that voters
will take it upon themselves to learn about
each candidate, and then vote accordingly
to what they think is right. It’s just a matter
of getting out there and voting,” Centorino
said.

questions, Morel said he felt right at
home in the discussion. Even when they
disagreed, the professors did not let the
conversation stray into a debate about
policy issues or which candidate would
be the best leader.

“We’re all thick-skinned enough to
give and take in this way and still remain
friends afterwards,” Morel said. In this
way, Morel felt the discussion progressed
in exactly the way he and his colleagues
had anticipated.

Despite the distance, Morel said he
could feel the vitality of the conversation
from some of his students and colleagues
back in Lexington. He was impressed
with the insight and engagement that stu-
dents provided and that undergraduates
asked most, if not all, of the post-panel
questions.

Beyond Tuesday’s election are the
nation’s recent economic troubles, an is-
sue that all three professors agreed will
be difﬁcult for either candidate to address
as the President of the United States.

Good work, CKP .

Robbie Turner, Mackenzie Brown win
national awards for Campus Kitchens work

Bylamle Klm
STAFF WRITER

One faculty member and one stu-
dent at Washington and Lee received
national recognition this past month
at the National Campus Kitchen Con-
ference for their active involvement
in and commitment to the Campus
Kitchen Project.

Robbie Turner, the former CKP
coordinator, won the Nopalitos Staff
Innovation Award while Senior
Mackenzie Brown won the Leah

_ Prudhomme Volunteer of the Year
Award.

“It’s an incredible statement about
our kitchen,” said Jenny Sproul ‘08,
the current CKP coordinator. “This
is only our third year, and we’re ac-
knowledged by the National Confer-
ence. It’s_exciting.”

Both Turner and Brown have con-
tributed countless hours to building
the Campus Kitchens Project with
new initiatives, programs and deliv-
ery sites.

Turner, who recently took charge
of the Bonner Leader Program, Na-
bors Service League and Volunteer
Venture Programs, was nominated
for the Nopalitos award for creat-
ing a work release program with the
Natural Bridge Juvenile Correction
Center.

“It’s a work release program where
cadets can go work on a regular basis.
They will get paid and get work skills
and life skills,” Turner said.

Starting the program a year ago, he
spent most of the year raising funds.
Now, Campus Kitchens is waiting for
the center to send cadets.

“I feel grateful to receive the
award, and just excited that it high-
lights all the work of Campus Kitch-
en volunteers, supporters, and every-
one at W&L who has made Campus
Kitchens successful,” Turner said.
“I’m also especially excited to see
how the work release program will
beneﬁt a teenager from NBJCC, and
our volunteers and the community in
the process.”

Senior Mackenzie Brown won the
Prudhomme award for accomplishing
many projects and initiatives, such
as running W&L Campus Kitchens
on her own during her internship this
past summer, working in the W&L
garden to supplement CKP meals,
moving Campus Kitchens to a new
location and expanding meal sites to

11 E
Washiiigton
Street

downtown Lexington.

“[The award] was a pleasant sur-
prise. Jenny didn’t tell me she had
nominated me,” Brown said. “lt’s
also great for the Kitchen.”

During her six-week summer
internship, Brown ran the Campus
Kitchen while Sproul took over as
CKP coordinator from Tumer.

“I was in charge of cooking, de-
livery, and pick-up shifts,” Brown
said. “There was a lot of help from
community members who volunteer
throughout the year."

This summer CKP used fresh pro-
duce from the W&L garden to serve
its clients. Originally an old lot used
by the Biology department, the gar-
den is used by Campus Kitchens, the

downtown Lexington, close to cam-
pus where it’s visible and reachable”
Brown said.

“[Brown] did an awesome job as
far as running the kitchen,” Sproul
said. “She did a lot of work with the
garden and expanded . .. to downtown
Lexington.”

One of Sproul’s inititiatives this
year was to divide the CKP leader-
ship team into ﬁve committees: Seed
to Feed, Fundraising, Volunteer Re-
cruitment, Delivery Expansion, and
Food resourcing.

Each committee is in charge of
speciﬁc tasks such as giving nutrition
classes, recruiting volunteers, and de-
livering food.

Two months have gone by since

“It is an incredible statement about our kitchen. This

is only our third year, and we ’re acknowledged by

the National Conference. It’s exciting. ”

Jenny Sproul, Campus Kltchens Coordlnator

Biology department and dining ser-
vices, Brown said.

“I went there once or twice a
week and helped with whatever they
needed to do. I did planting, weeding,
fencing, watering, just little odds and
ends,” she said. “We grew corn, to-
matoes, peppers, squash, and herbs.”

Since the Beta house was taken
back by the returning fraternity this
year, CKP had to ﬁnd another place
to operate in over the summer. Brown
took the lead and helped Campus
Kitchen move into its new location,
the Kappa Sig house.

“It’s deﬁnitely an adjustment,”
Brown said. “There is less counter
space, but it’s nice. One of the great-
est assets is that the coordinators’ of-
ﬁces are all on the same ﬂoor as the
kitchen. So it’s easier for people to
ﬁnd them whenever needed.”

Brown also contributed to expand-
ing meal sites to include the low-in-
come apartments at the Robert E. Lee
Hotel in downtown Lexington.

“[The residents] were not very
mobile, and I thought this might be a
good place to look into. I talked with
the manager of the apartment and af-
ter that we started serving meals to
the residents. It’s great that it is in

the Red

the beginning of the school year,
and CKP has already shown some
achievements in its many programs
and initiatives.

The nutrition classes for the cli-
ents are all set up and ready to start,
and the work release program with
Natural Bridge Juvenile Correction
Center is will take effect soon.

“We will also have Thanksgiving
Turkey Palooza, giving clients a full
Thanksgiving meal,” Sproul said. “It
will be at the Kappa Sig House and
other agency locations.”

She also wants to create an online
sign-up sheet where people can sign
up for volunteer shifts.

“People will be able to look at the
sign-up sheets online and see which
shifts are full or not,” she said.

Although Brown only began par-
ticipating in CKP recently this past
spring, she is now one of the 18 CKP
leaders and is enjoying every minute
of Campus Kitchen activities.

“Campus Kitchen is a great oppor-
tunity for students to get involved in
the community, build a relationship
and give back to the community,” she
said.

Local food. Progressive cuisine.

Serving dinner l\/lonclatj tlarouglzi Saturday and
Lexingtonis loest Sunclag Brunch.

Great wines, loeers, and cocktails served with

liglziter {are even] evening until 11pm.

Reservations are recom mended

ﬂ

 

 

THE RING-TUM PHI 0 3’

MONDAY, OCTOBER 25,2007

opinions

 

—-—————-—-- WASHINGTON AND LEE UIWERSITY —~———~

THE RINGJFUM PITIT

ALLISON CHOPIN
JOHN HENDERSON
coov BEAUCHAMP
CELEST cnuz-
CARANDANG

WILL DORRANCE
BRETT HOLTON

‘ MICHAEL MORELLA

MANAGING EDITOR
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR

SPORTS EDITOR
COPY EDITORS

CONTRIBUTING WRITERS ADAM CANCRYN
KEVIN CORN

ABEL DELGADO

LIZZ DYE

NEVILLE FOGARTY
STEPHANIE HARDIMAN
JAMIE KIM

WILL MAYS

JOAN OGUNTIMEIN
KATHERINE ROBERTS
DIANDRA SPICAK
BROOKE SUTHERLAND
VALAREE TANG
KIMBER WIGGS

DESIGN EDITOR
STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER
BUSINESS MANAGER

LARA JORDAN
MORGAN HARRIS
CHARLES PERSONS
STROCK MOORE

DISTRIBUTION MNGR. ROB GEORGE

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE
RING-TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community for students, faculty,
parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire
to spark discussions that lead to discovering
information that prompts change.

THE RING-TUM PHI IS PUBLISHED MONDAYS
DURING THE UNDERGRADUATE SCHOOL YEAR.
THE RING-TUM PHI IS A MEMBER OF THE MEDIA
BOARD, BUT IS OTHERWISE INDEPENDENT.
QUESTIONS OR CONCERNS ABOUT THE PHI
SHOULD BE ADDRESSED TO THE EDITORS AT
PHI@WLU.EDU OR TO THE MEDIA BOARD AT
MEDIABOARD@WLU.EDU. THE MEDIA BOARD
IS AN INDEPENDENT, STUDENT-RUN EDITORIAL
OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE WORKING WITH ALL
MEDIA OUTLETS ON THE WASHINGTON &
LEE CAMPUS. ALL INQUIRIES WILL REMAIN
CONFIDENTIAL. THE RING-TUM PHI WELCOMES
ALL LETTERS. WE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO EDIT
SUBMISSIONS FOR CONTENT AND LENGTH.
LETTERS AND ADVERTISING DO NOT NECESSARILY
REFLECT THE OPINION OF THE RING-TUM PHI
STAFF. THIS NEWSPAPER OBSERVES CURRENT
COURT DEFINITIONS OF LIBEL AND OBSCENITY.
THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458—4060
FAX: (540) 458-4059
EMAIL: PHI@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

Give up on McCain

Looking around, it seems a lot of conservatives have

By Cody Beauchamp
OPINIONS EDITOR

For the well-read among us,
the name Christopher Hitchins
should ring a bell.

So too should: Colin Powell.

So too, perhaps: Scott Mc-
Clellan, Christopher Buckley,
Lincoln Chafee or Jeffrey Hart.

In case you’re not familiar
with all of them, they are (in or-
der): one of the foremost conser-
vative pundits of our day, one of
George W. Bush’s secretaries of
State, one of Bush’s press sec-
retaries, the son of the legend-
ary William F. Buckley (and a
former National Review colum-
nist), a former Republican Sena-
tor and the National Review’s
Senior Editor.

They all have two things in
common.

First, they are all conserva-
tive.

Second, they have all en-
dorsed Barack Obama - and not
John McCain - for President.

There are political defectors
in every political cycle.

This is nothing new. I

What is new--or perhaps fair-
ly remarkable at least--is the de-
gree and depth to which the Re-
publican party has been cripled
by defections this year.

It says something worth not-
ing, both that these conservative
darlings rejected McCain, and
endorsed someone as antitheti-
cal to their political leanings as
Obama.

After all, Obama is--even
most liberals are comfortable
conceding--fairly liberal.

Come to think of it, I’ve
heard the word “socialist” ban-
died about lately.

It’s not an accurate estima-
tion of Obama’s actual political
philosophies, strictly speaking,
but it’s still a good hint about
whether or not he’s far to the

lr.o..'z.@.;°l>§.......



~mu..m... ...a..~m«--*'‘””~~*~-~~»~»v ‘

left.

And that’s what’s remark-
able.

There is, apparently, such
disgust with John McCain as
a candidate, John McCain as a
campaigner, and John McCain
as prospective President that
even people as ultra—conserva-
tive as Hitchens cannot stomach
voting for him.

Nor, for that matter, can some
of W. Bush’s most fearsome at-
tack dogs.

That says something about
the sad state of the Republican
party-

Even more to the point, it
says something about the ut-
terly disrespectful and degrad-
ing campaign John McCain has
run in his desperate--and make
no mistake, narcissistic--bid to
become President.

I’ll concede John McCain is
a hero. I have before, in this pa-
per no less. V

The courage he showed as a
ﬁghter pilot during Vietnam is
laudable.

The courage he showed as a
prisoner of war during Vietnam
is downright, well, heroic.

I think it is highly commend-
able that he became a long-terrn
and very respected public ser-
vant after his years in the Hanoi
Hilton.

But, to put it bluntly, this
campaign has ruined him. ,

Part of it is due to forces
outside of his control. To put it
simply, he had the severe mis-
fortune to be the ﬁrst old white
man to run for the Presidency in
an election where being an old
white man was a liability.

He, like the Republican party
itself, apparently, did not know
how to respond.

But it goes so much deeper
than just the race issue (which,
there isn’t really much of one).

Believing McCain’s failure
has to do entirely with Obama’s
African-American identity is not
only shortchanging our nation’s
amazing transformation from
the country that tolerated Jim
Crow to the one that will--most
likely--elect a black man Presi-
dent tomorrow.

It is also shortchanging the
sheer, unbridled political skill
with which Barack Obama ran
his campaign.

And, it excuses McCain’s
shameful behavior as he - ever
more desperately - bid for the
White House.

In a race against the type of
smooth, controlled political op-
ponent he’s never really faced,
John McCain showed he cannot
adapt to the unforseen.

He proved he does not have
the capacity to deal with evolu-
tion, at least not the evolution of
a political landscape.

Obama raised millions more
than McCain by exploiting this
weakness.

Whereas McCain’s Internet,
cellular and “new media” cam-
paign efforts seemed stilted,
Obama’s were sleek and sophis-
ticated.

Whereas the Obama cam-
paign has hit upon a brilliant
new communication niche with
the text message, McCain is still
relying on robocalls and mail-
ers.

Whereas McCain still sought
to get the majority of his cam-
paign’s donations from tradi-
tional means, Obama created
an Internet-backed grassroots
donor program that has given
Obama enough money to where
he can now outspend McCain
eight to one on television ads in
Virginia, for instance.

It’s amazing.

But it’s not simply an issue
of who cmapaigned better.

As much praise as I have for
Obama’s campaign, I think the
reason McCain has been aban-
doned (and will lose tomorrow)
goes deeper.

' John McCain does not re-
spect the American voter.

Exhibit A could be his run-
ning mate. Simply put, Sarah
Palin is a disgraceful and insult-
ing excuse for a Vice Presiden-
tial candidate. She is no femi-
nist. She is no progressive.

Rather, she smacks of the
kind of Bushian ignorance that
almost demands voters to ques-
tion just what kind of fools John
McCain takes us for.

Or consider McCain’s stunt
when our economy was tanking
a few weeks ago.

Barack Obama heeded the
calls of the Senate leadership to
stay away.

McCain didn’t--obstinately
--and in the process not only
confused a good number of his
colleagues, but also showed us
just how Presidential his oppo-
nent is.

I could go on.

I could go on and talk about
just how insulting McCain’s
shameless appropriation of fall-
en Iraqi soldier’s memories for
the sake of his own presidential
campaign is.

I could talk about his tin
ear during the debates, or his
shameless attack ads--which,
I might point out, came before
Obama’s.

But I won’t.

I’ve not been betrayed by
John McCain.

But others have. I’d encour-
age you to read their far more el-
oquent arugments against him.

It says something about the
man that his ideological friends
can’t even vote for him.

- I’d encourage you not to ei-
ther.

®TovorA

As areceot college grad, you may a     
be eligible for 8. $400 Incentive .   " I if I‘ 2  buyatoygtgcom
on any new Toyota of your choice ‘ I

 in addition to other incentives.”

I See your Toyota dealer for details.

« $400 Incentive

 (COJ.l8g9 Grad Program”) .

moving forward

VEIT b“§’§‘°y0ta.com
1‘ 3'dd1t10ﬂal offers

YOU sm up mm.
AND AT THE PUMP!

 

 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2008

THE RING-TUM PHI

4

 

opinions

It’s time for a post-election truce '

After one of the longest, messiest elections in our lives, its time to come together

By Abel Delgado
COLUMNIST

We deserved better than this.

While historians will long
remember the excitement this
presidential campaign generated,
I am completely disappointed
with what it didn’t produce——a
good clean race.

Barack Obama was the post-
partisan candidate of hope. He
was supposed to be above poli-
tics.

Instead he spent more money
on negative attacks ads than any
candidate in American history.
He spent his entire campaign
trying to turn John McCain
into George W. Bush and may
win because voters do not care
enough about records to know
the difference. _

Until recently, McCain was
the Democrats’ favorite Repub-
lican for crossing party lines.

His friendships with everyone
from Hillary Clinton to Tom
Daschle were well known and
everyone expected him to keep
the race civil.

Instead, the only constant in

' his campaign were its attacks on

his opponent.

We have to marvel at the size
Obama’s volunteer force and the
amount of money he has raised.
Yet, we should not ignore the
fact he broke his public ﬁnanc-
ing promise and he could very
well buy this election. ,

We have to marvel that John
McCain is in this race at all de-
spite it being a disastrous year
for his party. McCain’s repu-
tation and record have kept it
close, but we should not ignore
the fact that his reputation has
only been tarnished thanks to
one of the most poorly run cam-
paigns in recent memory.

We deserve better. Or do

we?

Some nutcase McCain sup-
porters call Obama an “Arab”
and a “terrorist.” If you think
that’s hurtful, imagine the pain
felt by the middle-aged woman
in New York who got attacked

violent aggressors I’m worried
about, it’s all of us.

We are all guilty of seeing the
“evils” of the other side clearly
while being completely unaware
of the mistakes our side makes.

This is no way for the country

We are all guilty of seeing the “evils” of the

other side clearly while being completely un-

aware of the mistakes our side makes. This

is no way for the country to get back up on

its feet.

by an Obama supporter for hold-
ing up a McCain sign or the
Florida man who got his head
slammed into a wall at a restau-
rant for supporting McCain in an
argument.

It’s not just the nutcases and

to get back up on its feet. For the
past few months I have blogged
relentlessly trying to provide
some political insight and many
of my friends to the left of me
joined the effort.

The more informed voices on

both sides, the better the debate.

We all showed how much we
cared about our country. We may
disagree on the course it should
take and the leaders we will
chose, but at least we all care
enough to inform ourselves and
voice our opinions.

This perhaps is the best out-
come of the race. The youth re-
ally does care now.

I have always and will al-
ways support John McCain. I
have stated my reasons to the
best of my ability, but if he loses
on Tuesday, Barack Obama is
my president and I will respect
him as such.

I will save my criticism for
him until he messes up and if
McCain wins I will not shy
away from criticizing him when
he messes up.

This is part of the truce I think
we should all make. Not a truce
to support our next president re-

gardless of whether he was our
ﬁrst choice, but to make sure
we hold him accountable for his
actions even if he was our ﬁrst
choice.

It is time we show we care
more about helping our country
succeed than helping one politi-
cian win an election. America
needs to come together to face
an economic nightmare and a
downright scary situation glob-
ally.

Nothing in this campaign has
made me think Obama or Mc-
Cain can truly unite us as “one
nation” and not “two ideolo-
gies.”

We need to unite ourselves.

We need to continue to care,
to debate, to discuss for our
country, and in the end we need
to call a truce between ourselves
so we can do what is best for our
country.

letter to the editor
Dear Ken: quit being a coward

Local teacher Bradley thinks Ruscio ’s dimissal of women 3 issues is deeply insulting

Two and a half years ago
Ken Ruscio was named presi-
dent of W&L.

In an interview posted on
the W&L Web site in conjunc-
tion with the announcement
of this, Ken Ruscio stated that
women’s issues were at the top
of his agenda.

In another context, he even
spoke of “striking a note of sol-
idarity” with the women who
had been adversely affected by
the climate on campus. ‘

Ken Ruscio subsequently
devoted the next two and a half
years to studying the issue.

Really, it took him two and
a half years.

Early in 2007 (nearly a year
after being named president),
he appointed a task force on
women to study the issue. This
committee released, after a year
and a half, a 100+ page report
that stated in no uncertain terms
that there are “signiﬁcant issues
related to gender that need to
be addressed” (p.9). The report
also stated that there is a wide-
spread feeling that the admin-
istration, and in particular the
president, do not share the view
that these issues exist and are
matters of pressing concern.

They place the onus for
change, in no uncertain terms,
squarely on the president’s
shoulders: “The forcefulness
and forthrightness of the Pres-
ident’s acknowledgement will
determine the success of all
subsequent efforts at improving
the climate for women at Wash-
ington and Lee” (p.9).

Yet somehow Ken Ruscio
has now come to the conclu-
sion that the concerns voiced
by women (and men), and the
incidents of gross sexual ha-
rassment reported, witnessed
and suffered among the under-
graduate, faculty, staff and ad-
ministrative ranks, are not re-
ally women’s issues after all.

On October 8, Ken Ruscio
spoke before the W&L com-
munity to lay out his vision and
recommendations for his Work-
Life initiatives.

Did he take this opportunity
to give a ‘forceful and forth-

right acknowledgement’ of
these gender issues, and to lay
out steps to deal with them?

No, he did not.

Instead he used this town
hall meeting to remove gender
issues from the discussion alto-
gether.

He quoted from the Task
Force on Women’s report to de-
clare that these issues “are not
women’s issues, per se.” (p.13)

Those rapes that occur in
university owned frat houses
and their university sanctioned
parties are not women’s issues.

The fact that there are still
professors on campus who
make it clear that women are
not welcome in their classes-
not a women’s issue.

The numerous and ongoing
complaints registered about ha-
rassment perpetrated by mem-
bers of the administration—not
a women’s issue.

Women faculty who are
held captive by the unabashed-
ly sexist remarks, attitudes, and
decisions of male faculty and
administrators, being told that
“women of [their] generation
are too sensitive,” being com-
plimented for their “matemal”
and “nurturing” contributions,
being subjected to scrutiny in
both job interviews and job
evaluations about their private
decisions concerning work and
family—not a women’s issue.

Yes, Ken Ruscio has sur-
prised us all.

Those who said he lacked
leadership, commitment, and
initiative (i.e. those who wrote
the report for his committee on
women), were wrong.

He has shown great leader-
ship.

Who else but a strong leader
could take a 100+ page report
(one that is entirely negative,
that can ﬁnd not one good thing
to say about the status of wom-
en at W&L, that singles out the
president for special blame),
and ﬁnd the one sentence in
it that allows him to discount
every other sentence in the re-
port.

Ruscio quotes from p.13 of
the report:

“[M]any of the climate is-
sues regarding women are not
women’s issues, per se, but
rather issues of community,
inclusiveness and respect for
individuals and other minority
groups. [They] voiced many of
the same concerns as women
who feel excluded (p. l3).”

He uses that to prove, in
his “Letter to the W&L Com-
munity” (October 8) and his
presentation that day that “the
concerns were not limited to
women.” Ken Ruscio, it must

purposes, the issue of women
has been laid to rest.

We need not speak of wom-
en’s issues.

Doesn’t his new report say
that their year-long study had
made it clear to the committee
that they weren’t really study-
ing women’s issues at all?

It takes a leader to so cyni-
cally and cowardly ignore the
ﬁndings of his own committee,
one he hand-picked with ex-
plicit orders to keep those who
might gum up the works off,

I suppose everyone over on campus can give

a sigh of relief that W&L doesn ’t have to

deal with all those “too sensitive, ” “men-

hating, ” ‘femi—nazz

‘I! II’

bitches” complain-

ing about women this and women that...Or,

someone can call Ken Ruscio on his coward-

ice and his bullying...

Patrick Bradley, RCHS Teacher

be noted, lifted that quotation
above from page 13 of the Task
Force on Women report, but
failed to cite the conclusion of
the paragraph in which it ap-
peared:

“That does not mean they
should not be addressed by
a committee on the status of
women, but rather that we as
a University should have clear
systems in place for address-
ing such community issues. For
example, if the proposed stand-
ing committee on the status of
women were to come across
issues that seem to be broader,
the committee should have an
avenue for ensuring that these
issues will be addressed by ap-
propriate groups or officials”
(p.13).

He has managed, through
selective reading and a coarse
intellectual legerdemain that
is disingenuous at best, to pro-
nounce that, for all intents and

and then to proclaim that he is
acting on the recommendations
of that committee.

Is there anyone who has
read the report from the Task
Force on Women who thinks
that committee was really ad-
vocating that women’s issues
should be dropped from the ac-
tive lexicon of the discussion?

I cannot believe that all
those people who spoke tothe
committee and the outside con-
sulting group, and those who
worked so long on that commit-
tee, really believe that there is
no warrant, no justiﬁcation for
looking at the concerns voiced
by women (and men!) as wom-
en’s issues “per se.”

Ken Ruscio has managed
to make the whole discussion
of the negatively gendered cli-
mate at W&L disappear with
one Latin phrase.

Just like a character from
the Harry Potter novels, he ut-

ters the Latinate spell, “PER
SE,” and ‘poof’ these issues
are no longer ‘intrinsically’
women’s issues, but just an-
other issue that another “series
of somethings” (his own char-
acterization of his study of the
situation) can resolve—as long,
that is, if we rely as our beacon
on the ever—ready two-headed
god: ‘honor and civility.’

In fact, Ken Ruscio states
quite clearly in his letter that
he will ﬁrst and foremost look
to the past in dealing with these
issues, proudly boasting, as if
to comfort his ﬂock, that his
take on this all “derives its ba-
sic values of community and
compassion from the past.”

What he ignores, however,
is his own Task Force’s ﬁnd-
ing that the past has not served
W&L at all well on these very
issues : “Washington and Lee
University is not yet a place
where it is easy to have a con-
versation about these issues,”
(p.9).

The Task Force, moreover,
“heard many accounts of wom-
en feeling marginalized, si-
lenced and excluded,” and con-
cluded that these feelings were
“pervasive” and “ubiquitous.”

Ken Ruscio never cited
those ﬁndings on October 8.

While Ken Ruscio may not
be afraid to throw around a Lat-
inate obfuscation, he certainly
can’t come to grips with calling
things by their proper names.

Like the old way to identify
a duck: if it harasses in a gen-
dered way, and intimidates in
a gendered way, and discrimi-
nates in a gendered way4it’s
gendered. And if your own
committee takes a year and
a half of their time to tell you
it’s gendered, then, damn it, it’s
gendered.

So, I suppose everyone over
on campus can give a sigh of
relief that W&L doesn’t have
to deal with all those “too sen-
sitive,” “men-hating,” “femi-
nazi” “bitches” complaining
about women this and women
that (FYI: these are just terms
that have been unapologetically
used by W&L faculty, adminis-

trators, and media).

Or, someone can call Ken
Ruscio on his cowardice and
his bullying, and let him know
that, while these are women’s
issues, we all suffer if they are
not dealt with.

W&L is a major employer
in our area.

W&L trumpets its ideals of
community, honor, and civility
ad nauseam.

‘ W&L places outsized em-
phasis on concepts of leader-
ship.

At the same time, however,
W&L sponsors fraternity par-
ties that are community hazards
when underage high school stu-
dents frequent them and young
women must be wary of sexual
assault when attending.

W&L is embarrassed on
a perennial basis by scandals
such as ‘The Bracket’, ‘The
List’, ‘Idaho’. «

It’s time W&L and its presi-
dent show some forceful and
forthright leadership in facing
up to these issues, calling things
by their proper names, looking
to the root causes, and opening
up the discourse and climate to
allow mature and diverse points
of view in.

If they do, there’s even a
good chance the institution will
survive.

Patrick Bradley
RCHS Teacher

 

Q.

 

 

5 - THE RING-TUM PHI

MONDAY,

arts&|ife

 

The Lalai Damas play a cover of OutKast’s “Roses” and funk songs on the stage at the Marketplace.

dent musicians.

STEPHANIE HARDIMAN / Staff Photgrapher
The second annual Music in the Marketplace featured several stu-

Second annual Music in the Marketplace serves up coﬂee, treats and tunes

By Stephanie Hardlman
STAFF WRITER

If you missed out on Music in
the Marketplace, you won’t be
able to sample the leftovers. At
least not until next year.

There are few opportunities
to catch this kind of cornucopia
of student talent. This was one
of them. »

Music in the Marketplace is
the brainchild of WLUR public
relations directors Michael Mo-
rella and Kimber Wiggs. After
a successful ﬁrst run last year,
the duo decided to try their luck
again last Thursday with part
deux.

Wiggs, a junior, said that last

Columbia Trio brings modern

By Kimber Wiggs
surr warren

Saturday night the Lenfest
Center welcomed the Columbia
Trio to the Wilson Hall stage.
Sponsored by SonoKlect, the
performance featured four selec-
tions of modern music arranged
for piano, violin, and cello. The
complexity of each of the works
beautifully exhibited the talent
and mastery of the performers.

The Columbia Trio includes
pianist David Riley, violin-
ist Fritz Gearhart, and cellist
Andrew Kolb. The group is
based in Eugene, Ore. and was
founded in 2007. All three
members were trained at the
Eastman School of Music, a
leading music conservatory lo-
cated in Rochester, N.Y. and as-
sociated with the University of
Rochester. Currently, both Riley
and Gearhart are faculty of the
University of Oregon School of
Music and Kolb is the principal
cellist of the Eugene Symphony

year WLUR wanted to add fall
programming to couple with
winter term’s Open Airwaves
open mic event. Because of the
thriving Washington and Lee
band scene, they thought a con-
cert would pair perfectly.

Since the dining_hall has a
small stage, calling it “Music in
the Marketplace” seemed appro-
priate.

“It’s
said.

After starting about 40 min-
utes late, the set opened with the
musical stylings of Ella Wade, a
local songstress whose coffee-
house sound is reminiscent of
Michelle Branch.

alliterative,” Wiggs

Orchestra. As members of the
Columbia Trio, they blend to-
gether their backgrounds of
solo, orchestral, and chamber
music performance.

As the director of SonoKlect,
a concert series aimed at bring-
ing modern music to the Lenfest
Center, W&L music composition
professor Terry Vosbein gave
the evening’s opening remarks.
Vosbein dedicated the concert
to one his mentors, Donald Erb,
who passed away in August of
this year. Vosbein studied un-
der Erb in the early 1990s and
during that time, composed two
of the pieces the Columbia trio
performed during the concert.

The first piece of the evening
was one of Prof. Vosbein’s com-
position entitled “Trio No. 1.”
Composed in 1993, it was one
of the first he wrote under Erb’s
tutelage. Performed in one con-
tinuous movement, “Trio No.
1” eschews the ﬂowing lyricism
of traditional Romantic music,

Wade, a Rockbridge County
High School alumna, is now a
senior at Randolph College. She
performed both original mu-
sic and covers. She and Lalai
Damas guitarist Spencer McEl—
roy performed a duet. The two
were high school classmates and
often played together.

Last year’s performers, Rikki
Tikki Tavi and Agent Flynn, re-
turned to dining hall for another
rocking set.

Rikki Tikki TaVi’s folk-in-
spired tunes left the crowd clap-
ping along and crying for more.
Original songs like “Drinking
Game” from guitarist Julie Slo-
necki and Michael Morella have

demonstrating instead the angu-
lar, “angst-ridden cacophony”
of post-Romantic and modern
compositions. The end of the
piece, especially, has a frantic
feel that explodes in the ﬁnal
moments.

Following Vosbein’s piece,
the Trio performed Shostakov-
ich’s 1944 composition “Piano

become set staples and campus
favorites. Morella also thrilled
the crowd with a solo folk ver-
sion of Rihanna’s “Take a Bow.”

Then came Agent Flynn.
Named after Samuel L. Jack-
son’s character from “Snakes on

a Plane,” the band regularly per- 1

forms at campus functions such
as Generals rallies and Battle of
the Bands.

The group has a Southern
rock feel and plays mostly clas-
sic rock covers.

Unfortunately, both bands
had to do without the presence
of Will Stewart, who was ill.

The evening was rounded
out by the Lalai Damas. Lead-

singer Malcolm Hines, a junior,
brought the funk to his group’s
set with a cover of OutKast’s
“Roses.” They also added a
trumpet to their sound for extra
oomph.

Throughout the evening, lis-
teners came and went at their lei-
sure for a laid-back atmosphere.
Baked goodies and coffee were
provided by Blue Sky Bakery as
an extra treat.

Wiggs and Morella were hap-
py with the turnout.

“It went just as well as we’d
hoped it would,” Morella said.
“We’re excited about bridging
the gap between WLUR and the
local music scene.”

They are looking forward to
another Music in the Market-
place next year.

Until then, they encourage
students to listen to WLUR, ei-
ther on their radios or online.

Wiggs and Morella host their
own weekly show “Cooking on
the Radio” Thursdays from 9 to
11 pm. All ofthe songs they play
have an easy-to-guess theme. If
a caller correctly guesses the
theme, they win, as Wiggs said,
“a travel-sized radio for rockin’
out on campus.”

Wiggs left saying, “Listen to
WLUR—it’s a laugh riot!”

compositions to Wilson Hall

Trio plays selections of modern music on piano, violin and cello, including tangos and South American dance music

and fast tempo markings. The
ﬁnal movement, entitled “Alle-
gretto,” is particularly interest-
ing in that it makes the listener
think of a sinister carnival. Here,
Shostakovich borrows from the
klezmer, or Yiddish, musical
style, creating a sensation of de-
spair and grief.

After a brief intermission, the

T he ﬁnal piece was an interesting departure

from the evenings other works... The works

basis in the South American dance tradition

gave it a particularly caliente quality.

 

Trio in E minor.” Unlike the
previous piece, “Piano Trio in
E minor” is performed in four
distinct movements. The move-
ments alternate between slow

Columbia Trio returned to the
Wilson stage to perform another
work by Prof. Vosbein. “Trio
No. 2” was composed in 1995
and was one of the last pieces

Vosbein wrote while studying
under Mr. Erb.

Atthecomposition’spremiere
in Banff, Vosbein remarked that,
although most people would call
“Trio No. 2” absolute music --
music that does not tell a story
-- he believes the piece always
you to “create your own story as
you hear it.”

The three movements of the
piece are held together by clas-
sical music forms, though the
piece itself is modern. One au-
dience member described “Trio
No. 2” as “modem music in a
classical body.”

The last piece of the evening
was a collection of tangos by
Astor Piazzolla. Collectively
known as “Cuatro estaciénes
porteﬁas” each of the four “tan-
go-jazz” compositions bears
the name of a season, while
the adjective “porteﬁo” refers
to Buenos Aires. Though Piaz-
zolla composed each of the four
tangos separately, they are con-

nected by recurring thematic
clements. This ﬁnal piece was
an interesting departure from '
the evening’s other works, as it
was the only example of South
American music. The work’s
basis in the South American
dance tradition gave it a particu-
larly caliente quality.

The evening as a whole was
a wonderful celebration of the
vitality of modern music. In an
academic community that so
values tradition, it is pleasant to
experience progression in art.

Members of the W&L and
Lexington community were
treated to a concert that not only
showcased the talent of the bril-
liant Columbia Trio but also in-
troduced compositional creativ-
ity both abroad and right here at
home.

 

NOVEMBER 3, 2008

 

 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2008-

THE RING-TUM PHI °

6

 

arts&|ife

Pro-life group hosts candlelight vigil 

W&L Students for Life holds its second annual vigil to conclude nationwide grassroots campaign

By Valaree Tang
STAFF warren

The second annual candle-
light vigil for an end to abortion,
hosted by Washington and Lee
Students for Life, was held in the
Cohen Ampitheater on Novem-
ber 2 and marked the end of the
“40 Days ‘for Life” campaign.
The event was open to the Lex-
ington community.

40 Days for Life is a national
grassroots campaign aimed at
bringing an end to abortion. It
consists of prayer, fasting, and

vigil for 40 days.

The program consisted of
student testimonies, poems and
prayers. The main speaker of the
program was a representative
from ComfortCare Women’s
Health. She shared her story
about her experience with abor-
tion.

“Our speaker will be a wom-
an who will share her experi-
ence of having an abortion and
the regret and emotional distress
that she has faced since then,”
said Students for Life Secretary
Sarah Keckler.

The Life vigil was preceded
by forty days of prayer, held in
the Leybum Library. The group
prayed for mothers and their un-
born children.

Olivia Burr, a ﬁrst-year ac-
tive member, said she believed
the purpose of the vigil to be “to
raise awareness about the pro-
life message and to thoughtfully
reﬂect on the growing number
of human casualties that are the
product of on-demand abor-
tion.”

Club members wanted to in-
form the community that abor-

tion was not the only option in
an unwanted pregnancy. “I hope
that this club will be able to pro-
vide more resources for women
so that abortion will no longer
be the default decision when it
comes to an unplanned pregnan-
cy,” said Keckler.

“I also hope that through
events such as the vigil, we will
be able to show people how
abortion hurts not just the un-
born child, but the mother and
father as well.”

While this is the second year
that the vigil has taken place,

club ofﬁcers have higher ex-
pectations for the vigil this year.
“We are hoping that this year’s
vigil will have more partici-
pants,” said Keckler. “We hope
to grow a bit this year and we
also hope to make more people
actually care about the issue.”
The vigil ended in a candle-

light reﬂection and a call for in- ‘

dividual action upon the contro-
versial subject. It also included
statistics that were read at vari-
ous times during the vigil whose
“poignancy will hopefully help
people to understand the wide-

spread affects of abortion,” said
Keckler.

Burr said she endorses the
pro-life stance. “It devastates me
that innocent life is sacriﬁced in
our society for the sake of con-
venience,” she said.

“I believe that life is our ﬁrst
unalienable right and that adop-
tion is a healthier alternative for
pregnant women and their un-
born babies alike.”

Nabors hosts carnival for local children  

Nabors Service League and other volunteers paint faces and pumpkins with kids, give candy and prizes for Halloween

By Joan Oguntlmeln
STAFF WRITER

Nabors Service League host-
ed a Halloween carnival on the
BDG Quad Friday afternoon as
part of the Downtown Lexington
Trick-or-Treat Festival.

The Halloween Festival was
ﬁlled with Halloween activities,
lots of fun and tons of candy.
Dozens of local children moved
from table to table to color, have
their face painted, paint pump-

candy. «

According to Nabors Service
League General Chair Jenna
Walls, Nabors has been putting
on this event for the past four
years. Each year, the festival is
on the same day as downtown
Lexington’s Trick-or-Treat Fes-
tival. The organization asks dif-
ferent student organizations to
sponsor different activities dur-
ing the festival and has members
ofNabors ﬁll other roles.

Nabors had 12 student volun-

teers from various organizations
manning the activity stations.
The ladies of Chi Omega did
face painting while members of
Pi Beta Phi helped children paint
pumpkins.

“This is another way to pub-
licize about our organization and
to let the children have fun,” said
Special Projects and Events Co-
Chair Samara Francisco.

Professors and Lexington res-
idents brought their children to
join in the festivities. Over forty

kids, mostly between the ages of
four and six, walked around the
BDG Quad dressed in an array
of fun costumes. Fairies, ghosts,
dinosaurs and peacocks played,
painted pumpkins and colored
pictures of skeletons and haunt-

- ed houses. Even Mickey Mouse

and a blue Power Ranger came
to the festival.

But by far the most famous
personality at the festival was
Johnny Cash. Dressed as the leg-
endary singer, Robbie Turner’s

kins, and collect mounds of

New album too
quirky this time

of Montreal is new

album has

rewarding moments, but lyrics fail

ByWllI Mays
STAFF WRITER

If there’s one thing the
band of Montreal has con-
sistently avoided, it’s being
ordinary, and this truth so far
is best displayed on their new
effort, “Skeletal Lamping,”
released last month. The al-
bum ﬁnds bandleader Kevin
Barnes trying to recount the
tale of his Ziggy Stardust-
esque alter-ego, Georgie _
Fruit, who made his ﬁrst ap-
pearance on the band’s 2007
magnum opus “Hissing Fau-
na, Are You the Destroyer?”

of the worst he’s ever penned.
Considering the brilliant lyr-
ics of “Hissing Fauna,” when
Barnes sings in a trembling
falsetto, “I’m sick of suck-
ing the dick of this cruel,
cruel city,” in “St. Exquisite,’s
Confessions,” one can only
wonder what’s happened in
the past year to have him pen
such an oversexual mess on
“Skeletal Lamping”

Despite its lyrical failings
at times, “Skeletal Lamp-
ing” does have some very
rewarding moments for the
listener. The closing tracks of
the ﬁrst half of the album are

Barnes trying to be a funk star does have

a degree of payoff but his lyrics...on the

whole, are some of the worst he is ever

penned.

This time around, though,
Georgie has taken the main
stage, but to very mixed re-
sults

Georgie Fruit, according
to Barnes, is the black trans-
sexual lead singer of former
70s funk band “Arousal.”
Essentially, Fruit is a hyper-
vulgar, hyper-sexual, and hy-
per-weird outlet for Barnes to
give his best Prince impres-
sions. Georgie Fruit makes
Ziggy Stardust seem like Paul
Simon. He spouts whatever is
on his mind, which, usually,
is his tremendous libido, giv-
ing “Skeletal Lamping” an
almost juvenile feel at times
as a result.

“Skeletal Lamping” has a
noticeably groovy feel to it,
and the music on the whole
is excellent. If nothing else,
Barnes trying to be a funk star
does have a degree of payoff,
but Barnes’ lyrics as Georgie
Fruit, on the whole, are some

all very well done, and both
“An Eluardian Instance” and
“Gallery Piece” stand among
some of Barnes’ best tracks.
The opening track, “Nonpa-
reil of Favor,” is a very inter-
esting and new sound for the
band, and Barnes still retains
his incredible knack for writ-
ing poppy, catchy, and well-
crafted hooks.

The whole album itself
seems to be made up of many
shorter movements strung to-
gether to make songs, and the
music behind Barnes’ ques-
tionable lyrics is very, very
good. If not for the ﬂawed
lyrics, “Skeletal Lamping”
could’ve been a worthy suc-
cessor to “Hissing Fauna,”
but instead it is merely a
mediocre trinket of Barnes’

newfound Georgie Fruit ob-
session. Fans will be divided,
but, if nothing else, there are
a few good tracks, and the
following tour looks to be the
biggest of the band’s career.

youngest son‘walked around the
quad strumming a guitar and
earned the praise of many of the
student volunteers. When asked
what the best part of the festival
was, Special Project and Events
Co-Chair Sally Gould said,
“Seeing Johnny Cash walk up
playing his guitar.”

The children were not the
only ones having fun. In addition
to the activities for the children,
Nabors had a costume contest for
students. The winner, sophmore

Amanda Micossi who dressed as
a hippie, won a $50 gift certiﬁcate
to the bookstore.“The costumes
are deﬁnitely great,” Gould said.
“This is so much fun!”

Though a few students trick-
led through the Quad to engage
in activities, Francisco said next
year the organization plans to
further involve students in the
festivities.

Required Reading
Neville L. Fogarty

AC ROSS

1. Rowan Atkinson
, character

5. Plead

8. Oxygen-requiring
organism
Shrek, e.g.
Feverish
Antebellum
W&L alum and
author of 41-
Across
There's one on the
green in New York
Winery process
1,000 kilos
Shine
Frenziedly
It increases with
houses and hotels
Colorado Indian
. Where to find .
paste?
Groups of eight
Mrs. Lincoln's
maiden name
Chemical suffix
With 63-Across,
1987 novel whose
title references a
1497 event
Half a score

14.
15.
16.
17.

19.

20.
22.
23.
27.
29.

30.
31

35.
38.

40.
41.

44.

45. It's softer than

gypsum

Nitid

Crumbs

It regulates
LaGuardia (abbr.)
Capri, e.g.
Outback birds
Like Arnold and
Willis Jackson
How you can vote
in a shareholders‘
election

Middle Eastern
meat on a stick
Daises

See 41 -Across
The Titans, once
Mail Boxes __
You can up it

46.
47.
49.

50.
51.
53.

56.

59.

61.
63.
68.
69.
70.

13
34
56
61 67
ea
71
@2008
71. Slow moving South 23. Where saint 43. Do a
America mammals Bernadette saw cheerleadering
72. it indicates a Mary in Lourdes move
maiden name 24. Debaucherous 48. Group of six
73. Bite like a beaver man musical performers
25. "Law and Order: 52. Reddish-brown
DOWN Criminal __" dried sap
1_ Automated 26. Type of wound of 53. Lessen
program which Caesar had -54. One third of a 1964
2. l, to Claudius 23 Beach Boys hit
3_ Chen part 28. Euripedean 55. Japanese sash
4_ "Where _, tragedy 56. Major-leaguers
pussycat?" 30. Where Karen is 57. Agitate
5. Ship compartment regional manager 58. 1952 Winter
6_ gpnteiike on "The Office" Olympics site
7_ Hidden Valley 32. Loathe 60. All square
8_ ineiined 33. What Clinton didn't 62. Balaam's mount
9. Poet's Muse do 64- Body spray brand
1Q_ Take back 34. Swarmed ‘ 65. 1942 film "Holiday
11_ Luke Wgiednie 36. "Ammaniacs" sister _" h ‘
brother 37. Muddle 66. Capt.'s prediction
12. Owl's hangout 39. Canine 67. Dam
13_ Menne eegie 42. it holds the
18. Bran source $0lUll0“'-7
21. University of
Florida student

 

O

 

U

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3,2008

THE RING-TUM PHI °

7

MORGAN HARRIS / Staff Photographer

sports

   

   
 

Senior defender Sara Fos-
ter-Reeves and the women’s
soccer team beat Gullford 6-0
Saturday to advance to the
ODAC semifinals. The men’s
team fell 1-0 to Hampden-
Sydney to end its season In
the first round of the confer-
ence playoffs.

  
 

Men’s Soccer

season ends,
women move

on to semiﬁnals

Men 3 soccer loses to Hampden—Sydney 1-0 on early goal, ends season 9-5-2

By Brooke Sutherland
surr warren

The Hampden-Sydney Col-
lege Tigers scored only one goal
in their match-up against the
Washington and Lee University
men’s soccer team, but it was
enough to bring the Generals’
season to a close.

Facing off in the ﬁrst round
of the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference playoffs, the Gener-
als kept the Tigers from scoring
again as sophomore goalkeep-
er Ben Bartlett recorded ﬁve

‘saves, but they simply could not

overcome the early goal by the
fou1th—seeded Tigers,

“They scored at the two min-
ute mark,” said assistant coach
Geoff del Forn. “It’s just so hard

to play when you have that I-0
deﬁcit.”

Added senior forward Whitt
Larkin, whose play was cited by
del Forn:

“When you get down early,
it changes the game. You know
you have to score, and that puts
more pressure on us to try to
take it to them. We started out
focusing on defense, but then
we had to shift to focus more
on scoring. I think it just took us
awhile to get comfortable and to
get in the ﬂow.”

Once they found their stride
on the ﬁeld, the Generals had
a much stronger second half
against the Tigers, particularly
on the defensive side, but it
wasn’t enough to clench the
victory.

“We showed a lot more pas-
sion, a lot more heart,” said se-
nior defender Fletcher McCraw.
“We deﬁnitely outplayed them.

too, but we just couldn’t knock
one in.”

The loss was certainly a dis-
appointing finish for the Gen-

“We were deﬁnitely hoping to make it to the

conference ﬁnal game, but it just wasn ’t in

the cards for us. We ’re sad it came to an
end, but the kids gave it their all and fought

har . ”

GEOFF DEL FORN, assistant men’s soccer coach

 

On defense, we had that one
mistake early, but other than
that we could contain them. We
had a lot of shot opportunities

erals who ﬁnished the season
9-5-2 overall and 4-5-1 -in con-
ference play. _

After losing in the ODAC ﬁ-

nals last year to Roanoke, 2008
was only the second time in
nine years that the Generals did
not advance to the conference
semi—ﬁnals.

“We were deﬁnitely hoping
to make it to the conference ﬁ-
nal game, but it just wasn’t in
the cards for us,” del Forn said.
“It was a let down a little bit.
We’re sad it came to an end,
but the kids gave it their all and
fought hard.”

The loss after all cannot dis-
count what was for the most part
a successful season.

“Anytime you’re playing a
sport, you know your season is
going to end in a loss unless you
win the national championship
so I don’t think we can really
focus on that,” McCraw said.

WASHINGTON aim LEE UNIVERSITY

CAREER@ SERVI C ES
CREATING PROFESSIONALS
CAREER WEEK

Monday-Friday,November 3-7
Quick Questions — 10-11, 2-3
Commons Living Room

Tuesday, November 4
F irst-year Class Meeting, 5-6 PM
Commons Stackhouse Theater

Wednesday, November 5
Junior Class Meeting, 5-6 PM
Commons Stackhouse Theater

Thursday, November 6
Summer Expo 1-3:00 PM
Students share Summer Experiences
Stemmons Plaza (weather permitting)
(Science Center alternate)

“We battled a lot of adversity
with injuries — myself includ-
ed. There were times when we
were disappointed but also times
when we were excited. We’re
disappointed with the touma-
ment obviously, but I think we
can be proud of the season as a
whole.”

. “It was really an up and
down season,” added Larkin.
“A lot of younger players had
to step up and ﬁll bigger roles
due to injuries. But I think that
it was a lot more positive than
what we’re feeling right now. I
think when we look back in the
spring, we’re going to be hap-
pier about it, and the freshmen
and sophomores are going to be
really glad they got the playing
time they did.”

Behind a hat trick from Van Devender, women is
soccer crushes Guilford 6-0 in quarterﬁnals

By Adam Cancryn
STAFF WRITER

Senior forward Anne Van
Devender gave Watt Field one
more memorable performance
on Saturday, scoring three
goals en route to a 6-0 triumph
over Guilford for the Washing-
ton and Lee women’s soccer
team in the ODAC Quarterﬁ-
nals. She now leads the team
with 17 goals on the year.

Playing in her last home
game in Lexington, Van Dev-
ender wasted no time in leav-
ing her mark. Midway through
the ﬁrst half, she won a ball in
the open ﬁeld, eluded her de-
fender and found the back of
the net.

Following the goal, the
Generals never looked back,
dominating play and putting
consistent pressure on the
Guilford defense. Despite
some spectacular goalkeeping
by the Quakers’ senior Amber
Stapler, W&L found a way to
strike again before the half.

Fellow senior Marisa Van
Brunt placed a free kick right in
front of Van Devender, allow-

ing her to turn and volley the
bouncing ball over the keeper’s
head. It was Van Brunt’s third
assist of the season.

Having played and beaten
Guilford 5-0 just a week be-
fore, a 2-0 lead at the break
gave Coach Neil Cunningham
a sense of relief, but he knew
the team couldn’t afford a let-
down.

tournament play, all factors
change. We knew we had to
bring intensity into the game.”

The Generals quickly
squashed the idea of a letdown,
coming out of the break and
scoring another goal.

With the ball spending most
of its time in the Guilford end,
W&L continued to get a num-
ber of scoring chances. Van

“There is a sense of no regrets. In tourna-

ment play, all factors change. We knew we

had‘ to bring intensity into the game. 

s

ANNE VAN DEVENDER, senior defender

“Playing a team you’ve just
beaten easily seven days be-
fore, it’s a hard thing to do,”
said Cunningham.

The women’s soccer team
hasnever lost to Guilford (22-
0-2), but the seniors needed no
extra motivation to get up for
the game.

“There’s a sense of no re-
grets,” said Van Devender. “In

Devender capitalized on an-
other opportunity, notching a
hat trick in the 50th minute.
The goal gave the senior
forward 17 on the year and
eight in her past four games.
W&L would score three
more times in the half on an
own goal and conversions by
sophomore midﬁelders Caro-
line Lamberti and Laura Yung-

meyer, capping off an outstand-
ing overall performance.

“We played really well. We
did a great job all around,” said
Coach Cunningham.

The win propels the third-
seeded Generals into the sec-
ond round of the ODAC tour-
nament. Lynchburg, the regular
season ODAC runner-up, will
host W&L in the conference
semiﬁnals on Wednesday. The
Hornets beat Randolph-Macon
7-0 Saturday in the ﬁrst round.

With a win in the semiﬁnals,’

W&L would reach the ODAC
Championship for the ﬁrst time
since 2004. After dropping a
2-1 overtime heartbreaker ear-
lier in the year to Lynchburg,
the team will have no problem
getting up for this match.

“We just have to play our
game, “ said Van Devender,
who emphasized the seniors’
no-regrets mentality. “We
deﬁnitely have the resources to
beat them.”

“We’re ready for them.
We’re done preparing... we
lost last time, so that gives us
the extra motivation we need,”
said Coach Cunningham.

 
 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2008

  

8 - THE RING-TUM PHI

sports

 

J The number of women to win the New York City Marathon three times.

deck

 

MoN TuEs WED THuRs FRI SAT Sun
vs.
Emory&
Football
Henry
1p.m.
at
new Eastern ODAC
H°°k°¥ llllennonltei Finals?
TBA
w°m°“’5 Lynclrtburgi ODAC
Soccer Finals?
TBA
Men's
Soccer
V$- ODAC
Vo||¢yba|i Gullford Semiﬁnals
4p-m. &Finals?
cross
country
R :15‘! h at
Women’: all 0P -
S eet Brlar
swimming Macon W
2p.m.
6p.m.
Men’s
Swimming
W&L Fall
rV|'°5t“nQ classic
10 a.m.

 numbers
20-2 .

W&L's al|—time series lead over VMI in the men's lacrosse Lee-Jackson

 

Classic. The Generals beat the Keydets 14-8 on Oct. 25 in the series’
most recent game. Senior midfielder Henry St. John was named the

Worrell-Fallon MVP for W&L for his four goals in the game.

25

The number of years since a Philadelphia major professional sports
team (NBA, NHL, NFL or MLB) won a championship before the Phil-
lies won the World Series Wednesday over the Tampa Bay Rays in five
games. Philadelphia's last title had come in 1983 when the 76ers

beat the Los Angeles Lakers in the NBA Championship.

With a time of 2:23:56, Paula Radcliffe of Great Britain won the 26.2-

mile race Sunday for the third time in five years.

8-0

The Tennessee Titans record this season after beating the Green Bay
Packers 19-16 in overtime Sunday. The Titans, who finished third in

the AFC South last year, are the only unbeaten team in the NFL.

  box

“I believe this ﬁrmly; our guys are not going to be

 

satisﬁed without playing in October from now on.
And that's a good thing. And that’s all because of
this group of people this year.”

Tampa Bay Rays manager Joe Maddon after his team lost to the
Philadelphia Phlllies in the World Series. Before this season, the Rays
had never had a winning record in the history of their organization,
courtesy of cbssports.com. .

“On the sideline, I kind of dreamed that I would
catch a pass and go in the end zone for a game-
winning score. I do that, like every game, but it
happened. It kind of shocked me.”

Texas Tech wide receiver Michael Crabtree after he caught a 28-yard
pass and eluded two defenders on the sideline to score a touchdown
with one second left to hand the Red Raiders the comeback 39-33
win over no. 1 Texas, courtesy of cbssports.com.

XC teams place at ODACs

Men ﬁnish third while women take ﬁrst for ﬁfth-straight year

By Kevin Corn
STAFF wrmzn

The Washington and Lee men’s and
women’s cross country teams spent Sat-
urday in Virginia Beach, Va., at the 2008
ODAC Championships. The women took
their ﬁfth straight title while the men ﬁn-
ished third, only nine points out of ﬁrst.

Both teams racked up additional ae-
colades, including women’s coach Kris
Hoey who was named ODAC Women’s
Cross Country Coach of the Year for the
ﬁfth time.

The women were led by senior Jessica
Shaw who ﬁnished ﬁrst with a time of
21 :41 — a time that helped make her the
ODAC Runner of the Year. Senior Eliza-
beth Webb took second after crossing the
ﬁnish line in a time of2l:54 while senior
Becca Taylor ﬁnished with a time of 22:26
for a four'th-place ﬁnish. Junior Dorothy
Todd was close behind Taylor with a time
of 22:52, placing seventh.

Taylor also was named ODAC Wom-
en’s Cross Country Scholar-Athlete of
the year for the third-straight year. Shaw,
Webb, Taylor, and Todd were all named
F irst-Team All-ODAC runners.

Webb commented that the meet “was a
culmination of nearly six months of hard
work." She continued, “Even though we
have national ambitions for this season,
we made sure not to lose sight of the fact
that we needed to defend our ODAC title
ﬁrst. Everyone truly came through and
contributed in a big way.”

Finishing close behind were junior Kat
Telfeyan and sophomores Katherine Fen-
wick and Christine Balistreri. Telfeyan
took ninth with a time of 23:06 while Fen-
wick ﬁnished in a time of 23:22 to place

eleventh. Balistreri captured fourteenth
with a time of 23:32. All three were named
Second Team All-ODAC ‘honorees.

“Our success comes from running as a
team, working together, and understand-
ing both each others’ strengths and where
we need that extra support,” stated Tay-
lor. “Each girl on the team contributes so
much to the team’s success and to my own
success because having all my Gennies
with meout on the course is what keeps
those negative thoughts out of me head
and motivates me to push myself farther

ering his circumstances: Not far into the
race, his right shoe fell off.

“My right shoe heel was stepped on
and slipped off my foot within the ﬁrst
half mile of the race” explained Jackson.
“I had to run the remaining 4.5 miles with
one shoe.”

“Overall, our team this year would have
beaten last year‘s ODAC champs [W&L]
fairly handily," commented Ivy. “In other
words, we all ran to the best of our ability
and that’s all we could ask for.”

“Our success as a team was due di-

“Even though we have national ambitions, for this season,

we made sure not to lose sight oflhe. fact that we needed to

defend our ODAC title ﬁrst. Everyone truly came through

and contributed in a big way. ”

ELIZABETH WEBB,Visenior

than I thought possible.”

The men faced stiff competition this
year but rose to the occasion. Senior
Michael Welsh led the Generals with
his third-place ﬁnish in a time oi‘ 25:33.
Senior Vance Berry was close behind,
crossing the ﬁnish line in a time of25:44
for ﬁfth place. Welsh and Ber'ry’s perfor-
mance earned them First Team All-ODAC
honors.

Sophomore Jack lvy was awarded
Second Team All-ODAC honors with his
eight place ﬁnish and time of 25:54. Se-
nior Alex Jackson rounded out the top 20
with his ﬁnish in a time of26:37.

Jackson ran an amazing race consid-

rectly to the commitments made by indi-
viduals early in the season and over the
summer” added Jackson. “Without people
stepping up and replacing positions on the
team lost to last year’s graduating class,
we wouldn’t have been as successful.”

“The 1ncn’s third place ﬁnish, while not
being enough to win a ﬁfth conference title
was still very satisfying as only 9 points
separated ﬁrst and third,” concluded Jack-
son. “Wc are a signiﬁcantly stronger team
this year than even last season.”

Field hockey advances to semis
Generals beat Virginia Wesleyan in ODAC Quarterﬁnals

By Lizz Dye
STAFF WRITER

After a blowout 5-1 win over Vir-J
ginia Wesleyan Collcge on Saturday in
the ﬁrst round of the ODAC tournament,
the Washington & Lee ﬁeld hockey team
will advance to the semiﬁnal round on
Wednesday against Eastern Mennonite
University (EMU).

The Generals faced Virginia Wesleyan
in the regular season on October 18. A
different day ended in the same score and
result: a 5-1 W&L victory with four goals
scored in the ﬁrst half and one in the sec-
ond while the Marlins scored their goal
late in the second.

W&L put a point on the scoreboard
in the ﬁrst ﬁve minutes when junior for-
ward Sallie Armstrong scored an unas-
sisted goal. Senior forwards Christina
Merchant and Melissa Dolan teamed up
on Merchant’s ﬁrst goal at the 18:50 mark
of the ﬁrst half. Just three minutes later
Merchant scored her second goal off of an
assist from senior defender Liz Garson.

Sophomore forward Poppy Hall
brought the score to 4-0 at the 24:04 mark
off of an incoming shot from fellow soph-
omore Jennie Norcini.

The second half amounted to a great
showing from the Generals defense. Nor-
cini came up with a defensive save while
junior Grace McGee and ﬁrst-year Lizz
Dye notched two apiece.

Armstrong complimented the Gener-

Football lose

als’ solid defensive play. “We had great
baseline defense yesterday led by Grace
[McGee] and Jennie [Norcini], and it was
deﬁnitely a team effort with four different
people scoring. We are looking forward to
Wednesday.”

Garson scored W&L’s last goal in the
44th minute of the game off of a sopho-
more midﬁelder Emmy Matthews’ assist.

win against CNU [Christopher Newport
University] really allowed us to see what
we could really do skill-wise. It seems
like all ofthe pieces are falling into please.
We will deﬁnitely bring it on Wednesday
against EMU. We have a great group of
players, and we have what it takes.”
Applauding her team’s performance
Saturday. head coach Wendy Orrison

“I was excited that we kept our momentum going after our

two wins last weekend to take it into the postseason play.

I ’m glad that we ’ve already beat EMU once this year,‘

however, I think that we have a big game (Wednesday),

and we ’re going to have to have one ofthe best games of

our season to win. ”

1

WENDY ORRISON, head field hockey coach

It was Matthews’ eighth assist ofthc sea-
son.

Minutes away from their third shutout
of the season, the Generals suffered a goal
by Virginia Wesleyan’s Whitney King at
65 minutes. Junior goalkeeper Caroline
Habliston had 10 saves and played the en-
tire game in goal.

Assistant coach Tiff Underhill is excit-
ed by the Generals potential. “Going into
the tournament after having such a great

Scoring Summary

added, “I was excited that we kept our
momentum going after our two wins last
weekend to take it into the postseason
play. I‘m glad that we’ve already beat
EMU once this year; however, I think that
we have a big game [Wednesday], and
we’re going to have to have one of the
best games ofour season to win.”

The EMU Royals will play host to the
Generals Wednesday in the ODAC semi-
ﬁnals.

s 19-32to Bridgewater

~ Brictgewater College (80): David ARGAUD 2-yd. TD run (William DAVIS P.A.T.)

»-— ‘W&L: Jason BACAJ 41-yd. TD reception from charlie WESTFAL

-' 30: Anthony CARTER 2~ycl. TD run (Patrick SMOOT 2-pt. conversion)

- (BC: Patrick SMOOT 3~yd. TD reception from Hagan DRISKELL (William DAVIS P.A.T.)
g~ BC: Darrin MCKENZSE 6—yd. TD run (William DAVIS P.A.T.) ’
‘- BC: William DAV¥S 25-yd. field goal

- . W&L: Stuart SITTERSON 1-yd. TD run , , v 1
0 W&L: Patrick CONLEY 23-yd. TD reception from Parker FINLEY (Martin Prichard P.A.T.)

 

  

ma

  USSA?

ﬁeiaraaist iatssittsa aaiisttaraaiats the asst teas years, rearaiag America

at ﬁaaaiais saatatiat taaaaasies

~ OPINIONS / page 3‘

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING-TUM PHI.

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 10,2008

BY THE

STUDENTS AND

FOR THE

STUDENTS SINCE

1897

VOLUME CXII, NUMBER 8

What is an

ombudsman?

Clark Hoyt of the New
York Times explains his
role of upholding the
standards of the Times

By Jessica Strait
STAFF WRITER

Public Editor and Pulitzer-Prize winner Clark Hoyt
gave his audience an inside look at his job as an om-
budsman for the New York Times—one who receives
and processes complaints directedat the paper—and
shared what he has learned in his 42 years as a reporter
and editor on Friday. I

Hoyt was the Keynote Speaker for the 46th Institute
on Ethics & Journalism, held every year as a chance
for distinguished visitors to gather for the weekend to
discuss ethics in the journalism profession.

Hoyt explained his role as a “shock absorber” for
readers who are critical of the Times. His job is to
investigate issues readers ﬁnd fault with and respond
in a column he writes three times a month.

On a busy day, he receives 2,000 messages from
readers. Many complaints often deal with readers re-
acting to a story they found biased or exaggerated.

While Hoyt works for the Times, he is not techni-
cally an employee. As an ombudsman, Hoyt is not
allowed to be employed by the Times before, during
or after having that job.

“I have an independent contract, no boss and no job
description,” he said.

Hoyt explained there was controversy over where
to place his ofﬁce when the Times moved buildings,
because, as he said, “No department wanted to be near
me.” The solution was to place him near the wedding

“I believe society needs and will al-
ways value news that good journal-
ists produce...‘I don ’t know the future,
but that is the opportunity for young
people today. ”

Clark Hoyt, New York Times Public Editor and
Ombudsman

announcement section. .

“I like my neighbors,” Hoyt joked.

While Hoyt’s job description is to berate report-
ers and their stories in his column, he said that overall
his reception at the paper has been professional and
cordial if occasionally unfriendly. Hoyt said his job
of holding the newspaper to its own high standard of
journalism far outweighs any chilly treatment he_ re-
ceives. He is the Times’ third public editor, a position
that was created following the Jason Blair scandal,
which involved a reporter fabricating stories.

The audience was very attentive to Hoyt as he
spoke honestly of mistakes the newspaper has made
that could have been prevented with some more re-
search. He also discussed recent events, including the
election and readers’ habits of accusing papers of hav-
ing political biases.

“Another bias of newspapers is that stories wash by
quickly and we don’t go back to things,” he said.

He amused the audience with anecdotes from his
work at the Times. Hoyt said a French journalist once
sent him a story to run (in French), and one reader
sent the Times a $20,000 bill for all the Opinion Edi-
torial articles he had sent over the years that had been
rejected.

“My job is always educational,” he said.

Hoyt addressed the concerns of the ﬁnancial crisis
and the hard times facing newspapers. He said recent
job cuts mean fewer reporters are keeping watch of
public institutions. While there is still demand for
journalism, the future is unclear, Hoyt said.

“I believe society needs and will always value
news that good journalists produce,” he said. “I don’t
know the future, but that is the opportunity for young
people today.”

Hoyt followed with a Q & A session with the audi-
ence. The Institute on Ethics and Journalism began
Friday morning and continued through Saturday af-
ternoon. ‘

full article on page 2.

r

x

I

Colonnade campers  

Sophomore Hannah Kollefstudies In one of” the many shelters on theitiolonnade last week. Elliott 0’Brien of
Nabors Service League started the initiative as part of W&L’s Hunger and Homelessness Awareness Week. See»

Photo courtesy of W&L Web site

Weekend of thefts

Break—ins occur at Kappa Alpha and an apartment

Bylamie Kim
STAFF wanna

The honor system is a deﬁning

' aspect of life at Washington and

Lee, and most often it is respect-
fully observed by the community
members. But sometimes, students
rely too much on the honor system
and become targets when people
outside the Washington and Lee
community choose to violate that
trust.

On the night of Saturday, Nov.
1, students at Kappa Alpha frater-
nity were having a party downstairs
while some people were in their
rooms upstairs. Sophomore Mar-
shall “Skip” Wood was upstairs
when he heard people talking about
things being gone.

“I walked into my room and
found that my backpack and other
things were missing,” he said.

He came back out into the hall-
way and noticed someone carrying
a backpack that looked like his.

“He quickly left, and I called the
security,” said Wood. “I found my
backpack downstairs behind a trash
can. It seemed like he hid it there
and was going to pick it up later.”

Local police later caught the
thief in a car that was parked on
Massie Street. The thief was Jesse
Steven Warren, a 19-year-old from
Georgia, according the police re-
port.

Sgt. M. E. Huffman said in his
report that he and other police of-
ﬁcer were patrolling the Massie
Street area when they found Warren
sitting in a car with his hood over
his head.

“We stopped and asked him
what he was doing,” said Huffman.

E

“He stated that he was tired and go-
ing to go to sleep. We asked if it
was his car and he stated that it was
a friends’ vehicle.”

Detecting a strong odor of al-
cohol, Huffman then had Warren
come out of the car.

“Upon search of the suspect,
multiple cell phones and iPods
were found in his pants pockets,
along with money and other items,”
Huffman said. I asked him if all of
the cell phones were his and he stat-
ed that one belonged to his brother
and another to his wife and that one
was his.”

Haddow said.

Although all stolen things were
returned to them, members of KA
were quite startled by this incident,
Haddow said. To their knowledge,
it had never happened before.

“Some of them started to lock
their doors, and we had our broken
doors ﬁxed by the school,” he said.
“We’re now being more aware of
who is coming into the house.”

“We have always had a dozen is-
sues a year with theft,” said Public
Safety Director Mike Young. “Most
often it is people outside the com-
munity who steal. We’ve had theft

“I was sur rised...I’m rom New Jerse , so I ’m
P 3’

used to locking the doors and not leaving any-

thing inside. But in Lexington, you don ’t expect

things like this to happen. ’

Bethany Ridenhour, senior

1

Warren later confessed that he
had taken the items from a party he
was attending. Wood said Warren
was at a party at another nearby fra-
ternity house, after which he came
to KA and walked inside and stole
the items.

Another KA, brother Carson
Haddow, was also one of the vic-
tims of the burglary. He said most
people at the time did not pay much
attention to Warren, thinking he
was another W&L student.

“We thought he was somebody
we didn’t know because we had a
party downstairs from 10 to 12,”

of things from the library and laun-
dry room at the end of the year. We
occasionally have thieves at work
because they know that our students
aren’t very aware of security.”

Having a good sense of secu-
rity is especially important because
even keeping doors locked does not
necessarily prevent theft, Young
said.

Senior Bethany Ridenhour, a
resident of the Parkview Apart-
ments near the Lenfest Center, said
some of her personal items were
stolen from her ‘car on Thursday,
Oct. 30. After coming back from

‘basketball practice the day before,

she made sure the car was locked
before going inside her apartment.
But when she got back to the car
next morning, she realized some
things were missing.

“I usually leave my iPod and
wallet in my car, and I noticed
that my IPod and certain cards and
money were taken away. I reported
to the police, but they said the odds
of getting anything back weren’t
much,” said Ridenhour. “I was sur-
prised. I’ve never had anything sto-
len before. I’m from New Jersey, so
I’m used to locking the doors and
not leaving anything inside. But in
Lexington, you don’t expect things

like this to happen.”

Young cautioned students
against being too lax about their
security.

“Because we have an honor code
here, people have a false sense of se-
curity. They really believe they can
have their doors unlocked,” Young
said. “But in reality, they can’t. If
they unlock their doors, people are
going to come in because they can.
[W&L] is certainly a better place
than other places, but people still
need to be aware of their security.”

Dean Brandon Dotson shared a
similar view with Young. Although
most people in the W&L com-
munity follow the honor code and
respect each other, there are those
outside the school who can easily
violate the community of trust.

“I strongly recommend that stu-
dents practice good decisions when
it comes to safety. If you ﬁnd some-
one suspicious, report to security,”
said Dotson. “We live in a real soci-
ety where crime is just as prevalent
as anywhere else.”

 

 

 
  
  

- THE RING-TUM PHI

UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
WASHINGTON 8. LEE UNIVERSITY
l__E_XII\lGTON_ VA 24450

MONDAY,

  

NOVEMBER 10, 2008

 

Students sleep in shelters for the hungry and homeless

Initiative builds tents from recycled materials, students sleep on Colonnade to raise homelessness awareness

By Brett Holton
co PY ED no R

; The Colonnade’s hallmark red-
brick-white-column facade was
the stage for the biggest, and ar-
guably most profound, event dur-
ing Washington and Lee’s Hunger
and Homelessness Awareness

,Week.

For ﬁve days, students seeking
toraise awareness of these two
growing national problems set up

and slept in makeshift tents along

the Colonnade. The initiative was
started by Elliott O’Brien, Issues
Awareness Chair of the Nabors

-Service League.
=,.IO’Brien got the idea to set

up the display along the Colon-
nade after visiting Washington,

;D.C. several times to help with

the homeless problem there. He

and several others occasionally

volunteer for “Midnight Runs”
where they ride around D.C. and
distribute food, water, and es-

By Rosemary Kelley
STAFF WRITER

.gOne in three homeless people
in the United States are afflicted

.with a mental illness, according

to Neely Myers, a doctoral candi-
date at the University of Chicago.
Myers spoke last Monday to a
small group of students and facul-
ty members as part of Hunger and
Homelessness Awareness week.
Her speech, entitled “Psychi-
atric Disability Homelessness and
the American Institutional Cir-
cuit” spoke to the cyclical rela-
tionship between mental disease
and homelessness. V
Psychiatric disability ranges

pecially at this time of the year,
warm clothing to people living on
the streets.

“We get a lot of good feedback
from homeless people when we
do it,” O’Brien said. “They ap-
preciate it when people go out of
their way to help them. At the end
of the day, everyone likes to be
cared for and listened to.”

It was this positive response in
D.C. that got O’Brien so involved
in the campus movement to in-
crease awareness.

Aiming to accurately repre-
senting homelessness, O’Brien
worked with the head of W&L’s
recycling facilities, and con-
structed the tents entirely from re-
cyclable materials found around
campus, from leftovers at Facili-
ties Management to scraps from
Leybum Library construction.

But in perhaps the boldest at-
tempt to truly convey the spirit
of homelessness, O’Brien said
he chose not to obtain the admin-

from depressionvto schizophrenia.
Myers addressed several intercon-
nections between homelessness
and these mental diseases.

The lack of community sup-
port services for those suffering
from mental disability contributes
towards homelessness, Myers
said. [

With no healthcare support,
those facing the deleterious ef-
fects of a mental disability cannot
obtain the necessary medicinal
solutions. Individuals may turn to
self medication, including drugs,
alcohol and other coping mecha-
nisms. These choices give rise to
perpetuation of crises.

INCENTIVE
As a recent college glad, you may

be eligible for a $400 Incentive
on any new Toyota of your choice

 in addition to other mcentlves.“
 See your Toyota dealer for details.

VIESIT buyatoyota
  OI’ additional offers

.O0m

istration’s permission to make - ment, which is what I was trying

camp along the Colonnade.

“l was... aware that because
of the placement, it was unlikely
that the administration would
give advance permission,” he
said. “When you think about the
reality of homelessness, homeless
people don’t have permission to
[be where they are].- They occupy
a space, and sit where they sit un-
til they get kicked out.” ,

O’Brien said they were fully
ready to move the display if need
be, but it never came to that.

“It did feel nerve-wracking
going into it, but it was a case of
no response is good response.”

During his time “living” on
the Colonnade, O’Brien said he
noticed a very encouraging reac-
tion from passers-by.

“The thing that made me feel
positive about it is, there were a
few people who turned up and
said, ‘Where can I sign up?’
There was quite a bit of excite-

Individuals are further af-
ﬂicted with emotional, physi-
cal and mental troubles. With a
lack of housing, those on shelter
wait lists enter the streets, mental
diseases increase in likelihood of
striking, and the cycle of negative
interconnected forces perpetu-
ates.

The American institutional cir-
cuit is the support from shelters,
hotels, streets, jails and the emer-
gency psychiatric ward. Howev-
er, these supports fail to address
the needs of those experiencing
homelessness, Myers said.

On the positive side, shelters
provide a warm space, bathrooms

to generate.”

Linnea Bond, one of the Col-
onnade campers, described her
experience as truly eye-opening
and certainly humbling.

“It was really uncomfortable,
my back hurt every day,” said
Bond. “It rained the ﬁrst night...
and as 1 walking through the com-
mons I could smell myself. I was
kind of embarrassed.”

Through all this, though, Bond
says she felt she did a good thing
as far as raising campus aware-
ness.

“People seemed a little sur-
prised, maybe confused at ﬁrst.
There was some negative atti-
tude... but I think people really
noticed and the majority of peo-
ple thought it was interesting. It
was impossible not to be affected
in some way.”

Jenna Walls, General Chair
of Nabors Service League, com-
mended the creativity and effec-

and meals. Despite this, there are
high crime rates, increased risks
of communal disease, noisy liv-
ing and no storage.

As an alternative, the streets
may provide some sense of com-
munity. However, they force in-
dividuals to stay up at night and
sleep during the day, with no
bathroom or shower capabilities.
There may be freedom of choice
to live on the streets, but there
is an incredible risk of danger in
making that choice.

The homeless have an in-
creased likelihood of emotional
distress when living on the insti-
tutional circuit. This distress per-

tiveness of O’Brien’s living dis-
play.

“The major thing [we were]
trying to convey is that we go
to such a prestigious and ‘such a
well endowed university and be-
ing in the Lexington area we. . .are
in a bubble,” said Walls. “Elliott
wanted to make a statement...by
putting [the display] directly on
our Colonnade inside the bubble
we live in every day.”

“I think it deﬁnitely got across
and we were really happy with
it,” she added.

However, Walls said, getting
the events of the week started was
an uphill battle.

“The ﬁrst major thing we had
to concentrate on was the ﬁnan-
cial commitment,” said Walls.
“That took a bit of work making
sure we had the money in our
budget.”

The money was used to bring
in and host members of the Urban
Ministry Center out of Charlotte,

petuates as an inability to escape
the effects when medical treat-
ment is unavailable.

When asked about a compre-
hensive solution to homelessness,
Professor Harlan Beckley, direc-
tor of the Shepherd Poverty Pro-
gram, said, “To deal with issues
of healthcare and public health

,are_vcritical...I think that some

sort of housing policy is deﬁnitely
part of it.”

The lack of affordable housing
and adequate healthcare are the
main instigators of homelessness
and its negative effects, Myers
said. She suggested several indi-'
vidual solutions to the range of in-

NC. According to their Web site,
the Center’s mission is to address
the needs of the homeless with
“love, compassion and tangible
help.”

Visitors from the Center in-
cluded some of their staff, as
well as some formerly homeless
people.

“They gave us a great human,
personal perspective on this is-
sue,” said Robbie Turner, advisor
for both the Bonner Leader Pro-
gram and Campus Kitchens.

Though Turner was not di-
rectly involved in setting up the
events of the week, he offered
support to the students who had
a hand in coordinating the aware-
ness efforts.

“It was a phenomenal week,”
he said, “and really hopefully re-
minded us all of...these issues,
and how we can work to alleviate
the suffering caused by them.”

   Doctoral candidate makes comparison to mental illnesses

terconnected problems, including
supported employment housing,
an adjustment of the Social Se-
curity Disability Index, universal
healthcare, anti-stigma campaigns
and an increase in funds for non-
medical treatment programs.

Inadequate solutions fail to
ameliorate the effects of home-
lessness inhibit complete eradi-
cation of the epidemic. Myers
stressed the need to address the
interconnections between pov-
erty, homelessness and mental
disability.

®'rovo'rA

moving forward

  ,buyaIoyoIa.com

 

 

THE RING-TUM PHI 0 3

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 10, ZOOB

 

opinions

statteditorial

Honorable and
very vulnerable

Just because we don ’t steal doesn’t
mean thieves can ’t come to Lexington

Time for another conversation on the failures of the honor sys-
tem. But this time it’s something serious.

On the weekend of Nov. 1, a 19-year-old from Georgia stole sev-
eral cell phones and iPods from the Kappa Alpha fraternity house
during a party, and another student reported an iPod, money, and
cards stolen from her car parked near her apartment.

Later that week a security guard said that a student returned to
his car in the Woods Creek parking lot to ﬁnd a stranger sitting in
it.

As students following the precious honor system, we assume that
none of our belongings will ever go missing, just because Robert E.
Lee told us that gentlemen never lie, cheat, or steal. We are even
told as visiting high school students that the beauty of the honor
system is that we don’t ever have to lock our doors, and we can
leave our‘ valuables lying around on campus and they will still be
there days later.

Can we really be that trusting?

Sure, I know students never lock their dorm rooms, and most
of the time, everything is safe. But an unlocked car in a parking
lot or garage gives free access to anyone. Can you imagine leav-
ing your car unlocked in any big city? Your stuff——maybe even the
car——would likely be gone in minutes. -

Leaving your laptop in the library might be ﬁne for an hour or
so, but how do you really know? Students may not know this, but
Public Safety reports that valuable items are stolen from the library
every year.

And frat parties where everyone and anyone can walk in from
the street? Be careful, guys. If you’re having a party in your base-
ment, it can’t be that hard to lock your rooms upstairs. You might
have been lucky so far, but you’ll regret it next time if your iPod—
or laptop or camera or cash——is ‘missing in the morning.

With such an open attitude on this campus, we’ve deﬁnitely been
living under a false sense of security. And thieves looking for an
easy break-in know how careless and unaware our students can be
when it comes to protecting our belongings.

The honor system doesn’t extend to the outside community.
We may think W&L and Lexington are safe, but we don’t live in a
walled city. Lock your cars, keep your stuff safe. Don’t be the next
one to be taken advantage of.

——————-—— WASHINGTON AND LEEUNIVERSITY ———--—————-——

THE RING-TUM PHI.

ALLISON CHOPIN
JOHN HENDERSON
CODY BEAUCHAMP
CELEST CRUZ-
CARANDANG

WILL DORRANCE
BRETT HOLTON

MANAGING EDITOR
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR

SPORTS EDITOR
COPY EDITOR
CONTRIBUTING WRITERS ADAM CANCRYN
JEAN CHAPMAN
STOCKTON BULLITT
BRIAN DEVINE
LIZZ DYE
NEVILLE FOGARTY
JACOB GEIGER
STEPHANIE HARDIMAN
ROSEMARY KELLEY
JAMIE KIM
MERRITT POLING
JESSICA STRAIT

.4

DESIGN EDITOR
STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER
BUSINESS MANAGER

LARA JORDAN
MORGAN HARRIS
CHARLES PERSONS
STROCK MOORE

DISTRIBUTION MNGR. ROB GEORGE

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE
R/NG—TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community for students, faculty,
parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire
to spark discussions that lead to discovering
information that prompts change.

THE RING—TUM PHI IS PUBLISHED MONDAYS

V DURING THE UNDERGRADUATE SCHOOL YEAR.
THE RING-TUM PHI IS A MEMBER OF THE MEDIA

BOARD, BUT IS OTHERWISE INDEPENDENT.

QUESTIONS OR CONCERNS ABOUT THE PHI

SHOULD BE ADDRESSED TO THE EDITORS AT

PHI@WLU.EDU OR TO THE MEDIA BOARD AT

MEDIABOARD@WLU.EDU. THE MEDIA BOARD
IS AN INDEPENDENT, STUDENT-RUN EDITORIAL

OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE WORKING WITH ALL

MEDIA OUTLETS ON THE WASHINGTON &

LEE CAMPUS. ALL'INQUIRIES WILL REMAIN
CONFIDENTIAL. THE RING-TUM PHI WELCOMES
ALL LETTERS. WE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO EDIT

SUBMISSIONS FOR CONTENT AND LENGTH.

LETTERS AND ADVERTISING DO NOT NECESSARILY
REFLECT THE OPINION OF THE RING-TUM PHI
STAFF. THIS NEWSPAPER OBSERVES CURRENT
COURT DEFINITIONS OF LIBEL AND OBSCENITY.
THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540) 458-4059
EMAIL: PHI@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

Welcome to the USSA

Stockton Bullitt shares his predictions for the future

By Stockton Bullltt
C 0 L U M N I ST

After November 4, I saw
plenty of Republicans walking
around campus with worried
looks.

Now that they live in a blue
town, in a blue state, with a blue
Senate, blue House, blue Presi-
dent, and what could be in a
couple of years a blue judiciary,
they look quite, well, blue. But
please, do not fret Reagan-lov-
ers. As a consolation prize, I
thought it would be nice to share
with you the Democrats’ real

’ plan for the next four years that

we have been devising since Earl
Warren died.

Most of the good stuff will
happen in the ﬁrst 100 days be-
cause we Democrats like doing
things in l00—day increments
since it makes us feel like Na-
poleon. We will renege the deci-
sion of Prop 8 in California since
it obviously was not really done
democratically and will hurt the
sales of the new movie “Milk.”

We will make sure that abor-
tion is held up when Judge Rob-
erts is mysteriously killed in a
freak accident that also takes
out Karl Rove and Dick Cheney.
Chief Justice Hilary Clinton will
read the Constitution like an

English teacher, that is focusing
on the themes and main ideas as
opposed to what it actually says,
which as well all know is irrel-
evant. But do not worry, we will
not outlaw guns as Joe Biden
continues to remind people. Bul-
lets, on the other hand, are quite
out of the question. They can
hurt people, and Democrats do
not want feelings, let alone body
parts being injured.

Democratic Senator Zell
Miller did an outrageous thing
at the 2004 RNC when he told
all you Republicans that Kerry
planned to arm the troops with
spitballs. We should never have
let him in on the secret. Luck-
ily, we sent Joe Lieberman into
your camp as a spy on the Me-
Cain campaign. I mean, he is
from New England, what did
you expect? And if you don’t
like to abide by this War on Bul-
lets, we will send PETA mem-
bers to your hunting sites, and
you wouldn’t want blood thrown
on your hunting gear and pickup
trucks, would you?

Finally, since the ACLU now
has enough of a voice in the
government, it will be now be
legal to yell “Fire” in a crowded
room due to free speech, just as
long as you do not say “God” or
“Jesus.” On that note, we will

replace “One nation under God”
in the Pledge of Allegiance
with “One Nation under Barack
Obama” or “One Nation under
hope.” We do not want to offend
the atheist eight-year—olds in el-
ementary school, and we will be
nice enough to let you, the peo-
ple, decide whether it should be
Barack Obama or hope. And we
will allow Southern statehouses
to have the Ten Commandments
shown on their property, of
course as long as they are jux-
taposed with scripture from the
Qur’an.

Yes, you got us, Barack
Obama was sent here by terror-
ists. Don’t let the fact that he is
from Kenya, which was bombed
by Osama Bin Laden in 1998,
fool you. We gave you all the
signs (his middle name, Jeremi-
ah Wright, Bill Ayers), and you
still could not pick that up. We
Democrats, having no guns, will
gladly welcome in those terror-
ists as liberators. Since even ter-
rorists deserve a voice, we will
spend a great deal of time lis-
tening and evaluating what they
have to say, while Kim Jong Il
invades from the west. ,

But don’t you worry, that
won’t happen for a while. First,
we need to ﬁx the economy. And
what better way to ﬁx the econ-

omy then with a ﬁxed economy?
Yep, that’s right, Socialism!
Obama will increase your taxes
as McCain regretfully pointed
out, but he never said how much.
Your 100% tax will help the state
and our glorious country; at least
that’s how Comrade Obama ex-
plains it. And you wondered why
we had so many posters with
Barack’s face on them. That was
because everyone is going to
need an Obama poster in their
house, preferably over their din-
ing room table, a la Stalin and
Mao. Speaking of Mao, we will
be sure to help literacy in the
classroom by giving everyone
a nice Little Blue Book, which
will be The Audacity of Hope but
in a smaller, paperback version.
Don’t worry; you can still get it
on tape.

So, get excited Republicans!
While your senior year here in
Lexington will now involve be-
ing allocated to whatever job
best suits your ability or what-
ever jobs best suits the country’s
need, you can still enjoy yourself
in neighboring cities when the
Democratic initiative changes
Richmond into Sodom and Roa-
noke into Gomorrah. Hope you
don’t feel too blue about having
a donkey represent your country.
Yes we can!

An open letter to the next president

Barack shouldn ’t forget that the youth are inheriting post-Obama America

Bylacob Geiger
COLUMNIST

Dear Barack,

Should we call you President
Obama? Or can we still call you
Barack?

Anyway, congrats on the big
win. I know you must be pretty
happy that you won a higher
percentage of the popular vote
than any Democrat since Lyn-
don Johnson knocked off a
curmudgeonly old senator from
Arizona in 1964. That’d be Bar-
ry Goldwater, not John McCain,
by the way.

I know you’re busy celebrat-
ing your victory, hiring advisors
and picking out a new puppy for
your daughters, but I wanted to
offer you a bit of advice from
the young voters who helped
push you into the White House
Tuesday.

You won about two-thirds
of the votes from people age
18-29. We only make up about
20 percent of the electorate,
but there are more of us than

Guerilla activists

Beauchamp likes the Colonnade bums

By Cody Beauchamp
OPINIONS EDITOR

This week, my pleasant
daily walk to Tucker was in-
vaded by bums.

In case you didn’t go any-
where near the Colonnade this
past week, a number of stu-
dents basically turned it into
the hobo-ﬁlled underside of an
urban bridge.

It was a bold visual ﬂour-
ish, precisely because it made
us comptemplate homeless-
ness in a very ‘in-your-face’
way.

Our beautiﬁil Colonnade
was marred by the mock
homeless.

That is to say - in the most
beautiful, idyllic spot on cam-
pus, a very real social problem
reared its ugly head.

Wow. That’s provocative.
Poetry, really.

Of course, I’m sure I’ve
irritated all of those guerilla
activists by throwing around
words like ‘bum,’ ‘hobo,’ etc.

That’s hardly respectful,
I’ll grant.

But it’s how most of us
think about the homeless, if
we’re really honest with our-
sevles.

there are people who are 65 and
older.

That’s pretty impressive.
But I hope you’ll remember that
35 percent of us didn’t vote for
you. As you govern in the next
four years, try to win some of
that 35 percent over. You’ll
never make everyone happy,
but at least you’ll do better than
George Bush, who made every-
one unhappy.

' So as you start laying out
your policy agenda for the next
four years, don’t forget that you
owe us. We’re the ones who
helped make this possible.

Your ﬁrst priority, obviously,
is to ﬁx our nation’s economy.
The stock market has dropped
below 9,000 from its high above
14,000 last year. Wall Street
titans like Bear Steams and
Lehman Brothers are extinct.
Consumer spending last month
suffered its biggest drop in 30
years. Unemployment is rising.

We know that government
spending is going to be a key
part of helping us out of the re-

cession. We know that means
running up a budget deﬁcit
that could reach $1 trillion next
year.

But here’s the catch. As the
Treasury Department starts
throwing billions of dollars
around, try to remember that
you’re sticking us — the peo-
ple under 30 — with that debt.
You’re sticking your cute little
daughters with that debt.

If you’re going to run up a
massive debt, at least invest in
some badly needed infrastruc-
ture investments. That means
more roads, more money to ﬁll
potholes and work to replace
bridges that are starting to show
their age. That means improve-
ments in our nation’s rail net-
works, including right here in
the Shenandoah Valley, to move
tractor-trailers off the road and
onto trains.

You’re also inheriting two
wars, in Iraq and Afghanistan.
Nearly 5,000 Americans have
died in those two places. Most
of them were our age, our gen-

eration, our friends. Many of us
want to see them come home
— soon — but I think all of us
want to make sure those 5,000
friends haven’t died in vain.

There are plenty of other
problems that I haven’t touched
on. We could talk about global
warming, social security, health
care and a bunch of other prob-
lems.

But as you lead the nation
as our ﬁrst African-American
president, remember that we’re
the ones who helped make this
possible.

We’re the ones who will have
to pay off the incredible debts
our government is running up.
We’re the one watching friends
and classmates go off to war.
We’re the ones who may have
to deal with the effects of global
warming.

Govern for everyone. But
remember that we’re the ones
who will be around the longest.

Thanks,
The under-30 crowd

And that’s part of why the
demonstration was so effec-
tive, I think.

I was upset when I ﬁrst saw
the unsightly - asthetically un-
appealing - shelters students
were sleeping in.

I wasn’t happy that my very
pleasant daily activity was be-
ing invaded by ugly reality.

But then I thought that
maybe that’s the point.

At Washington and Lee, we
live in a bubble.
We’re pretty socioeco-

nomically sheltered, on top of
spending most of our time in
either beautiful historic build-
ings, palacial Greek houses,
or at ‘trashed,’ ‘party—houses’
that are in reality better hous-
ing than most people in Lex-
ington have.

We don’t do much to help
the needy as a campus, and I
think it’s in part because we
can always escape from the
reality that the less fortunate
even exist.

Usually, we can escape
back into our BMW’ed, Ralph
Lauren’ed, future I-bankers-
bubble.

Usually. Not last week

Top I0 Skills
Employers Seek

I. Communication skills
2. Strong work ethic
3. Teamwork skills
- 4. Initiative
5. Interpersonal skills
6. Problem-solving skills
7. Analytical skills
8. Flexibility and adaptability
9. Computer skills
I0. Technical skills

Visit Career Services
before Thanksgiving Break
to talk about job search strategies.
Your parents will be proud of you!

KVVASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

CAREERSERVICES

though. Good job, activists.

 

 

 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2008

THE RING-TUM PHI - 4

  opinions

 

letter to the editor

Classy concession I

College Republicans say congrats

Dear College Democrats and Senator Obama,

On behalf of the W&L College Republicans, we congratulate
you on this historic victory. When Martin Luther King Jr. delivered
his ‘I have a dream’ speech on the steps of the Lincoln memorial,
this must have been the moment of which he spoke. There can be
no doubt of the magnitude and signiﬁcance of this election. We
congratulate not only your party, but the country, in its ability to
change.

It would be easy for us to fall to the temptation and use this mo-
ment to say how cyclical politics is and that we will be back, but we
will not. This is your moment. You have deserved our respect.

None of us will ever forget this election. It teaches us to believe
in things we thought were impossible and to believe in ourselves
as Americans.

Of course, some might say our own efforts proved meaningless.
As the College Republicans, we do not regret knocking on a single
door. We do not regret a single phone call or a single yard sign
posted. We are proud of our campaigning and proud of yours. To
all on this campus who stand on principles, whichever principles,
win or lose, you are all great Americans.

In its name, Washington and Lee University recognizes two
such Americans, who fought for ideals. One man won. One man
lost. However, loss is not without pride and victory is not without
cost. Today, we must recognize that victors do not have exclusive
ownership of greatness, but neither do they have exclusive own-
ership of responsibility. Republicans everywhere must now get to
work, never surrendering the idea of America to petty political par-
ties. We both have too much at stake to hold political grudges.

It would be wrong to say we’re not disappointed, but it would be
equally wrong to say that we do not hope the next four years prove
to be more prosperous than the last four years. America has no (R)
or (D) next to its name. We only ask that you recognize what we
ﬁght for and why we ﬁght. With such graciousness at hand, your
party can govern in a respectful and truly progressive manner.

“With malice toward none, with charity for all, with ﬁrmness in
the right as God gives us to see the right, let us strive on to ﬁnish the
work we are in, to bind up the nation’s wounds, to care for him who
shall have borne the battle and for his widow and his orphan, to do
all which may achieve and cherish a just and lasting peace among
ourselves and with all nations.” Abraham Lincoln

With great respect,
Scott Graham Centorino
President, W&L College Republicans.

 

to the editor Ruscio is a good man

Sophomore Christian Roden takes Patrick Bradley - and students - to. task

I hope that Mr. Bradley’s let-
ter of last week (see: “Dear Ken:
Quit Being a Coward), stimulat-
ed a thoughtful and appropriate
response. I can only hope this,
however, because rarely have I
read such a spiteful and vile at-
tack on an individual I have the
honor to know on a personal
basis and whom I respect im-
rnensely.

Mr. Bradley does highlight
the most pressing issue Wash-
ington and Lee faces: gender re-
lations, within both the student
body and the faculty and staff.

No reasonably intelligent
person could say that our cam-
pus does not have a problem.

Our list of shortcomings in
this area is long and depressing-
ly serious, including a regularly
ﬂooded health center (especially
during rush and “Tear Night”
festivities) and disgraceful stu-
dent conduct at events like last
year’s Gender Relations Panel
and this year’s Diversity Panel.

Having acknowledged these
problems, I still feel conﬁdent
enough to criticize Mr. Bradley’s
attack on President Ruscio.

Because I have worked for
President Ruscio for the last year
and a half, I know him to be an
individual most dedicated to the
development of academically
healthy and active students.

In his position, this means
fostering an environment where
students can develop without
worrying about facing warped
views on gender roles.

The problems we have had
on this campus relating to gen-
der relations are of immense

concern to President Ruscio,
whether they be alcohol-induced
rapes at a party, or seemingly
overpowering stereotypes about
women in academic settings.

President Ruscio is not a
coward, nor is he a bully. He is
a thoughtful and deliberate lead-
er, who is only taking his time
because he wants to reach the
best solution that will not have
any unintended negative conse-
quences.

As a student, I am not privy
to many of the disagreements
within the faculty about gender.

1 do know, however, that in
the thirty-ﬁve years since Wash-

that Mr. Bradley is right on one
issue.

Washington and Lee does in-
deed “trumpet its ideals of com-
munity, honor, and civility”, and
yet, has elements to its culture
that are the polar opposites to
any reasonable notion of com-
munity, honor, and civility.

President Ruscio cannot
wave a wand and magically
force this campus to behave.

Our university is structured
so that these issues are student-
governed.

Theoretically, it can be our
greatest strength. Practically, it
is our greatest weakness.

President Ruscio cannot wave a wand and

magically force this campus to behave... The

honor system is only eﬂective as long as...

students are willing to hold themsevles to it...

ington and Lee hired its ﬁrst
woman faculty member, we
have made immense progress.

Some of the most popular
and respected teachers in many
departments, including English,
Art History, Journalism, Phys-
ics, and Studio Art, are women.
The list of women in high rank-
ing administration jobs is long,
including Dean Watkins, Dean
Futrell, and Dean Ikeda. After
President Ruscio took ofﬁce, we
hired our ﬁrst ever female pro-
vost.

Unfortunately, I must admit

The honor system is only
effective as long as the over-
whelming majority of students
are willing to hold themselves to
its high and strict ideals—both
in and out of the classroom.

We cannot call ourselves hon-
orable if we refuse to cheat on a
test, but then seek to have non-
consensual sex with a drunken
individual ‘at the next party.

The best President Ruscio

, can do is to fulﬁll his job descrip-

tion: to foster a healthy environ-
ment for his students. Doing this
means that he must ask students

to be willing to change the sta-
tus quo (or, the way things are, if
Mr. Bradley insists on vemacu-
lar translations).

It’s a time—consuming pro-
cess, one where students must
meet the President halfway.

I will end this with a message
directly for Mr. Bradley, and an-
other for us, the studentibody.

Mr. Bradley, do not criticize
someone unless you understand
his job description. Nor should
you ignore the very real prog-
ress that has been made.

And to the student body:
Shame upon us for letting our-
selves reach a state where some-
one outside the university feels
it is necessary to criticize us.

The local community is
watching us. If we do not live
up to the standards we profess,
how can we ever expect to truly
make a difference anywhere, be
it in politics, our families, or our
local communities?

I ask you to be willing to take
up the responsibility to over-
come the stereotype we have
made for ourselves.

It won’t be easy. . .traditions,
whether good or bad, die hard
on this campus. It takes time for
opinions to change.

If we wish to continue mak-
ing any progress, we have to be
willing to confront this issue,
and accept the responsibility to
act according to our duty: to be,
in every sense of the titles, la-
dies and gentlemen.

Christian Roden, ‘ 11

GROUP CYCLING

 

EVERYDAY

7-8 AM MON-FRI

12:15-1:15 M()N—FRI

8:30-9:30 PM TUES/ THURS
5-6 PM SUN

CAMPUS REC
STUDENTS: $150 PER ACADEMIC YEAR OR $75 PER
‘ TERM
FACULTY/STAFF: $100 YEAR

 

CAMPUSRECREATION

GROUP FITNESS

PILATES

STEP

SPORTS CIRCUIT

FACULTY/STAFF: $1OO YEAR

YOGA WORKSHOPS
‘POWER YOGA GROUP CYCLING
ASHTANGA YOGA ZUMBA
Mon Tues Wed Thurs Fri Sat Sun
Group Group Group Group Group Yoga
Cycling Cycling Cycling Cycling Cycling Workshop
7-8 7-8 7-8 7-8 7-8 9-10:30
ZUMBA ZUMBA
]2.30- 12:30-
1 :3 0 I :30
Group Group Group Group Group
Cycling Cycling Cycling Cycling Cycling
I2:30- 12.°]5- ]2.30- 12:15- 12:15-
I:30 1:00 1:30 1:15 1:00
8' Group
P . A
Yggvger Step Step Cycling
5_6 5-6 5-6 5-6
Sports
Pilates Ashtanga Pilates Circuit
6_7 Yoga 6_7 
5-6345 6 7530
Sports Sports
Circuit Circuit
7-8 7-8
Group Group
Cycling Cycling
8:30- 8:30-
: 9:30 9:30

STUDENTS: $150 PER ACADEMIC YEAR OR $75 PER TERM

FEE ALLOWS YOU TO ATTEND ANY OF OUR CLASSES‘.
SCHEDULE SUBJECT TO CHANGE, NO REFUNDS.
HTTP://WWW1.WLU.EDU/X8123.XML

 

 

 

   

6 ' THE RING-TUM PHI

arts&Iife

 

MONDAY,

NOVEMBER 10, 2008

“Midnight Run” for the homeless

Students from Nabors and Phi Beta Sigma deliver fooal,

By John Henderson
N EWS EDITOR

It is one thing to study
homelessness, attend lectures
and panels on homelessness

parted after 5:00 p.m. in two
cars headed for Washington,
D.C. Some participants had
made the trip before and some
were members of the Nabors

and even sleep in make-shift
homeless shelters on the Col-
onnade---it is quite another to
see the deleterious effects ‘of
homelessness ﬁrst hand and at-
tend to the needs of the home-
less, which is how a group of
eight Washington and Lee stu-
dents and one Lexington resi-
dent spent their evening last
Friday.

Sponsored by the Nabors
Service League and the Phi Beta
Sigma fraternity, the “Midnight
Run” to Washington, D.C. was
a chance for students to get up
close and personal with home-
lessness at the culmination
of Homelessness Awareness
Week. Phi Beta Sigma Vice
President Rasaq Lawal led the
effort with the help of students
from each year and the spouse
of a W&L professor.

The group met at 2:00 p.m.
on Friday in the Chavis house
to prepare food, collect clothes
and blankets to give away and
go over the details of the trip.
The Campus Kitchens Proj-
ect donated buns and leftover
chicken from the dining hall,
which was cut up and used to
make sandwiches. The group
packed bananas, oranges and
bottles of water to complete
the meal.

With food packed and di-
rections printed, the group de-

Service League—others were
new to the midnight run and
had little experience with com-
munity service.

Around 9:00 the cars ar-
rived at the intersection of P
and 22nd streets in Northwest
Washington, where the group
was to meet two natives of
Washington, D.C. who work
with the homeless and were
once homeless themselves.

Jesse and Brian are middle-
aged African Americans who
have similar personal stories of
hard luck and redemption. Jes-
se, a fast-talking extrovert with
a BA in Sociology and a minor
in Urban Planning, recounted
how his untimely divorce
plunged him into depression,
causing him to lose his job as a
systems engineer at AT&T and
take to the streets for four years
as a homeless man.

Brian, a somber man who
talks less, said simply, “My
wife wanted to share things;
I don’t like to share things.
We couldn’t make it work.”
Brian soon found himself on
the streets and in homeless
shelters, before escaping the
“institutional circuit” to work
with Jesse ministering to the
homeless. '

Jesse and Brian’s stories
were not only interesting but
revelatory, defying stereotypes

Homeless art

W&L displays artwork by homeless

By Jean Chapman
STAFF WRITER

As part of Hunger and Homelessness Awareness Week,
the same people who brought us the display of lean-tos on the
Colonnade also sponsored an art show in the Commons living
room beginning on Nov. 11. The art on display was created by
homeless men and women who participate in the art program of
Urban Ministries of Charlotte. The artwork is all “outsider art”
meaning that no formal training or instruction is given to these
artists; they are simply given free reign to express through art
the experience of homelessness and share it with the world.

Co-coordinators Elliott O’Brien and Robbie Turner said that
the art display was inspired by the alternative spring break trip
taken by some students in the previous winter term. During the
break, students had an opportunity to interact with the homeless
who participated in the art and soccer programs of the Urban
Ministries. According to O’Brien, this experience inspired the
idea of an art show as part of Hunger and Homelessness Week.
He said that typically they invited a group from D.C. to come
to Lexington as part of this week, but they decided to invite the
group from Charlotte in order to provide the students who par-
ticipated in the alternate spring break trip with an opportunity to
reunite with the people they had met during their time in North
Carolina.

One of these students, senior Mackenzie Brown, said that
she was excited to see the participants again, as well as see their
artwork. Brown expressed particular enthusiasm for one artist,
Frank Hall, whom she had met on her trip to Charlotte and pur-
chased art from, which she says is now hanging in her apart-
ment. She also explained that the art display was being produced
in conjunction with a ﬁlm that had recently been shown in the
Stackhouse Theater, entitled “Kickinf It” which followed events
of the Homeless Soccer World Cup. The Homeless World Cup
draws street soccer teams from around the world, including the
team from Charlotte, and in the ﬁlm also proﬁled one of the par-
ticipants of the Urban Ministries with whom Washington and
Lee students had a chance to interact.

Robb Cann, a representative of Urban Ministries, said that
he became involved in UM through this soccer program. He
was contacted by his brother and was invited to become a soccer
coach for the street soccer team and helped prepare them for the
World Cup. After this experience, Cann became involved full
time. He explained that the purpose of Urban Ministries, and in
particular the art and soccer programs, is to use these activities
as a way to break down social work and increase trust between
the homeless participants and those present to help them. Cann
said that one of the main goals is to form relationships with
the participants and discover the root causes of their homeless-
ness. In order to participate in the programs, individuals work
together with the United Ministries Teams to set both short and
long-terrn goals to help them get out of their current situation.

The program which created the art on display in the Com-
mons Living Room helps the homeless in two ways: ﬁrst, it is
used as a type of therapy for the participants and allows them to
express their emotions and their experience of homelessness to
the world. Second, the artwork is sold, and half of the proceeds
go to support the program, while the other half goes directly
to the artist in order to supplement their income. Aside from
the wonderful program that spurred the creation of this art, the
works themselves are remarkable. Ranging from paintings to
mixed media to photography, the art is evocative, skillful, and
moving. Bright colors, dramatic shadows, snippets of poetry,
scenes both abstract and lifelike, all comprise this art display
which challenges the viewer to understand both the meaning of
the artwork and the experience that provoked it.

associated with homelessness.
The group departed to see the
reality of homelessness with
Jesse and Brian as guides.

The first stop was McPher-

son Square, a public park be-

tween tall ofﬁce buildings two
blocks away from the White
House. Jesse led several stu-
dents down a path to the cen-

V ter of the park to see who was

there, stopping at park benches
along the way to arouse the oc-
cupants with an audible “hel-
lo!” q

The group followed with
the coolers and distributed the
food and clothes as needed.
Some homeless people were
fast asleep and would not be
woken; others got up immedi-
ately and wanted to chat. Most
were polite, well spoken and
friendly. One man sat comfort--
ably on a bench with his legs
crossed and discussed the ef-
fects of the ﬁnancial crisis on
the global economy as a pro-
fessor might do with students
over coffee. .

The group left the cars at
McPherson Square and walked
to another park a few blocks
away, where Jesse introduced
the group to a man he had spent
time with at a nearby homeless
shelter. Jesse explained that as
parks have been restricted and
shelters handed over to devel-
opers, the homeless have been
forced to move into the further
reaches of the city where there
is chronic violence and drug
trafficking.

The group proceeded to a
street where homeless people
were sleeping in, the doors and
alcoves of office buildings. A
group of about ten people slept
side by side under piles of
blankets and other insulating
materials to fend off the com-
ing cold of winter. One man
had used a piece of cardboard
to create a partition with his
neighbor for some privacy.

Further down the street, stu-

dents gave food and water to a
man with scars on his forehead.
Jesse said violence against the
homeless is common, and more
often than not it is caused by
non-homeless passers-by.
_ In a small park at the in-
tersection of two streets, the
group handed out what was
left of the food and clothes to a
group of about a dozen home-
less people. One outgoing man
who identiﬁed himself as Sam
cracked jokes with several stu-
dents and correctly guessed
that one student was Catholic.
Sam wore a cross around his
neck and blessed the departing
group several times.

Having used up the food,
the group headed back to the
cars, dropped off Jesse and
Brian at the church which is
their base of operations and
took a group picture. On the
ride back to Lexington, it be-
came clear what started as a
trip to feed the hungry shifted
perceptions of what it means to
be homeless.

clothes and blankets to homeless in Washington, D. C.

Local food Progressive cuisine.

Serving dinner Mondag through Saturday and
Lexingtonis hest Sundag Brunch.

Great wines, beers, and cocktails served with

lighter fare every evening until llpm.

Reservations are recommended

Crossword of the week

Cheap, Quick, and Easy

Neville L. Fogarty

ACROSS

1. Droops

5. Type of awareness

9. Like Lori Beth
Denberg's
information

14. 1994

Schwarzenegger film

"__ Lies"

15. Eddie Murphy's
"Beverly Hills Cop"
character

16. Came up

17. With 37- and 61-
Across, the subtitle

of W&L Prof. Pamela

Simpson's book on
linoleum "Cheap,
Quick, and Easy"

19. Fishing floats

20. Blood fluid

21. Navigator's need,
perhaps

23. Hallow ending

24. It's got a few bits

26. Ship's banner

29. Le Penseur, e.g.

31. 1996 Steve Martin
film "___ Bi|ko"

32. Role for Tony
Randall with 7 faces

33. The press is the
fourth one

36. Talk show guests
agenda, often

37. See 17-Across

41. Area code 801 area

42. Organ stop that can
be super

43. Proverbial cookware

44. "Everybody Hurts"
band

46. Lamb Chop, e.g.

50. Solitaire variant

52. October birthstone

54. Game show "___
Got a Secret"

55. it can involve wet-
folds

57. Sleep disorder

, 59. Pachelbel had one in

D major
61. See 17-Across

17 18

 

 

as
as 7 3
©2008
63. Tequila source 13. Guitar master Paul 47. Xbox 360 game
64. Like Russell 18. Waylay "Viva "
Simmons‘ farm 22. Two-year-old sheep 48. British author Waugh
65. Eye problem 25. Himalayan legend 49. Does a hair-raising
66. Administered 27. Caesar wrote that all job?
67. Beauty pageant wear of it is divided into 51. Horde
68. Albert Einstein's son three parts 52. Frozen food
. 28. Wassail alternative ' distributor___
DOWN 30. Georgia school that's Steaks
1_ Mushroom stems home of the Ramblln' 53. They can surround
2, Biceps band Wreck souvlaki
3, French department 31. Branch 56. Nigel Tufnel‘s go to
4_ Coﬂecﬁons 34. Bohr's study 11
5, seniors exam, 35. Gumshoe 58. Posh's partner
perhaps 36. Get ready 59. Lowlife
5_ Be 37. Sitting on 60. Word in cyan at the
7_ "Amergpan pie" 38. Like fractions start of "Star Wars"
ippaie 39. Spanish appetizer 62. Biblical verb suffix
8_ Former Revlon   the Q in Iraq OT
shampoo Qatar
9. Lavatory word 41- "The _Bl9 BVOWH
10. Actor Jeremy who Machlﬁe"
voiced Scar in "The 44- 3l0PPeds 33 8
Lion King" Cowboy
45. Piece of work?

11. Chlllquiles ingredient

12. Quiz

l
l

n.i:nA7Aotto¢OuI(a

a-punuvon-1'»..1-4...,.:.=\.;s..».ams-.v..s»i...h..-a;»uon.¢;s.... ..

i

 

 

 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2008

 

THE RING-TUM PHI 0

arts&life

7

Photo exhibit will chronicle small town in Texas

Photographer Dave Anderson captured the struggle of small rural towns, Anderson to give talk on his new exhibit

By Jean Chapman
STAFF WRITER

Beginning on Nov. 10, pho-
tography by Dave Anderson
will be featured in the Staniar
Gallery, following the exhibit
by Alberto Rey. Anderson’s
photography chronicles through
images the small town of Vi-
dor, Texas. Anderson, a primar-
ily self-taught artist, presents
his collection, entitled Rough
Beauty, which will continue on
display through Dec. 10, 2008.

Anderson collected photo-

‘ graphs of Vidor during approxi-

mately 50 trips there between
2003 and 2006. In all of his
images, Anderson shows the
resilience of the small town in
southeast Texas as it struggles
to create a new identity for itself
out of a difﬁcult past. Vidor, a
town known for generations be-
cause of its history of Klan ac-
tion, is shown in a different light
in this collection. Anderson’s
photography shows the hidden

beauty and the strength of this
community as it deals with a
difﬁcult past and attempts to
renew itself. Rough Beauty has
received international renown,
with acclaim from American,
Canadian, and German media.
This collection has been proﬁled
on NPR, featured on Canadian
television, and has won numer-
ous awards, including winner
of the Santa Fe Center for Pho-
tography Project Competition in
2005.

Anderson has worked full-
time for the past three years as a
ﬁne art and commercial photog-
rapher, during which time he has
been recognized as “one of the
shooting stars of the American
photo scene” by Germany’s fo-
toMAGAZIN. He has also been
named to the top 30 list by Pho-
to District News, placing him as
one of the top emerging photog-
raphers of our era. Anderson’s
work has been featured in many
top magazines including Stern,

ESPN, Esquire, and the British
Journal of Photography, aside
from Photo District News. His
photography has been on display
in various museums across the
United States, most notably the
Museum of Fine Arts in Hous-
ton, the George Eastman House,
the Art Museum of Southeast
Texas, the Worcester Art Mu-
seum in Massachusetts and the
Ogden Museum of Southern Art
in New Orleans.

Anderson will give an artist’s

talk on Wednesday, November
12 in the Wilson Concert Hall
at 6:00 p.m. Afterward there
will be a reception in the Wil-
son Atrium. All are encouraged
to attend the talk and reception.
Anderson will also be spending
a week on campus here at Wash-
ington and Lee acting as Visit-
ing Artist to the Art Department
as part of his stay in the area.

Panel discusses experiences of homelessness

Formerly homeless men and women reveal the truth about the less fortunate, correct misconceptions about poverty

By Celeste Cruz-Carandang and Merrltt Poling
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR AND STAFF WRITER

Despite the array of events
for Hunger and Homeless Week,
several students still did not
know who the homeless truly
were. Several still held many
mistaken beliefs about what
caused homelessness, who the
homeless are and where home-
lessness is the most prevalent. A
panel addressing this issue was
held Thursday.

The Faces of Homeless-
ness Panel gave the homeless a
voice.

The panel was sponsored by
Nabors Service League. Both
staff and formerly homeless
people from the Urban Ministry
Center in Charlotte, NC were on
the panel.

Those on the panel revealed

several little-known facts about
the homeless. They also correct-
ed several misconceptions about
who the less fortunate truly are.

Roland Washington, a vet-
eran and college graduate, ad-
mitted to being homeless for
several months.

He said, “It was difficult at
that time to ﬁnd a job or ﬁnd
time to ﬁnd an apartment. When
my relationship failed I be-
came homeless for six to eight
months.”

Washington is now a mem-
ber of Homeless Helping Home-
less.

Others on the panel also used
their experiences on the street
to help those who are currently
homeless. Capone, who became

,‘ .

u know where. .

MUVSIWC COLLEC IO .

K

homeless at the age of fourteen,
spoke of the value of his street
smarts.

“I know I am a good
advocate,”Capone said. “I have
lived with the people on the
streets...slept under a bridge,
slept in the woods and slept in
the cold.”

Capone also offered his in-
sight on the association between
drugs and homelessness. Al-
though many students believed
that drug use caused poverty,
Capone had a different story to
tell.

As one of two siblings, Ca-
pone tried to support his family
when his father could not. He
unfortunately had to turn to drug
dealing to earn money for food.

“There were too many of us
and [my father] couldn’t support
us. . .I did the next best thing and
went out at age fourteen to make
money as I best I could...I had
to sell drugs just to get food.”

Although some individuals
became homeless while trying
to support their families, oth-
ers fell into the same situation
because of a lack of family sup-
port.

Jaime Morgan told the audi-
ence about his difﬁculties with
his parents.

“My mom and dad decided to
take my car because they didn’t
approve of me being gay. . .I had
no way to get to work. . .I lost my
job and I lost my apartment.”

However, a failed relation-

I'M THERE”

ship or ﬁlial difﬁculties are not
the only reasons for hard times.
Mental illness is also a leading
cause.

Quinetta Williams said, “My
mother could no longer deal
with my schizophrenic and
bipolar behaviors...I became
completely homeless in 1995.”

Williams was later banned
from a women’s shelter for the
violent behaviors caused by her
psychological disorders.

Liz Clayson Kelly, an em-
ployee of the Urban Ministry,
echoed Williams’ sentiments.

“Homelessness is a social
epidemic,” Kelly commented.
“We know today that it is due
largely to our own [national]
policy on mental health care.”

Despite the array of services
available, some homeless peo-
ple still refuse their help. But,
this is not because of their own
laziness.

Like many others, they re-
tain their pride and sense of
self—worth.

Capone commented, “I
might be homeless, but I am
still picky.”

Williams, like Capone, did
not turn to shelters or homes.

“I would have been one of
the oldest people in an adult
group home,” said Williams. I
refused their help and stayed on
the streets. A lot of people don’t
realize that the homeless work
the hardest.”

There are ways to keep your wallet and your catalog of

classics packed. Switch to State Farm“ and you

could save an average of $426‘ on your car

insurance. Now that really sounds good.

Call, click or visit a State Farm Agent now

and get a quote, because Like a good neighbor,»

State Farm is theref" e 

tatefarm.com

 
 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2008

sports

 

3 - THE RING-TUM PHI’

Buena Vista native Charlie Manuel wins World Series

 

CI"%[!?r11_l'_;E5¥' ‘$1.! QUA ?S~’l2#.I‘éll..1'§L’§.

By Wlll Dorrance
SPORTS EDITOR

On Route 60 on the way into
Buena Vista, Va., there is a sign
that reads, “Buena Vista’s Char-
lie Manuel, Manager of the Phil-
adelphia Phillies,” but according
to Mayor Mike Clements, it will
soon be taken down.

The town plans to replace that
sign with a new one acknowl-
edging Charlie Manuel, a Buena
Vista native, as a World Series
champion. .

There is no doubt that Buena
Vista is proud of its most famous
son and his team for beating the
Tampa Bay Rays in ﬁve games
last month. It was the Phillies
ﬁrst World Series crown since
1980 and Philadelphia’s ﬁrst ma-
jor sports championship since
1983.

When Charlie was 12 years
old, he moved with his parents
and 10 siblings to Buena Vista
from Grayson County, Va. His
father, Charles Sr., became pas-
tor of the Buena Vista Pente-
costal Holiness Church, and the
Manuel family lived in a parson-
age a few houses down from the
church.

As a child, Charlie, or “Fook,”
as he is known in Buena Vista for
his middle name Fuqua, was al-
ways loved to play sports. He was
often seen playing football with
his brothers in their back yard,
practicing his baseball swing at a
nearby ﬁeld, or shooting a ball at
make-shift baskets in the church

. parking lot. As he got older, he

would run the eight miles from

his house to Virginia Military
Institute, sometimes barefoot,
to play pick-up basketball.
Charlie Kurtz, Manuel’s
baseball and football coach at
Parry McCluer High School,
emphasized his former play-
er’s work ethic. “He was a
kid that grew up swinging
sticks at rocks. He developed
a love for sports. He was
willing to put in the time to ef-
fectively become an outstand-
ing player in sports. He was a
hard worker. He knew what it

As Manuel told the News-
Gazette of Lexington, “In
Buena Vista, when I was a
kid, you could always ﬁnd
a baseball game, and I always
found it. During the summer
I’d play in four or ﬁve different
leagues.”

The hard work began to pay
off at Parry McCluer where Man-
uel was a three-sport star, eam-
ing all-district honors in football,
basketball and baseball multiple
times. He was captain of the bas-

took to defeat the other man.” '

scored over 1,000 points.

A former teacher at Parry Mc-
Cluer, Francis Lynn, recognized
Manuel’s talent from a young
age. “You sort of knew that his
athletic abilities was just superi-
or to the rest of the students who
came along at that time. He was
just a natural athlete who took it
very, very seriously.”

In 1963, in the middle of
Charlie’s successful senior year,
his father, who suffered from di-
abetes and heart trouble, passed
away.

Kurtz remembered a game
the day of Charles Sr.’s burial.
“I told him, ‘We could do sev-
eral things: We can cancel the
game; you don’t have to come.’
He said, ‘Nope. I’m going to
the ﬁeld, and we’ll play.’ I said,
‘Okay.’ He hit one of the longest
home runs he ever hit in high
school that day. And his com-
ment as he rounded the bases and
came home was, ‘That was for
Daddy and Momma.”’

June Manuel, Charlie’s moth-
er, was left to care for the eleven

“[ Charlie Manuel] was a kid that grew up

swinging sticks at rocks. He developed a

love for sports. He was willing to put in the

8 time to effectively become an outstanding

player in sports. He was a hard worker. He
knew what it took to defeat the other man. ”

Charlle Kurtz, Manuel’s hlgh school

ketball and baseball teams and a
two-time MVP in baseball.
Manuel was known for his hit-
ting abilities, especially his great
power. Kurtz recalled Manuel’s
abilities to win games with his
bat. “He carried the team on his
back quite a bit with his stick.”
Although he made a career
out of baseball, basketball was
his ﬁrst love and probably his
best sport as a child. He made
the varsity basketball team as a
freshman. In one game he scored

‘42 points, and he grabbed 38 re-

bounds in another. During his
entire high school career, Manuel

Manuel kids by herself. W. A.
Mills, pastor of the Buena Vista
Pentecostal Holiness Church for
the last 12 years, was very close
to June Manuel in her later years.
He applauded her approach to
raising her children during this
difficult time. “She would‘ have
been eligible for welfare or food
stamps, but she opted out of any
of those programs, and her at-
titude towards life was her sons
were old enough to get part-time
jobs after school hours, and with
them working and with her pray-
ing, they would make it. And
they did. She did a tremendous

job at keeping her family togeth-
er.”

A basketball and baseball
standout, Charlie Manuel had
many different options following
his graduation from high school
‘in 1963. According to Mills,
“The day he graduated from Par-
ry McCluer High School, there
were nine recruiters waiting for
him at his home.” He was be-
ing recruited for basketball by
schools like the University of
North Carolina and Davidson
College and was even offered
a basketball scholarship at the
University of Pennsylvania.

Instead, he elected to support
his family ﬁnancially, signing
with the Minnesota Twins for a
$20,000 signing bonus. Manuel
later told the News-Gazette,
“$8,000 was up front, and I was
to get the additional $12,000
if I spent 90 days in the major
leagues. I had to wait six years
for the rest of that money.”

His ﬁrst stop in the minor
leagues was Wytheville, Va., in
the Appalachian rookie league.
Manuel’s early professional ca-
reer was full of ups and downs.
After one poor season in the
minors, he even contemplated
leaving the game, but his former
high school coach talked him out
of it. In a 1986 interview with
the News-Gazette, Manuel said,
“Charlie Kurtz saved my ca-
reer.”

Playing for the Wisconsin
Rapids, Manuel rebounded in
1967 to hit for the Midwest
League triple crown. The next
year, he batted .283 with 35
home runs and 80 RBI. His per-
formance that season earned him
an invitation to the Minnesota
Twins’ spring training in 1969.
He made the team and became
the ﬁrst area high school gradu-
ate to play in the major leagues.
In his ﬁrst at-bat, he hit a home
run.

The Twins, however, had a lot
of outﬁelders, including all-stars
Bob Allison and Tony Oliva, so
Manuel did not receive much
playing time. He was mostly
limited to a pinch-hitting role in
which he struggled.

He spent four years with the
Twins, went back down to Triple
A, and was traded to the Los An-

  

   

533.’.-. 531."?-’g‘;.‘;V,‘ 7,I’o.m.m~_g zcaea, .,}lol:l':éyf= ‘He'n2en,.
 __ t.:e=i~,a _?r’&’eatle’1i £2s5I”e:n1.‘an,* (Z3i=arlea.=?«!ta'atle'1,
».*;.:ft5a;r1.es-. =5eee ., .sft~.:= ’I§j»{i.ke .G:.ﬁ::m.. $ee9n(£‘ men. hay Bergen,

    

  

1t‘c«.g;e:r‘:S}ie§ér~, C-iperitlen V Ii/¢lxee1ers,_   
_;$isateji,= ’<3eorg,r.e=.,£§'[gg¢Ie-zagiioagiits 'Scta:gatt7. ‘='.1?-'f~':t.«2:<.‘:is:¢':.~««.-...—t‘aa;»
Wl*iee3le;',.- Weyzsii iﬁatriﬁfkl. -W.-3 N31 1il:~.sfsl%¢.§:t~ 8

UPPER LEFT: Charlie Manuel’s plcture In the Parry Mccluer Hlgh School yearbook. He graduated In 1963 and

Courtesy of W&L Speclal Collections

slgned a professlonal baseball contract rlght out of hlgh school. UPPER RIGHT: Manuel, who was a standout
sports star In baseball, basketball, and football, was named the most school splrlted male In the yearbook.
ABOVE: The Parry McCluer baseball. team-dnﬂrrg Manuel’: junior year.

 

geles Dodgers, where he played
for two years. In his 242 career
games in the majors, he hit just
.198 with four home runs.

After the 1975 season, the
Dodgers sold Manuel to the
Yakult Swallows of the Japanese

Central League. He found much _

more success across the Paciﬁc
Ocean, helping the Swallows
reach the championship of the
Nippon Series, the Japanese ver-
sion of the World Series.

He was later traded to the
Kinetsu Buffaloes, where he
became the ﬁrst American ever
to be named the Paciﬁc League
MVP. For his [ﬁnal season,
Manuel returned to Yakult, but a
two-inch bone spur that had gone
undiagnosed for years caused
him to retire after six seasons in
Japan. He hit a career .306 with
189 homers.

In Japan, Manuel achieved
great success in baseball, but the
culture also had an inﬂuence on
him. Manuel admits to having a
temper when he was young, but
Yakult manager Tatsuro Hirooka
calmed him down. The Japanese
emphasize practice, respect and

communication, which showed
Manuel a different approach to
the game and to life.

Kurtz described Manuel’s
experience in Japan. “‘I think
he matured when he went to Ja-
pan and played, and I think he
reached a point in his life that he
realized that he belonged in that
atmosphere.”

In the United States, he had
never made more than $21,000
playing baseball, but he received
a six-ﬁgure salary in Japan.

After his playing days were
over, Manuel did not want to
leave baseball, so he became
a minor league manager in the
Minnesota Twins’ farm system.
After ﬁve seasons, he became the
Cleveland Indians hitting coach
and was promoted to manager in
2000. '

After managing the Indians
for two-and-a-half seasons with
a 220-411 record, Manuel was
fired in July 2002 over contract
disputes with management. The
Phillies hired him as their man-
ager in 2005.

See “charlie Manuel” on page 9

l?«f.%T..¥$:*r  seiarrae
iizizndy, lynx: »;mxZ§ £‘.‘bsri,-5.2:»; 32/listings!

Iii

  A hometown hero ‘

  

 
 

  

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2008

THE RING-TUM PHI -

 

9

 

sports

Volleyball earns ODAC crown

Generals earn eighth straight conference championship

By Stephanie Hardlman
STAFF WRITER

ROANOKE -- The Washing-

ton and Lee University volleyball

team added more hardware to its
collection this weekend after a
much-anticipated ﬁrst-place win
at the ODAC Championship.

The win marks the eighth time
the Generals clinched the confer-
ence in the past eight years. The
team headed to Hollins Univer-
sity as the number one seed in the
tournament.

On Friday the Generals played
Guilford College, the number eight
seed with a 7-22 record and 2-8 in
the ODAC. In regular season play
in October, the Generals swept the
Quakers in three straight games at
Guilford. They managed to do the
same in the tournament.

W&L ran a 25-15, 25-15, 25-
19 victory in a quick match that
only lasted about an hour. Junior
outside hitter Rachel Phillips led
the Generals with 14 kills while
junior setter Megan Steinhardt
completed 32 assists.

In semiﬁnal play, the team
faced number ﬁve-seeded Bridge-
water College. The Eagles fought
hard, but the Generals proved to
be too much in another straight-
game victory.

Bridgewater gave W&L some
trouble earlier in the season, tak-
ing them to ﬁve sets in the match-
up on Sept. 27. The story was
different this time, as the Generals
steam-rolled over the Eagles 25-
15, 26-24 and 25-15.

In the championship match,
the Generals came up against
seven-seeded “Cinderella” team
Lynchburg College. The Hornets
played in two upset matches earli-
er in the tournament, beating both

lead. Lynchburg tried to claw its
way back, but the Hornets defense
could not handle senior right-side
hitter Jessica Ulrich who added 10
kills and seven digs for W&L.

The Generals sent the Hornets
home empty-handed after a 25-19,
25-18, 25-23 match that won them
the championship.

In a pre-season poll, the
ODAC coaches voted W&L the
overwhelming favorite to win the
conference. After playing with a

“There was no doubt in my mind that we ’d win

the championship again.

1}

Jessica Ulrlch, senlor right-side hitter
 

two-seeded Randolph-Macon and
three-seed Virginia Wesleyan in
four and ﬁve sets respectively.
Lynchburg has never’ won an
ODAC volleyball championship.

The Hornets brought a swarm
of parents and supporters wield-
ing signs and cheers. The rowdy
crowd factored in as a “seventh
man” for Lynchburg throughout
the tournament.

Moments after the Generals
took the ﬂoor, the crowd was si-
lenced as W&L quickly took the

target on their backs all season,
the Generals clinched the win and
headed back to Lexington victori-
ous.

Unlike other teams in the
ODAC, W&L plays a very dif-
ﬁcult non-conference schedule,
including trips to play Juniata,
Christopher Newport, and Emory,
all nationally-ranked teams. This
allows the Generals to improve to
the national level and translates to
an easy win at ODACs.

Ulrich was named the tourna-

ment Most Valuable Player. She
and Phillips were nominated to
the All-Toumament Team. Phil-
lips had 11 kills and 11 digs in the
ﬁnal match.

Ulrich said that coming into the
tournament the team’s conﬁdence
was high. “There was no doubt in
my mind that we’d win the cham-
pionship again,” she said.

Now with a 31-6 record, the
Generals will extend their season
into the Division III NCAA re-
gional tournament later this week.

Head Coach Bryan Synder,
now in his ninth season with the
Generals, said that until then it is
important for his team to continue
business as usual. “We’re treating
[the championship] like any other
weekend,” he said.

Looking forward, he said the
key to victory in the post-season
will be consistency. “Go out and
play the way we’ve played the last
three weekends” and “Bring our
‘A’ game in the NCAAS,” were on
his list of to-dos.

For Ulrich, the same attitude
from this weekend will need to
translate into play later this week.
“We have a lot more volleyball to
play . . . the most important thing
will be for us to go out and play
with conﬁdence.”

Field hockey falls in semis

Generals ousted from ODAC tournament in a 6-0 loss to EMU

By Llzz Dye
surr wrmsn

After a blowout victory over
Virginia Wesleyan last Saturday in
the ﬁrst round of the playoffs, the
Washington and Lee University
ﬁeld hockey team headed to East-
ern Mennonite University (EMU)
Wednesday. The Generals faced
EMU in regular-season play on
Oct. 3 and won 3-2 in overtime.

Unfortunately, the Generals
were the victims of a blowout
game this time around. ‘Their sea-
son came to an end with a 6-0 loss
on Wednesday night to the EMU
Royals.

EMU junior forward Alyssa
Derstine opened up the scoring
with an unassisted goal just 3:22
into the first half. After the early
goal, the Generals picked up the
intensity and and began to pres-
sure the Royals’ defense, but EMU
took a 2-0 lead when junior mid-
ﬁelder Julie Denlinger scored off
of a pass from sophomore forward

Kate Cimini right before halftime.

The Generals led in both shots
and penalty comers at halftime but
were not able to convert any of
their scoring opportunities.

the ﬁeld hockey season came to a
close sooner than wanted or ex-
pected, I have no regrets about
the season. It has been a wonder-
ful group of women to work with.

“Even though it wasn ’t the best way to end

our season, this was deﬁnitely one of our best

seasons. I fully expect an even better showing

next year and really think our team has a lot of

I

promise. ’

Sallle Armstrong, junior forward
 

EMU scored 4 more goals in
the second half. Cimini scored a
hat trick while-ﬁrst-year Valerie
Landis tallied one more. The ﬁnal
score was 0-6.

Despite the loss, W&L Head
Coach Wendy Orrison praised her
players, especially her senior lead-
ers for a great season. “Although

I’m proud to have been able to
lead them and I will miss my ﬁne
senior group: Louise Bance, Me-
lissa Dolan, Liz Garson, Lizzie
Gotimer, Christina Merchant, and
Guada Suarez. Louise Bance and
Jennie Norcini both earned All-
toumament team honors for their
great play.”

Junior goalkeeper Caroline Ha-
bliston played the entire game and
tallied eight saves. Junior Grace
McGee notched two defensive
saves while sophomore Jennie
Norcini had one. ’

Although disappointed with the
loss, junior forward Sallie Ann-
strong, who led the team in scor-
ing, was happy with the season.
“Even though it wasn’t the best
way to end our season, this was
deﬁnitely one of our best seasons.
I fully expect an even better show-
ing next year and really think our
team has a lot of promise.”

Also looking forward to the
2009 season, McGee echoed Arm-
strong’s comments. “It was cer-
tainly disappointing for-the season
to end, but the young talent on the
team is promising for next year.”

EMU faced Lynchburg Col-
lege on Nov. 8 in the ﬁnals of the
ODAC tournament. Lynchburg
came out on top by a 4-2 score and
will receive an automatic bid to
the NCAA tournament.

Women’s soccer ends season

Team loses I-0 to_Lynchburg on controversial call by the referees in ODAC semis

By Adam Cancryn
snxrr wnm-zn

A controversial play put an end
to the Generals’ championship
hopes on Wednesday, as they fell
to rival Lynchburg College in the
ODAC semiﬁnals.

Just minutes into the game,
a collision 15 yards from the net
allowed Hornets’ sophomore
forward Betsy Kwiatkowski to
notch the game’s lone goal. The
referees made no call, but W&L
players thought Kwiatkowski had
clearly fouled defender Marisa
Van Brunt.

“Looking at the tape of the
game, the Lynchburg player bla-
tantly pushed Marisa in the back,
which was ultimately the reason
they got the goal,” said senior for-
ward Anne Van Devender.

Though the Generals came out
attacking during a strong second
half, they could not erase the deﬁ-

cit. The Lynchburg defense turned
away every scoring chance, seal-
ing their victory with a save by
goalie Jackie Bader in the closing

seniors Van Devender, Van Brunt
and goalkeeper Kiki Moreo, W&L
scored 86 total goals while allow-
ing just 16.

“We had a pretty successful season. I think it

was a season of ‘almost. ’ We almost won every

game, just like we almost made it to the ODAC

ﬁnal. ”

Anne Van Devender, senlor forward

seconds. V

The defeat marks the ﬁfth con-
secutive time W&L has fallen in
the tournament semiﬁnals.

Nevertheless, the season was
deemed a success. The Generals
ﬁnished 9-2 in conference play,
with all of the victories coming
by three goals or more. Led by

The Women’s soccer team also
proved it could compete with the
best teams in the country. Four
of W&L’s ﬁve losses were by one
goal, including a 4-3 overtime
thriller versus national number
one Messiah College. The Gen-
erals used their superior speed to
take the lead three separate times

against Messiah, who barely es-
caped Watt Field with their perfect
record intact.

“I think we had a pretty suc-
cessful season,” said Van Dev-
ender. “I think it was a season of
‘almost.’ We almost won every
game, just like we almost made it
to the ODAC ﬁnal.”

Looking ahead, the Generals
seem primed to erase “almost”
from the equation in 2009. The
team boasts a wealth of young tal-
ent, many of whom have already
made an impact. First-year for-
wards Kat Barnes, Allie Espina
and Anne Masich combined to
tally 33 goals this season while
keeper Emily Leary started nine
games in net for the Generals.

With the exception of the ﬁve
seniors, the rest of the 28-player
roster is expected to return next
year.

Charlie Manuel

continued from page 8

Under Manuel’s leadership, the Phillies ﬁnished ﬁrst
in the National League East in both 2007 and 2008.
In the 2008 division series, Philadelphia beat the Mil-
waukee Brewers in four games and went on to beat the
Dodgers, Manuel’s former club, in ﬁve games.

On Oct. 10, though, just hours before the start of
Game 2 of the National League_Championship Series,
Charlie’s mother passed away at 87. She had suffered a
heart attack a week earlier.

The day before June Manuel died, Charlie called her
at the Carilion Roanoke Memorial Hospital to ask if he
should come home. As Charlie’s sister Brenda Clark
told the Roanoke Times, “She said, ‘No, you do what
you do best. I want you to win ballgames.”’

“She told him she was very sick and please pray
for her, and he told her that he would and asked her to
pray for him and the team. She told him that she had
been and for him not to worry. He was going to win the
World Series. He would get the pennant, and he would
win,” recalled Mills.

June Manuel’s funeral was held the morning of Oct.
17 at the Pentecostal Holiness Church, where Charles
Sr. was pastor almost 50 years ago. The service, which
was closed to the media, was scheduled around the Phil-
lies’ playoff games so that Charlie could attend.

Mills, who ofﬁciated the service, stated, “When
[Charlie] came in for the funeral, I think he did lay aside
[baseball] during that time. He laid aside the game that
was awaiting him, and he focused on that opportunity
for closure with his mother’s parting.”

Up until her death, June was a very devoted fan of
the Phillies and Charles Jr.,  she called him. “The
day before she died. she clutched. . .the Roanoke Times
sports section to her chest as she laid in the hospital bed.
When the doctors and nurses would come in, she would
show them the paper and say. ‘That’s my son.’ She was
very proud of him,” shared Mills. 1

In the World Series, June Manuel’s prediction came
true: Charlie and the Phillies beat the Tampa Bay Rays
in ﬁve games.

Kurtz, who has remained close with Manuel, said,
“I called him the day after the championship, and we
talked with him and he was a happy young man — old
man, not a young man,” as he chuckled.

Buena Vista has been celebrating “Fook’s” world
championship ever since. Mayor Mike Clements de-
scribed the World Series as “a dream come true” for
the city.

On the comer of Magnolia Ave. and 21st St. at the
center of Buena Vista stands a marquee congratulating
Manuel: “Good Job Charlie, 2008 World Series.”

Ronnie Coffey, a local photographer and Buena Vis-
ta’s director of parks & recreation, grew up with Manuel
who was a couple years older. In fact, Manuel was his
little league coach. Coffey thinks that Manuel’s success
will provide inspiration to the children of Buena Vista.
“If you try hard enough, work hard enough, are good
enough, and you get a little bit of luck, you always got
a chance to be a Charlie Manuel and play in the major
leagues.” -

Noting Buena Vista’s close-knit, small community,
Rebecca Gates, superintendent of the Buena Vista City
Public Schools, said, “The beauty of this town is that
everybody knows everybody, and we’re very excited to
have this kind of person coming from Buena Vista. 
It’s huge for the community.”

In early December, Manuel is expected to return
to Buena Vista to celebrate with his fornrer town. At
Clements’ suggestion, the city council voted to declare
Dec. 6 “Charlie Manuel Day” in Buena Vista. I

The Blues Education Foundation of the Buena Vista
Public Schools Division is holding a charity event on
Dec. 6 at 5:00 p.m. in the Parry McCluer High School
gyrrmasium to recognize Manuel’s accomplishments.
The night will begin with a silent auction of Phillies
memorabilia and community donations, which will be
followed by a dinner. Superintendent Gates noted that
there will also be time for Manuel to sign autographs.
The Phillies manager will conclude the event with a
keynote address.

Tickets are $25 per person and can be purchased
at the school board ofﬁce, Carpet Outlet or the BB&T
bank in Buena Vista. All proceeds will beneﬁt the
Blues Education Foundation, whose purpose, as Gates
said, “is to raise money that will go to the classroom for
instruction.”

“We had this set up a few months ago with Charles
Manuel before he won the World Series, so obviously,
we’re thrilled that events have turned out the way that
they have,” stated Gates.

According to Clements, the city is also exploring
the possibility of including Manuel in the Christmas
parade scheduled for Dec. 4. “We’re trying to ﬁgure
out whether he’s going to be here that early or not,” he
said.

Joe Lyles, who has coached and taught Physical Ed-
ucation at W&L for 50 years, refereed Manuel in high
school basketball games. Having played professional
baseball himself, Lyles said, “I wanted to meet him
many times, didn’t have a chance, but heard when he
comes back [in early December], I will be introduced to
him. I respect him an awful lot. He came up the hard
way.”

Coming from a humble background, Manuel contin-
ued to pursue his dream of winning a world champi-
onship. As his sister Brenda Clark told the Roanoke
Times, “Charlie worked very hard to get where he is
today. Sometimes dreams and miracles ‘do happen.”

 

 
  
 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2008

sports

10

- THE ‘RING-TUM PHI

    

‘deck

 

Mon -Tues WED Tnuns Fm SAr
NCAA
Men's
xc Regionals
11 a.m.
NCAA
w°me""5 Reglonals
X0
11,a.m.
Volleyball NCAA Reglonals
TBA
vs vs
Men's F
Basketball Musklngum "mm
2 p_m_ 4 p.m.
Women’s
Basketball
at
Men's
swimming Emory Invite
10:00 a.m.
Women's
Swimming
at
Wrestling Ulrslﬂus
nv e
9:30 a.m.

numbers
8

The number of consecutive ODAC championships by the W&L volley-

 

ball team.

0

The number of games the W&L volleyball team lost in the 2008 ODAC
post—season tournament. The Generals swept Guilford, Bridgewater
and Lynchburg on their way to claiming the conference crown this

weekend.

The number of consecutive losses by the W&L football team to end

the 2008 season with a 4-6 record. The Generals lost their last game

of the year Saturday against Emory & Henry 14-17.

5

The number of wins by the Miami Dolphins this season through the
first nine games. This is the first time that the team has had a winning
record since 2005. Last year, the Dolphins finished the season with

only one win.

0-9

The Unive‘rsity of Washington Huskies’ football record this season.
They are the only winless team in all of Division 1-A. Although he is
finishing the season, Head coach Ty Willingham has already been

fi red.

box

“We’re going to have to talk about that, lguess.”

 

Guard Rodney Stuckey, number 3 for the Detroit Pistons, on how
newly acquired Pistons guard Allen lverson has worn number 3 his
entire career up until the Nov. 3 trade. currently wearing number 1
for the Pistons, lverson was traded Nov. 3 to the Pistons in exchange
fqr Chauncey Billups, Antonio McDyess and Chelkh Samb, courtesy
o nba.com. '

“Looking at the tape of the game, the Lynchburg
player blatantly pushed Marisa in the back, which
was ultimately the reason they got the goal.”

W&L women's soccer senior forward Anne Van Devender on a
controversial no-call by the referees in the Generals’ 1-0 loss to
Lynchburg in the ODAC Semifinals.

 

RYAN ELSEY/ Staff Photographer

First-year quarterback Charlie Westfal eludes Emory & Henry defenders in one of his 13 rushes Sat-
urday. After leading 14-0, the Generals lost 14-17 to end their season.

Generals end season with 14-1 7 loss to Emory & Henry

By Brian Devlne
STAFF WRITER

On a cold, windy Saturday
at Wilson Field the Washington
and Lee football season came
to an end in agonizing fashion
as the Generals lost to Emory
& Henry 17-14 in overtime. It
was a painful end to a rather
painful season.

At the start of the year,
the Generals’ fortunes looked
bright. Picked third in the
preseason conference coaches‘
poll, W&L was poised on the
brink of its sixth consecutive
winning season. Perhaps that
place in the rankings was
overstated; a signiﬁcant portion
of the team’s stars graduated
after the 2007 season, especially
on the defensive side of the
ball. But with the return of
quarterback RJ. Varner and
do-everything running back
Stuart Sitterson, W&L fans had
reason to be optimistic.

The problems started
immediately: W&L was shut
out in its first game, 24-0, at
Franklin & Marshall. After that

disastrous start, coach Frank
Miriello made the controversial
decision to replace Varner
with ﬁrst-year Charlie Westfal.
Westfal led his team to four
straight victories, including
the school’s ﬁrst-ever win over
neighboring Southern Virginia
and over 2007 ODAC runner-
up Randolph-Macon. At 4-1 the
squad had a legitimate chance
to challenge for the conference
title, but from there the wheels
came off. W&L failed to win
another game, dropping five
straight conference match-ups,
including three at home, and
ﬁnished 4-6, below .500 for the
first time in six years

Against Emory & Henry, a
team that the Generals should
have beaten, the culprits were
the same they have been during
this ﬁve-game skid: turnovers,
lack of discipline and lack of
speed on the defensive side
of the ball. Westfal has shown
promise this season, but he
must cut down on his mistakes
(three fumbles lost and an
interception in the end zone in
overtime on Saturday) if he is

to become the Generals’ signal-
caller for the next three years.

The hosts were also called
for 63-yards worth of penalties,
and it was a silly late hit call
on senior safety Chris Prugar
that gave the Wasps the ﬁeld
position to tie the game late in
the fourth quarter. The Blue-
and-White cannot hope to
be one of the elite teams in a
rapidly improving conference
if they make mental errors in
key situations.

But ultimately W&L lost
too much defensive talent
to graduation. While Matt
Cassilly, Tommy Matteo and
Scott Russell had particularly
good seasons, the defense
proved unable to replace Kyle
Luby, Bryant Fiilk, Jimmy Gift
and Mark Snoddy, perhaps four
of the best defensive players in
W&L history. The patchwork
defense allowed 209 rushing
yards on Saturday to Caleb
Jennings.

There was one bright spot
on Saturday, though, and
once again it came from the
unquestioned 2008 Generals

MVP, Stuart Sitterson. Sitterson
had his usual solid game A 181
total yards and 2 touchdowns
— and thanks to his efforts
Saturday he will graduate from
W&L as the all-time leader in
both season (2,096) and career
(5,981) all-purpose yards.
Sittersoii was also awarded,
rightfully so, the 2008 Falcon
Award, given to one senior
football player each year.

What’s next for the
Generals? A 2009 season ﬁlled
with uncertainty. There is still
a lot of talent on this W&L
team. lf Westfal and fellow
first-year Cody Smith and
Jonathan Clemo continue to
develop, they will go far next
year. Juniors Matt Cassilly
and Donavon Sawyer will
lead the defense in 2009, and it
seems W&L has ﬁnally found
a reliable field goal kicker
in Martin Prichard. But the
2009 Generals must show
marked improvement in key
areas — focus, discipline and
limiting turnovers and penalties
~— if they want to challenge for
a conference title.

Winter sports preview  

Men 3 Basketball

2007 Record: 15-11 (11-7 ODAC)

2007 Post-Season: Lost 66-76 to Roanoke in the ODAC
Quarterﬁnals ,

ODAC Coaches Preseason Poll Ranking: 7

Players to Watch: G Chris McHugh ‘09; G Isaiah Goodman
‘()9

Key Losses: F Greg Bienernann ’O8; F Femi Kusimo ‘()8

Coach Adam Hutchinson’s Expectations: “If every one of 1

our players reduces his turnovers, improves his shooting per-
centage by 4% and competes defensively, we should be in po-
sition to win games.” 1

Women is Basketball

2007 Record: 9-17 (8-12 ODAC)
2007 Post-Season: Lost 65-75 to Randolph-Macon in the
ODAC Quarterﬁnals ‘
ODAC Coaches Preseason Poll Ranking: 9
Player to Watch: G Bethany Ridenhour ‘O9 .
Key Losses: F Kristen Krouchick ’O8; G/F Amanda Kane ‘O8;
Cr/F Emily Wolf? ‘08
Previous Results this Season:
Coach Mandy King’s Expectations: “I am excited about the
possibilities surrounding my team this season. ‘We have great
leadership and team chemistry. We will be playing for respect

‘ and for each other and we hope to have the best season in the
history of our program.”

Men is Swimming

2007 Record: 9-2 p

2007 Post-Season: Placed second at the BMC Champion-
ships; placed eighth at the NCAA Championships

BMC Coaches Preseason Poll Ranking:

Players to Watch: Brandon Barnds ‘ 10; Paul Crook ‘O9; Chris
Diebold ‘09; Brett Tatman ‘O9; Josh Gonzelez ‘l0; Jonathan
Giesen ‘ 10; Dan Austin ‘l0 ,9

Key Losses: Alex Sweet ‘08; Tim McG1aston ‘O8; Will Hart-
mann ‘O8 ‘

Preﬁous Results this Season: Beat Mary Washington 170-92
on Oct. 18; heat Transylvania 127-76 on Oct. 31; beat Centre
192-92 on Nov. 1; beat DePauw 155-139 on Nov. 1, ’

Coach Joel Shinoﬁeld’s Expectations: “The guys have set
their goals very high: They want to re-capture the conference
championship and ﬁnish in the top-IO at NCAAs for the third
straight year. Given the group we graduated last year it will
take a complete and true team effort to reach those goals.”

Women is Swimming
2007 Record: 13-6 (7-0 ODAC)

2007 Post-Season: Placed first at the ODAC Championships ‘

ODAC Coaches Preseason Poll Ranking: 1 -
Players to Watch: Susan Mahoney ’O9; Julianne Miata ’09;
Jess Shaw ’O9; Lindsey Strachan ’O9; Sarah Simpson ’l0; Jen-
na Worsham ’10; Tess Haydon ’1 1; Jackie Smith ’1l

Key Loss: Amy Roberson ’O8

Previous Results this Season: Lost 110-152 to Mary Wash-
ington on Oct. 18; Placed ﬁrst at the ODAC Fall Invitational
on Oct. 25; Beat Transylvania 116-89 on Oct. 31; Lost 116-
155 to Centre on Nov. 1; Lost 166-112 to DePauw on Nov. 1

Coach Kami Gardner’s Expectations: “As a whole, lwant .
the women to develop into a great team that is supportive of 1

each other’s goals and obviously to succeed at the ODAC and
national level.”

Wrestling

2007 Record: 7-5 (2-5 Centennial)
2007 Post-Season: Placed eighth at the Centennial Champi-
onship 1 P

9 Player to Watch: David Dennis ‘l2
1 Key Losses: Anthony Boniello ’O8; David Shubick ’08; Pete

Lawrence ’08; "Kirk Adamson ‘O8 -
Assistant Coach Mike .Bennett"s Expectations: “Our goals
for this year’s wrestling season are to continue our current
winning season streak (2),and ﬁnish in the top 5 of the Centen-
nial Conference.”

I.‘

  

  

Cast of “ Play it Again, -Sam” ‘
captivates audience in the
comedy by Woody Allen '

ARTS & LIFE / page 4  

  WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING-TUM PHI.

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 17,2008

BY THE

STUDENTS AND

FOR THE STUDENTS SINCE

1897

VOLUME GXII, NUMBER 9

China after
the Beijing
Olympics

Panel discusses effects
of 2008 Olympics on
Chinese infrastructure
and liberties

By Llzz Dye
STAFF wrmzn

A panel of students and teachers discussed
how China has changed since the Beijing Sum-
mer Olympics last Thursday. “What’s Up With
Asia?” was led by Chinese history Prof. David
Bello and East Asian art Prof. Joan O’Mara.

O’Mara was staying in Duanhang last summer
with a group of art historians when the torch was
scheduled to pass by. When O’Mara tried to leave
the building to watch the event, she encountered a
lock on the front door and an attendant who told
her the group was not allowed to leave.

Instead, O’Mara andtlie -rest of the group--~~ 

were shipped out of town to a hotel three hours
away where they viewed the event on television.
Despite the positive aspects of her trip, includ-
ing lavish Olympic decorations and beautiful art,
O’mara’s lasting impression was being locked in-
side, for fear that she and other westerners might
cause a scene.

Bello focused on the stereotypical western
views of China and discussed his personal ex-
periences in China. Bello has spent about two
months each year since 1988 in China learning
about their culture and observing the changes in
culture, politics, the economy and other aspects
of Chinese life.

Bello said the 2008 Olympics were positive
in that they led to improved infrastructural trans-
portation in Beijing, including the construction of
many new subway lines, which should decrease
the city’s notorious air pollution.

With an authoritarian government, China is
able to act quickly and efﬁciently and make rapid
decisions, such as transforming Beijing for the
Olympics, Bello said. The construction of the
Beijing Olympic Stadium, the world’s largest
steel structure, was begun in 2005 and ﬁnished
just three years later.

Although the government is authoritarian, it
tolerates a much wider range of dissidence than
it once did, Bello said. He showed two pictures
taken by artist Ai Weiwei. In one, a hand ﬂicks
off ‘the White House and in the other is the same
gestured directed at Tiananmen Square.

The panel demonstrated that China is neither
“an absolute dictatorship nor a democracy. China
appears to have more lenience towards certain

forms of dissidence and more freedom for its
peoples, but the government still has a great deal
of control and is not hesitant to use it to further
its agenda.

 

 

  ADPi arrives

Some women concerned, Panhellenic tries to ease woes

By Allison Chopin
MANAGING EDITOR

Sorority recruitment will be a
little different this year with the in-
stallment of Alpha Delta Pi, Wash-
ington and Lee’s newest sorority, but
Panhellenic and the Ofﬁce of Greek
Life say there’s no reason to worry.

The Panhellenic Council voted

unanimously to welcome a sixth ‘

sorority to campus last year, accord-
ing to Teri Cugliari, Assistant Direc-
tor of Student Activities and Greek
Life and the advisor to Panhellenic.
She thinks this should be evidence
enough that ADPi is a good thing for
W&L.

There have been murmurs that
sorority women are afraid that ADPi
will disrupt the current social sys-
tem. But Cugliari said this opinion is
not the majority.

“People in the sorority system
view it as a good thing,” she said.
“Overall, the attitude is very posi-
tive.”

She said that upperclassmen
women recognize that the new so-
rority will allow the sororities to
have smaller pledge classes and
therefore develop a stronger bond of
sisterhood. Many feel that the cur-
rent sorority size is too big.

She also shared that there does
not seem to be an abundance of neg-
ative talk about ADPi between cur-

rent sorority women and ﬁrst-years.

“We. have a really positive Pan-
hellenic community,” she said. ‘‘It
is against recruitment regulations to
talk badly about any sorority.” And
this year, there has been extra sup-
port for ADPi and the Greek com-
munity.

But Cugliari didn’t deny that
many are nervous about recruitment
this year, particularly ﬁrst-year stu-
dents.

“It’s hard to understand some-
thing you’ve never been a part of,”
she said. And since ADPi is new, no
one on campus quite understands it
yet.

Some ﬁrst-year women may be
concerned that ADPi will create a
different experience from the exist-
ing sororities.

But Cugliari said that ADPi’s
new members will enjoy a “sur-
prisingly similar experience.” For
example, plans are being made to
ensure that the members will have a
common place to live and meet for
chapter meetings, just like the other
ﬁve sororities.

Many ﬁrst-year women recognize
the advantages of becoming part of
ADPi’s ﬁrst’ pledge class at W&L,
according to one ﬁrst-year.

“l have heard a lot of girls talking
about ADPi and mostly in a posi-
tive light,” said this ﬁrst-year. “They
are excited to be able to ‘start’ the

new sorority and sort of deﬁne it in
a way.”

Another ﬁrst-year said, “Most
halls recently had a meeting. . .about
all the exciting opportunities of be-
ing a charter member, and it seems
like some girls are starting to con-
sider ADPi a very exciting option.”

But some are still concerned, par-
ticularly if they would rather pledge
another group.

I “Some girls heard that ADPi will

“I have heard a lot of
girls talking about ADPi
and mostly in a positive
light. ” '

First-year female student
 

be able to take a lot more girls than
the other srats, so they are afraid of
being ‘forced’ into joining,” said
one student. “[They are afraid] they
won’t get a bid from their ﬁrst choice
because ADPi needs a full pledge
class.”

It’s true thatADPi will be allowed
to have a larger pledge class. Cugli-
ari said that the new sorority will be
allowed to give bids to up to half of

the potential new member class——
this means half of the women going
through formal recruitment. But she
said that ADPi will not necessarily
extend this many bids.

She also emphasized that while
the existing sororities will have
smaller pledge classes, there is not
yet a number for how many new
members each one will take. This
number cannot be determined until
the night before Bid Day.

“I really want to stress that,” she
said. “There are no numbers yet.”

Cugliari also explained that ju-
niors and seniors wishing to join
ADPi will not have to go through
formal recruitment in January, but
ADPi has chosen not to give these
bids until Bid Dayéthe same day
ﬁrst-years and sophomores going
through recruitment will receive
their bids.

Recruiting for a new sorority is
obviously difﬁcult since there are no

— existing members at W&L. But Cug-

liari is pleased with the way ADPi
has made a presence on campus dur-
ing informal recruitment this term,
such as with a recent philanthropy
event. Arepresentative of ADPi, Vic-
toria Moger, has frequently been on
campus. Moger could not be reached
for comment this weekend.

“They have taken advantage of
all the opportunities to inform peo-
ple about ADPi,” said Cugliari.

The Wild, Wild Web

Law school hosts symposium on challenges of free speech in digital age

By Queenie Wong
STAFF WRITER

The unﬁltered nature and speed
of the Internet has changed how
journalists gather news, how law-
yers and judges interpret free speech
and how politicians conduct their
campaigns, a group of law and jour-
nalism experts said last week at an
annual symposium.

The two-day event entitled “The
Wild, Wild Web” highlighted the
challenges facing free speech in a
technology driven era. It was a joint
effort by Washington and Lee’s De-
partment of Journalism and Mass
Communications and the School of
Law.

“The Internet is inherently differ-
ent than all other media that preced-
ed it. There is a need to have radical
changes in the law in the developing
community,” said Erwin Chemerin-
sky, dean of the University of Cali-
fornia at Irvine Law School.

Other speakers included Jeanne
Cummings and John Harris of P0-
litico.com, Jim Brady of Washing-
tonpost.com and Chief Judge Alex

Kozinski from the U.S. Ninth Circuit
Court of Appeals. University faculty
also participated in the discussions.
Students and faculty began the
symposium Friday at the Millhiser
Moot Court Room with a mock Su-
preme Court exercise led by Dean
of the Law School, Rodney Smolla.
In the “user generated lecture,” au-

“The Internet is inher-
ently different... There is

a need to have radical

I

changes in the law. ’

Erwln Chemerinsky, Dean of Law
Schol, Univ. of Calif. at Irvine
 

dience members debated and dis-
cussed the fate of a make-believe
college gossip site called sleazycam-
pus.com.

Harris, Politico’s editor-in-chief,
and Brady, executive editor of Wash-
ingtonpost.com, highlighted the
challenges journalists face as they
try to balance speed and accuracy in

a 24-hour news cycle.

Chemerinsky noted in his speech
that the deﬁnition of a journalist has
become unclear in recent years with
the emergence of blogs. Today any-
one can be a journalist, he said.

Judge Kozinski also pointed out

that the traditional mainstream me- '

dia is being replaced by anonymous
bloggers, whose identities are dif-
ﬁcult to unveil. Once information
reaches the Internet, there is very lit-
tle courts can do to contain speech in
a viral environment, he said. The so-
lution to these problems won’t come
from the court or the First Amend-
ment, he argued.

“May it rest in peace,” said Koz-
inski of the First Amendment.

Smolla disagreed, arguing that
mainstream media outlets are still
vulnerable to being sued.

“To some degree in terms of ac-
countability it’s only the big players
that matter anyway,” he said.

On Saturday, the focus of the
event shifted to political speech on
the web in a morning panel discus-
sion.

Cummings, Politico’s Chief Lob-

bying and Money Correspondent,
Politics Prof. Bob Strong and Dean
Smolla were the panelists. Each
raised questions about the future of

journalism, politics and law, discuss-

ing the media coverage of the 2008
presidential election.

“There’s absolutely no question
in my mind that this election was in-
ﬂuenced by. . .the bias of the media,”
said Betsy Gibson, a part-time resi-
dent of Lexington.

Cummings disagreed with the
argument that the media favored
Barack Obama.

“At a certain level you just got to
cover the car wreck in front of you
and if it’s not good. . .there’s just not
a whole lot you can do about it,”
she said, referring to John McCain’s
campaign.

Brian Richardson, head of the

journalism department, moderated

the panel discussion.

The Donald W. Reynolds Foun-
dation, a national philanthropic or-
ganization, funded the event with a
$50,000 grant. The total cost of the
symposium hasn’t been fully calcu-
lated yet, said Richardson.

 

 

 

 

metre‘?

 Y
‘WASMNGTON & LEE utwﬁittift

uzxmeronve 24450
HQV Z 9 2038.

2 0 THE RING-TUM PHI

 

MONDAY,

Conditions in Eastern Europe

Speakers highlight political and social issues in the Balkans and Chechnya

By Vlctoria Taylor
8 TA F F W RITE R

Lectures on Muslim refugees
in Poland and political progress
in the Balkans offered Washing-
ton and Lee students two very
different views on current Euro-
pean social and political issues
this week.

Both events were open to the
public and were well attended,
with both nearly ﬁlling their lec-
ture classroom venues.

Ola Chrzanowska, who

‘. works for the Polish Associa-

l

tion for Legal Education in the
Warsaw and provides legal and
psychological aid to ‘Chechen
refugees seeking government
protection, spoke on Wednes-
day about the cultural clash and
problems of assimilation for
Muslims in Poland.

Poland is the home to the
largest group of Chechen refu-
gees,‘who make up over 90 per-
cent of the nation’s total asylum
seekers.

However, gaining status as
a political refugee is difficult as
Polish authorities are very strict.
Each person must provide evi-
dence that they are or were at
risk of being persecuted.

Those not granted asylum

can only stay in Poland for
twelve months, so many try
starting new lives in other Euro-
pean countries.

Chechens have a distinct
culture that values tradition, re-
spect and pride and the Chechen

‘refugees try to maintain their

identity.

Chrzanowska said that the
pride the Chechens have for
their homeland cannot be ex-
pressed verbally and that they
feel that to be Chechen is a type
of vocation and a way of life.

According to Chrzanowska,
many Chechens ﬂee to Europe
because they believe that it is
impossible to live and raise their

families in the divided political .

environment in Chechnya.
Almost all of the refugees
Chrzanowska interviewed plan
to return to their homeland once
they feel it is safe.
Chrzanowska said that
Chechen family friends brought
her into their lives and intro-
duced her to their culture. From
there, she saw that there were a
lot of problems that “no one had
really tried to go into.”
“I didn’t plan it,” Chr-
zanowska said. “When it. came
time to write my thesis, I saw

INEENTIVE

As a recent college glad, you may
be eligible for a. $400 Incentive
on any new Toyota of your choice

» in addition to other incentives.“
 See your Toyota dealer for details

+-

ta.com

for additional offers

the opportunity.”

Chechnya is located north of
Georgia on the southern border
of Russia. It declared its inde-
pendence from Russia in 1991,
causing then Russian president
Boris Yeltsin to send in troops.

Russia reﬁised to recognize

ership in Chechnya. The current
president, Rarnzan Kadyrov, has
the support of former Russian
President Vladimir Putin.

Anna Brodsky, the direc-
tor of the Russian Area Studies
Program, said that many people
are not as aware of the problems

“The truth of the matter is that we are very

close to it. The American government was

not just an impartial observer [in the Second
Chechen War]. It took sides. ”

Anna Brodsky, professor of Russian Area Studles

Chechnya as an independent
nation and tried to stop the se-
cession in the First Chechen
War, which lasted from 1994 to
1996.

The Second Chechen War
started in 1999 when Russian
federal forces tried to reestab-
lish control over the area. They
were met with a great deal of
resistance but the Russians were
able to create pro-Russian lead-

in Chechnya as they should be.
She said that the Clinton admin-
istration supported the billions
of dollars in loans to Russia that
Yeltsin used to wage war on
Chechnya and that the United
States endorsed the genocidal
Second Chechen War, which re-
duced the population by nearly
half.

“It seems that it’s out there
but the truth of the matter is

that we are very close to it. The
American government was not
just an impartial observer. It
took sides,” she said.

Ambassador Hans Ola
Urstad, a Norwegian diplomat
who is the head of the Organiza-
tion for Security and Coopera-
tion in Europe, spoke on Thurs-
day about what he feels have
been positive developments in
Serbia and the Balkans after the
communist Milosevic presiden-
cy ended in October of 2000.

The area was devastated in
the years leading up to and af-
ter the end of Milosevic’s reign,
which was characterized by ter-
ror campaigns and genocide, re-
ferred to as “ethnic cleansing,”
to clear non-Serbs from Bosnia.

The people worried about
rebuilding a positive image.
Hospitals had barely enough
equipment to function. The un-
employment rate was between
40 and 45 percent and“the inﬂa-
tion rate was sky high.

Urstad seemed optimistic
about the current state of Serbia,
which he feels is “in the process
of normalization,” as it tries to
join the European Union.

He said that Serbia is recov-
ering from the economic dev-

astation that it faced during the
90s. The unemployment rate has
gone down to 17 percent and the
inﬂation rate is under control
plus or minus 10 percent.

According to Urstad, Serbia
has also captured all but two of
the major war criminals from
the Milosevic era and is moving
more towards capitalism. The
country’s main goal is to have a
stable government. He also said
that the OSCE has been working
to reestablish the public trust in
the once corrupt law enforce-
ment agents by training those
who train the police oﬂicers and
by creating a new police acad-
emy.

Urstad is happy with the
progress that has been made, de-
spite the complications caused
by Serbia’s refusal to acknowl-
edge Kosovo as an independent
nation, even though it declared
its independence from Serbia in
February.

“All in all I would say that
we are seeing huge develop-
ments,” Urstad said.

®rovorA

moving forward

  lluyatoyotacom

  

NOVEMBER 17, 2008

 

‘y.

 

THE RING-TUM PHI ' 3

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2008

opinions

 

letter to the editor

‘Bookstore’ a ﬁction

Professor Adams thinks the bookstore
should have more, you know, books

I understand that ﬁnancial requirements have been imposed
upon the W&L “bookstore” by the administration and trustees.
Even so for years W&L had a tiny little bookshop squeezed into the
old Co-op that managed to have a ﬁne selection of important older
books in many ﬁelds along with a tempting array of new publica-
tions. It then moved to an impressive new space—and promptly
entered upon a steady decline of replacing books (go look at what
were planned as bookshelves) with clothes, candy, make-up and
the like.

I long ago gave up on the intellectual embarrassment of this
ever sorrier space. Still today I was saddened yet again when, re-
alizing I needed a new edition of Dickens’s Great Expectations,
I foolishly thought it reasonable to expect a standard Oxford or
Penguin paperback of this old standby to be there. Where a few
months ago there had been a shelf with Dickens on it—that same
shelf was now crammed with shot-glasses and combo corkscrew
cigarette lighters.

The now even smaller “literature” section with less Dickens and
no Pip had been shunted off to the side as a kind of freak show from
a quaint past. Here is an important face and symbol of W&L——one
we deliberately present to ourselves, to visitors, and to prospective
students and their families. Now I understand that I shouldn’t be
“shocked, shocked” to see the proﬁt-motive at work.

Clearly, from one perspective it’s a good thing for W&L to put
money in its pocket by actually selling drug paraphernalia (some-
times to underage students) with its logo on it than not to sell books.
But I would submit that it’s still something of a disappointment that
we no longer even try to promote reading through our university
“bookstore.”

I also realize that there are many rationalizations and arguments
by which one can resist ﬁnding any larger symbolism in this sorry
parable of how shot glasses ousted Great Expectations at W&L.
Indeed we may all choose optimistically to see the glass half full
with cash, and avert our eyes from how completely full it is with
Southern Comfort. But I do think it fair to discern in this bottom
line acumen a symbol of something disturbing and true about the
institutional priorities of W&L. We hear a lot these days about
leading a national conversation on the liberal arts. One can only
hope that as things stand now that never comes true—not that I
have any great expectation that it will.

Sincerely,

Edward Adams
Associate Professor of English

Not Hillary  

Please don ’t make her
the Secretary of State

By Cody Beauchamp
OPINIONS EDITOR

The best election sketch of
the year - hands down - was
Tina Fey and Amy Phoeler’s
SNL opener where Fey’s Palin meets Phoeler’s Hillary Clinton.

The sketch perfectly hit on the frustrations that have to be going
through Hillary’s mind every time she sees, thinks about, or hears
about President-elect Obama.

If only I had wanted it a little more...she mutters.

It seems cruel, given how close she came to being this year’s
historically important candidate de jour, to attack or deny Senator
Clinton anything else.

She’s already been denied a pretty enviable spot in history as
the ﬁrst ‘minority President’ of any stripe, and she probably won’t
go down in history as the ﬁrst female President either.

She’ll be a footnote somewhere next to Geraldine Ferraro and
Jessie Jackson, with an asterisk also putting her somewhere near
Laura Bush and Chuck Schumer.

Big whoop.

So why not - the current Washington rumor mill seems to be
thinking - reward the good Senator with an important role in the
Obama cabinet?

It seems like a graceful way to recognize her importance as a
liberal voice of leadership. But it’s a terrible decision.

Let’s hope President-elect Obama doesn’t make it.

One need look no further than the vetting ‘application’ Obama’s
transition team is having nominees for executive branch posi-
tions ﬁll out to see why Clinton is a risky pick for the Secretary
of State.

Google the questionaire online and take a look for yourself.

Question No. 8’s a doozy - “Brieﬂy describe the most contro-
versial matters you have been involved with during the course of
your career.”

No. 12 will be living hell for some poor Clinton staffer: “Please
identify all speeches you have given...identify any recordings of
speeches of which you are aware.”

No. 62 is a great one: “Do you know anyone or any organiza-
tion, either in the private sector or government service, that might
take steps, overtly or covertly, fairly or unfairly, to criticize your
nomination, including any news organization?”

How many pages in do you think her staff will get before they
start summarizing and skimming?

That’s the point, really. Simply put - while Clinton has be-
come, deservedly so, a very important Senator, she’d be a terrible
pick for Obama’s Secretary of State.

Picking her would be picking a radioactive candidate. Even
with a Democratically controlled Senate, she’s the kind of nomi-
nee that would give even the most liberal approvals committee
pause.

Besides which, if Obama picked Clinton he would be passing
over a number of more qualiﬁed possible picks in the interests of
making a tactless and unnecessary political gesture.

That doesn’t seem like a good idea to me. It also doesn’t seem
like the kind of political move Obama would make.

Let’s all hope he stays true to form and keeps Clinton a senator.

Election from abroad

Dane Davis tells how London watched Obama ’s win

By Dane Davls
COLUMNIST

Growing up, one of my favorite holidays I

came every year during November. I am
talking, of course, about the great Ameri-
can holiday of Election Day. Going back as»
far as I can remember, my mom would take
me after school to our local precinct. After
getting her ballot, she and I would vote to-
gether. She made all of the actual decisions;
I merely punched in the chads.

Needless to say, it was a bit bittersweet
that the ﬁrst presidential election in which
I had a say occurred while I was studying
abroad in London. Voting by absentee bal-
lot doesn’t even come close to the experi-
ence of voting in a voting booth. I wasn’t
discouraged though, since being abroad

» during a major political election was a once

in a lifetime opportunity. I took it upon my-
self to do some investigative journalism to
see what the world thought of America and
its election. Geraldo Rivera, watch out.

Whenever I talked with someone who
wasn’t an American, the subject would
always come up. “What do you think of
Baiack Obama?”, “Do you think he can ac-
tually win?”, and “Are you excited for the
election?” were questions always asked.
Sometimes, I didn’t even have «to say any-
thing for discussion of the American elec-
tion to become the conversation topic. In at
least three classes out of four, the profes-
sor would reference Barack Obama and the
election. In one student’s outline that she
passed out to the class, the top of the paper
has a small smiley face with the comment
“Congrats to Obama!” next to it. The Unit-
ed Kingdom, I quickly discovered, had a
case of Obamania. Not surprisingly, I never
once heard a reference to John McCain. He
was “that one,” to borrow his own words,
that was running against Obama.

On the night of the actual election, the
school hosted a viewing party in the com-
mons. My friends and I were shocked to
discover thousands of students standing to
watch CNN. As the early returns trickled in,
shouts of praise or jeers of booing accom-
panied CNN’s projections of the winner
of each state. It was as if the crowd were
watching a football game instead of an
election. I was further surprised to see that
a majority, or at the very least a plurality,
of the students there were not Americans.
Students from every comer of the world
packed together in the cramped common

emment, economic system, culture, etc.
But what explains this strong passion, posi-
tive and negative, the rest of the world has
with America?

It could be our immense economic, po-
litical, cultural, and military power. Every-
one watches the lone superpower, since its
decisions affect billions. The dollar remains
the world currency and English is the‘ de
facto language of global politics. American
entertainment reaches the radios and tele-
visions of people from across the world. I
think, however, that it is something more
than that. America’s ongoing experiment

On the night of the actual election, the school hosted a

viewing party in the commons. My friends and I were

shocked to discover thousands of students standing to

watch CNN. ..

 

room, eyes glued till 4 a.m., eagerly watch-
ing the results.

With the recent economic crisis, there
have been talks of a loss of America’s glob-
al leadership. Sitting in the midst of people
from all over the globe intently watching
in on our elections, I found these claims of
a post-American world hard to believe. I
couldn’t imagine hundreds of college stu-
dents, even at the very political London
School of Economics, staying up till mom-
ing to see the election results of Germany,
Japan, or India. I was amazed to witness
ﬁrst hand how the rest of the world watches
the United States. To be certain, not all of
the attention on America is positive. Most
Europeans are quick to list a series of com-
plaints they have with the recent U.S. gov-

with democracy is a bold statement to the
rest of the world. The United States stands
for the simple but profound proposition that
men and women can govern themselves
without tyrants or monarchs to achieve
prosperity, peace, and liberty. The world
watches America, to see not only if this
declaration is possible but also if America
and her citizens can live up to it. Can 300
million persons of diverse interests, beliefs,
races, and creeds stay together and remain
free? For if so, then there is real hope for
the rest of the world. Looking across the
pond from London, viewing a invigorating
election that drew out millions, I have to
say that America continues to be the “last,
best hope of earth.”

Write for thelPhi s
Opinions section!

Do you want to be a voice of W&L’s students?
is something really getting under your skin?
Do you want to get great writing experience?

Write what you're passionate about.

Write for the Phi!

Contact Opinions Editor Cody Beau-
champ at beauchampc@wlu.edu or

phi@wlu.edu

WASHINGTON AND LEE UIWERSITY

THE RING-TUM PHI.

“Io
the Re!  [ 

/ DISTRIBUTION MNGR.

111?.
Washington
Street

Local lood Progressive cuisine.

Serving dinner Monday through Saturday and
Lexingtonls he-st Sunday Brunch.
Lunch from IIOO to 2 weekdays

Great wines, heers, and cocktails served with

lighter lare until ll Thurs.-Sat.

Reservations are recommended

MANAGING EDITOR
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR

SPORTS EDITOR
COPY EDITORS

CONTRIBUTING WRITERS

DESIGN EDITOR
STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER
BUSINESS MANAGERS

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE
RING-TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community for students, faculty,
parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire
to spark discussions that lead to discovering
information that prompts change.

THE RING-TUM PHI IS PUBLISHED MONDAYS
DURING THE UNDERGRADUATE SCHOOL YEAR.
THE RING-TUM PHI IS A MEMBER OF THE MEDIA
BOARD, BUT IS OTHERWISE INDEPENDENT.
QUESTIONS OR CONCERNS ABOUT THE PHI
SHOULD BE ADDRESSED TO THE EDITORS AT
PHI@WLU.EDU OR TO THE MEDIA BOARD AT
MEDIABOARD@WLU.EDU. THE MEDIA BOARD
IS AN INDEPENDENT, STUDENT-RUN EDITORIAL
OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE WORKING WITH ALL
MEDIA OUTLETS ON THE WASHINGTON &

ALL INQUIRIES WILL REMAIN
CONFIDENTIAL. THE RING-TUM PHI WELCOMES
ALL LETTERS. WE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO EDIT

SUBMISSIONS FOR CONTENT AND LENGTH.
LETTERS AND ADVERTISING DO NOT NECESSARILY
REFLECT THE OPINION OF THE RING-TUM PHI
STAFF. THIS NEWSPAPER OBSERVES CURRENT
COURT DEFINITIONS OF LIBEL AND OBSCENITY.
THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540) 458-4059
EMAIL: PHI@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

LEE CAMPUS.

ALLISON CHOPIN
JOHN HENDERSON
CODY BEAUCHAMP
CELEST CRUZ-
CARANDANG

WILL DORRANCE
BRETT HOLTON
MICHAEL MORELLA

CRIGHTON ALLEN
DANE DAVIS

RACHEL DENNISTON
LIZZ DYE

STEPHANIE HARDIMAN
WILL MAYS

BROOKE SUTHERLAND
VALAREE TANG
VICTORIA TAYLOR
KIMBER WIGGS
QUEENIE WONG

LARA JORDAN
RYAN ELSEY
STROCK MOORE
CHARLES PERSONS
ROB GEORGE

 

  

 

   

4 0 THE RING-TUM PHI

M 0 N DAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2008

arts&|ife

 

Cast makes
Woody Allen Proud

Allen is “Play it Again, Sam ” tells
story of neurotic romance

By Kimber Wiggs
STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee welcomed “Play It Again, Sam,” a com-
edy by Woody Allen, to the Keller stage in the Lenfest Center
for the Arts this weekend.

Woody Allen’s play follows the misadventures of Allan
Felix, a neurotic ﬁlm critic and Humphrey Bogart enthusiast,
who is thrust back into the dating world after his wife leaves
him. Uncomfortable wooing woman, Allan asks himself “What
would Bogart do?” What follows is a series of comical journeys
into Allan’s imagination, in which “Bogey” continually appears
to give him dating advice and in which the women he desires
fall at his feet.

Unfortunately, when Allan emerges from his imagination,
the results of Bogey’s advice and his ability to follow it fall far
short of the mark. Living in the early 1970s, Allan ﬁnds himself
unable to use Bogart’s hilariously womanizing techniques to
woo the independent women he meets. Allan’s inability to con-
nect with blind dates and women from bars leads him to acci-
dentally fall in love with the only woman with whom he shares
a real friendship: his best friend’s wife, Linda Christie.

Though Linda shares Allan’s feelings and they consummate
the romance while her husband Dick is away on a business trip,
the relationship is ultimately doomed, and the play ends with a
parody of the ﬁnal scene of “Casablanca,” as Allan explains to
Linda why she has to get on a plane with her husband instead of
staying behind with him.

“Play It Again, Sam” came to W&L as part of the senior the-
ses of Theater majors Helen Coupe, Matt Harkins and Tabitha
King. Directed by Coupe, the show starred Harkins and King in
the roles of Allan Felix and Linda Christie, both insecure and
unstable neurotics.

Also in lead roles were junior Kevin Mannering, who por-
trayed Dick, and sophomore Abigail Urquhart, who played
Allan’s ex-wife, Nancy. Mannering’s Dick was memorable for
being comically businesslike and unlikable for the majority of
the show and then intensely sympathetic at the end when he is
faced with the possibility of losing his wife.

The show also featured an ensemble of supporting char-
acters, many of whom were portrayed by actors making their
debut on the W&L theater scene. Most notable of these debut
performers was senior Ashton Sullivan, who portrayed Allen
Felix’s imaginary dating doctor, Humphrey Bogart. Sullivan’s
parody of Bogart as a constantly smoking and drinking woman-
izer was in perfect contrast to Harkins’s nervous, pill-popping
neurotic.

Bogart’s movies, particularly “Casablanca,” being the im-
petus for the play’s forays into Allan’s imagination, some of
the technical aspects of the show took on feel of watching a
movie. The play itself began with a giant projector screen play-
ing the ﬁnal scene from “Casablanca” that Allan recreates at the
end of the play. As the scene neared its end, the video switched
from the huge screen above the stage to the screen of the set’s
functional TV, in front of which Harkins’ reclined, watching the
ﬁlm. At the end of the play, the projector returned to scroll the
credits. The costuming totally captured the feel of the early 70s,
complete with hippies, go-go boots and leisure suits. The set de-
sign included a working refrigerator, in addition to the TV, and
gave the exact impression of the apartment of a 1970s bachelor:
a bachelor who decorated the place himself.

Overall, “Play It Again, Sam” offered an enjoyable night
at the theater. Several standout roles were particularly well-re-
ceived by the audience, including Gozi Egbuonu’s surprisingly
conservative sex ﬁend and Ellie Duvall’s adorable Allan Felix
fan whose praises--and lips--ease the sting of losing Linda.
The play had the look and feel of the 70s as Harkins and King
perfectly captured the essence of neurotic city dwellers, totally
dependent on medication and their analysts. In short, the play
was exactly the kind of thing Woody Allen would write, and‘ the
actors did an effective job of conveying Allen’s vision.

I JUNIORS/SENIORS
SAVE THE DATE

    

DINING ETIQUE
Thursday, Jan. 22, 2009
M Co—sponsored by
The Oﬁice of
Multicultural Aﬂairs

and
’WASI*lING'l‘€)N AND ’¥..I*Z.f*:1 UNIV'ERSI'.l‘Y

CAjREEReSERVICES

Mark Gordon, real—life pirate, speaks in Stackhouse

By Valaree Tang
STAFF WRITER

Mark Gordon, president of Odyssey Ma-
rine Exploration, who was invited by the
Contact Committee, spoke in the Stackhouse
Theater on Thursday regarding the rare in-
dustry of treasure hunting through underwa-
ter salvages. '

The Contactc Committee Chair Robin
Wright selected Gordon to give a presenta-
tion because she considered him to be “an
example of someone who found a way to
make a living while pursuing his passion.”

“He’s a living example of what makes
America so great.”

A pioneer in his industry, Gordon invent-
ed his corporation by fusing business and ar-
chaeology. His vision began as a childhood
dream. “As a small child I became enthralled
with the ocean explorations of Jacques Cous-
teau and began snorkeling and metal detect-
ing at the beach,” said Gordon.

The premise of his business model was
comprised of the knowledge that billions of
dollars lay at the bottom of the ocean, the
technology exists to ﬁnd the treasure and the
belief that archaeology and business can co-
exist. Gordon considers his passion to be a
“quest of discovery” and believes that trea-
sure is only one of the many things that his
explorations yield in addition to “stories of
cultures and people long lost to history.”

Students admired Gordon in his innova-
tive business endeavors. “He followed his
passion. Even though it didn’t seem possible
to make a living with it, Mr. Gordon created
a career for himself,” said Sarah Warsco,
who attended the presentation because she

was fascinated with treasure hunting.

“I hope that someday, my passion can be
my living too.” Gordon also related begin-
ning his business to that of the oil industry.
His company also follows the same principle
of the oil companies: “ﬁnd, keep, monetize”.

Odyssey Marine Exploration also recent-
ly discovered a sunken ship codenamed the
Black Swan. The ﬁnding of the Black Swan
yielded 17 tons of treasure that amounted to
nearly half a billion dollars. The treasure was

“As a small child I became
enthralled with. . Jacques
Cousteau and began snorkel-

ing and metal detecting. ”

Mark Gordon, President of Odyssey
Marine Exploration

found off the coast of Portugal in the Cape
of St. Mary.

Odyssey Marine Exploration is currently
involved in a court battle with Spain in re-
gards to the Black Swan. While legal battles
do not ﬁt into Gordon’s dream of treasure
hunting, Gordon considers them to be part of
reality.

“Unfortunately in our litigious society
anytime there is a lot of money at stake, there
always seems to be someone who views this
as an easy opportunity to enrich themselves,”
said Gordon.

Spain’s claim is based upon the concept _

of sovereign immunity. The Black Swan is
currently being investigated. It may be a

ship called Mercedes that was bringing back
goods from South America, which sovereign
immunity protects. The ship is predicted to
have sunk in the early 1800s.

Gordon is conﬁdent that Odyssey Marine
Exploration will win the case. If won, sover-
eign immunity will not apply, and all Spanish
ships will be free to others to salvage.

Starting Odyssey Marine Exploration
also came with unintended business conse-
quences. The company acquired a TV deal
with Discovery as well as three shipwreck
deals. In addition, Odyssey Marine Explora-
tion engaged in coin marketing deals.

Contact Committee members also found
Gordon’s presentation interesting.

“I thought Mark Gordon’s presentation
was fascinating and reached a variety of
academic ﬁelds, including history, science
and technology, business, economics, and
accounting, politics and law.” said Katie
Bean. However, Bean wished the more stu-
dents had attended in order to experience the
unique and far-reaching presentation.

Wright considered the event to be a suc-
cess.

“Anyone interested in business had some-
thing to learn from his business model, any-
one interested in law was fascinated by his
up-and-coming ﬁeld in deep-water shipwreck
recovery and its legal implications, and any-
one who simply had a fascination with ship-
wrecks and the deep sea got to enjoy hearing
from a pioneer in the ﬁeld,” she said.

Bond comes up short

“Quantum of Solace ” not as good as “Casino Royale ”

By Will Mays
smrr wrmsn

There are few characters in cinema that
have had such longstanding success as one

Mr. James Bond, and 2008’s “Quantum of

Solace” is sure to be no exception. After
2006’s “Casino Royale,” most Bond fans
across the world were relieved and excited
to see that the franchise still had fresh life in
it and could still compete with all the other
action ﬂicks Hollywood was willing to churn
out. With “Quantum,” though, viewers won’t
necessarily be disappointed, but they might
wonder what happened.

“Quantum of Solace” is by no means
a bad ﬁlm. It is a potentially ﬂawed ﬁlm,
but there is still much to be enjoyed. As
a ﬁlm, not much is actually wrong with
“Quantum,” but as the successor to “Casino
Royale,” there leaves much to be desired.
The biggest ﬂaw with 007’s newest venture
is that it’s almost as if it is a general action
ﬁlm that just so happens to feature a rug-
gedly smashing British superspy who goes

by James Bond. There are plenty of “Bond
moments” throughout the ﬁlm, but, on the
whole, there’s something altogether run of
the mill about the ﬁlm. Daniel Craig is still
electrifying, but it’s almost as if the world
around him has suddenly gotten a hearty
dose of bland, an ironic fact considering di-
rector Marc Forester, who’s never directed
an action ﬁlm, has decided to replace Casino
Royale’s cool suave with an imminent desire
to blow stuff up.

“Quantum” focuses on Bond’s desire for
revenge after the events of “Casino Royale,”
yet this tale of revenge lacks the sophistica-
tion and taut energy of direction that made
the earlier ﬁlm so outstanding. It’s almost
unfair to compare the two, yet the viewer
must. Bond simply doesn’t do much spying
in “Quantum,” but he almost gets away with
it. If anything, the blame lies with the ﬁlm-
makers. The screenplay lacks much of the
polish and pizzazz previously seen in Bond’s
last outing, and the direction is plagued by
bad pacing and too busy visuals. The new

villains lack the menace that has come to be
expected, and much of the ﬁght scenes are
so hard to follow that they could potentially
induce dizziness.

Still, “Quantum of Solace” is an enjoy-
‘able ﬁlm in its own way, but it does lack
many of the subtleties and intricacies that

helped make Bond’s redeﬁnition and reboot ‘

in “Casino Royale” so exciting. Whereas

I “Casino Royale” was almost a cerebral Bond

experience, “Quantum” has more explosions
than most every ﬁlm this side of the Michael
Bay collection. It will excite and delight, but
it will also leave the viewer wanting some-
thing more.

“Quantum of Solace” is still a better
Bond entry than most everything produced
since Roger Moore left the role, and it is a
solid Bond entry on the whole, but it does
having the misfortune of following one of
the strongest entries into the canon since the
glory days of Sean Connery. Regardless, go
see the ﬁlm, and know that the series still has
plenty of life in it.

Exhibit inspired by home

Dave Anderson is photography reminds him of his hometown

By Rachel Denniston
STAFF WRITER

Photographer Dave Anderson spoke to the
Washington and Lee community Wednesday
in the Wilson Concert Hall about his exhibi-
tion, “Rough Beauty,” now on display in the
Staniar Gallery at the Lenfest Center.

Rough Beauty is a collection of pho-

' tographs documenting life in the town of
Vidor, Texas and will remain on display
through Dec. 12. In addition, Anderson has
been working with students in the Art De-
partment this week as a Visiting Artist.

Anderson’s fascination with Vldor origi-
nated from its reputation as a “Klan Town.”
Anderson tries to help Vidor shake this out-
dated reputation in which he refers to as its,
“scarlet letter” and ﬁnally create a new iden-
tity for itself. In Rough Beauty, Anderson
captures the subtle beauty of Vidor through
what has been described as “haunting yet
powerful images.” ,

Most of the photographs in “Rough
Beauty” are portraits of the people who live
in Vidor.

As Anderson clicks through his slides of
photographs, he recalls stories about many if
not all of the subjects including “Little Miss
BBQ” and the “Red Neck Brady Bunch.”
Anderson says he has developed many valu-
able relationships with the people in Vidor.
There is a “sense of rock solid dependability
in people I got to know there,” he said. De-
pendability, Anderson said, “is something I
aspire to with the people in my life.”

Ever since Anderson left home for board-
ing school in ninth grade, he has deeply iden-
tiﬁed with the place he calls home, a place
in which he hasn’t lived in 25 years. From
this experience, Anderson became interested
in places with a strong identity and “Rough
Beauty,” he said, “is about such a place.”

Before becoming a photographer, Ander-
son worked for the Clinton administration

in the communications and media depart-
ment, MTV’s “Choose or Lose”'bus and an
independent movie studio called Madstone.
Anderson says he has always had interest in
photography but it was not until he was in-
spired by the work of another photographer,
Keith Carter, that Anderson began to pursue

it as a career.

Anderson’s work is largely inﬂuenced
by the Andrew Smith Gallery in Santa Fe,
photographer Fazal Sheikh and his teacher,
Michael Kenna.

Anderson and “Rough Beauty” have
received widespread acclaim. “Rough
Beauty” is winner of the Santa Fe Center for
Photography 2005 project competition and
has been proﬁled on National Public Radio.
He has been recognized as “one of the shoot-
ing stars of the American photo scene” by
Germany’s fotoMAGAZIN and named on
the “PDN 30,” a list of 30 emerging pho-
tographers as the “ones to watch,” by Photo
District News.

Anderson’s work has been featured in
Esquire, Stern, ESPN, Photo District News,
British Journal of Photography, B&W and
the New York Sun. In addition, his work is
in the collections of various museums such
as the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston, Art
Museum of Southeast Texas,Worcester Art
Museum in Massachusetts, George Eastman
House and Ogden Museum of Southern Art
in New Orleans.

  

Treasure hunter at W&L *

O:

 

 
   

0 WASHINGTON AND LEE
UNIVERSITY STORE

“ﬁt ANNUAL THANK YOU ’@*  
HOLIDAY SALE

In time for that special holiday gift!
9 DAYS

Friday Saturday Sunday Monday-Friday Saturday
Dec. 5”‘ Dec. 6”‘ Dec. 7”‘ Dec. 8”‘ — 12”‘ Dec. 13th
8 a.m. — 7 p.m. 10 a.m. - 5 pm. 10 a.m. — 5 p.m. 8 a.m. — 7 p.m. . 10 a.m. — 5 p.m.

     
       
 

 
   
  

      

     
  

  
 

All Dolo 0 “"9”
Wm. 104 OFF “:§::i;:.‘::”  

   

ENTIRE 5 TORE  0"

V (except textbooks, sundries, some technology, and selected items)

50% - 75% OFF

SPECIALLY SELECTED ITEMS
Free gift Wrapping.’
Sale applies only to purchases in the Store

    
   
       
   

  

   WAHINGTON AND LEE  
   UNIVERSITY S TORE Q)

UNDERGRADUATE & LAW STUDENTS
DO YOU WANT

CASH FOR THE HOLIDAYS?

A Fz'm'5/yea’ exam? Before /yeczdzhg /907776,
Bring your book: io #96 UN] VFRSI TY S TORE/

CASH for your books!

(up to 50% of Value of book)
help your schoolprovide
more used, lower priced books for the next term!

   
     
    

 
   
     
     
  

Buyback will be going on for 15 days in the Common’s atrium!

   
 
 
 

 
  

Starting Thursday,_ December 4"“, ending Friday, December 19”‘
(buying will occur also on Saturdays and on Sunday, December 7)
9:00 a.m. — 6:00 p.m. during Week
10:00 a.m. — 4:00 p.m. on Saturdays
10:00 a.m. - 4:00 p.m. on Sunday, Dec. 7

 
   
   

 

» I
.32:
Q x;‘1.b.'x .

»

mmrjnu 2pm TIIIIRSIIAY me 18?

re Igms lmlging, “mice Bays at i kets,
v at Arrival Eiclets ~ $I35uer person  m  

  *Basedon six guests in a three-bedroom condo.
Ratedoes not include reservationprocessing fee artax

 

 

    

THE R|N'G-TUM PHI 7

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2008

 

sports  

W&L Volleyball

ends season

Lady Generals swept by Mount Saint
Joseph in ﬁrst round of regionals

By Stephanle Hardlman
STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee volleyball team ended its season on
Thursday afternoon after being swept by Mount Saint Joseph in
NCAA Division III Great Lakes Regionals.

The tournament was hosted by Wittenberg College in Springﬁeld,
Ohio. W&L lost in three straight sets (25-22, 25-18, 25-23).

The Generals came into the match 31-6, fresh off of their ODAC
Championship win last weekend, their eighth consecutive title, that
left them 10-0 in the conference.

W&L beat Mount 3-1 (26-24, 20-25, 25-16, 25-16) in their Nov. 1
match-up at Centre College in Danville, Ky.

The Lions Head Coach Michele Benoit posted her 400th career
win with the victory over W&L Thursday. Mount went on to lose
against defending national champions Washington University-St.
Louis who was ranked third. Washington then ended its run for a
second consecutive title with a loss to Ohio Northern, ranked eighth,
on Saturday.

Junior outside hitter Rachael Phillips managed 11 kills and nine
digs but added six attacking errors. Phillips was named the ODAC
Volleyball Player of the Year last Monday.

Phillips is just one of three Generals added to the All-Conference
Team. She and senior right-side hitter Jessica Ulrich made the team
for the second consecutive year. Junior setter Megan Steinhardt was
named as an honorable mention selection.

Ulrich won the title of tournament MVP at the ODAC Champion-
ship Nov. 8. She added seven kills, eight digs and two service aces to
the team’s match Thursday.

Steinhardt put up 28 assists and 18 digs, a game high.

For the ﬁrst time in four years, senior outside hitter Laura Maurer
did not make the All—ODAC Team. Maurer was out of commission
most of the season for illness and injury. Against Mount, Maurer
chipped in 10 kills and nine digs but also four attacking errors.

The Generals team prides itself on playing a difficult non-confer-
ence schedule. Throughout the season, they traveled to play Juniata,
Christopher Newport, and Emory, all nationally ranked powerhous-
es.

In 2006, the team advanced to the “Sweet Sixteen” of the NCAA‘

Tournament after beating New York University.

The Generals end their season 31-7 overall. The team posted a 13-
0 home record and for the season more than tripled their opponents’
kills and service aces.

Head coach Bryan Snyder (’95) completed his ninth season with
the Generals. His W&L career record stands at 266-61 (.813) overall
and 89-3 (.967) in the ODAC.

With only four seniors (Ulrich, Maurer, Alex Scaggs and Kassie
Bagley) leaving this year, the team will be left with many experi-
enced players.

Looking to next year, the Generals will surely be led again by
Phillips and Steinhardt.

Junior Kristi Stevens and sophomore Jenna Finger can be expect-
ed to help out in the setter ’s position. Sophomore middle hitter Lou-

ise Brooks will develop as the key player on the net with ﬁrst-year .

Lindsey Dee being worked in as well.

Sophomore Marah Schmitz saw a lot of playing time early this
year in the outside hitter and libero positions. A talented player with
good court awareness, Schmitz will be an asset next season as well to
play opposite Phillips.

In the back row, junior Kelly Harrison may continue wearing
the libero jersey or possibly ﬁll Ulrich’s empty position on the right
side.

Sophomores Summer Goldberg and Meredith Townsend will add
leadership experience along with ﬁrst-years Megan Daily and Megan
Tomlinson.

am, it Peatacmat

PEDAL (Luz DINER & TIN Toy Cm‘.

Order from our complete menu
Or Jsizz asfor om: afmrr ALL YOU CAN EA T Buffets.’

Friday Night Seafood Buffet with Crab Legs 5pm~10pm
Saturday Night Prime Rib Dinner 5pm~10pm
Sunday Baked Chicken, Pork Loin, & ?ot Roast Mam-9pm
Friday & Saturday Late Night Breakfast Bar 10pm-2am
Breakfast Bar '2' Days a. Week 6am~t tam
Daily Hot Country Bar Mam-10pm
Daily Soup, Salad, & Fruit Bar Ham-10pm

Order Breakfast 24 Hours 3 day, 7 days a Week!

Home: Cooked Meals & Soutltern Hospitality.’
Located at

151 llﬂllﬂl NM

14%! at I-64, Exit R35, 2:3l6North Lee l-lwyt, lmington, VA

540~463~3478

Exreut food 8: a great reflection of
Antique Pedal Cars 6: Tin Toys!

 

RYAN ELSEY / Staff Photographer

Junior forward Ben Goetsch dribbles past a Musklngum defender ln W&L’s flrst game of the season.
For more on the men's basketball W&L Classic thls weekend, see page 8.

Predicting the unpredictable

Allen picks Florida and Texas Tech for national championship

By Crlghton Allen
C 0 L U M N I ST

As the college football season enters.

its concluding and most important weeks,
I’d like to offer my thoughts on what has
already‘ transpired and what we can look
forward to in the weeks to come.

First off, no truly dominant team that
stands above all others has emerged this
season. Looking at the standings, there are
no less than seven teams — Alabama, Tex-
as Tech, Florida, USC, Oklahoma, Texas
and Penn State — that could lay claim to a
right to play in the national championship
game.

Judging by momentum right now, it
appears to me that the two teams that,will
battle for the national championship in Mi-
ami will be Florida and Texas Tech. The
way these two teams score points, coupled
with huge bursts of momentum coming
from several important victories for both
programs lately, leads me to believe that
neither of these teams will lose by January.

The Florida Gators remain an offensive
powerhouse, captivating the college foot-
ball nation with how well they have played
in the past several weeks. In their six-game
winning streak, the Gators have scored 49.5
points per game and beat teams by an aver-
age margin of 39 points.

The Gators’ offensive triggerman, ju-
nior quarterback Tim Tebow, looks com-
pletely in control of his coach Urban Mey-
er’s spread-option offense and possesses
enough weapons around him to make any
choice he makes with the football a poten-
tial touchdown. He can pass, hand off or
run it himself and teams have a devil of a
time stopping any of the three.

The Red Raiders of Texas Tech are no
slouches either. They remain undefeated
while playing in what can arguably be
called the toughest division in football, the
Big 12 South. The offense’s lowest scoring
output this season is still a huge 35 points.
How absurd! Texas Tech scores points like
the guys in “Animal House” partied —— re-
lentlessly and with no regard for those on
the other side.

Graham Harrell, the Red Raiders senior
quarterback, puts up stats every game you
couldn’t even dream up on Xbox, let alone
real life. In his last game against Oklahoma
State, a very good team in their own right,
Harrell completed 40 of 50 passes for 456
yards and six touchdowns. A

These gaudy numbers, though, are just
another day at the office for quarterbacks
playing under Mike Leach, Texas Tech
coach and architect of the offense that puts
up points and compiles yards against any-
one. However, Red Raiders quarterbacks
never get any love; they are labeled as
system quarterbacks, unworthy of any seri-
ous consideration. That is ridiculous and I
want it to change.

On that note, gentle readers, the Ring-
tum Phi (or at least me) now endorses Gra-
ham Harrell for the Heisman Trophy, the
award given out annually to the nation’s
best football player. Tebow won the honor
last year and arguably has a chance to re-
peat, but no one i11 America plays as well
right now as Harrell. ,No one. If you re-
main dissuaded, next weekend, watch Har-
rell against the Oklahoma‘Sooners. You
will join the ranks of those who believe,
included in those are the defensive coordi-
nators of every team Texas Tech has played
this season, that there is no throw Graham

Harrell cannot make.

As good as Florida and Texas Tech are,
they don’t play much defense. Texas Tech
especially, coming out of the Big 12 where
defense seems to be optional. Therefore, in
the national championship game, look for
the Florida Gators to defeat the Texas Tech
Red Raiders 38-28. The Gators play in the
SEC, the home of the world’s best athletes
that don’t practice their craft on Sundays.
Speed kills and Texas Tech will ﬁnd that
out the hard way.

Other items of note, how bad has Au-
burn been this year? Picked by many to
win the SEC West, the Tigers have looked
anemic for most of the season, struggling
to ﬁt into the new spread offense of the
much-ballyhooed coordinator Tony Frank-
lin. Auburn now stands 5-6 and Franklin
stands jobless, ﬁred midway through the
season. If the Tigers don’t have a winning
record at the end of the season, head coach
Tommy Tuberville may be shown the door
as well.

On a surprising note, the resurgence
of the Penn State Nittany Lions has taken
many aback. Running their new offense,
the Spread HD, the Lions look like they
may send their beloved coach Joe Patemo
out on a high note as he enters into the twi-
light years of his storied coaching career.

As every college season always does,
this season has produced heartbreaking
losses and triumphant victories in equal
portion. Every game is played amongst the
unique pageantry of college football that no
other sport can create. The athletes play for
their schools, not dollar signs like they do
in the pros. As the season comes to its ﬁnal
stretch, stay tuned for further excitement
from this, the best sport in the world.

 

   

  

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2008

8 - THE RING-TUM PHI

sports

 

 

 

Mon Tues WED Tiiuns FRI SAT SUN
Men's
xc
NCAA
women»; Nationals
X6 — (Ind. Only)
' 11 a.m.
iiloileyball
t
at W3 h
Men's 35 -
Basketball cathonc (Md_)
7 p.m.
2 p.m.
Mat a‘
Women’: 3'5’
Basketball wash Dlcklnson
Tournament
7 p.m.
at
MQn’§ Franklln &
s""“‘“"“g Marshall
11 a.m.
at
women.‘ Franklin &
Swlmmlns Marshall
11 a.m.
Wrestling

numbers
I 28  

Troy's blown third-quarter lead against LSU Saturday in the Tigers’

largest ever comeback win. LSU, then ranked 19th, scored 30 points

in the fourth quarter to win 40-31.

111

The number of points scored by VMl’s basketball team in the Keydets’
111-103 upset victory Friday over perennial powerhouse Kentucky. It
was the most number of points the Wildcats have surrendered since

1989.

13-13

The ﬁnal score of the Cincinnati Bengals-Philadelphia Eagles game
Sunday. it was the ﬁrst tie in an NFL game since the Atlanta Falcons
and Pittsburgh Steelers tied 34-34 on Nov. 10, 2002. The Bengals

are now 1-8-1 on the year while the Eagles are 5-4-1.

  box

“It sounds like they’re overbidding. If the specula-
tion is true that we’ve offered CC $100 million,

 

why would you offer $140 million. Why wouldn’t
you offer $110 million?”

Milwaukee Brewers general manager Doug Melvin after the New
York Yankees reportedly offered pitcher cc Sabathia approximately
$140 million over six years in response to the Brewers’ offer of $100
million over ﬂve years. The Yankees boast the MLB’s highest payroll
of over $207 million compared to the Brewers’ payroll of just under
$75 million. Courtesy of espn.com.

“Yes, absolutely.  I certainly do feel we're going
to be a team that plays well enough to be thinking
about the playoffs.” ’

Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones Thursday when asked If he thinks
that his team would make the playoffs. The Cowboys, considered
by many to be a Super Bowl favorite at the start of the year, were
5-4 and tied for last place In the NFC East before Sunday. Courtesy
of espn.com. ~ g

"This was a tough decision to make. Barry is a 2
good man and we have a great deal of respect

for him. We wish him nothing but success; how- I
ever, the results were unacceptable and the play-
ers have to understand that we need to be bet-

ter. Hopefully this change helps push them.”

Tampa Bay Lightning executive vice president and general manager
Brian Lawton after ring head coach Barry Meirose Just 16 games
(5-7-4) into his ﬂrst season coaching since 1995. Melrose, who was
an ESPN analyst for 13 years before being hired by the Lightning in
June, was replaced by Interim head coach Rick Tocchet. courtesy
of the Tampa Bay Busines Journal.

W&L splits weekend series

  Men is‘ basketball beats Muskingum, falls to F erram

Junior forward Zac
White drives to the
hoop for two of his
14 points in the
Washington and
Lee men’s basket-
ball team’s first
game of the sea-
son. The Generals
beat Muskingum
66-57 Saturday in
its first game of
the W&L Classic.
Senior. forward
Ryan Owens led
the home team
with a career-high
15 points and
eight rebounds.

In its second game
of the W&L Clas-
sic, the Generals
iost to Ferrum
44-59 Sunday.
Senior guard Chris
McHugh scored
10 while senior
forward Ben Heller
and White chipped
in nine.

Looking ahead

to the rest of the
season, senior
guard and captain
Isaiah Goodman
said, “Our team’s
goals for this year
for this year are
simple: defend,
rebound, take
care of the ball.
We know that if
we do that every
game, we will have
a chance to win
every game. When
you win a lot of
games, then you
start talking cham-
pionships.”

RYAN ELSEY / Staff Photographer

XC tea ms race at NCAAs “

Men 3* and women is teams ﬁnish in top I 0, Shaw and Webb advance

By Brooke Sutherland
8 TA F F W R lT E R

It was a cold and windy day, but the
Washington and Lee men’s and women’s
cross country teams still ﬁnished strong in
the South/Southeast Regional Champion-
ships at Texas Lutheran University in San
Antonio this weekend.

Coming off a victory in the ODAC
championship the week before, the wom-
en’s team ﬁnished third, just one spot short
of a guaranteed trip to nationals. The team
found out Sunday that it had not been se-
lected as an at-large bid for nationals.

“It’s deﬁnitely a little bittersweet to
ﬁnish third knowing that we might get
news...that we might not make it,” said
head coach Kris Hoey Saturday before the
national selection committee’s decision.
“The waiting is very difﬁcult because the
top two teams get instant gratiﬁcation. I
deﬁnitely think we deserve to go to [na-
tionals], but of course I’m a little bit bi-
ased.”

Nonetheless, W&L will have two run-
ners at nationals in Hanover, Indiana, next
weekend with seniors Jessica Shaw and
Elizabeth Webb qualifying as individu-
als. Shaw ﬁnished 11th overall out of 169
runners with a time of 22:57, and Webb
was close behind with a 14th place ﬁnish
at 23:14.

“These girls work so hard. Jess and
Webb have come so far. I’m so proud of
these girls,” Hoey said. “This was Jess’
ﬁrst year running [cross country]. What a
neat thing for her to go to nationals. Eliz-
abeth just missed going to nationals last
year, so this has been a long time coming
and she deﬁnitely deserves this honor.”

Walking the streets of San Antonio
with her parents after the race, Shaw was
nothing short of exuberant on the phone.

“This is so exciting,” she said. “Run-
ning has always been something I wanted
to pursue, but I’d always been too busy
with swimming. “

Added Webb: “Being the last one not
to go last year was pretty tough. It ended

up that I got the same place I got last year,
but the way things worked out with the
team qualifying, I got to qualify this year.
It’s nice to ﬁnally be in the mix. “

Texas Lutheran’s tough, hilly course
posed some challenges for both runners,
but they managed to battle through.

“I went out way too fast,” said Webb.
“My body started hurting halfway through.
I realized we might not make it as a team,
and my boach started yelling at me that to
guarantee a trip to nationals, I would have
to qualify myself. That really helped me to
ﬁnish the race strong.” ‘

“A lot of things were going through
my mind,” Shaw said. “The last half I
struggled a lot mentally, but I prayed for
the strength to ﬁnish. In the home stretch,
I got passed by this girl we were trying to
beat. It was frustrating, but each race is a
new experience, and I think as a team, we
learned a lot today.”

The Generals’ other runners also pulled
out strong ﬁnishes with senior Becca Tay-
lor and junior Kat Telfeyan coming in at
16th and 27th place respectively. Sopho-
more Christine Balistreri came in 38th
with a time of 24:27 and junior Dorothy
Todd ﬁnished 54th with a time of 24:56.

“I’m so proud of our girls,” Hoey said.
“I’m so proud of the people they are and
their accomplishments. This season is re-
ally a reﬂection of all the hard work they
put in. “

The team’s regional success comes on
the heels of a season ﬁlled with ODAC ac-
colades and awards. Shaw received Run-
ner of the Year and Senior Becca Taylor
was named Scholar Athlete of the Year.
Hoey was named Coach of the Year as
well.

“It was great to be named Coach of
the Year,” Hoey said. “But it’s really only
because of how well the girls did. This is
the best team in Washington and Lee cross
country history. We’ve done some amaz-
ing things with really talented individu-
als.”

On the men’s side, the team ﬁnished '

eighth with no individuals qualifying for

nationals, but three runners qualiﬁed for
the all-regional team. Senior Michael
Welsh ﬁnished 17th out of 151 runners
with at time of 26:25, followed by senior
Vance Berry in 20th with a time of 26:31
and sophomore Jack Ivy in 35th place with
a time of27:02.

“It was a lower ﬁnish than we were
shooting for,” said head coach John Tuck-
er. “We wanted to be top ﬁve, but we had
some super performances. Almost every-
one had their best race.”

Washington and Lee’s top ﬁnishers
were rounded out by senior Alex Jackson
who came in 48th at 27:24 and ﬁrst-year
Matt Gossett who ﬁnished 80th with a
time of 28:09.

“We were pretty strong all around,”
said Berry. “You can always point ﬁngers
at something. There were 30 mph winds,
which played a role in everyone’s strategy,
and traveling is always tough. Air travel
really takes a toll on you, but I’m pretty
pleased with our overall performance.”

Tucker put the season into perspective.
“The last three races we’ve performed bet-
ter than last year when we won the ODAC.
The difference this year is that ODAC is
just way more competitive,” he said.

“I was disappointed we ﬁnished eight
points back from Lynchburg, “ Berry said.
“That’s the same margin we lost to them
at ODAC, and I was really looking to im-
prove on that.”

Despite his disappointment, Berry
walked away from the race with a positive
experience.

“I’ve seen improvements every year,
and this is the culmination,” he said. “This
is it for me, and it was my best time for my
four years. This is what you dream of do-
ing, making it happen when it counts.”

Both teams are now preparing for the
upcoming track season with high hopes
and determination to improve on their
success.

“I think we’re set up really well,” said
Hoey. “We’re just going to get everyone
ready to go and show up strong.”

 

   
  

 

s over...   

Relive your Rush memories with  
t   crossword puzzle      
ARTS &i.rr=E/ page

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING-TUM PHI.

STUDENTS AND

MONDAY, JANUARY 12, 2009

BY THE FOR THE STUDENTS SINCE

1397 VOLUME cxu, NUMBER 10

 

   

By Jamie Kim
STAFF WRITER

As theft incidents in the
Washington and Lee community
increase, local police ofﬁcers
urge students to be more careful
with their personal property.

In December, the Rockbridge
County Sheriff’s Ofﬁce arrested
Donna Kay Frazier, 45, and
charged her with felony, grand
larceny and misdemeanor petty
larceny. The Lexington Police
Department also charged Frazier
with two felony grand larcenies
and two misdemeanors.

Frazier has been a suspect in
larcenies around the W&L coin-
munity and the investigation of
her alleged crimes continues.

According to the police re-
port, a W&L law student, who
wished not to be identiﬁed or
interviewed, reported on Dec.
9' that her packages were sto-
len on three different occasions.
The following day, Ofﬁcer Tim
Hickman of the Sheriff’s ofﬁce

had a package delivered to her
residence and observed the area.
Later he noticed a vehicle come
into the parking lot and circle the
student’s residence three times.

Hickman went to the stu-
dents residence the following
morning and soon spotted the
same vehicle driven by Frazier.
She got out, walked up to the
victim’s apartment, and took the
package that had been sitting in
front of the door since the day
before.

When Hickman approached
her and asked her what she was
doing, Frazier said she was pick-
ing a package up for a friend,
but when he asked again who
her friend was, she could not
produce a name. Hickman later
obtained a search warrant and
searched Frazier’s residence.

“She says it was a single inci-_

dent, but we searched her house
and found additional items, like
GPS [units] and iPods,” Hick-
man said.

“It doesn’t take a lot to real-

Local woman charged with thefts, po

ize that one person doesn’t need
ﬁve iPods,” said Ofﬁcer Andy
Tanner of the Lexington Police
Department, who searched the
house with Hickman and other
ofﬁcers.

Frazier had actually been
caught before in a vehicle ‘be-

in the past.

“A lot of things get taken all
_the time. We got lucky this time
to have found a suspect,” said
Tanner. “She invoked her right
to counsel and called her attor-
ney.”

Frazier is to go to a prelimi-

“She doesn ’t seem to have a lot of experi-

ence or she may have done it simply for the

thrill and the adrenaline rush. My specula-

tion is that she may either be an inexperi-
enced thief or a thrill thief ”

Officer Andy Tanner, Lexington Police Department

longing to a W&L student, but
the student did not prosecute,
according to the police report.
Of the items conﬁscated from
Frazier’s house, one GPS unit
and one iPod belonged to W&L
students. Sgt. Mark Riley said
Frazier may have been involved
in other theft incidents reported

nary district hearing on Feb. 10.
After that, she will proceed to
the grand jury and the circuit
court.

“What’s very strange is that
she still had those items that she
stole a while ago,” Tanner said.

The GPS unit and iPod be-
longing to students were stolen

in late of October.

Usually, thieves either pawn
stolen items or sell them online,
most frequently on eBay, Tanner
said. Pawn shops are required by
law to keep records of all items
they buy. They hold the items
for a certain period and require
ID information.

But eBay has none of those
constraints.

“You don’t know who you’re
dealing with,” said Tanner.

Ofﬁcers will attempt to ac-
cess Frazier’s eBay account to
see if she has sold any stolen
items online, he said.

“She doesn’t seem to have
a lot of experience or she may
have done it simply for the thrill
and the adrenaline rush,” said
Tanner. “My speculation is that
she may either be an inexperi-
enced thief or a thrill thief.”

He further cautioned students
to take extra care of their per-
sonal items.

“These thefts are uniquely a
student problem,” he said, add-

stolen items

9

ing that students can be “na‘1've’
in how they deal with their per-
sonal safety issues.

About two years ago, Sgt. Ri-
ley arrested professional thieves
who had broken into several
classrooms of W&L and had
stolen electronic projectors from
the ceilings, Tanner said. Riley
later found out that those projec-
tors had been sold on eBay and
had been shipped to Baltimore.
He was able to recover the'pro-
jectors that were worth $50,000-
60,000.

Such incidents are rare at
W&L, but minor thefts such
as Frazier’s commonly occur
around college campuses, Ri-
ley said. The economy today is
likely to exacerbate crime rates,
Riley said.

“When the economy’s bad,
statistically, theft tends to rise.
Bad economy pushes people
across the line to do something
they wouldn’t normally do,” he
said.

W&L’s endowment bleeds $124m

Endowment drops by I 7 percent in 5 mos., administrators blame the economy

By Queenie Wong
STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee Uni-
versity’s endowment lost about
$124 million in ﬁve months, a
17 percent drop in its market
value since July l.

The decline brings the en-
dowment from $720 million on
July 1 to around $596 million at
the end of November, Universi-
ty Treasurer Steven McAllister
said.

The plunge in asset values
during the ﬁnancial crisis contin-
ues to take its toll on higher edu-
cation nationwide. Last month
Harvard——the world’s wealthiest
university--announced a record

22 percent or $8 billion drop in
its endowment.

“This is clearly the worst pe-
riod that I’ve seen...in terms of
the market impact on [W&L’s]
endowment,” said McAllister.

The loss will mean a reduc-
tion in endowment payout, used
to support university operations,
in 2009 and 2010, McAllister
said.

The shrinking endowment
will also decrease the annual
capital budget, which is primar-
ily used for projects, he said.

Two major projects, the con-
struction of the Hillel House
and the renovation of the Col-
onnade, both depend on gifts.
In other words, fundraising will

dictate whether those two proj-
ects move forward in the next
school year, McAllister said.

To counteract the possibility
of a shrinking endowment, the
university created a $20 to $21

losses.

“We’re certainly going to do
our fair amount of belt tighten-
ing. It’s not going to be a period
of growth for the university in
terms of the traditional sense of

“Washington and Lee has been around for

over 200 years and it is not going to go down

over this. We ’ll manage it. ”

June Agrillel University Provost

million endowment shortfall re-
serve in the last several years, a
move that McAllister said will
soften the blow of any future

business, but it’s also not going
to be a period, I don’t believe,‘
of heavy retrenching at the uni-
versity.” ‘

Provost June Aprille agrees.

“Washington and Lee has
been around for over 200 years
and it’s not going to go down
over this. We’ll manage it,”
Aprille said.

With 35 percent of the en-
dowment allocated to under-
graduate ﬁnancial aid, Aprille
and McAllister emphasized their
commitment to the students.

McAllister said the univer-
sity wants to make sure that the
school is affordable for all of its
students‘.

Since it’s unclear whether ﬁ-
nancial markets will decline, sta-
bilize or grow in coming years,
the Board of Trustees plans to
discuss different economic sce-

narios at February’s board meet-
ing, McAllister said.

Gerry Lenfest, an alumnus
and philanthropist, urged others
to continue giving to the univer-
sity despite the harsh economic
climate.

“Now is the time to step up

because the university needs it '

more than ever,” Lenfest said.

 

  

RSlTY LIBRARY
WASltJll\lil“(iTE0N & LEE UNlVERSlTY
LEXlNGT0l\l.VA 2445“

JAN 1.  2958

2 ' THE RING-TUM PHI

M 0 N DAY, JANUARY 12, 2009

 

Gerry Lenfest donates $17 In

Two new endowments will allow formore sabbaticals and summer research

 

COURTESY OF THE W&L WEB SITE

A $17 million gift from Gerry Lenfest,
W&L class of 1953, and W&L Law
School class of 1955, will fund new
research grants and faculty sabbati-

cals.

By Queenie Wong
STAFF WRITER

A $17 million gift by Gerry Len-
fest, a university alumnus and philan-
thropist, will increase the number of
year-long faculty sabbaticals and add
funding for summer research grants.

Lenfest’s two endowments will
fund at least 90 individual research
grants every summer, increasing each
award by $2500, University Provost
June Aprille said. Up to 10 faculty
members will be able to leave on full-
salaried sabbaticals each year.

“His leadership in contributing to
and promoting endowments is un-
precedented,” said Aprille.

The gift also furthers the universi-
ty’s ten-year strategic plan “A Liberal
Arts Education for the 215‘ Century,”
launched in 2007. The plan calls for
the recruitment, retention and devel-
opment of exceptionally qualiﬁed
faculty and staff committed to the
university’s values outlined in the uni-
Vesrity’s strategic plan, Aprille said.

Lenfest’s latest gift brings his to-

tal support of faculty to $50 million.

‘ In 2007, he committed $33 million to

help the university pay its professors
competitive salaries.
“Among all the gifts of philanthro-

Lenfest said: the quality of the stu-
dents and the quality of the faculty.
Prior to the creation of the H.F.
Lenfest Endowment for Faculty Sab-
baticals, few professors would leave

“We know its very advantageous for some faculty

members at certain stages of their career to be

gone for the entire year They can get a lot more

research done, ﬁnish a book, start a new lab proj-

J)

ect.
June Aprille, University Provost

py, I think giving back to the school
I went to is the most important,” said
Lenfest, a member of W&L’s Class
of 1953 and the W&L School of Law
Class of 1955.

There are two components that
make up a ﬁne institution like W&L,

on year-long sabbaticals because the
university could only pay half their
full salaries, Aprille said. The univer-
sity relied on external grants and fel-
lowships to make up the difference for
some faculty members. '
“We know it’s very advantageous

for some faculty members at certain
stages of their career to be gone for the
entire year. They can get a lot more re-
search done, ﬁnish a book, start a new
lab project,” she said.

After the Mellon Career Trajecto-
ries Grant expired last year, Aprille
approached Lenfest with the idea of
an endowment for faculty support.

Lenfest responded with a gift of $9
million for faculty sabbaticals and $8
million for summer research, which
he committed to last July.

With more funding, Aprille ex-
pects more faculty members to apply
for year-long sabbaticals and summer
research grants this year. Aprille will
consult with the deans of the College
and the Williams School of Com-
merce, Economics and Politics to ad-
minister both programs.

Applications for a faculty summer

research grant, due January 26, are .

available on the university’s Web site.

 

Better Ingredients.
Better Pizza.

 

   
    

§§ﬁU~I&§§Ol6I=ﬁ§*UiO§¥i§§I¥QlI§O§

 

xiﬂﬂﬁﬂQzivﬂiﬂiﬁiﬂiﬁﬁﬁlﬁﬁﬁllﬂﬂﬂlﬁﬂiIliiﬁﬁﬂﬁﬂlQiﬁdﬁiﬁtﬁi

General’s Special #1
Good all semester!  

  Large 1-topping  

Square Pan Extra

$8.99

Ulﬁﬂﬂii-UﬂiﬂiﬁziQﬁiiﬁﬁlUQﬁIID¢§*G§OiﬂUﬂ£UQ§ﬂUQ'UQ!‘

QﬁﬂﬁﬁﬁﬁﬂﬂﬂﬁlﬁIlttltﬁltﬁﬁﬁilﬁﬂﬁiliiillil
QiQ~UirD§$I5Qﬁﬁﬂﬁﬂﬁ-D-¥!#QD¥9I§U§D

 

  

3&9ifID§*lGOI!!éQ§4I8Q‘3iU§CQS§U53$!QO’§UO0§9I9D‘¢U'$i§’Q§¥9

General’s Special #2  
Good all semester!  
2 Med 2-topping

‘ Regular Crust only

 $14.99  

U‘!§lDl!%¢§Q§ClQ%QiQi*Q§'Qr¥ﬂ$ﬁUQ¥ﬂ¥%UO!9§§¥DI§QOQ.

Cal|-54o.463-7777

Get these deals emester long!!!

        

tiﬂtiﬂﬁiﬁﬂﬁﬂ-U-QC§'¢§Q¥%¥)U§ﬂV%WIU

 

Or see more GREAT offers at
WWW.PAPA.lOHNS.COM

 

 

 

 

MONDAY, JANUARY 12, 2009

THE RING-TUM PHI 0 3

 

opinions

st editorial
W®RST WEEK

Rush is brutal and Tear Night is
ridiculous. We need a change.

It’s a minor miracle that we have as many articles in this week’s
issue as we do.

Who knew there were that many upperclassmen independents?

All joking aside, Greek formal recruitment (“Rush” to us older
hands) is pretty brutal. For a week, it seems the entire campus is ob-
sessed. First-years and others who are rushing are done. You’re get-
ting zilch out of them when it comes to class or studies. Zip. Nada.

Most upperclassmen aren’t much better. If you’re an upper-

wrath for not rushing. Or you’re hiding at the Palms.

If you’re an upperclasswoman in a sorority? Well, the absolutely
soul-consuming nature of srat rush needs no introduction anymore,
does it?

We think having Freud explain his theories about the super-ego
to us in the original German would be easier to understand than how
Panhel’s recruitment system works.

And that’s even considering the way in which ﬁrst-year women
are essentially run through a giant grinder emotionally for a week
solid. We don’t know how that mythical supercomputer hidden in
Terri Cugliari’s ofﬁce is supposed to work, but we know it’s sure not
programmed to consider raw feelings.

And then there’s Tear Night. Although we here at the Phi usually
don’t wait on pins and needles to read our rival rag, we’re all look-
ing forward to the frat / srat / Plan-B stats that will come out later in
this week’s Trident.

Even when ‘our national GDP stops growing, We’re willing to bet
the health center stats keep booming like it’s the 90s and we’re in
Silicon Valley. W&L should invest some of the endowment in Tro-
jan and Durex. Seriously.

So what are we getting at? Is this the annual “down with frats”
column the Trident seems to think were under contract to write?

Are those nerds at the Phi calling for end of almighty Greek-
dom?

No. But it’s time to re-assess things.

Whatever happened to that oh-so-promising initiative Panhel and
the IFC ﬂirted with after last year’s disastrous Tear Night? Where
are those exciting new proposals and ideas for improving the system
that Alex Duckworth and Jackie DiBiasie were telling us all about
a year ago?  

Our understanding is that the Greek Vision committees are -still
meeting. What of it? It’s time for our IFC and Panhel to start either
considering their recommendations or demanding they make some.

Because though we all love our frats and stats, this last week was
rough. It’s time for us to make it easier and better for all. It’s too
brutal right now.

 
 

classman in a fraternity, you’re either rushing like a maniac to win ‘
a freshman over a rival frat, or you’re attracting your rush chair’s

—— ————————————————————— ~~- WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY ------------------------------------------- I--
. THE RING-TUM PHI.
MANAGING EDITOR ALLISON CHOPIN
NEWS EDITOR JOHN HENDERSON ,
OPINIONS EDITOR CODY BEAUCHAMP
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR CELEST CRUZ-
CARANDANG
SPORTS EDITOR WILL DORRANCE

COPY EDITOR BRETT HOLTON

MICHAEL MORELLA
CONTRIBUTING WRITERS BRIAN CHERRY
ABEL DELGADO
NEVILLE FOGARTY
JACOB GEIGER
JAMIE KIM

JOAN OGUNTIMEIN
MERRITT POLING
CHRIS SCHNECK
LEE TACKETT
QUEENIE WONG

DESIGN EDITOR
BUSINESS MANAGERS

LARA JORDAN
STROCK MOORE
CHARLES PERSONS

DISTRIBUTION MNGR. ROB GEORGE

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE
RING-TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community For students, faculty,
parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire
to spark discussions that lead to discovering
information that prompts change.

THE RlNG—TUM PHI IS PUBLISHED MONDAYS
DURING THE UNDERGRADUATE SCHOOL YEAR.
THE RING—TUM PHI IS A MEMBER OF THE MEDIA
BOARD, BUT IS OTHERWISE INDEPENDENT.
QUESTIONS OR CONCERNS ABOUT THE PHI
SHOULD BE ADDRESSED To THE EDITORS AT
PHI@WLU.EDU OR To THE MEDIA BOARD AT
Q MEDIABOARD@wLU.EDU. THE MEDIA BOARD
Is AN INDEPENDENT, STUDENT-RUN EDITORIAL
OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE WORKING WITH ALL
MEDIA OUTLETS ON THE WASHINGTON &

LEE CAMPUS. ALL INQUIRIES WILL REMAIN
CONFIDENTIAL. THE RING-TUM PHI WELCOMES
ALL LETTERS. wE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO EDIT
SUBMISSIONS FOR CONTENT AND LENGTH.
LETTERS AND ADVERTISING DO NOT NECESSARILY
REFLECT THE OPINION OF THE RING—TUM PHI
STAFF. THIS NEWSPAPER OBSERVES CURRENT
cOURT DEFINITIONS OF LIBEL AND OBscENITY.
THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540)458-4060
FAX: (540)458-4059
EMAIL: PHl@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

' Democratic

 

Not ‘Sweet Caroline’

Just being a Kennedy shouldn ’t make you a Senator

By Abel Delgado
COLU M NIST

Someone needs to tell Caro-
line Kennedy the upper house
of Congress is not the House of
Lords.

The party that claims to rep-
resent middle and working class
Americans is seriously consider-
ing appointing a daughter of a
former president with no public
oﬂice experience to the Senate
seat currently occupied by the
wife of a former president who
had no public office experience
when she won it. The word nep-
otism deﬁnitely comes to mind.

What happened to our great
meritocracy? Wasn’t the elec-
tion of President-Elect Obama
supposed to prove that anyone,
regardless of background, could
aspire to be president? Well we
can all dream of being president
one day, but unless we belong
to a political royal family, we
should give up all hope of serv-
ing as Senator from New York.

Just a few months ago, it was
Democrats who were ridicul-
ing a relatively inexperienced
woman running for high ofﬁce,
but at least Sarah Palin was self-
made and came from the work-
ing class. '

Now some Democrats are
favoring a completely inexperi-
enced woman running for high
ofﬁce who was apparently born
with the silver spoon and the
Senate seat, or throne, to look
forward to. Republicans would
do well to have a ﬁeld day with
this.

look like “Sweet Caroline” was
into politics. One of the reasons
New York Governor David Pa-
terson saidjhe was considering
Kennedy for the seat is her close
relationship with President-Elect
Obama, so we can add cronyism
to the list of words that come to
mind as well. Kennedy didn’t

Kennedy has absolutely no legislative experi-

ence and no real political experience unless

you count the 2008 election speeches and

Veep advice she gave for Obama.

Is this change we can believe
in? Kennedy has absolutely no
legislative experience and no
real political experience unless
you count the 2008 election
speeches and Veep advice she
gave for Obama. Her public
service record is basically a list
of charitable boards she sits on.
Up until Kennedy and her uncle,
Senator Ted Kennedy of Mas-
sachusetts, threw their support
behind Obama during the Dem-
ocratic primaries, it didn’t even

even bother voting in some key
elections for Democrats in New
York. At least she didn’t come to
New York solely to run for the
Senate, which is an improve-
ment from the Senator she may
be replacing.

America is not supposed to
have political family dynasties;
the House of Bush should have
proved that. But do not tell this
to the House of Kennedy or
the House of Clinton, for they
are determined to stay relevant.

With all the problems and scan-
dals that greeted Democrats who
recently arrived in Congress,
having to explain why Caroline
Kennedy has earned her place in
“the most exclusive clu ”
going to cause more headaches
and give Republicans more
openings.

Republicans are just as ca-
pable of nepotism and political
dynasties, but former Florida
Governor Jeb Bush did them
a favor when he took his name
off the list of potential candi-
dates to replace Florida Senator
Mel Martinez in 2010. It’s not
that Bush was inexperienced; he
was very successful and popular
Governor, but Bush understood
his last name was toxic and that
Republicans needed new names.
It was no accident that one of the
ﬁrst people Bush called once he
made his decision was Marco
Rubio, the Florida Republican
and former State Speaker of the
House who is considered a rising
star in the party.

Democrats, after ﬁnding suc-
cess-with an untraditional can-
didate, look like they’re return-
ing to their old ways. Here’s to
wondering if anything has really
changed at all.

Time for usto ditch politics as usual

We need all that change we can believe in sooner rather than later, please

By Jacob Geiger
COLU MNIST

Withvthe United States cur-
rently mired in a 13-month
long recession that may last
for at least another year, there’s
no question that the last few
months have not been “business
as usual.”

During Washington and
Lee’s fall term we saw the fail-
ure of Lehman Brothers; the
nationalization of insurance gi-
ant AIG plus mortgage lenders
Freddie Mac and Fannie Mac; a
$700 billion bailout of the ﬁnan-
cial system and a smaller ~ but
equally controversial — bailout
of General Motors and Chrys-
ler.

But despite the incredible
economic crisis — not to men-
tion a new foreign policy crisis
in the Middle East — the last
six weeks have been politics as
usual.

Illinois led off the parade
of idiocy with the arrest of its
governor, Rod
Blagojevich, after a special

prosecutor uncovered evidence
that Blago, as he’s known in his
home state, was brazenly trying
to sell President-elect Barack
Obama’s Senate seat to the
highest bidder.

Despite initially sayingafter
his arrest that he would not ap-
point anyone to the seat, Blago-
jevich changed course on Dec.
30 and appointed Roland Burris,
a former state attorney general.

That led us to last week’s
ﬁasco, as Burris arrived for
the ﬁrst day of the new Senate
session even though he knew
his appointment papers had
not been signed by the Illinois
Secretary of State, as the law
requires. He showed up even
knowing that Senate Majority
Leader Harry Reid had already
said he would not be seated or
admitted by the Senate.

So on a day that Alcoa, one
of the nation’s largest industrial
companies, announced that it
was laying off ‘l3,500 work-
ers, the Senate was focused on
whether or not it should admit
the appointment of a governor

whose ego and idiocy is ex-
ceeded only by his alleged cor-
ruption.

This whole disaster doesn’t
even begin to touch on Minne-
sota, where Democrat Al Frank-
en and Republican Norm Cole-
man are still squabbling over
who won that Senate race back
in November. Coleman led by
about 215 votes when the polls
closed on Election Night, but a
recount that was certiﬁed last
week gave Franken a 225-vote
lead. Coleman announced I an. 6
that he was suing to reverse the
result, meaning Minnesota may
be one senator short for several
months.

Republicans have also made
some stupid mistakes lately.
Chip Saltsman, a former leader
Tennessee GOP who is a candi-
date to become the new chair-
man of the Republican National
Committee, sent out a Christmas
CD that included a song titled
“Barack the Magic Negro.”

Saltsman said the song was
clearly a satire, but he mostly
managed to prove that idiocy is

truly a bipartisan position these I

days.

We’re essentially a po-

_ litically paralyzed nation right

now. President George Bush is
perhaps the lamest duck in the
history of lame ducks. Obama
is refusing to make any ma-
jor statements about economic
policy or the new war in Gaza,
arguing that the nation can only
have one president at a time.
From a technical standpoint,
he’s right, but that basically
means the U.S. has no president
right now.

This transition period be-
tween presidents is usually a
quiet one, but with a war in the
Middle East and an economic
crisis, the world is not cooperat-
ing with our power vacuum this
time around.

Change may have come to
America, as Obama said in his
Election Night speech, but the
last few weeks have also proved

’ that some things in the political

world — like greed, arrogance
and stupidity — will never
change.

Israel’s attacks on Hamas justiﬁed

F resh-back from the Holy Land, columnist Brain Cherry defends Israeli strikes

By Brian Cherry
co LU MNIST

Having visited Israel over
my winter break, including hav-
ing been there when the war
broke out, I feel it necessary to
give my opinion on the conﬂict,
and hopefully shed light on a
few misconceptions many peo-
ple may have about the Israel-
Hamas conflict which may have
been caused by extreme anti-Is-
rael bias in the media. '

For the past two weeks, the
Israel Defense Force (IDF) has
led an offensive inside the Gaza
strip with the goal of weaken-
ing, if not destroying, Hamas,
a terrorist organization centered
in Gaza. According to Hamas’
charter, the sole purpose of the
group’s existence is to destroy
the state of Israel.

It should not be surprising
that relations between Israel and
Hamas have not been peaceful

since Hamas’ establishment in

1987. Between February 2008

and June 18, 2008, Israel saw
approximately 1,900 rockets
ﬁred into its borders by Hamas
militants in the Gaza strip.

In June of 2008, however,
Egypt helped mediate a six-
month ceaseﬁre between Israel

. and Hamas set to begin on June
19. After the beginning of the
ceaseﬁre the rocket ﬁre into Is-
rael decreased signiﬁcantly but
did not stop. On November 4,
2008, however, Israel also vio-
lated the ceaseﬁre by killing 6
Hamas gunmen upon discover-
ing a tunnel into Israel that had
been built by Hamas (not only
was this tunnel built completely
illegally, but the tunnel was not
built with peaceful intentions).
Following this incident rocket
ﬁre into Israel has increased,
leading to more Israeli civilian
casualties and property damage.

Despite demands by Israel
for the rocket ﬁre to stop, Hamas
rejected a renewing of the truce
established in June.

Israel had no choice but to
lead an assault on the organiza-
tion attacking its civilians.

News coverage of this con-
ﬂict in Gaza has shown the world
pictures of civilian casualties,
calling Israel a “terror state.”

Some are even going as far as
to call the conﬂict genocide and
comparing the conﬂict to the
Holocaust (such statements and
comparisons are outrageous).

The vast majority of casual-
ties in Gaza have not been civil-
ian casualties.

Israel attacks where Hamas‘

is, however, and Hamas has be-
trayed the people of Gaza by hav-
ing bases in schools, mosques,
and other public areas.

Hamas does not care if the
people of Gaza die, because the

more civilian casualties there
are, the more sympathy they
will receive from the rest of the
world. If the people of Gaza
would rise, up against the Hamas
militants, or at least support the
IDF, Hamas would be defeated
and no more civilians would
die.

When a state sees its citizens,
its civilians nonetheless, being
attacked by militants in an orga-
nization, they have no choice but
to defend their people.

Hamas exists only with the
goal of destroying Israel. Be-
cause of this, it is Israel’s duty to
see to its destruction.

Just like the United States
has led a War on Terror to see
to the destruction of terrorist
organizations around the world
who wish to see the destruction
of the United States, Israel has a

responsibility to destroy Hamas. I

Only then will there be peace.

is just

  

THE RING-TUM PHI 0 4

MONDAY, JANUARY 12, 2009

  arts&|ife

 

Staniar exhibit is weightless  

New Staniar gallery art exhibit features both photographs and ceramic pieces

 

MICHAEL KEN NA / Artist

English photographer Michael Kenna paired
up with Japanese ceramlcist Satoru Hoshino
to create an exhibit that Interests the viewer
In a variety of ways.

By Celeste Cruz-Carandang
and Merritt Poling

ARTS & LIFE EDITOR AND STAFF
wnnrn

The familiarity of the Staniar
Gallery greets a veteran visitor.
The same glass doors, the same
wooden ﬂoors.

Something is different about it
this time, however. Weightless, the
current exhibit by Satoru Hoshino
and Michael Kenna, envelops the
viewer in its ambience.

The exhibit is a surprising
blend of mediums, incorporat-
ing Hoshino’s ceramic pieces and
Kenna’s black and white photo-
graphs. Although the works of the
two artists are seemingly different,
the exhibit still retains a profound
coherence.

Large, generally indiscemible
dark shapes, are immediately ap-
parent to anyone even walking
by. Upon seeing these shapes, the
viewer might feel almost as though

he has entered some sort of dream
world.

The massive, abstracted ﬁgures
are more easily compared to sculp-
ture than to any ceramics.

Upon closer examination, the
black and white photographs inter-
spersed with the ceramics reveal
their beauty and signiﬁcance. The
images are small, but powerful.

One in particular features a
scene somehow familiar to most.
At ﬁrst glance, the photograph is
of an ordinary‘ Seascape. But, if
you look closely, Kenna’s photo-
graph reveals a curious deﬁance of
physics. ‘

One large stone seems to be
supported by an impossibly small
base. The land above it, weighing
hundreds of tons by any estima-
tion but somehow retains a power-
ful stability.

The beauty of Kenna’s work
lies in its ability to evoke powerful
emotion.

Hoshino mimics these same

shapes in one of his larger works.
The pieces themselves look to be
made up of small, dark ceramic
stones that seem tiny enough to ﬁt
in the palm of your hand. The artist
creates a structure with the same
concept: a large mass precariously
balanced on a small point.

More astonishing is the fact
that these huge works are made of
such small components.

Hoshino’s efforts are obvious,
but the viewer never feels the
stress of the artist’s attention to de-
tail and the amount of time it took
to construct such a piece.

Instead, Hoshino’s works con-
tribute to the sense of calm that
can be consistently felt throughout
the entire exhibit.

Saturo Hoshino is a Japanese
ceramicist of international ac-
claim. He has exhibited his unique
pieces in galleries throughout the
world, including Japan, Europe
and the United States.

As a craftsman, his specialty

lies in post—object ceramics.

Michael Kenna’s work has been
featured in countless exhibits in-
ternationally since 1979. Kenna’s
inspiration for the exhibit came
from a book he wrote entitled Ja-
pan Which was published in 2006.

He has authored several other
books in addition to Japan.

Kenna currently resides in Se-
attle, Wash.

Weightless will be exhibited
in the Stanair gallery from Jan 5
until Jan 30 during regular gallery
hours.

There will be an opening lec-
ture with a reception to follow on
Jan 22 at 6:00 pm.

The exhibit evokes a rare sense
of tranquility. Both artists have
produced striking works through
very different mediums. Howev-
er, both ceramics and photography
work together to produce an unex-
pected sense of balance.

Artists get their
pictures moving

Two photographers chose to
feature dance in their work

By Joan Oguntlmein
5 TA F F W RITE R

“Celebrating Dance through
Photography” is a photo exhibit
showcasing work from photogra-
phers Kevin Remington and Fran-
ces Dowdy. The exhibit opened in
Kamen Gallery, the atrium of Len-
fest Hall, on Jan 7 and will continue
until Mar 31..

Remington, an award—winning
photojournalist, began photograph-
ing dance four years ago and like

est,“ said Dowdy of her class in
her artist’s statement. “Aside from
the personal nature of portraiture,
much of my satisfaction comes
from the process. . .of taking each
portrait beyond being a mere pho-
tograph and making it a work of
art.”

Though she opened a portrait
studio in Atlanta, her fascination
with dance and speciﬁcally, dancers
led her to photographing dancers
for her personal work. As her work
in the exhibit shows, Dowdy, as she

 much of my satisfaction comes from... taking

each portrait beond a mere photograph and mak-

ing it a work of art...each dancer brings his or her

unique experience...and our collaboration takes

us on an extraordinary photographic journey

Frances Dowdy, artist

many admirers of his work, he fell
in love with the emotion, light and
motion that his photographs cap-
ture.

q Remington is currently the pho-
tographer for both Washington and
Lee University and the Virginia
Military Institute. Many of Rem-
ington’s photographs in the exhibit
feature students from the W&L
Repertory Dance Company. His
photos document the dance com-
pany’s performances from the last
two years. Some photographs were
taken during Professor Jennifer Da-
vies’s dance class

“The images that come alive are
deﬁnitely most amazing,” Reming-
ton said.

Remington used a slow shut-
ter speed to capture blur to show
motion. His favorite piece in the
exhibit is a photograph with a girl
with a blue scarf in the air. When
asked why the photograph was his
favorite, Remington said it was “be-
cause it just happened .” Remington
said he most enjoyed the photos that
were of spontaneous movement.

Frances Dowdy began her ca-
reer in portrait photography several
years after majoring in Art History
when she enrolled in her ﬁrst pho-
tography class at the age of 40.

“Portraiture immediately
emerged as an area of special inter-

stated in her artist’s statement, has
begun “exploring the diverse nature
of dance, with more intimate por-
trait-like studies.” While many of
her photos are in black and white,
some are in a “playful pictorial
style” in color.

Like Remington, Dowdy fea-
tures students in the W&L Reper-
tory Dance Company in her pho-
tographs in this exhibit. Her work
also features professional dancers
from the Halestone Dance Studio
and the Community Dance Connec-
tion Theater.

“Each dancer brings his or her
unique experience, style and vi-
sion and our collaboration takes us
on an extraordinary photographic
journey,” said Dowdy, in her artist’s
statement.

The works of Remington and
Dowdy are captivating. Each pho-
tographer captures a wide range of
strong feeling and communicates
the passion and intense emotion of
the dancers.

“I really like the exhibit,” said
Lenfest Center work-study student
Adriana Gonzalez. “The movement
and emotion that ﬂows through the
pictures is extremely evident. I’m
glad I get to look at it every day.”

There will be an artist’s recep-
tion on Wednesday, Jan 14 from 5
p.m. to 7 p.m.

 

    

KEVIN REMINGTON / Photographer

Kevin Remington has been photographing the W&L Repertory

dance company for four years. His exhibit portrays some of
their classes and past performances.

 

Thank God it's Over! by Neville L. Fogarty
‘Head over to ringtumphicrossword.blogspotcom to check your solution to this week's puzzle!

Across I 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 it! I I 12 I3
I Scams

6 Place for Mandela, H 15 16

once

In Slew l7 l8 I‘)

I4 “Home >______‘‘

15 Gardner and others

16 Latin places

17 Paramecimn propellers

18 The King's  once.

20 RUSH

22 Spine~tingIing

23 Takes off’ the bottle

24 Get in a pool‘?

27 "l-loiiday mo,

28 Crooked 43 4,; 45 45, 47

30 Calcuius calculation

32 Siiamelaceti 43 49 5° 5‘ 53 53

37 RUSH , y

_ , 54 55 <1, 5? 5x 59

41 Anne Hank. for (me

42 Lawiess mic (,0 5;

43 ”'?viuseum Mile"

buiiding. with "The" 62 63 (>4

44 Cling to

47 M or F on a form 63 66 67

-88 Tank type

52 Umps” calls

54 RUSH

60 M iclmel, for (mt: 7 Bring up 29 Whistler. at times 48 Type of goat‘?

61 Mass pan 8 Big name in chips 31 Blood~typ%ng letters :19 "The Price is Right"
52 ]3gm},3rd 9 (’.§Rli-'5 kin 32 Cyndi Laupefs “ ____ M h‘’-‘‘'

63 Canadian tribe ' 10 Pizzeria orécr B"-P" 5° "‘ 3%“ “P”

64 Emulate Ami)’ Rooney 3‘ .-......_. Rica 33  BVJWWIC3 51 iB‘m.*-Z-l“>k 40%“

65 ..Fm Your M“ On”/.. 12 Myosinss pamm. 34 Midriiomh day 52 Gibe

66 Wmml 33 Recmigs 35 Zero, for pi 53 "Wi3p Wants to lie at
67 Posts V 19 ip0_,5t_9_D0wn 36 Bonsai Kitten was a I\’1‘I1‘°_’1%‘"e" mkhnc

pmfgssggn noted one on the 5P°“5°‘
Dawn Exist Internet 55 Mark ofa ruler‘?
1 ,,w.dH.cmpem& 24 ,,Nigh1 en 38 Loser of 1588 56 Indian tourist stop
CIaVi€f" Composer Mounmin-«’“ 39 2009 Sugar Bowl 57 Role for Julia

2 ml? 130365 25 Bui.‘faIo’s county “"‘“"f"“°‘ 58 Peel

3 1-lang out 26 Ryan-.5 origin,“ 40 A‘°q““:° q 59 Takes on a date

4 Boning. for example P"3l‘l°“ 0" "The 44 Sm M R rmmssancc

5 Where to ﬁnd an 0), Ste 1, ()ffce" 45 Roswell sighting

6 Lmlewiikc 28 "My (ieneratioii" band. 46 Small lizards

with "The”

 

MONDAY, JANUARY 12,2009

THE RING-TUM PHI -

5

 

sports

' The state of the New York Yankees

Chris Schneck pokes fun at owner George Steinbrenner and his overspending habits

By Chris Schneck
STAFF WRITER

The Yankees have been the
evil empire in sports since their
ﬁrst season in 1913. In the last
95 years the Yankees have won
a major-league leading 26 World
Series titles and 39 American
League pennants.

But the single stat that most
people cite for their dislike of
the Yankees is their payroll,
an astounding $209 million in
2008. George Steinbrenner, the
owner of the Yankees, has an
extreme desire to win that is
only matched by his seemingly
unlimited budget. In 2008, the
Yankees’ payroll was $70 mil-
lion more than next highest paid
team, the New York Mets, and
$190 million more than the low-
est paid team, the Florida ‘Mar-
lins.

But despite every resource
that money could buy, the 2008
Yankees failed to make the play-
offs. Could the Yankees organi-

zation be on the downturn?

The typical Yankee response
to losing is to spend more mon-
ey, acquiring new star players. It
would appear that was exactly
what the Yankees were doing in
the 2009 offseason.

So far the Yankees have spent
$423.5 million since the 2008
baseball season concluded. That
sum will be paid to Mark Teixei-
ra, CC Sabathia and AJ Burnett.
Sabathia split his time between
the Cleveland Indians and the
Milwaukee Brewers, which he
led to the NL Wild Card, in 2008.
Overall, he was 17-10 with an
ERA of 2.70 and 251 strikeouts,
but he was 11-2 with three com-
plete games with the Brewers.
The Yankees signed Sabathia
on Dec. 18, 2008, to a seven-
year $161 million contract, the

‘largest contract in MLB history

given out to a pitcher.

On the very same day, the
Yankees also signed free agent
pitcher AJ Burnett to a ﬁve-year,

$82.5 million deal. Burnett ﬁn-
ished the 2008 season with an
18-10 markland an American
League leading 231 strikeouts.
But the Yankees were not
done yet. On Jan. 6, 2009, Teix-
eira was introduced as a Yan-
kee. He agreed to a preliminary

going according to plan for the
Yankees. They had secured the
top free agents and had ﬁlled
their needs by spending, spend-
ing and more spending. Again,
it appears as though everything
was normal in New York, or was
it?

In 2008, the Yankees ’ payroll was $ 7 0
million more than the highest paid team,
the New York Mets, and $190 million

more than the lowest paid team, the F lor-

ida Marlins.

deal woith $180 million over 8
years. Teixeira batted .308 with
33 home runs and 121 RBI’s
in 2008. Sabathia, Burnett and
Teixeira rank ﬁrst, ﬁfth and sec-
ond respectively on mlbtraderu-
mors.com’s ranking of top free
agents in 2009.

Everything seemed to be

Actually, the Yankees are due
to spend $30 million less than
last year. After players who were
high paid and who had under
performed such as Andy Petite,
Jason Giambi and Carl Pavano
came off the books, the Yankees’
payroll was reduced by a great

' amount.

Women’s basketball beats

While it seems that the Yan-
kees are spending as much if not
more so than ever, they actually
cut payroll by 14 percent. This
payroll out came in the same
off-season that the Tampa Bay
Devil Rays, the defending AL
Champions and the Yankee’s

‘divisional rivals, increased their
payroll by 25 percent.

But it does not stop there; in
the 2009 season the Yankees are

opening the new Yankee Stadi-

um. The total cost of the project
is $l.3_billion. One would think
with the constant scllouts, a tele-
vision station, and the biggest
market in the country that the
Yankees and Steinbrenner could
foot the bill. But they couldn’t.
The Yankees are receiving
considerable help from the state
of New York in order to com-
plete the stadium on time. The
land that the stadium and park-
ing lies on belongs not to the
Yankees, but to the state; the
parking constructions will be

built and paved not by the Yan-
kees, but by the state; the city
also will issue tax-exempt bonds
for the Yankees’ new stadium. In
total, the New York state taxpay-
ers will pay $70 million to-help
the Yankees, as authorized by
the state legislature. -

Could the richest team in
baseball be in trouble? Could
overspending every year ﬁnally
be catching up with them? Could
the recent economic downturn
be hurting them too? Could the
Yankees be the sports world’s

Bernard Madoff, the genius be-_

hind a Ponzi scheme, or simply
a fraud who was pretending?
Maybe, just maybe King George
could be turning into Average
Joe. Or maybe a lot more spend-
ing is to come.

 

    emit?

t-trzass. {Eta ttnt;a t:§ re ’t"or tgimft

{ﬁtter front ear esraplete arena
{Pr Jets: aster tare sffaar /iii. i"'e'.‘}t2’ t’.".<i.r’V EA Z‘,8i:j_,ie1s:’

      

.1-yochburg,Rando|ph 

   . .  . g . ;.;.
Generals score second most points in program history

in win Friday, followed by another win Saturday

'2}.

Eriday Night seafood Buffet with {Stan Legs Sam-teem

Saturday ttigtxt Rama Rib Eitimer ﬁpradiﬁpm _
Sunday Baked Cizietzen. kerk Lela, & Pot Roast tiara-apm

Friday 8% iéaeaeay Late Night Breakfast Bar t0pm~2am
Breakfast Sar E’ Says a Week €:3am~“% tam ‘
Daséy riot iiosatry Sat tiara-tbprn

By Will Dorrance
SPORTS EDITOR

In the ODAC preseason coaches poll,
the Washington and Lee women’s bas-
ketball team was ranked ninth out of 11
teams in the conference. On Jan. 4, the
Generals beat the preseason favorite Ran-
dolph-Macon 67-66.

After a 15-point loss to Virginia Wes-
leyan on Tuesday, W&L faced off against
the preseason number two seed Lynch-
burg (LC) on Friday at the Warner Cen-
ter. The Generals upset the Hornets in
convincing fashion 94-77.

The 94 points that W&L scored on Fri-
day is the second most in the program’s
history. Back on Dec. 1 of this season,
the Generals tallied 111 points in a win
over Hollins to set the scoring record.

First-yearr guard Becca Bolton paced
W&L with a career-high 29 points and 10
rebounds for her second double-double.
Sophomore center Felice Herman, senior
guard Bethany Ridenhour and ﬁrst-year
guard Meghan Ingram joined Bolton in
double ﬁgures.

Bolton described the team’s offensive
strategy, “We did a really good job run-
ning our offense and passing the ball. We
didn’t settle for the jump shots, and we
were able to get the ball inside more.”

LC junior forward Brittany Dahn, a
regional all-star last season, led the Hor-
nets with 21 points and 11 rebounds.

The teams appeared to be fairly even
to start the game as the ﬁrst half saw
seven lead changes. An athletic squad,
the Hornets defense employed full court
pressure that startled the Generals at the
beginning of the contest. Generals coach
Mandy King called on sophomore point
guard Allie Long, and she was able to es-
cape the intense LC pressure.

W&L tumed over the ball 16 times

 

in the ﬁrst half but only seven times in
the second stanza. Despite their ﬁrst-half
turnovers, the Generals led for the major-
ity of the game. At the break, the home
team was up 41-35.

Bolton and the rest of the W&L team
were able to carry the momentum from

ing a W&L record for three-pointers in a
game. In addition, Ingram recorded six
boards, ﬁve assists, two blocks and two
takeaways.

Bolton also registered 10 points and
ﬁve rebounds. Randolph had three start-
ers ﬁnish in double ﬁgures: sophomore

“Our team is mindset going into the next couple of

games is that we know we can win if we work hard.

We beat the preseason number one [and number two

seeds], so I think everyone knows that we are going

to be able to compete with all the teams in the confer-

I

ence. ’

Becca Bolton, first-year guard

the end of the ﬁrst period into the start of
the second.

In the opening minutes after halftime,
Coach King’s club pushed its lead to dou-
ble digits.

With 7:45 remaining in the game and a
20-point W&L lead, LC coach Stephanie
Tobey became visibly frustrated with her
team and substituted reserves for all ﬁve
players on the ﬂoor, including Dahn. The
second team played for the remainder of
the game.

W&L shot an impressive 50 percent
from the ﬁeld and 91.7 percent from the
charity stripe. The 17-point Generals win
gives them the 15-14 edge in the all-time
W&L-LC series.

/ On Saturday, W&L travelled to Lynch-
burg, Va., for an away ODAC game with
Randolph. The Generals showed no let-
down after Friday’s big win and once
again came out on top, 75-58. After the
ﬁrst two minutes of the game, W&L re-
linquished its lead.

Ingram had another good game Satur-
day, scoring a game-high 26 points. She
was 10 of 13 from the ﬁeld including 6
of 9 from behind the three-point line, ty-

forward Michelle Brockman with 18, ju-
nior forward Lindsay Cross with 17 and
senior guard Sam Schaffstall with 10.
However, the Generals limited their op-
ponents to only four points off the bench
and the W&L offense proved to be too
much for the WildCat defense to handle.

The two wins this weekend put the
Generals at 4-6 on the year and 4-2 in the
ODAC, which puts them in ﬁfth place in
the conference.

Looking ahead, W&L has ﬁve straight.
upcoming ODAC games: ﬁrst up is a 7:00
p.m. showdown on Tuesday at Eastern
Mennonite, who was ranked second in
the conference as of press time Sunday.

The Generals’ recent success has giv-
en them conﬁdence going into this stretch:
of important ODAC games. Bolton said,
“Our team’s mindset going into the next
couple of games is that we know we can
win if we work hard. We beat the pre-
season number one '[and number two
seeds], so I think everyone knows that we
are going to be able to compete with all
the teams in the conference.”

iltaiiy Seep, Satan, s Wait Sat tiam-titers

{l.l:*e;ier i§r:é::kiEtst' 34 ii.<:>t:z‘s a day, 7 days 2: weeiii

I

.§~:"eaa: feairértl 1'l»§£’{!§§ at .§:rir{§ser;t ii’t2.s;iitzzI§{;>.’

 

 

i.,oe;a.te

it at

  

3-iii  E-M. §€:«4i£ W5. 3.536 ;‘«3or%§‘2 §.ee ilwg,-=., §..t'x%ngi.t)i1, VA

iistti-szitrf§~34i7§i

antique ease Cars at its “ieyst

 

Top I0 Skills
Employer: Seek

\

1. Communication skills
2. Strong work ethic
3. Teamwork skills
4. Initiative
5. Interpersonal skills
6. Problem-solving skills
7. Analytical skills
8. Flexibility and adaptability
9. Computer skills
10. Technical skills

Visit Career Services:
before Thanksgiving Break
to talk about job Search strategies.
Your parents will be proud of you!

VVASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

CAREERSERVICES

 

  

MONDAY, JANUARY 12, 2009

  

6 ° THE RING-TUM PHI

sports

 

-deck  

 

Mon Tues Wen Tnuns FRI SAT SUN
at at
M0|'|'S Lynchburg; Roanoke
Basketball

7 p.m. 7 p.m.

at V5 at

Women's

Basketball EMU Roanoke Bc
7 p.m. 7 pm. 3 p.m.

vs

Men’s
swlmmlng fettysbmgi

2 p.m.

vs

Women’s 3 I,
lswlmmlngi ems mg‘
2 p.m.
vs
$9“: Roanoke
rac
4:30 p.m.
vs
Women’s
Track Roanoke
, 4:30 p.m.
W&L

llllrestllng ' Invlte
10 a.m.

 

 numbers
0

The number of NFL rookie quarterbacks to win two playoff games be-

fore the Ravens’ Joe Flacco beat the Miami Dolphins in the wild card

game and the Tennessee Titans in the divisional game this season.

3

The number of times Indianapolis Colts quarterback Peyton Manning
has been named the Most Valuable Player. He nowjoins Brett Favre

as the only three—time NFL MVP winners.

$29 million

The amount the New England Patriots will have tied up in their two
quarterbacks, Tom Brady and Matt Cassel, if reports are true that they
will soon place the team's franchise tag on Cassel for more than $14

million.

 

“Overall, I just felt loyal to this place. I feel like a
role model, and a lot of times people start‘ things
and don’t ﬁnish them. I didn’t want to be like that.
I wanted to be loyal to the university. I wanted to
ﬁnish what I started and play another year."

Florlda quarterback Tlm Tebow after he announced hls plan to return
for hls senior season at the school’s celebration of Its second football
natlonal champlonshlp In three years. Courtesy of espn.com.

“If I’m Utah, or if I’m USC or if I’m Texas, I might
still have some quibbles  That's why we need a
playof 

President-elect Barack Obama, who has on numerous occasions
publlclzed hls crltlclsm of college football’s Bowl champlonshlp Serles.
Courtesy of cbssports.com.

“I said to Leigh, we were sitting at dinner, ‘Every-
thing’s equal. Where would you want to play?’ Fi-
nally, she broke down and said, ‘I want you
to be a Yankee.’ That's what did it for me.”

Newly slgned New York Yankee lnflelder Mark Telxelra, cltlng hls wlfe
Lelgh’s desire to move to New York as the deciding factor In signing
wlth the Yankees. Courtesy of espn.com. .

“I think I might be back in Dallas [next season]. ”

Free agent cornerback Adam Jones on CBS’ NFL pregame show even
though the Dallas cowboys released him on Wednesday after a season
In which he was suspended six games for an off-the-ﬂeld ﬂght. The

- Cowboys traded for Jones thls sprlng after he was suspended for the
2007 season for numerous lncldents of misconduct.

Reviewing the BCS '

Tackett takes a look back at the college football season

By Lee Tackett
STAFF warren

After another virtuoso performance
by Florida all-purpose quarterback Tim
Tebow in the BCS National Championship
game, the 2008-2009 college football sea-
son has ﬁnally come to a close. Although
there were no pure upsets of the magni-
tude of last year’s opening week shocker
of Appalachian State over Michigan, this
year’s season raised new debates regard-
ing conference supremacy, the validity of
the BCS system and whether there is truly
a need for the Magic Jack St. Petersburg
bowl.

With 34 bowl games played" during
this year’s bowl season, 64 of the 120
FBS teams who met the criteria for bowl
eligibility of six wins were given the op-
portunity to participate in the post-season.
The magnitude of bowls is almost entirely
dependent on what kind of school is play-
ing in a bowl.

A traditional power like West Virginia,
who knocked off an upstart North Caro-
lina team in the Meineke Car Care‘ Bowl,
was unable to meet their individual pre-
season expectations and was able to use
the bowl game as not only a proper send
off for one of their programs most deco-
rated athletes, quarterback Pat White, but
also was able to play younger players in
an effort to evaluate talent for the follow-
ing season.

This isn’t to say that bowl wins aren’t
important to bigger schools, especially
when a ﬁrst-year coach like West Vir-
ginia’s Bill Stewart is involved, but after
huge BCS bowl win in the previous sea-
son, West Virginia has reasons to be disap-
pointed about the 2008-2009 season. The
spirit of the bowl season greatly differs,
however, for a team like Colorado State,
whose victory in the New Mexico Bowl
was the school’s ﬁrst post-season victory
since 2001. Colorado State’s victory will
not only be a large boost to recruiting for
another ﬁrst-year coach Steve Fairchild
but gives the program signiﬁcant momen-
tum moving into the 2009 season with few

- players graduating.

In the imperfect system of the Bowl
Championship Series, 2008 may have
been its most difﬁcult year in truly iden-
tifying the top two teams at season’s end.

The BCS Championship ended as a match-
up between number one ranked Big 12
champion Oklahoma, whose only blemish
was a ten-point loss to Texas in the Red
River Shootout, against the number two
ranked SEC champion Florida Gators,
who dropped a early home game to Ole
Miss after an extra point was blocked in
the game’s closing minutes.

Rankings aside, many in the media
didn’t question Florida’s position in the
national title game. After all, the Gators
play in arguably the nation’s toughest con-
ference and had just knocked off previous-

.15"
ﬁfteen teams TCU and BYU, and was
given a chance in the Sugar Bowl against
SEC runner-up Alabama. After being very
large underdogs, Utah pulled possibly the
greatest BCS upset ever and knocked off
Alabama to complete a 13-0 season.

Not to be outdone, USC, who dropped
an early season road game to Oregon State,
took the hammer to Big 10 champion
Penn State in the Rose Bowl to complete
another one-loss season that concluded in
a convincing win over a top Big 10 team.

Florida was crowned national cham-.

pion by both the AP and thevCoaches poll

Although there were no pure upsets of the magnitude of

last year is opening week shocker of Appalachian State

over Michigan, this year is season raised new debates

regarding conference supremacy, the validity of the BCS

system and whether there is truly a need for the magic-

' Jack St. Petersburg bowl.‘

ly undefeated Alabama in the SEC cham-
pionship game. ,Oklahoma’s position in
the game was much more contested given
that their position in the Big 12 champi-
onship game came as a notion of winning
a three-way tie in the Big 12 south with
Texas Tech and Texas.

Although Texas beat Oklahoma by ten,
they dropped a road game on the ﬁnal play
to Texas Tech. Texas Tech’s claims to be in
the Big 12 championship game as a part of
the three-way tie were essentially silenced
aﬁer a 44-point loss to Oklahoma. When
the dust settled, the ﬁnal tiebreaker for the
three teams was the highest rated team in
the ﬁnal BCS rankings, which happened
to be Oklahoma.

Although Florida defeated Oklahoma
by a score of 24 to 14, the situation was
nowhere near settled after the perfor-
mances of Utah, Texas and USC. Out of
the Mountain West Conference, Utah had
quietly amassed quite a resume through-
out the season with wins over Michigan,
Pac 10 contender Oregon state, and top

but not without loud complaints from the
coaches of USC, Texas and Utah. With
more and more controversy emerging
each year over who is the true national
champion, it will be interesting to. see how
long the NCAA can hold off from moving
towards a playoff system.

The ﬁnal story line of this season is
yet to be ﬁnished but will greatly impact
the landscape of college football for the
next year. With the top two receivers in

the nation, Jeremy Maclin of Missouri and ‘

Michael Crabtree of Texas Tech already
ﬁling their paper work for the NFL draft,
they will be the ﬁrst of a possible mass
exodus of junior skill position players to
the NFL.

With the nation’s three Heisman ﬁnal-
ists Bradford, McCoy and Tebow all being
juniors along with possibly top NFL pros-
pect USC quarterback Mark Sanchez, the
next few weeks likely have groundbreak-
ing effects on the rosters of the nation’s
top teams for the 2009 season.

Conference Standings

As of press time Sunday
Men’s Basketball '
Team Conference Overall

1. Roanoke 4-0 12-1

2. Randolph-Macon 4-0 10-31 

3_ Guilford 3-0 10-2 Team ' Conference Overall
4. Virginia Wesleyan 3-2 9-5 1- Brldgewater 2'0 2'1

5. Eastern Mennonite 3-2 7-5 2- WASHINGTON & LEE 2-0 5'4

6, B1-jdgewater 3-2 7-7 3. Randolph-Macon 2-1 5-2

7. WASHINGTON & LEE 2-2 9-4 4. Hollins 2-1 2-2

8_ Hampden-Sydney 1-3 6-7 5. Sweet Briar 2-2 4-3

9. Emory & Henry 1-4 7-7 6- Emory & Henry 0-2 1-2

10. Lynchburg 1-4 3-1 1 7. Guilford 0-2 1 -3

11. Randolph 0-6 2-11 8. Randolph 0-3 0-5

Women’s Basketball   .
Team , Conferencg overall Team Conference Overall

1. Virginia Wesleyan 6-1 9-3 1- MCDaI1i€1 1'0 5‘8 8
2. Eastern Mennonite 5-2 10-2 2- WASHINGTON & LEE 0-0 1-0

3_ Roanoke 5-2 9-2 3. Merchant Marine 0-0 7-3

4. Randolph-Macon 5-2 7-4 4. Ursinus 0-0 2-2

5. WASHINGTON & LEE 4-2 4-6 5. Stevens 0-0 3-5

6. Guilford 4-3 5-7 6. Johns Hopkins 0-0 1-3

7. Bridgewater 3-3 5-6 7. Muhlenberg 0-0 0-2

8. Lynchburg 3 -4 5-7 8. Gettysburg 0-1 1-8

9. Randolph 1-6 1-8

10. Emory & Henry 0-5 1-8

1 1. Hollins 0-6 0-10

The Washington and Lee men’s basketball, women’s basketball and women’s swimming teams all participate in the Old A
Dominion Athletic Conference. The wrestling team competes in the Centennial Conference. The men’s swimming is a
part of the Bluegrass Mountain Conference, but it does not publish rankings.

 

 

 

   

 
 

Arc

,..

/

.755"

9,;-.s;;;

Ly! cg?

V’! ll?
H0. ll

C’2_

 

 

Crossing cultures 
Journalism Professor Indira Somani unveils 
documentary on her life as an Indian 

i 0 ARTS & LIFE / pages

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE R1No—TUM PHI.

MONDAY, JANUARY 19, 2009

BY THE

STUDENTS AND

FOR THEVSTUDENTS SINCE 1897

VOLUME CXII, NUMBER 11

Presidential
Inauguration

% " 70 W&L students and staﬂ
will travel to D. C. to attend

the 64th inauguration

By Anne Vesoulis
STAFF WRITER

While the nation watches the 64th Presidential
Inauguration on network television this Tuesday,
70 Washington and Lee students, facultyvand staff
will join a crowd of millions in Washington D.C.
to see Barack Obama become the 44th President of

the United States.

Due to Obama’s popularity as a transition pres-
ident in uncertain times and his distinction as the
ﬁrst African-American in that office, crowds are
expected to be the biggest in history- between 1.5

and 4 million.

, Dean of Students Dawn Watkins, who will
attend the inauguration, said it is the ﬁrst time a
group of W&L students has expressed interest in
going to the presidential inauguration en masse.

Since Obama was elected president last No-
vember. Junior Chris Rucker has been working
closely with Associate Dean of Students Tamara

“I want to get as close to the ac-
tion as possible. I know the city
fairly well, so I ’m pretty conﬁdent

I ’ll be able to maneuver my way

at least to the mall. ”

Prof. Toni Locy, Journalism Department

Futrell to coordinate a trip to the inauguration.
“I am so excited to be travelling with the Wash-
ington and Lee community to witness this historic

_ event,” Rucker said.

With 240,000 ticket-holders and at least 1 mil-
lion people without tickets watching from the Na-
tional Mall, getting to the 64th Inauguration will

not be easy.

The two charter busses will leave campus at
midnight on Tuesday. While the trip to Washing-
ton, D.C. normally takes three and half hours,
organizers expect the group to arrive around 7:00

a.m due to the high volume of traffic.

All of the bridges to the Capitol from Virginia
will be closed to all through-trafﬁc except charter
busses. They will travel to the greater Washington
D.C. area and the group will take the metro to the
National Mall to witness the swearing-in ceremo-

. ny at approximately 11:30 a.m.

excited to make the trip.
See “Inauguration” on page 2

Journalism Prof. Toni Locy, who worked in the
Washington area as a reporter for USA Today, is

By John Henderson
NEWS EDITOR

nancial magazines

where to go for a best buy.

SmartMoney’s

Holy Cross.

At a time when good value is
worth more than a brand name, ﬁ-
SmartMoney
and Kiplinger have come out with
college rankings that show parents

In» the Dec. 16 issue of Smart-
Money magazine, Washington &
Lee ranked as the best _value among
all private liberal arts universities.

In Kiplinger’s rankings of liberal
arts schools, W&L came in ﬁfth.
rankings were
derived from the median yearly
income after three and 15 years di-
vided by the out-of-state degree cost,
resulting in a “return on tuition in-
vestment.” W&L was found to have
a 145 percent payback—~the runners
up were the University of Richmond,
Lafeyette College and College of the

But both SmartMoney and Kip-

linger’s rankings favored public
universities over private ones, due
to the typically lower cost of at-
tending a public university. In their
overall ranking of public and private
schools, SmartMoney placed Texas
A&M at number one, University of

Payscalecom, which recently pub-
lished a survey on alumni salaries.
The accompanying article by Neil
Parmar claims Texas A&M on aver-
age delivers two and a half times the
payback of Harvard.

SmartMoney’s rankings have

percent, respectively.

Texas at number two and Georgia
Tech at number three, with paybacks
of 315 percent, 306 percent and 263
Kiplinger
placed the University of North Caro-
lina at Chapel Hill at number one.
SmartMoney’s data came from

“If we were guided by [dollar returns], we might
not have a classics department or..a theater de-
partment, and that would mean we aren ’t giving
our students a very good education. ”

Prof. Art Goldsmith, Economics Department

drawn criticism for overlooking
‘ graduate degrees as a source of in-
come, not accounting for grants and
scholarships, and not including the
quality of an education and the re-
sulting effect on society. Parmar
retorts, “Show me the money.”

New rankings name W&L a good value

His point being, with a weakened
economy many parents will be look-
ing for the best deal for their son or
daughter’s education. Regardless
of a university’s prestige, alumni
network or teacher-to-student ratio,
does it deliver a high payback?

Economics Prof. Art Goldsmith
disagrees with the money-first men-
tality: “We’re not interested in strict-
ly dollar returns  If we were guid-
ed by something like that, we might
not have a classics department or we
might not have a theater department,
and that would mean we aren’t giv-
ing our students a very good educa-
tion.”

“I think that’s a particularly poor
measure of what a university imparts
on its students,” he said.

Moreover, comparing W&L,
which has a business school that is
likely to generate higher-salaried

See “Value” on page 2

  W&L gets revised curriculum .

Curriculum changes mean fewer overall credits and only one Spring Term course

By Allison Chopin
MANAGING EDITOR

New curricular changes to take effect
in the fall may require students to give

more thought to their academic plan-‘

ning.

After this year, 113 credits will be re-
quired for graduation, while those grad-
uating this year need 115.

A limit will be placed on the number
of credits that can be earned from other
institutions. Of the 113 required credits,
no more than 56 can be earned in a way
other than courses offered by Washing-
ton and Lee University or through for-
mal exchanges such as those that occur
with Mary Baldwin, Virginia Military
Institute and others. This means that stu-
dents must take 57 credits at W&L. Any
transfer credits, courses done abroad or
credits earned before the ﬁrst year at

W&L will not count in these 57 credits.
Of course, students are welcome to

earn credits abroad or from other institu-

tions in excess of 56 credits and there-

“There are some con-
cerns, but everyone is
adopting it pretty enthusi-
astically. ”

Scott Dittman, University Registrar

fore go beyond 113 credits by gradua-
tion. But they must remember that they
will still have to achieve 57 credits from
W&L courses.

According to Scott Dittman, Univer-

sity Registrar, the number of credits that
could be brought in from elsewhere in
the past was 87.

Beginning with the ﬁrst-year class of
2013, entering students may receive no
more than_28 credits for work done prior

. to W&L. This includes AP and IB credit

and college courses taken before enter-
ing W&L.

The reason for these and other chang-
es is part of what Dittman called “aca-
demic life renewal.” He and the faculty
believe that students should be encour-
aged to take full advantage of the aca-
demic opportunities at W&L.

The Spring Term course load has also
been revised. Beginning with the Spring
of 2010, all courses in the term will be
four credits. Students will only take one
course. Only one additional credit will
be allowed, or one non-credit class such

as a P.E. skills course, as long as these do
not interfere with the four-credit class.

' No overloads beyond the ﬁve-credit lim-

it will be allowed.

The obligations of each four-credit
course will be demanding. According
to Dittman, these courses will involve
about nine hours in class each week
and several hours of work outside of the
classroom.

Exceptions will only be made for the
six-credit off-campus courses that al-
ready exist, such as the Washington and
New York Terms and programs abroad.
These programs will be allowed to con-
tinue for six weeks, and participants will
receive six credits. Seniors who plan to
graduate in May will not be able to take
these courses.

See “Curriculum” on page 2

  

 
   
 

 

I 1 V I V : U I I v
WASHINGTON 8: LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VA 24450

JAN 2 -(3 2093

2 0 THE RING-TUM PHI

M 0 N DAY, JANUARY 19, 2009

 

Outages blacken W&L

A faulty fuse caused temporary outages in many buildings

Bylamie Kim
smrr wmmz

Unexpected power outages last
Monday kept academic buildings
dark and cold while facilities made
repairs to a transformer.

“It was an unplanned outage,”-
said Mike Carmagnola, the execu-
tive director of facilities and capital
planning. Receiving several reports
on Monday afternoon that the power
went out, the Facilities Management
began to look where the problem had
started.

“We found out that the transform-
er that sits behind the Development
Building shut down,” said Carrnag-
nola. They soon discovered a burnt
fuse in the transformer. The fuse
turned out to be worn out and short,
burning the transformer instead of
doing its job of protecting it.

Facilities Management had to
shut down the entire North Zone to
make repairs, including the Admis-
sions Ofﬁce, Colonnade, duPont
Hall, Hotchkiss House, Lee Chapel,
Leyburn Library, Reeves Center, Sci-

ence Center, and Watson Pavilion.
With a high voltage line circulat-
ing the North Zone, one small glitch
can affect the entire area. '
“The light was ﬂickering on and
off while I was working on Mon-
day,” said sophomore Van Nguyen,

except in the Development Build-
ing.

“Luckily, that was the Develop-
ment Building, so classes in other
buildings were not affected,” Car-
magnola said.

“The transformer supplies our

“Power outages, both planned and unplanned, are

not regular events  the unplanned outages are

treated as an emergency and receive priority treat-

ment. ”

Mike carmagnola, Executive Director of Facilities
, 

a work-study student at the Reeves
Center. Because the North Zone was
shut down at midnight, she could not
enter the library to get her textbooks.
“I couldn’t study for my classes the
next day,” she said.

The Facilities Management
worked through the night to get the
power back on by 4 a.m. on Tuesday,

building, so we had no power and
no heat,” said Tres Mullis, Director
of Development Building. “Our ad-
ministrative support staff works on
desktop computers, and the software
for our databasetis only on those
computers.”

Having no electricity to run the
computers, the administrative sup-

port staff had an unexpected two-day
break from their work, while the pro-
fessional staff worked either at home
or on campus during the power out-
age.

“There really was nothing they
could do,” said Mullis. “”We tried to
be as productive as we could. We had
to ﬁnd various places on campus.”

It was a disappointment for some
students, however.

‘‘I was hoping that classes would
get cancelled on Tuesday,” said
sophomore Kyle Parsons.

“Power outages, both planned
and unplanned, are not regular
events,” said Cannagnola. “When
we have a planned power outage, it
usually relates to some upgrade of
the facilities that we’re working on.
The unplanned outages are treated as
an emergency, and receive priority
treatment, just like the recent event
for the north zone electric.”

Emeritus Prof. Odell McGuire dies at 81

McGuire remembered as an energetic geology professor and talented local musican

  

COURTESY OF W&L WEB SITE

By John Henderson
N EWS EDITO R

Odell McGuire, a former pro-
fessor of geology at Washington
and Lee, died at age 81 on Decem-

Rehab Center.

McGuire, a native of Knoxville,
Tenn., came to W&L in 1962 after
serving in the Navy during World
War II and as an infantry ofﬁcer in
the Korean War where he earned a
Purple Heart.

Over the next 32 years as a
W&L professor he developed a
reputation as a man of many inter-
ests and talents. According to Ed
Spencer, a fellow geology profes-

ber 8 at Heritage Hall Health and 

sor, McGuire taught himself Greek .

in order to revise translations of
early Greek writings, was envi-
ronrnentally active, and learned to
play clawhammer banjo.

A McGuire became a ﬁxture of
the local bluegrass scene and in-
spired a generation of young mu-
sicians to follow in his footsteps,
including Randall Ray, a local mu-
sician who graduated from W&L
in 1985 and went on to become a
guitar maker. ,

McGuire’s scientiﬁc interests
included paleontology, geologic
mapping, environmental impacts
and land-use planning, geology of
the Appalachians, hydrology, evo-

lutionary theory, geomorphology,
geohydrology and stratigraphy.

“Many students will remember
him as a hard taskmaster, one who
brought a rare breadth of knowl-
edge to the classroom and ‘ one
who lived life fully,” Spencer was
quoted to say in a university news
release. “It is very sad to see one
of the most distinctive characters
of this community pass from our
midst.”

McGuire and his former wife,
Mata Battye McGuire, have three
children, Melanie, Forrest and Jes-
se. Jesse McGuire is a cook at the
Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity.

Inauguration

A “New Birth of Freedom ”

continued from page 1

“I want to get as close to the action as possible
ble,” Locy said. “I know the city fairly well, so
I’m pretty conﬁdent I’ll be able to maneuver my
way at least to the mall. Travelling with a group
of students will be an adventure in itself, although
I’m sure that we will be sleeping most of the way
there.” ‘

The ceremony’s theme, “A New Birth of Free-
dom,” commemorates the 200th anniversary of the
birth of Abraham Lincoln, another Illinois sena-
tor who became president. The inauguration also
falls on the day after Martin Luther King Jr. day,
the only federal holiday to recognize an African-
American.

The inauguration will include musical selec-
tions by artists including singer Aretha Franklin,
cellist Yo-Yo Ma and violinist Itzhak Perlman.
California Sen. Diane Feinstein, Dr. Rick Warren
and the Rev. Dr. Joseph E. Lowery are scheduled
to speak.

Prior to his inaugural address, President-Elect
Barack Obama will take the oath of ofﬁce using
Abraham Lincoln’s inaugural bible provided by
Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr.

Following the inauguration ceremony, the
group will make its way toward the White House
to witness the inaugural parade that traditionally
begins around 2:30 p.m. The parade will include
marching bands from high schools and universi-
ties across the United States. Cadets from the Vir-
ginia Military Institute will march in the parade.

Junior Morgan Harris said Obama’s inaugura-
tion is signiﬁcant because of his ability to inspire.

“Obama is truly the ﬁrst president who un-
derstands and embraces our generation,” Harris
said. “I’m not an Obama fanatic but it’s cool to see
someone who can inspire so many people.”

Those interested  attendinlgpthe inauguration
should email Christopher Rucker at Ruckerc@
wlu.edu. A $35.00 fee in the form of cash or a

check is due to Dean F utrell in order to secure a _

reservation.

Curriculum

Changes mean fewer credits

Odell Mcguire, professor for 32

years, died in December.

Value

continued from page 1

students, with Davidson which
does not is like “comparing apples
and oranges,” Goldsmith said.

Financial Aid Director John De-
Courcy said the SmartMoney rank-
ings are an “oversimpliﬁcation”
of retum-on-investment question.
Some students pay a fraction of the
total tuition due to ﬁnancial aid while
others pay full price, he said.

Still, DeCourcy stands behind the
reputation of W&L as good value.
“We have traditionally been a best
buy,” he said.

According to DeCourcy, W&L
began raising tuition ten years ago

to help pay for the expansion of
certain academic programs and
projects around school, such as the
construction of Elrod Commons.
The out-of-state degree cost in 1993
was $45,350, almost half that of the
degree cost in 2005, according to
SmartMoney.

Decourcy said. “If you want to be
in the top ten, you know you’ve got
to have the programs, and you’ve got

- to have the campus, and the whole

nine yards,” DeCourcy said. “Basi-
cally we were selling a Mercedes for
a Chevy price.”

While W&L is in a higher price
range similar to the northern liberal
arts schools, W&L’s ﬁnancial aid
packages have also become more
generous and competitive, Decourcy
said. In the past ﬁve years, ﬁnancial
aid funding has increased such that a

student’s entire .need based on his or
her parents’ income is fulﬁlled with
grant money, DeCourcy said.

Financial aid is paid for by W&L’s
endowment, and despite its 15 per-
cent decline this year, DeCourcy
says ﬁnancial aid will continue to be
competitive. “We’re right there- not
a problem,” he said.

Kiplinger took a more thorough
approach, combining affordability
and academic quality with quality
accounting for two-thirds of the total.
The categories include admissions
rate, student-to-faculty ratio, gradu-
ation rate, aid from grants, non-need
based aid and average debt.

In a list of 50 liberal arts colleges,
W&L came in ﬁfth behind Panoma,
Swarthmore, Williams and David-
son. In the top 100, the University of
North Carolina at Chapel Hill came

in ﬁrst overall. Most of Kiplinger’s
data came from Peterson’s, a com-
pany specializing in test preparation
and college planning.

Senior Associate Editor Jane
Clark writes, “As our rankings dem-
onstrate, higher prices overall don’t
necessarily mean you’ll pay more for
your student’s education. Financial-
aid awards can knock thousands of
dollars off the price tag, especially if
your family qualiﬁes for need-based
aid.”

This year, W&L is absent from
Princeton Review’s best value
rankings, according the W&L blog
“What’s News.” The blog states
W&L declined to participate in
Princeton Review’s data collection
due to concerns over their method-

ology.

continued from page 1

But Dittman anticipates that some of the Spring
Term programs abroad will be reduced to four
weeks and four credits. Students wishing to study
abroad for a longer period should be encouraged
to take a full semester, year or summer abroad.

Faculty will only teach one class during Spring
Term. Spring Term courses may not be taken as
Pass/Fail.

The Spring Term course load may make it dif-
ﬁcult for some students to complete their majors
or required classes on time. Students who will be
juniors and seniors next year should start planning
now so they will be able to ﬁt in their courses.

“Advising will be important,” Dittman said.
“Rising seniors need to be a little more intention-
al.”

He explained that advisers, faculty and depart-
ments will have to make sure that students can ful-

ﬁll requirements in the fall and winter semesters

rather than putting them off for the Spring Term.
“Most of the classes that are required [for ma-
jors and Foundation and Distribution Require-
ments] will be moved to other terms,” he said.
A lot of departments are also revising the num-

Top I0 Skill:
Employers Seek

ber of credits required for majors.
The faculty voted on these changes this year.
“There are some concerns,” Dittman said. “But

getzéa ie Ewmammf

PEDAL CAR I}'l'Nl3lR. & Tm Toy Carri:

()..dm. {ram 0“ 1. Cnmplete mm,“ everyone is adopting it pretty enthusiastically.”

1 ' C°mm'*”“°at'°“ ‘k'"‘ -t?r.lm’n tesforone ofour/ILL Y(}('f('..'AN.I5A 2"1:u,§zia:s1

2. Strong work ethic

3. Teamwork skills
4. Initiative
5. Interpersonal skills
6. Problem~solving skills
7. Analytical skills
8. Flexibility and adaptability

9. Computer skills
10. Technical skills

Friday Night Seafood Buffet with Crab Legs 5;1«m~1{.‘3pm
Eiaturday Night Prime Rib Dinner 5pm-‘lopm
Sunday Baked Chicken, Pork Loin. & Pot Roast 1 1am~§pm
Friday & Saturday Late Night Breakfast 8ar tOpm~2am
Breakfast Bar 7’ Days a Week 6am-3 Tarn

{Daily Hot Country Bar ‘I tam~‘lC)pm '
Daily Soup, Salad, & Fruit Bar 1 ‘tam-10pm

Write for the I ~
Phi!

Writers needed for all

Order Breakfast 2-4 Hours a. day, '7 days a weeki

llama Comtetf M’eatIs & Soutlxern Hoispitrriiigu’

Visit Career Services Iroeated at Sections
before Thanksgiving Break  PI 
to talk about job search strategies. L   _  1 1
Your parents will be proud of you! Hi? &; i~(.v-1-. i::.:«;n. I93. Belt: Norm Lee I-iwy.. Lcxmgton. VA  

S44)»~463~3-478

zfzreat food & 0 great collection of
Antique Pedal Cars & Tin Toys!

VVASI'IINGTON AND LEE LINIVERSITY

CAREERSERVICES

 

 

 

MONDAY, JANUARY 19, 20rO9

THE RING-TUM PHI ° 3

r

 

opinions

 

. editorial
More than money

Rankings are great but don ’t tell
the whole story of W&L is value

Cheers to Washington and Lee for topping SmartMoney’s list of
the best value for private liberal arts universities. According to the
magazine, the average “payback” for W&L students is 145 percent
when mean salaries are compared to tuition paid.

But perhaps the university deserves even more praise than these
ﬁnancial magazines claim. '

First, the rankings do not consider the abundance of scholarships
and ﬁnancial aid. With the new Johnson Scholarship program and
the previous George Washington Honor Scholarships, up to 10 per-
cent of each incoming class can attend W&L on a full ride.

Financial aidnumbers tell a similar story, especially with the em-
phasis on funds from grants rather than loans.

We don’t have calculations that show the actual “payback,” but it
seems that if aid is factored in, salaries are even higher when com-
pared to the money actually spent to attend W&L.

Moreover, to put it simply, money isn’t everything. Do most stu-

Money isn ’t everything. Do most students re-
ally only consider their future salaries when

considering the “value” of an education?
 

dents really only consider their future salaries when considering the
“value” of an education at W&L? How can such a ranking even
begin to show what makes a school worth our time and money?

If that’s what the university believed in, we probably wouldn’t be
a liberal arts institution. We cherish the classes that we take outside
of our majors and endless chances to study abroad and do research,
for example. And we can’t forget Spring Term—~a rarity and some-
thing that is continually being improved upon.

We also love the small class sizes and the relationships we form
with our professors—things you might not ﬁnd at Texas A&M and
Georgia Tech, which were at the top of the list that covered all col-
leges.

And then there’s the even less tangible: the honor system and the
endless traditions at our institution, among many otherswe could
name. '

We may not be able to quantify these distinct attributes in terms of
a dollar amount, like we can do with tuitions and salaries, but these
are what prospective students consider when choosing W&L and
what current students and graduates likely reﬂect back upon. These
are the reasons we choose to pay thousands of dollars to attend W&L
or why we worked extra hard to earn a scholarship or seek ﬁnancial
aid. These are the things that make W&L a “best value.”

 WASHINGTON AND LEEUNIVERSITY  - 

 RING-TUM PHI.  

ALLISON CHOPIN
JOHN HENDERSON
CODY BEAUCHAMP
CELESTE CRUZ-
CARANDANG

WILL DORRANCE
MICHAEL MORELLA

MANAGING EDITOR
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR

SPORTS EDITOR
COPY EDITOR

GRACE ANDREWS
ABEL DELGADO
NEVILLE FOGARTY
BECKY GUYNN
JAMIE KIM

NATHAN NAUGHTON
KATHERINE ROBERTS
RUSS WEEMS

ANNE VESOULIS
CAITLIN EDGAR

CONTRIBUTING WRITERS

LARA JORDAN
STROCK MOORE
CHARLES PERSONS
ROB GEORGE

DESIGN EDITOR
BUSINESS MANAGERS

DISTRIBUTION MNGR.

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE
RING—TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community for students, faculty,
parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire
to spark discussions that lead to discovering
information that prompts change.

THE RING-TUM PHI /S PUBLISHED MONDAYS
DURING THE UNDERGRADUATE SCHOOL YEAR.
THE R/NG~TUM PHI IS A MEMBER OF THE MEDIA
BOARD, BUT IS OTHERWISE INDEPENDENT.
QUESTIONS OR CONCERNS ABOUT THE PHI
SHOULD BE ADDRESSED TO THE EDITORS AT
PHI@WLU.EDU OR TO THE MEDIA BOARD AT
MED/ABOARD@WLU.EDU. THE MEDIA BOARD
IS AN INDEPENDENT, STUDENT-RUN EDITORIAL
OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE WORKING WITH ALL
MEDIA OUTLETS ON THE WASHINGTON &
LEE CAMPUS. ALL INQUIRIES WILL REMAIN
CONFIDENTIAL. THE RING-TUM PHI WELCOMES
ALL LETTERS. WE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO EDIT
SUBMISSIONS FOR CONTENT AND LENGTH.
LETTERS AND ADVERTISING DO NOT NECESSARILY
REFLECT THE OPINION OF THE RING-TUM PHI
STAFF. THIS NEWSPAPER OBSERVES CURRENT
COURT DEFINITIONS OF LIBEL AND OBSCENITY.
THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540)458-4059
EMAIL: PHI@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

Airing dirty laundry

Grace has problems with our poor laundry etiquette

By Grace Andrews
C0 LU M NIST

Today’s topic is one of my fa-
vorites: laundry room etiquette.

I must place a DISCLAIMER
here. What I am about to say may
apply to you, but that is not to of-
fend anyone, solely to enlighten.

I am now a senior, and live in
the International House, but I’ve
overheard friends who live in
the dorms as well as fellow RAs
complain about a few instances
of sketchy laundering.

Around two years ago, I was

’in the laundry room located in

Gilliam when I was not only a
victim, but also a witness to bad
laundry room etiquette.

To begin, my roommate at the
time and I had loaded our laun-
dry in an almost vacant laundry
room. There were a handful of
open washing machines and
since it was almost 11 pm, we
weren’t too worried about hav-
ing any laundering problems.

Boy, were we wrong! Af-
ter getting too involved in an
episode of “Veronica Mars,”
my roomie and I returned to the
laundry room about twenty min-
utes after our clothes had ﬁnished
washing.

When we entered the laun-
dry room, we were shocked (by
shocked, I mean a little upset in
our spirits) to ﬁnd that our clothes
were located outside of the safety
and warmth of a Washington and
Lee washing machine.

My clothes had somehow
mysteriously grown legs and
found their way to the counter-
top located across from the ma-
chines. My roommate’s clothes
were on top of the machine I had
used and the one next to it. Not
only were the clothes located on
top of the machine, but the ma-
chine was being used by some-
one else.

I couldn’t help BUT laugh
during that moment. I could not
believe it. There, on top of the
counter were my brightly polka-
dotted undergarments for ALL
THE WORLD to see.

To make matters worse, there
were two young men in there who
had the pleasure of watching me
try to conceal my intimates.

To make the situation even
more unbearable, the young man
who had hijacked our washers
suddenly walked into the laun-
dry room. I could not believe
my eyes. The washer-watcher

walked in whistling and shuf-
ﬂing his little machine-stealing
feet while I gave him my ﬁre-
starting glare (which he did not
notice).

The thought of this total
stranger taking my unmention-
ables out of the washer made me
a little uncomfortable. What he
did next truly disturbed me.

The dryer door-opener pro-
ceeded to open dryers that were
currently in use, for reasons that
I’m not sure of, and closed the
doors without restarting them.
Then, he removed clothes from a
recently ﬁnished-dryer to use it
himself.

When I say recently ﬁnished,
I mean that he waited next to the

dryer until it beeped, despite the ,

laundry room informing students
that detergent theft is an honor
code violation too.

It is one that I was a victim
of so many times while living on
campus, so much so that I went
through a bottle of detergent and
Shout per month, even though I
only did about 5 loads a month.

The irony of the situation was
that on my way home, I acciden-
tally took an unnamed bottle of
Shout that I thought was mine.
However, when I realized it
wasn’t mine, I screamed loudly
(I thought I had committed an
accidental honor code violation)
and ran back to the laundry room
to return it.

As much as I wanted to judge
the washer-watching bounce-

Honestly though, who is going to pick up their

underpants 0/?" of a linty ground after several
days? T hats right, not me...I bet the clothes

aren ’t clean anymore.

fact that there were two empty
ones. This young man then went
around to boxes of Snuggle and
other various dryer sheet brands
sniﬂing and “borrowing” sheets.
When I say snifﬁng, I mean sniff-
ing. This bounce-sniffer smelled
the sheets so hard I thought they
might lose their freshness.

Now, I’m not sure if this laun-
dry room renegade ever returned
any of these sheets or not, but I
thought it was a bit hold to be so
picky.

I think the saying goes, “beg-
gars can’t be choosers.”

After undetectably observing
this clear and disturbing viola-
tion of laundry room etiquette, I
quickly set my cell phone alarm
for approximately an hour. I was
stricken with a fear of coming in
and ﬁnding my clothes placed
upon some unclean surface.

As I walked home, I won-
dered if ‘ole Sir Sniffs-a-lot had
“borrowed” some detergent too,
and how picky he had been.

You see, common sense would
tell you that if you do decide to
“borrow” detergent from some-
one, you should ﬁnd a really full
bottle to use. However it seems
to me that people don’t think this
thoroughly. That’s probably why
there is now a sign in Gilliam’s

sniffer, I realized that I was just
as guilty as him of violating good
laundry room etiquette.

My ﬁrst year, my roommate
and I “accidentally” took so many
socks that we could have socked
a barefoot Centipede. It’s not that
we did it on purpose; it’s just that
when you take your items out of
the washer or dryer, you never
notice what could have been left
there by someone else.

I remember one time our ﬁrst-
year when I asked my roommate
to get my things out of the dryer
for me. She returned with about
three new t-shirts and some more
socks (surprise, surprise).

The problem in that situation
was that I didn’t fold my clothes
for several days and it was right
before a break. Thus, when I no-
ticed strange un-Grace like items
in my basket, it was already
too late. Even though I took the
stuff back, folded and clean, and
placed them on a clean surface,
no one ever retrieved the items
and they became property of the
laundry room.

I think that is why there are
so many clothing items on the
ﬂoor — people don’t know what’s
theirs and what’s not. Out of fear
of committing an honor code vi-
olation, they just leave the stuff

on the ground or counter and
walk away.

Honestly though, who ’s going
to pick up theirrunderpants off of
a linty ground after several days?
That’s right, not me. Short of the
mortifying idea of having to do
that in front of people I don’t
know, I bet the clothes aren’t as
clean anymore.

I’m not saying that people
shouldn’t take a washer or dryer
that they need or “borrow” deter-
gent and dryer sheets when they
are running low, but there should
be some sort of discretion that is
applied. For instance, I myself
have never removed someone
else’s clothes from either the
dryer or the washer. I always sit
and wait, or wash my clothes at
another time.

In my public laundering opin-
ion, 1 think that you should give
everyone thirty-minutes to come
and get their stuff. You never
know if the owner of the items
you want to remove is doing
something important, such as a
take-home test or watching “Ve-
ronica Mars.”

Although, I must say that I
hate when people just leave their
clothes in washers or dryers for
hours and never pick them up.

I know that I have friends who
have put their stuff in the dryer
at some god-forsaken hour (dur-
ing the night that is) and return
the next day to pick them up. I
don’t advise doing that, as you
may have some strange bacterial
creature growing on your favor-
ite t-shirt and trying to befriend
the lint on your towel.

However, if you are in a hurry
and cannot wait, please be kind
enough to place the clothes on
a clean surface and conceal any
items that may be deemed em-
barrassing for others to see.

Also, don’t go around taking
only the rain-shower fresh dryer
sheets and leaving the tropical-
mist ones in the discarded scents
pile. The tropical-mist sheets
have feelings too.

As the season of pledgeship
begins, I would like the pledges
to take heed to this article. Main-
tain good laundry behavior as
you do enough of your frats laun-
dry to be a dry cleaner. Please
remember to “borrow” responsi-
bly and “replace” when you can;
most importantly, remember that
friends don’t let friends become
washer-watchers, dryer door-
openers, and bounce-sniffers.

MLK’s dream is not here quite yet

Applauding Obama because he is black forgets that King valued character

By Abel Delgado
COLU M NIST

The signiﬁcance is impos-
sible to ignore. Eighty years after
the birth of Martin Luther King
Jr., the nation Dr. King lived and
died to create will inaugurate

Barack Obama as its president._

We are a different America than
we were back when Dr. King was
born, and that is reason enough
to celebrate.

When I visited the D.C. area a
few weeks ago, it looked like the
Obama celebration had already
started.

I couldn’t even buy a metro
ticket without seeing the Presi-
dent-elect’s picture on it. As a
Republican, this should have
bothered me. It should have been
a reminder of a failed election ef-
fort, but I was surprisingly not all
that bothered.

Seeing Obama’s face every
where is the clearest reminder
that he’s not like the 43 men
who preceded him. Seeing white
Americans buy t-shirts with a
photo of the future ﬁrst family,

the ﬁrst black family to be the
ﬁrst family, was an excellent ex-
ample of America’s ‘evolving at-
titudes on race.

I wondered if the street-ven-
dors that sold the t-shirts, many
of them speaking with foreign
accents, were thinking that one
day their children could grow up
to be on those t-shirts.

A t-shirt with the faces of Dr.
King and President-Elect Obama
even stated that “The dream
came true.” It sure looked that
way, but has it really?

For minority Republicans like
me, the pride is bitter-sweet at
best. My guy lost. My ideas lost.
Why should I be proud?

Well, the fact that a “non-An-
glo,” “multi-cultural” “minor-
ity,” or whatever you want to call
it, was elected to lead a diverse
country with so little history of
diversity in the ruling the class is

~ signiﬁcant.

The fact that my eight-year-
old cousin’s declaration that he
will one day be president is not
just cute but is now within the
realm of possibility, that is rea-

son enough to be proud.

It’s safe to say Dr. King and
Abraham Lincoln would be
proud, even if they were Repub-
licans.

I remember watching Tara
Wall, a black conservative and
CNN commentator, on Election
Night once it was obvious his-
tory had been made. She ‘was
her trying to balance her pride
in her heritage with her political
disagreements with the winning
candidate. Although we don’t
share a heritage we do share the
feeling of bitter-sweetrress she
expressed.

Whether you are a devout
Obama supporter or part of the
loyal opposition, January 20th
should still be acknowledged as
a tremendous day in our nation’s
history.

But let’s not get ahead of our-
selves. The dream is nowhere
near realized.

If Dr. King wanted us to be
judged not be the color of our
skin but by the content of our
character, and I, as well as many
other Americans, am proud of

Obama’s inauguration simply
because of the color of his skin,
then the dream can’t be complet-
ed. I am not saying it is wrong
to be proud of Obama for being
the ﬁrst black man elected presi-
dent, but the fact that this is still
something to be proud of means
we still have work to do before
we fulﬁll Dr. King’s dream.

The day black men, or Jewish
women, or Hindus, or Hispanics
get elected to high ofﬁce and we
don’t even think to mention it
was a great achievement simply
because of the way they looked
or the god they worshiped, is the
day we can say the dream came
true.

It is not the day we ignore
race, it is the day race doesn’t de-
ﬁne us and we don’t use race to
deﬁne others.

Racism will not end on Janu-
ary 20th. America’s original sin
of slavery will not be cleared
from our memory either. On that
day we should celebrate that we
are one step closer to realizing
Dr. King’s dream, but we have a
ways to go.

 

THE RING-TUM PHI ' 4

MONDAY, JANUARY 19, 2009

arts&life

 

Story time in
Payne Hall

Prospective professor reads a
short selection from a story to
an eager W&L audience‘

By Katherlne Roberts
sun: warren

As part of her campus visit during her applica-
tion for a position in Ethnic American Literatures
and Fiction, Dr. Ivelisse Rodriguez read part of a
story to students and faculty Friday afternoon.

The campus visit, during which Rodriguez
also taught a sample class, is the ﬁnal phase in the
application process, according to English Depart-
ment Head Professor Lesley Wheeler. Rodriguez
is one of three ﬁnalists asked to visit campus fol-
lowing interviews in December, from an original
pool of about 100 applicants.

Rodriguez read the ﬁrst 14 pages of a 44-page
story, The Different Story. It is told from the point
of View of a Latin-American girl who is challenging
her mother’s cynical View on love.

In the story, the high school-aged narrator and
her friends grew up hearing their mothers’ warnings
not to trust men: “Marry, but don’t believe” in true

“Rodriguez 3 story is in keeping with a
recent trend of a dry, simple, tongue-in-

cheek style of American literature:

Andrea Null: iunlor

love. The idealistic daughters, who want to believe ‘

in love, discover the causes of their mother’s cyni-
cism: husbands who have left and ﬁiends who have
been ill-treated by men. They resolve to believe
that, despite their mothers’ anti-love stories, love
can exist. They consider themselves revolutionar-
ies, writing and performing their own poetry to their
mothers’ protests.

Rodriguez said that, later in the story, the nar-
rator will confront her own father and ask him him
why he left her mother. His response: “People make
too much of love.” Rodriguez said that, while her
personal views have shifted over the years she’s
been working on this story, she currently agrees
the most with the father. Love is a starting point
for everything that comes afterward.

“Rodriguez’s story is in keeping with a recent
trend of a dry, simple, tongue-in-cheek style of
American literature,” said junior Andrea Null, who
attended the reading.

Null, who is considering the new Creative
Writing minor, said she wanted to be familiar with
the work of candidates who could be her professors
in the future.

The students and faculty members in the
audience seemed to enjoy the reading, laughing
at the girls’ frustration with their more traditional
mothers.

Rodriguez also incorporated jokes and refer-
ences to Latino-American culture, and being part
of a smaller group within the greater society. At one
point, the mothers, ﬁercely proud of their heritage,
accuse the daughters of acting “the A word”—
American. Rodriguez said that her own mother,
like the mothers in the story, views every man as
suspect and prefers to follow the “old ways.”

However, while her characters are always
Latino, Rodriguez said she tries to appeal to a
broader audience. For example, the story she read
also has feminist and working-class aspects. The
revolutionary daughters draw from a community of
women who were treated poorly by men, regardless
of race or time.

And “men get shafted too,” she added, to
laughter from the audience. —

Rodriguez earned a PhD in Creative Writing
from the University of Illinois in 2006 and has
taught at several schools, most recently at the Coast
Guard Academy. She wrote a collection of short
stories for her dissertation, which is currently under
review for publication.

Myers’ final bow

Music professor is hasty resignation raises a few eyebrows

By Celeste Cruz-Carandang
ARTS&LlFE EDITOR

The Washington and
Lee campus always seems
to be ﬁlled with intrigue.

From the latest post
on Juicy Campus to the
incriminating pictures from
tear night, W&L is buzzing
with gossip.

Until now, most of
the rumors were about the
students. Fortunately for
some, the spotlight is now
shining on the faculty; the
music department in par-
ticular.

Dr. Jerry Myers, act-
ing director of choral ac-
tivities, resigned from his
position, at the beginning
of January. ' '

Although his students
were told that Myers had
been offered a better posi-
tion in St. Louis, some of
them. were still not satis-
ﬁed.

Sam Gilleran, a mem-
ber of the Chamber singers
and a former member of

' the University chorus com-

mented that, “When Myers
told us (chamber singers)
thathe was leaving. . .the
first thought that came
to my mind was that he
must have been told that he
wasn’t getting Doc Spice’s
old job...and I deﬁnitely
assumed, and others also
would imagine, that he
would be named the Direc-
tor [of choral activities] at
some future point.”

Christian Roden,
another member of the
Chamber Singers, said,
“He wasn’t going to get
tenured here but he was
going to get tenured in St.
Louis. We lost an excellent
choral director. It’s too bad
that he had to make a deci-
sion that was best for him
and that didn’t keep him at
Washington and Lee.”

Both Gilleran and
Roden admit that they
heard these things from

He had been with the
chorus since his graduation
in 2000.

He was also quite
close with Myers. Harvey
and Myers collaborated
on a number of W&L cho-
ral and theatrical perfor-
mances.

This spring’s tour to
South Africa was another
one of these collaborative
projects.

The tour was can-
celled soon after the de-

“We lost an excellent choral director Its too

bad that he had to make a decision that was
best for him and that didn ’t keep him at Wash-

1

ington and Lee. ’

Christian Roden, member of Chamber Singers

various sources of ques-
tionable reliability.

Other students felt
uncomfortable with the
situation and refused to
comment.

Adding to the mystery
surrounding Myers’ depar-
ture is Josh Harvey’s resig-
nation as the accompanist
of the University Chorus
and as a faculty member of
the music department.

Harvey also refused to
comment.

Harvey informed
students of his resignation
prior to the start of winter
term and weeks before My-
ers’ actual departure from
the University.

partment learned taht My-
ers had accepted another
position and was leaving
in January.

Dr. Spice, head of
the Music department, re-
vealed that there were also
problems with enrollment
for the tour.

“There are 51 students
registered in the Univer-
sity Chorus. Only about 16
signed up for the tour and
among those 16 were two
or three males. I felt that the
group could not adequately
represent W&L”

SpiceDespite the
small scandal surround-
ing Myers’ resignation,
the situation may have

simply been dramatized
by rumor. .

Spice feels that the
students’ discontent may
be based on rumor and not
fact. J .
“They don’t~fully"
understand the situation.‘
Many students think that
[Myers] already had the
job...we were required to
do a national search, and
Jerry, of course was one
of outstanding ﬁnalists for
it.”

Myers was then of— »
fered a j ob in St. Louis. The
position began in January.
According to Spice, “There -
were several reasons why
this position was attractive
to Jerry. “First, .1"
it is a very good job at.
a large institution. Most
importantly, it is in St.’
Louis. . .he ﬁnds himself 45
minutes from his parents?’
home.” g
Spice admits that the
university has lost a great
professor. “The chorus
made great strides under
Dr. Myers’ leadership.”

The University Cho-
rus is now under the direc-
tion of Dr. Robert Allen.
Allen taught at Mary Bald- A
win for over 30 years and‘
has over 40 years of con-
ducting experience. “We
were lucky to get him,”
said Dr. Spice. “It was quite
last minute.”

Happy Birthday by Neville L. Fogarty

Head over to ringtumphicrossword.blogspot.eom to check your solution to this week’s puzzle!

 

 

Across E 1 3 4 5 6 7:‘ 8 9 10 I l E2 13
l Mystic
6 Saudi. ea. E‘ 15 if’
[0 To be. is) Bmms
I4 Pushes ’7 lg
15 Blood fluids 7‘)
16 One way to mm "
l7 Type of reading test ,,
‘I9 Goggle H
20 Plantation viliere a 37 35

cemun someone isms

born on .lZlIll.l£il‘_y‘ 19, 31 32 N

lS07
22 "Cez'tainly'5" 36
23 Cook 11}: some bacon
24 ”Declinc and Fall" an

author Waugh
27 "Hey  over hei'c.”" -53 44
29 .l.)rai't pick‘?
30 As well i” 49‘
31 Pool problem
34 What athletes hope to 53

tom
35_ Like some pizza orders 57 SS 59
36 The birthday boy's _ , ,

sixth coiisin 6“ M 6“
40 Post V (33 M 65
4! Leltorium owner

Flanders
42 l*‘e<:I
43 Biblical beast
44 C7<IhHIib1L< Day Hm Down 21 ' kkkkkkkkk _k’1\4';ma'* 44 “ _________ ,_ the fields we go”
45 lm€’3’.l'»“<3TS/ 1 Like ti poorly poured 25 Bear and Berra «$5 "Persuasion." author
‘*7 “"7‘”id ‘C3357’? be“ 26 The ne'ck'tie at a ncclctie 46 Lavish affection (on)
d‘) Status >>>>>>>> M 2 T ake an e:<am; parij,-' 48 Fivefs bralhcr in
50 Emclim-2 typically 27 Jziclg and mix; item "Watcrship Down“
53 The birtlatlay boy‘s wife 3 Pcifi illﬁh SUb$W1_C€S 28 Dam 49 What a college often
57 Brairiiac 4 I37“? ¥’rCﬁX 29 “We ______ A the World" 1135
59 Latin words in Sen, 5 Air1‘triglit‘.’ 31 J(3I"'}1.l;‘l‘$ capital 50 Run off to the chapel

Robert Byrdis title 6 Classify 32 ()£,ﬁ0n for Someone 51 Special Forces cap
60 Pliysics’ right hand. for 7 Violate the ﬁfth needing 21 car 52 Round parts?

“"9 iimﬁlldmﬁfllh perhaps Building that may have 54 C om or wheat
61 C'm'ry 8 Lilac the Gobi a VV2:ll{’.'l‘ wliccl 55 Rapscamgns
62 Plastic altern:-nive 9 ABC reality show. with 34 High degree 55 Cmgg words
63 Shout your lungs out "The" 35 Golfer's ltiagful 57 ljkg some 5n]ﬂ(-:3;
64 Brirlgc ‘ 10 American syiiibol 3'7 prepares to Scnd 58 CO1 01.
65 M amiscripl marks»; 11 ".lust a _“____ girl..." infonnation over the

12 Use bread on gravy imemﬁl
13 Squeeze (gul)  i 
13 ,a,xcS 39 Kim} oftrip

O

 

M O N DAY, JANUARY 19, 2009

THE RING-TUM PHI 0 5

 

 

arts&|ife

  

._l

 

 

  ‘ Professor crosses cultural lines

W&L Journalism professor co—produces documentary “Crossing Lines ”

By Becky Guynn
STAFF WRITER

It is often said that Wash-
ington and Lee students have
the opportunity to truly_ get ac-
quainted with their professors.
We-will go into their oﬂices to
chat outside of ofﬁce hours, we
see them at exhibits, and may
sometimes have dinner at their
homes. However, Professor In-
dira Somani, let students get
toknow a little more about her
in the documentary “Crossing
Lines.”.

“Crossing Lines” was co-
produced by and featured
Washington and Lee journalism
professor Indira Somani and
American University professor
Leena Jayaswal. The ﬁlm is
the story of an Indian-American
woman, Somani, in her jour-
ney to ﬁnd her identity after the
death of her father. On her per-
sonal website, Somani describes
the ﬁlm as “a unique story about
the relationship of an Indian fa-

ther and his American born In-
dian daughter.”

The documentary has been
shown on many public televi-
sion stations, and at several ﬁlm
festivals. In January 2009 it won
the Best Documentary Award at
the California Arts Association
Digital Short Film Festival in
Cupertino, California. “Cross-
ing Lines” was also the runner
up for the Best Short Documen-
tary at the Baltimore Wornen’s
Film Festival in Baltimore,
Maryland for October 2008. Pe-
ter Bhatia, the executive editor
of The Oregonian, as quoted on
the ﬁlm’s Web Site, stated that
“It was a delight to experience
Crossing Lines and share in In-
dira Somani’s journey.”

The ﬁlm‘ follows Somani’s
travels to India after her father
passed away in 2002. In the
ﬁlm Somani explains how as an
Indian-American she never felt
extremely close to her Indian
heritage. “Your parents are your

connection to India,” said So-
mani in the ﬁlm. Growing up,
she was the ﬁrst Indian-Ameri-
can at her elementary school in
Springﬁeld, Illinois. Her father
was a medical professor who
maintained strong connections

complished and happy without
being married, so she brought
her friend Seema Goyal to be the
producer for India for the ﬁlm.
She spoke about having extend-
ed family in India and how nice
it is to have a large family that

“[ ‘Crossing Lines ’is] a unique story about

are your connection to India. ’

the relationship of an Indian father and his

American born Indian daughter... Your parents

I

Indlra Somani, journalism professor and co-producer

to his Indian heritage. Although
he missed India, he visited often
and taught his children Indian
customs and traditions.

Somani describes how difﬁ-

cult it is to travel to India as a
single unmarried woman.
said that she wanted her family
to know that women can be ac-

She

cares about you unconditionally,
even though she does not speak
Hindi like her family in India.
She said that the United States
can be isolating for many Indian-
Americans, but with the advance
of technology such as e-mail it
is easier to keep in contact. Be-
cause of the film, Somani made

her connection to India, through
her family and the love that she
found in them. She also felt that
she gave something back to her
family because they could see
her father in her.

The documentary made its
W&L debut on Thursday Janu-
ary 15. The Stackhouse Theater
was packed with journalism stu-
dents, students of all majors and
professors.

After the thirty minute docu-
mentary, English Professor Su-
zanne Keen led a question and
answer discussion. During the
discussion, Somani explained
that she was allotted an uncom-
mon degree of freedom because
her parents did not pressure her
to be religious.

When. asked how her_family
in India responded to the making
of the ﬁlm, she explained that
her father had always enjoyed
making home videos and this
was a way for her family to keep
his memory alive.

Somani revealed to the au-
dience that the ﬁlm took three
years to make and was very
draining emotionally. She ad-
vised anyone interested in mak-
ing a ﬁlm about their own life to
“be emotionally prepared.”

Somani began her professor-
ship at W&L this past fall. She
just completed a Ph.D. from
the Phillip Merrill College of
Journalism at the University
of Maryland, College Park, in
2008. Before receiving her
Ph.D., Somani was a news pro-
ducer for ten years at various sta-
tions, including CNBC in New
York, where she produced the
around the clock post September
11 coverage. She said that her
Indian family loved that she was
involved in television but also
respected that she wanted to fol-
low in her father’s footsteps and
be in academia.

usical group has old inspiration

The Good Pennyworths performed music that you ’ve never heard before

Bycaltlin Edgar
STAFF WRITER

’Today’s musical artists are
drawing on classic and retro
inspirations. Some will go back
as far as Buddy Holly and the
Beatles, others will turn to clas-
sics such as Etta James and Billy
to create chart—topping hits. The
Good Pennyworths, a unique
quartet, turned instead, to the
Golden Age of England.

On January 17, 2009 in Lee
Chapel, the Good Pennyworths
performed “Love, Lust, Long-
ing, Loss,” a vocal presentation
of Elizabethan lute songs.

Colorful period costumes il-
lustrated the historical context
of the songs, and the singers’
playful expressions visually

conveyed the meaning of the
old—fashioned lyrics.

The singers’ clear voices and
dramatic approach blended into
a beautiful and entertaining per-
formance.

Garald Famham, the bari-
tone, also accompanied the
quartet with the lute, a stringed
instrument which is somewhat
similar to the guitar, but has a
deep round back.

While descriptions such as
“Elizabethan” and “Renais-
sance” may sound formal and
dry to contemporary ears, the
ballads sung by the quartet were
laced with witty word plays,
sexual innuendos, and real hu-
man emotion.

Rhythm and instruments may

Have you made your

SUMMER PLANS?

Interested in internships,
research, camp counseling ?

Visit Career Services for
help with:

Résumés
Cover letters  
Practice interviews

WASHJNGTON AND  UNIVERSITY

CAREERSERVICES

careers@wlu.edu
540 548 8595

have changed since the 17”‘ cen-
tury, not a single drum or elec-
tric violin was used throughout
the performance, but the heart of

rap, hip-hop, and rock.

Unlike much current music,
the lyrics are poetry in their own
right and remind one of Shake-

While descriptions such as “Elizabethan”

and “Renaissance” may sound formal...the

ballads...were laced with witty word plays,

sexual innuendo and real human emotion.

popular music has changed very
little in the last few centuries.
The Good Pennyworths’ mu-
sic carries the same themes of
lust, humor, frustration, and pas-
sion that are woven into current

speare’s sonnets.

The connection to Shake-
speare is stronger than it ﬁrst
appears. The ballad, “Come
Live With Me and Be My
Love” was ﬁrst composed by

Christopher Marlowe, a rival of
Shakespeare’s, under the name,
“The Passionate Shepherd to His
Love.”

Marlowe sent the poem to his
friend, Sir Walter Raleigh, who
wrote a well-known poem in
response, called “The Nymph’s
Reply to The Shepherd.”

Shakespeare used portions
of Marlowe’s poem in “Merry
Wives.”

The orignal ballads were
often played by traveling min-
strels, who would tramp around
the countryside with their lutes,
playing for families, villages,
and even royalty.

Musicians passed their music
orally to other musicians, which
led to many variations within

each song. Some ballads even
have Appalachian versions that
can be traced to English immi-.
grants.

Each musician in the quar-
tet is conservatory-trained.
Between the four of them, the
quartet has diverse background
of performance in nearly every
music arena, from musicals to
absurdist operas to indie rock
bands. '

The vocal group, based in
NYC, was formed in 2007 in
an effort to show the appeal of
what is now considered “Early
Music” to modern audiences.

While currently recording
their ﬁrst studio album, the quar-
tet also hopes to release a live
Christmas CD.

Scribbles and Sharpies

Artist Ron Johnson uses unique mediums in his works

By Celeste Cruz-carandang
ARTS&L|FE EDITOR

Artists will usually begin a
talk with a short introduction:
the art school they went to, how
long they have beenworking as
an artist and what exactly in-
spired the exhibit. Ron Johnson,
whose drawings and painting
are currently on display in the
atrium of Lenfest, chose an en-
tirely different route. He told his
eager audience that he played
baseball at Ohio State, ++ in ar-

chitecture and played in a hard

rock band.

Johnson admitted, “I usually
like to start my talks in some
weird way.” But this somewhat
unusual introduction seemed to
ﬁt the artist. Like the beginning
of his lecture, Johnson’s work is
unique, to say the very least. “In
some way, I’m making some-
thing you’ve never seen,” said
the artist.

Johnson’s drawings are easily
spotted upon entering the atrium.
The ﬂoor-to-ceiling works seem
simple at ﬁrst glance. Indeed,
the swirls of color sometimes re-
semble long, elaborate scribbles.
Johnson attributes these shapes
to his days as baseball player. “I
based some work on the stitches

of a baseball.”

Should one look closely, the
intricacy of the drawings is re-
vealed. The piece is not simply
one sheet of paper, but is in-
stead a series of layered strips. It
seems that the artist could have
just kept going until the paper
was almost too heavy to hang.

colored swirls.

The work seems daunting,
considering the amount of time
he is hunched over with a pen
or paintbrush. “I do lots of cal-
isthenics beforehand,” joked the

‘ artist.

But the work does not stop
there. Johnson is tweaking his

 typically want to instigate questions and

problems. I want to get it outside the stereo-

type...I ’m really happy with what happened

I

out there. ’

Ron Johnson, artlst

However, Johnson relies on in-
stinct to create his aesthetic: “It
is one of those body of works
with the intuition of when to
stop...I really come from more
of a» minimal sensibility.”

The artist’s process is espe-
cially fascinating. His studio
ﬂoor is covered with long sheets
of Mylar paper reaching lengths
of up to 20 feet. Hexthen puts on
his socks, grabs a black sharpie
and begins to draw. Johnson
walks up and down the paper
until it is ﬁlled with black and

pieces right until the installation.
“I had to keep rearranging...
even here because there was al-
ways something unexpected. . .I
put together, I call them puzzles,
until I see something I like.”
Johnson is also working on a
series of works he calls objects.
“I’m interested in electrical tape
because it looks like paint.”
The use of unique mediums is a
theme of Johnson’s work. Along
with electrical tape, he has used
whiteout pens and sharpies. “I
like to see what these materials

can be outside of their tradition-
al use.”

During his talk, Johnson told
a story about a man who wanted
to buy one of his works. Before
naming a price, Johnson gave
this potential customer a humor-
ous set of instructions. “Well,
you go to Lowe’s, buy three
nails. . .and that’ll be $2,000.”

Like the artist, the exhibit
seems to have a sense of hu-
mor. The bright color palette,
whimsical shapes, and interest-
ing names engage the viewer in
an entirely different way. But
Washington and Lee seems to
like “different.”

Sophomore studio art major
Susie Robinson commented, ,“I
found it really interesting how
he uses colors and how he ex-
plores translucency. And also
the fact that he doesn’t ﬁnish the
piece until he installs them.”

It seems that Johnson’s dis-
tinctive style was enough to
please even the toughest critic:
Ron Johnson himself. “I typi-
cally want to instigate questions
and problems. I want to get it
outside the stereotype...I’m re-
ally happy with what happened
out there.”

  

MONDAY, JANUARY 19,2009

6

  

THE RING-TUM PHI

sports

 

 

Illlou Tues WED Tuuns FRI SAr Sun
VS

Mews Hampden-
Basketbal Sydney
7 mm.
vs
vs Emory &
Women’s
Basketball "'°'"“‘ Hem,
7 p.m.
2 p.m.
at
Men’s
swlmming Marymount
2 p.m.
at
Women's
swimmlngi Marymount
2 p.m.
at
Menvs Liberty
Tfack Invite
9 a.m.
at
Women’s Liberty
"ack Invlte
, 9 a.m.
‘ at
Wrestling Stevens
Tech
10 a.m.

numbers
0

The number of times before this season that two teams with less than

 

10 regular-season wins have met in the NFC Championship. The Ari-
zona Cardinals (9—7) beat the Philadelphia Eagles (9-6-1) Sunday 32-

25 to advance to Super Bowl XLIII.

20-0

The Cleveland Cavaliers’ home record this season at Quicken Loans
Arena. The Cavaliers were ranked first in the Eastern Conference as of

press time Sunday with an overall record of 31-7.

225

The number of head coachingjob changes in the NBA since Jerry
Sloan became the coach of the Utah Jazz on Dec. 9, 1988. The ion-
gest tenured coach in the NBA, Sloan signed a one-year contract ex-

tension with the Jazz on Sunday.

2:09.53

Senior captain Lindsey Strachan’s time in the 200 back at the wom-
en’s swimming meet Saturday against Gettysburg. Strachan broke a

26-year-old Cy Twombly Pool record for this event.

18

The national ranking of Roanoke’s men's basketball team before W&L
beat the Maroons Saturday 68-66. It was the first time since 1997

that the Generals have beaten a ranked opponent.

 

box

“I think we all know that chemistry is the problem

with this team more than the schemes or any-
thing else. Are we going to continue to allow tal-
ent to outweigh everything else in the decisions
we make with players and putting the roster to-
gether? We’re like the Redskins used to be when
they signed every player they wanted. There’s
more to it than talent. It has to be more about
team  The big one [Terrell Owens] didn’t get dis-
cussed yet, but I'm sure it will and real hard.”

A Dallas Cowboys source after the Cowboys failed to make the playoffs
despite being a pre-season Super Bowl favorite. Sources say that the
team’s chief operating officer Stephen Jones is trying to convince his
father and Cowboys owner Jerry Jones to release Owens. Courtesy
of espn.com.

Generals down Bullets

Both swimming teams beat Gettysburg

By Will Dorrance
SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee
men’s and women’s swimming
teams hosted a non-conference
dual meet Saturday against
Gettysburg.

The W&L men led from the
start and never looked back,
winning, convincingly 159-
100. Although the women’s
meet was much closer, the
Lady Generals still came out
on top, 135-127.

Senior captain Lindsey
Strachan, the 2008 ODAC
swimmer of the year, once
again paced the Generals by
winning two individual events
(200 back and 100 back) and
leading off the winning 200
medley relay team. Strachan’s
time of 2:09.53 in the 200
back earned her a pool record
that hadn’t been broken in 26
years. The other members of
the W&L winning 200 medley
relay team were junior Lyrm
Bazzel, senior Julianne Miata
and junior Sarah Simpson.

Strachan was not the only
individual W&L winner on the
day. Bazzel ﬁnished on top of
the 100 breast with a time of
1:09.75; Miata’s time of 25.83
in the 50 free earned her a
ﬁrst-place ﬁnish; and ﬁrst-year

Dana Fredericks touched ﬁrst
in the 200 breast with a time of

, 2230.62.

The win was the ﬁrst time
that the W&L women have
ever beaten Gettysburg.

On ‘the men’s side, senior

captain Paul Crook led the

Generals with two individual
wins and two relay wins. He
ﬁnished ﬁrst in the 100 free

(48.18) and the 200 indi-,

vidual medley (2:0l.98) and
was a member of the winning
teams in the 200 medley relay
(1240.31) and the 200 free re-
lay (1:3l.92). His teammates
in both of the relays were fel-
low senior captains Brett Tat-
man and Chris Diebold as well
as another senior Matt Ander-
son.

Additional ﬁrst-place win-
ners for the men were juniors
Nick Talluri in the 200 free
(1 :48.47), Winston Stagg in the
200 ﬂy (2201.62), lan Childers
in the 200 breast (2:16.53),
Dan Austin in the 500 free
(5201.42), sophomore Dorsey
Terry in the 100 ﬂy (55.39),
ﬁrst-years Ben Absher in the
1000 free (l0:28.32) and Brian
Stirling in the 50 free (22.29).

Saturday was the last home
meet of the year for both the
W&L men’s and women’s

6-.-....___;_.

RYAN ELSEY / Staff Photographer

Junior Josh Gonzalez takes off in the 200 free Sat-
urday as both the men's and women’s teams beat

Gettysburg.

niors (Susan Mahoney, Miata,
Strachan, iAnder‘son, Crook,
Diebold and Tatman) were able
to bid farewell to Cy Twombly
Pool on a winning note.
Diebold said, ‘‘It felt like
any other win, really. It hasn’t
really sunk in yet that my colle-
giate career is rapidly winding

down. I don’t think it’ll hit me
until I wake up one morning
and don’t have practice.”

Both teams travel to Arling-
ton, Va., Saturday for a 2:00
pm. dual meet with Mary-
mount.

swimming teams. The se-

Wrestling hosts W&L Invitational

 

Team ﬁnishes fourth, T errin and Christopher wi

MORGAN HlS / Staff Photographer

Senior Rob Terrin wrestles Muhlenberg first-year Ken Ludwig on
his way to winning the 165-pound weight class at the W&L invita-
tional Saturday. W&L ﬁnished fourth out of eight teams.

By Nathan Naughton
STAFF WRITER

On Saturday morning, eight teams
gathered in the Warner Center for the
32nd annual Washington & Lee Wrestling
Invitational. With a few hundred people in
attendance, the gym was a bustle of excit-
ing activity.

The Generals ﬁnished fourth overall,
racking in a total of 83 points and claiming
the championship of two weight classes,
with one runner-up, one third place and one
fourth place ﬁnisher. The day would prove
to be an exciting one for the seniors and

ﬁrst-years, who carried the team.

W&L senior Rob Terrin had a remark-
able showing, coming out on top of the
165-pound weight class, winning two of
three matches by pin. Terrin pinned Wash-
ington & Jefferson’s John Sabatelli (3:36)
in the championship match.

Another W&L senior, John Christo-
pher, ﬁnished 3-0 in the 285-pound weight
class, notching one pin against Johns Hop-
kins’ Matt Rugani in the ﬁnals, 5-2, in an
impressive, hard-fought matchup.

F irst-year David Dennis received a
ﬁrst-round bye at 149 pounds, pinning
Waynesburg’s Jesse Byerly, who was the

n their weight classes

top seed in the group, in the third minute.
Ultimately, Dennis fell to Rob Kein of
Muhlenberg in the ﬁnal match, 3-1, in a
no-less impressive battle.

After dropping his initial match, ﬁrst-
year Ben Ersing ﬁnished the day 2-1 over-
all at 125 pounds. He came back to defeat
Waynesburg’s Josh Klimko in the third
place match, 16-3.

At 133 pounds, ﬁrst-year Sam Camp-
bell, who has a season record of 7-4 thus
far, completed his day 2-2 overall, ulti-
mately falling to Johns Hopkins’ Michael
Testa in the third-place match, 3-2.

When asked about his performance that
day, Campbell was happy with his result,
acknowledging that while there was some
work to do, he tried his hardest. “I did
pretty well, today,” Campbell said, “and
I’m going to continue to look toward the
future; we’ve got plenty of matches left to
show what we’ve really got.”

Waynesburg ﬁnished ﬁrst with a total
of 123 points, followed by Washington
& Jefferson in second and Johns Hopkins
close after in third. In order, Muhlenberg,
West Virginia Tech and Scranton ﬁnished
in the middle, while Southern Virgnia ﬁn-
ished last with 25 points. W&L placed
second of the three Centennial Conference
members that were in attendance.

W&L, who currently sits at the top of
the Centennial Conference, will see its
next action this Saturday as the Gener-
als travel to Stevens Institute of Technol-
ogy in Hoboken, NJ, where there will be
a tri-toumament with McDaniel and the
Merchant Marine Academy, beginning at
10:00 am.

Women’s basketball loses heartbreaker
Lady Generals fall to Bridgewater 69- 70 on last-second shot

By Russweems
STAFF WRITER \

On Saturday, the Washington & Lee
women’s basketball team took on ODAC
foe Bridgewater in an away game. The
Generals fell to the Eagles 69-70 in a
back-and-forth game.

Both teams came into the game with
identical conference records of 5-3. On
paper, this was a very evenly matched con-
test, and it didn’t disappoint on the court.

Bridgewater jumped out to an early

lead 10-4, but the Generals fought back. ,

They consistently chipped away at the ad-
vantage throughout the ﬁrst half. W&L
used a 12-1 run and hot three-point shoot-
ing to take the lead. First-year forward
Rebecca Bolton capped off the half by
scoring the Generals last ﬁve points going
into the break. The Generals led 40-29 at
halftime.

The game was relatively even through;
out the beginning of the second half. The
Generals held a 10-point lead with 14:35 to
play. After this point, Bridgewater started
cutting into the W&L advantage. By the
10:31 mark, the lead was down to four. At
5:32, Bridgewater took its ﬁrst lead of the
second half. W&L had cooled off from

long range in the second half. The Gener-
als went 2 for 8 (25 percent) from 3-point
range in the second half after a 5 for 10 (50
percent) ﬁrst.

The Bridgewater comeback set the
game up for an exciting conclusion. Nei-
ther team was able to gain a signiﬁcant
advantage down the stretch.

With 17 seconds to play, the Generals
led 69-68 and went to the line for a 1-and-
1. W&L missed the ﬁrst shot, which was
rebounded by Bridgewater sophomore
guard Jordan Buckholder. Buckholder
took the ball down the court and took a
jumper with seven seconds to play. The
shot missed, but Bridgewater’s sophomore
guard Bianca Booker grabbed the rebound
and hit a fade-away jumper with 3.1 sec-
onds left to give the Eagles a 70-69 lead.

W&L passed the ball in to sophomore
guard Allie Long who attempted a last
‘second heave. The shot was off-target and
the game was over. The ﬁnal score was
70-69 as the Generals lost in heartbreak-
ing fashion.

W&L’s defense was a bright spot
throughout the game. The Generals held
the Eagles to 42 percent from the ﬁeld and
forced 22 turnovers including 13 steals.
Three-point shooting also helped the Gen-

erals out; they shot 39 percent from long
distance.

Rebounds and free throws were weak
spots for W&L. The Eagles outrebounded
the Generals by 10, 46-36, and W&L only
made 53.3 percent of its shots from behind
the foul line.

The Generals were led by four players
in double digits. Bolton contributed 18
points _and 10 rebounds, her fourth dou-
ble-double of the season. Senior guard
Bethany Ridenhour added 12 points on 5
of 10 shooting. First-year guard Kari Ann
Pfannenstein ended up with 11 points on
3 of 6 shooting from three-point range.
Sophomore center Felice Herman also
scored 10 points.

With the close loss, the Generals look
forward to facing the Eagles again in Feb-
ruary. The Generals will look to have a
stronger start in the rematch then play hard
for 40 minutes. “We have played a lot of
close games this year and will be more
prepared for Bridgewater when we play
them again,” said Pfannenstein.

The loss dropped the Generals to 5-4 in
the ODAC and 5-8 overall. The Generals
return to action on Tuesday as they host
Hollins for a 7:00 p.m. home game.

 

‘ If E Jli
  No~ Hdlo ? r
Scott Centorino laments that the

speaking tradition is dying.
OPINIONS / page 4

WASHINGTN AND LEE UNIVEkSITY

THE RING-TUM PHI.

MONDAY, JANUARY 26,2009

./ .
ix

VOLUME CXII, NUMBER/1."1V..’

., . 

BY THE STUDENTSAND FOR THE STUDENTS SINCE 1897

Twelve students
march for life

Two days after the Presidential
inauguration, thousands march on
Washington to protest abortion

By Victoria Taylor
s TA FF w R I T E R

The inauguration of President Obama was not the only event
that crowded the streets of Washington D.C. this week.

Twelve Washington and Lee University undergraduate and law
students took to the streets of Washington Thursday to participate
in the annual March for Life. They were part of the almost 200
thousand anti-abortion advocates who marched from the National
Mall to the U.S. Supreme Court to protest the Roe v. Wade deci-
sion legalizing abortion.

Members of both (the) Washington and Lee Students for Life
and (the) Generals Christian Fellowship (GCF) traveled to D.C. to
take part in the peaceful, pro-life demonstration.

Junior Jessica Makona, president of Students for Life, said that
this year’s march was unique because it was held in the spirit of
the inauguration.

“President Obama says he is for change and we want to see
change being extended to the way our society treats human life,”
she said. “We want to see legislative change in the next four years
in the spirit of our mission and are hoping that Obama will lis-
ten.”

“President Obama says he is for. change
and we want to see change being extended
to the way our society treats human life.

We want to see legislative change in the
next four years in the spirit of our mission. ”

Jessica Makona, a junior who joined the March for Life
 

This was Makona’s third march with the Students for Life.

“Every year, the excitement of people from all walks of life
walking and rallying under the same cause is just electrifying,”
she said.

Thursday was the second time in three days that sophomore
Alex Sweetser, who is a member of both Students for Life and
GCF, made the trip to D.C. She said seeing so many pro-life ad-
vocates standing where she was a few days before for the inaugu-
ration was “quite an experience.” I '

“Walking up Constitution Avenue and looking back at the
thousands of people holding pro-life signs is a sight I will always
remember,” she said. “I am proud to say that I was a part of such
a visual protest against abortion.”

Although the two groups traveled separately, they did meet up
for a while at the march, according to GCF staff worker Steve
Tamayo. Tamayo said the GCF participants, including seniors
Chris Tutor and Hilary Craig, sophomores Sweetser and Sam
Gillerain, and ﬁrst years Carl Wolk, Matt Simpson and John Cal-
vin Young, had to get back to campus early for a meeting.

Tamayo said that the march sounded like it would “put some
legs on some things we have been studying in scripture.”

“It was good to pray and to think and hear and talk to people
about what it would look life for the church or the Christian com-
munity to make a contribution, and to hear from women and chil-
dren who have maybe had the struggle of deciding whether or not
to get an abortion, so there was a tie-in there,” Tamayo said.

The Students for Life group included alumnus Jameson Gaber,
second year law students George Davis and Sam Huang, third year
law student Nate Smith and juniors Makona and Dalena Moser.

The members who remained on campus set up a table in the
Elrod Commons living room to raise abortion awareness on the
36th anniversary of Roe v. Wade. Students handed out lifesaver
hard candies and displayed posters encouraging the signing of the
Fight F OCA petition.

The Freedom of Choice Act, more commonly referred to as
FOCA, will eliminate restrictions on abortion nationwide once it
is signed. During a speech this past summer to the Planned Parent-
hood Action Fund, Obama said that, as president, he would sign
the bill into effect once it was passed by Congress. There has not
been much emphasis on F OCA since the inauguration.

The future of abortion laws and restrictions in the United States
remains unknown. On Friday, Obama reversed the Bush admin-
istration’s ban on federal aid to international groups that provide
abortions or give abortion information.

“In the coming weeks,” Obama told the Associated Press, “my
administration will initiate a fresh conversation on family plan-
ning, working to ﬁnd areas of common ground to best meet the
needs of women and families at home and around the world.’’

go

CATHERINE CARLOCK / Staff Photographer

A view of the Capitol building and inauguration stage from the National Mall in Washington, D.O.

W&L students join millions of others in C.

By Diandra Spicak
smrr wmrsa

As they stepped out into
the early morning chill in
Washington D.C., 77 W&L’
students braced themselves
against the biting breeze that
hit their faces.

At 6 a.m., the city streets
were already bustling with
throngs of army men and
women and echoing with
the sounds of police sirens.
Amid the buzz and excite-
ment, there was a common
purpose as the mass of hu-
manity streamed forward to

VMI cadets

By Jacob Geiger
surr warm:

Long before sunrise on
Inauguration morning, the

A barracks at Virginia Military

Institute was swarming with
activity.

Cadets raced from their
rooms to Crozet Hall to wolf
down French toast, eggs and
bacon before grabbing their
full~dress uniforms and riﬂes
and climbing aboard one of
26 charter buses.

For the 13“‘ time in the
institute’s history, the corps
was headed to Washington,

VDC. to march in an inaugu-

ral parade.
The convoy was mov-
ing by 5:15 a.m., and as the

watch the historical inaugu-
ration of the 44“‘ president,
Barack Obama.
Passersby and students
“We sat and
watched literally
thousands of peo-
ple walk by. ”
Jeanine Bailey: ﬂrst-year

alike were visibly excited
to be there. Dean Tamara

Futrell said the trip the trip
was not only a chance to be
part of history but to come
closer together.

“At ﬁrst we were only
going to have one bus but

then we started to realize.

how many students actually
wanted to go to the inaugu-

ration, so we hired another

one,” she said.
“On the buses, a lot of

A students didn’t know each

other...but because of the
bus ride in the morning, a lot
of friendships formed over
this event. Everyone just

seemed so excited.”

First-year Jeanine Bailey
detailed the events of the
day.

“When we got off the bus,
it was so cold, it was almost
fn"gid...Peop1e were stand-
ing around, asking ‘What do
we do? Where do we go?’
When we got in our groups,
we felt a bit more comfort-
able. Then I realized that
there was going to be a lot of
walking. When we got to the
corner and saw the Capitol, I

See “Inauguration” on page 2

marchin their 13th inauguration

cadets settled in for what
would be a long and grueling
day, many knew the signiﬁ-
cance of their mission.

’ “Its going to be busy, but
we’re a part of history,” 2"“
classman Brian Cvengros. .

By the end of the day,
‘when they ﬁnally marched
past the reviewing stand a
few minutes before 7 p.m.
as the next-to-last unit in the
parade, the cadets had made
quite an impression on Presi-
dent Barack Obama and‘First
Lady Michelle Obama.

As the band passed the
reviewing stand in front of
the White House, televi-
sion cameras captured the
ﬁrst lady leaning over to the

president.

“Wow!,” the ﬁrst lady
appeared to say. “That’s
amazing.”

It was a historic day for

“Itfs something
down the road I ’ll
be able to...say I

/‘

took part in. '
Alex Doseff, VMI cadet

the whole nation, but also
for the Corps of Cadets. This
year marked the 100th anni-
versary of their first appear-

ance in the parade, when the
corps helped William How-
ard Taft kick off his term in
March 1909.

By 8 a.m. on the mom-
ing of the inauguration, the
buses were roaring down an
unusually deserted Interstate
66, taking advantage of spe-
cial bus routes and police as-
sistance to race toward the
Pentagon. And then the wait-
ing started. The cadets had
nearly 10 hours to kill until
their 1.6 mile march down
Pennsylvania Ave.

The Inaugural Parade is
far more complicated than
most. The cadets had to en»
dure long periods of sitting

See “inaugural parade" on page 3

  

2 0 THE RING-TUM PHI

UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON. VA 24450

TM! 9

VITIV A: (J 

9 "mm;

MONDAY,

JANUARY 26, 2009

 

ODK znducts 30 new members; Jack Goldsmith reﬂects on B ush administration
By John Henderson tion dictates, due to concerns over slippery , “The central irony is, the agenda to ex-
" EW 5 E D ' T o R conditions. pand presidential power will end up weak-

Many of Lee Chapel’s pews were oc- ening the presidency in the foreseeable fu-
Twenty-eight Washington and Lee un- cupied for the induction ceremony, in ture,” Goldsmith said in his 2007 speech.
dergraduate and law school students were which all 30 inductees came on stage to Now Goldsmith argues that while the

inducted last Monday into Omicron Delta be “tapped” into ODK with a ceremonial Bush administration sacriﬁced trust in the I

Kappa (ODK), a national leadership honor cane. Audience members also came to effort to consolidate its powers, President

society founded at W&L in 1914. hear Jack Goldsmith, W&L class of 1984 Barack Obama is on his way to restoring

Students were selected from both and a member of ODK , deliver the key- trust with the American people.

schools out of the 2009 and 2010 graduat- note speech, "‘The Presidency in the Age Quoting Abraham Lincoln, whose

ing classes. The majority of the inductees of Terrorism.” name frequently crops up with Obama’s

were undergraduate seniors, 15, followed Goldsmith gave a similar speech to in the media, Goldsmith said to his W&L

by ﬁve undergraduate juniors, ﬁve third— W&L faculty and students in December audience, “Public sentiment is everything. ‘

year law school students and three second— 2007, shortly after the publication of his With public sentiment, nothing can fail.

year law school students.

‘WT :1::a;n’3?;:iat::n‘:”g’::1: “Public sentiment is everything. With public sentiment,

H‘"“’°°d- Dmma“ was W&L‘ ﬁrs‘ Var" nothing can fail. I/Wthout it, nothing can succeed. ”

sity volleyball coach from 1987-1993,

director for the Center for Suicide Preven-

E:b::: §:?::1:o;‘:?‘:d2:?g-$33gone Jack Goldsmlth, W&L Class of 1984, quotlng Abraham Llncoln

bridge Area Occupational Center.

Harwood, W&L class of 1974, founded book “The Terror Presidency,” an inside Without it, nothing can succeed.”

the news department of local radio station look at the Bush administration during Goldsmith made two predictions con-

WREL, was an editor of the Buena Vista Goldsmith’s tenure as assistant attorney ceming the current presidency. First, that

News, and since 1992 has been the edi- general from 2003-2004. the threat of attack will not pass as Obama

tor and publisher of The Rockbridge Ad- Goldsmith offered a fresh perspective steps into power. Rather, Obama will be

vocate, a local independent newspaper. on former President Bush’s role in the in the same position as Bush of needing

Harwood has also taught journalism at the “war on terror” arguing that the Bush ad- to shore up American security, but his tac-

Virginia Military Institute and serves on ministration is to thank for its “unceasing tics will likely be very different. Already,

the board of directors of the Rockbridge efforts” to prevent a second major terrorist Obama has ordered the closure of the 

Regional Fair.

Class schedules were adjusted Monday
to make room for the 11:45 a.m. convo-
cation, which was held in Lee Chapel.
Organizers opted not to process from
Washington Hall to Lee Chapel, as tradi-

attack after September 11, 2001.

He went on to reiterate some of the
themes from last year’s speech, speciﬁcal-
ly the Bush presidency’s failure to consult
Congress on key decisions and its general
lack of transparency.

prison at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, where
allegations of human rights abuses stained
the Bush administration.

of

Celebrating diversity

Law school hosts cultural lectures and ﬁlm

By Valaree Tang
surr wnmsn

The week of January 19
through the 23 marked Diversi-
ty Week at Washington and Lee
University’s School of Law. The
week featured an event each day
that helped to educate students
on both the undergraduate and
law school campuses about di-
versity and culture.

Hilary O. Shelton, the Direc-
tor of the NAACP Washington
Bureau, spoke on Monday, Jan-
uary 19 in the Millhiser Moot
Court Room.

Sponsored by Sponsored
by the Federalist Society and
American Constitution Society,
guest speakers Gail Heriot, Pro-
fessor of Law, University of San

Diego School of Law, Roger topic “From Terrorist to Free— he had told his torturers all the The screening of “War ‘‘It just goes to show you that  ’
Clegg, President of Center for dom Fighter: One Man’s Fight information he had. Today, Ma- Child,” sponsored by the Jour- everyone has purpose and a des-
Equal Opportunity and w&L’S To End Apartheid” on Wednes- baso is proud of how far South nal of Civil Rights and Social tiny in life.”
own Ted Delaney’ history pro_ day and talked about his expe— Africa has come. He referred to Justice, is a documentary that The screening of the ﬁlm
rience in the liberation move- Martin Luther King Jr.’s“I Have followed Emmanuel Jal’s life, was followed by a question and
Inauguration and colder. Basically we were ‘“Wow.’ That was my ﬁrst Futrell said. “We’ve come leaps _
stalled, and we tried to reunite that thought,” Bailey said. and bounds since that time of
contlnued from page 1 the group. We ended following “He’s a very great orator, his turmoil, and there I was watch-
the giant crowd.” words were very moving...I ing the inauguration of a black
thought to Ihyselh ‘Okay= After two hours, the trek end— kept thinking, wow, I’m here for president. It brought tears to my
this is real how-m ed as the jumbo-trons came into this. I’m one of the million[s] eyes.”
The groups fouhu themselves sight. Groups staked out spots that showed up here today.” Bailey said she was look-
oaught up ih the erowo aho and began to wait in the brisk Chants of “Obama” and “Yes ing forward to the inauguration
pushed down the street’ People 20 degree temperatures for the We Can!” were audible over the since the start of Obama’s can-
were peeked ih everywhere’ inauguration, the reason why mass of humanity. Strangers didacy.
pushihg through erowds’ raeihg over 1 million people crowded held others in embraces, includ- “I just couldn’t pass up the
others to hho a spot oh the Na‘ into D.C. to witness the swear— ing one woman handing out chance when it came  Even .

tional Mall. What started off as
a large group of W&L students
and faculty was broken into
small, separate groups which
had difficulty reconnecting.
“Our group split up, and it
slowly started getting smaller
as more people went different
ways,” Bailey said. “We sat
and watched literally thousands
of people walk by. As we sat
there, it seemed to get colder

fessor, explored the topic of
“Afﬁrmative Action and Higher
Education: Help or Hindrance?”
on Tuesday. The speakers of-
fered their views on afﬁrrnative
action. Clegg described the term

I “aﬂelnnative action” as initially

being designed to “casting a
wide net” where the application
process was open to everyone.

But Delaney sees affirma-
tive action as the best option for
diversifying educational institu-
tions. “We want students who
make the campus richer. We
want students who give the uni-
versity wide appeal. Aﬁirmative
action is not an ideal solution
but, it gives us direction,” said
Delaney.

Thulani Mabaso spoke on the

ing in of Ame'rica’s ﬁrst Afri-
can—American president.

“After walking there and
getting on to the mall, it really
didn’t hit me until I saw Presi-
dent Obama on the big screen,”
Futrell said. “I was jumping and
screaming, but once he started
talking, it was like I was in
shock. I suddenly got quiet, and
I began to cry. It was, for lack of
a better word, amazing.”

ment in South Africa. In battling
apartheid, Mabaso spoke about
alienation in his own country.
He ran away from home and

eventually trained to ﬁght as‘

part of the liberation movement
as the “spear of the nation”. He

a Dream” speech, saying, “The
country belongs to all of us who
live in it regardless of color. In
South Africa, we don’t look at
your color. We look at how you
perform.”

Mabaso’s speech was geared

“We want students who make the campus

richer. We want students who give the univer-

sity wide appeal. Aﬁirmative action is not an

ideal solution, but it gives us direction. ”

Ted Delaney, Assoc. Professor of Hlstory

was later arrested, put in solitary
conﬁnement and suffered brutal
torture that continued even after

“free hugs for America.”

“People of all racial and eth-
nic backgrounds had come to-
gether. It was really the United
States,” -Futrell observed

She said America has made
signiﬁcant progress just in her
lifetime.

“I grew up in this age where
my parents had to sit on the
back of the bus, where they
couldn’t eat in certain places,”

toward students of the law
school, calling for lawyers to
ﬁght for justice.

though it was a long, tiring jour-
ney, and my feet were freezing
and my face numb, it was all
worth it.”

CATHERINE CARLOCK / Staff Photographer

An Amerlcan ﬂag ﬂutters
In front of the National
Monument, where mII-
llons gathered for the
Presldentlal Inauguration

r

from his involvement in the Su-
danese liberation movement and
his escape from oppression to
becoming a world-famous mu-
sician. He is currently involved
in a musical group called Lost
Boys that educates listeners
about the situation in Sudan. J al
is also giving back to those who
helped him by helping to found
and build the Leer School in Su-
dan.

‘“War Child’ was absolute-
ly captivating. It amazes me
how Emmauel was able to rise
above of his unimaginable cir-
cumstances as a starving child
soldier in Sudan and succeed to
become a major hip—hop star in
Europe,” said Joan Oguntimein,
who viewed the ﬁlm for a class.

 

y1est9§§a,Pee ‘

answer session with the director
and producer of “War Child,”
C. Karim Chrob0g,. who spent
four and a half years making the
film. .

On Friday, Amul R. Thapar,
U.S. District Judge for the East-
em District of Kentucky spoke
on the topic of “Diversity of
Thought: An Old Challenge
for a New Millennium” in the
Millhiser Moot Court Room,
followed by a Q&A session.
The lecture was sponsored by
the South Asian Law Students
Association, the Asian Paciﬁc
American Law Students Asso-
ciation, and the Latin American

. Law Students Association.

 

  

 

3 - THE RING-TUM PHI

 

 

MONDAY,

news

 Macado’s makes a start in Lex

. The new bar and restaurant has had no problem attracting students and locals

LENORA NUNNLEY / Staff Photographer

An outside view of Macado’s, which is located in the old Wilson Walker House

on North Main Street.

By Llzz Dye
s TA F F w R I T E R

In a town like Lexington,
something new and exciting is a
rare commodity. Freshmen have
probably exhausted all dinner
options in town already, and
it’s only been ﬁve months since
school began.

Domino’s, although always
satisfying, has lost its original
allure (there are only so many
cheese pizzas one can eat), and
restaurants like the Southern
Inn and the Bistro, although ex-
cellent, can only be visited so
many times on a college budget.
With pledgeship, teeth-gritting

Inaugural Parade

continued from page 1

on the bus, thorough security
screening, long waits and bitter
cold. And,_ of course, there were
the hours of practice before they
ever left Lexington.

“We’ve been practicing
all week in the afternoon, just
marching around the parade

cold weather, and schoolwork
piling up in full force, some-
thing new would certainly take
the edge off Winter Term.

The recently opened
bar and restaurant on North
Main Street, Macado’s, is the
answer to any Winter Term
slump. Macado’s is part of a
chain started in 1978 that has
14 other restaurants at locations
in Virginia, West Virginia, and
North Carolina.

This is the second time the
restaurant chain has made a go
of it in Lexington. In the eighties
a Macado’s occupied the space
currently held by Malone’s, but

lion people who had jammed the
District were on their way out
of town. But the Corps still de-
livered a ﬁlll dose of pomp and
circumstance as they passed the
White House.

The band struck up “Shenan-
doa ,” the corps’s ofﬁcers
snapped their sabers to attention,
and all 1,300 cadets delivered an
“eyes-left” salute as they passed
the reviewing stand.

“I ’ll tell my grandkids about a young me

who was sitting around a very long time

in the cold...and ﬁnally getting to pass the
President, our first black president. I ’ll tell

them I felt honored and privileged. ”

Hunter Davis, a third-ciassmen at VMI
 

deck,” Cadet Alex Doseff said
at breakfast Tuesday mom-
ing. They were nervous about
making a good impression and
ensuring that days of practice
weren’t wasted.

“My role is to march at the
back of the formation, since I’m
on the regimental staff, and try
not to screw anything up,” Cadet
Jonathan Price said that mom-
ing. “But it’s a pretty cool day;
it’s not every day you get to sa-
lute your commander-in-chief.”

Cadets said their reward — a
chance to march just feet away
from Obama — was well worth
the practice and the waiting.

“It’s something down the
road I’ll be able to look back and
say I took part in,” said Doseff.
“Not many people get to do it.”

When the cadets turned left
from 15th Street onto Pennsylva-
nia Avenue, it was already dark,
and many of the almost two mil-

They were a dramatic sight
as they continued up Pennsylva-
nia Avenue: the long, perfectly
arrayed ranks in full dress uni-
form, marching in step behind
the American, state and institute
ﬂags.

VMI was the only military
academy selected to bring its
entire student body. Other ser-
vice academies sent only a few
companies. The Corps of Cadets
was by far the largest single unit
to march, and the cadets made
up about 10 percent of the esti-
mated 13,000 people who par-
ticipated in the parade.

The parade was scheduled
to step off at 2:30 p.m., but Sen.
Ted Kennedy’s seizure at the
Senate’s inaugural luncheon de-
layed the march. President and
Mrs. Obama, after walking long
stretches of the parade route,
did not reach the White House
until well after 4 p.m., and the

the restaurant ceased to exist
when the company transitioned
and split apart in 1993.

Brian Turpin, one of two
managers at Macado’s, said the
chain wanted to come back be-
cause Lexington is like “a sec-
ond home”. The draw of two
colleges in the same town was
also an incentive because one of
the franchise’s goals is to cater
to college students.

Macado’s is located in the
old Wilson Walker House. The
lower level is the “bar” area,
and boasts both bar seating
and table seating, with four big
screen TV’s that run sporting

 

events day and night and pro-
vide a view for the costumers.
The upper level has more of a
restaurant feel, with booth and
regular table seating, and also
has two large screen TV’s fea-
turing the athletic game of the
hour.

Turpin said they had to do
a total overhaul of the build-

ing, but because it is a histori- ,

cal building, they had to keep
all the original walls and ﬁx-
tures intact. A majority of the
expensive work was facial
reconstruction of the building,
making it a “ﬂoor to ceiling”
operation. _

Macado’s has been ex-
tremely successful in its ﬁrst
weeks in business.
a Wednesday evening around
5:30,, there will already be a
few people seated upstairs,
downstairs and at the bar. By
6:30 there is a long line form-
ing and by 7 almost every seat

in the house downstairs will be
occupied, while more costum-
ers continue to ﬁle upstairs.
Emily Fix, a waitress, has
been training to work at Maca-
do’s since December. She com-
mented that during the week-
day, clientele include mostly
VMI cadets, W&L students and
younger locals in the evening.
On weekends, Fix’ sees “famil-
iar faces” both Friday and Sat-
urday, and a large mixture of
W&L and VMI students, espe-
cially later in the night. Lunch
brings a very different crowd,
mostly people on their lunch
breaks, older patrons, students,

Even on

and soldiers interning at VMI.
Getting a seat is difﬁcult
on any evening, but especially
the weekends if one comes af-
ter 6:30. Because Macado’s is
so new, few of the waiters and
waitresses have gone through
full training, so the wait for
food or the check can be long.
That is made up for by the de-
licious food and desserts, and
there is a variety of alcoholic

and her son were not so up-beat
about their experience. Marisa
said that she used to work at the
Macado’s in Roanoke when she
was in high school, and that they
had to memorize every item on
the overwhelming menu.

At the Lexington Macado’s,
it is preferable for the waiters
and waitresses to memorize
the menu, but not mandatory.

-Marisa also said that this Maca-

“[Having Macado ’s in Lexington has been]

fun and crazy at the same time. I think that
if we continue to cater to VMI cadets, W&L

students and locals, we will be just ﬁne. ’

J

Russ Putney, Macado’s General Manager
 _

and non-alcoholic beverages to
choose from.

Jack Ivy, a sophomore at
W&L, enjoyed “The Honey-
mooner,” a sandwich that has
ham, melted Swiss, bacon and
tomato on a hot buttered crois-
sant. Jack gave Macado’s two
thumbs up, saying, “Sunrise
Sandwich. . .two dollars; dinner
at d-hall. . .ten dollars; ‘the Hon-
eymooner’. . .priceless.”

Jack also tested the “Cin-
namon Sensation”, which is
a huge, warm cinnamon roll
topped off with vanilla ice
cream, and he said that it was
“something you can’t get any-
where else! Awesome!”

Marisa, a Lexington resident,

do’s “caters more to alcohol
rather than food, anyway.”

Her son did not like his
cheese pizza, but they both en-
joyed the mac and cheese, one
of the items for which Macado’s
is renowned. While Marisa’s
sandwich was not as warm as
she would have liked, she said it
was still good and she is excited
about having somewhere differ-
ent to go in Lexington.

Russ Putney, the general
manager, said having Macado’s
in Lexington has been “fun and
crazy at the same time. I think
that if we continue to cater to
VMI cadets, W&L students and
locals we will be just ﬁne.”

JACOB GEIGER / Staff Writer

The entire VMI cadet core marched In the Inaugural parade; It was their thirteenth inaugural appearence

since 1905.

Cadets did not start marching
until about 5:15, the time they
had originally planned to pass
the reviewing stand.

By the time they turned off
Pennsylvania Avenue and re-
ceived permission to un-shoul-
der their riﬂes and remove their
bayonets, they looked both tired
and cold, as temperatures had
dropped to 26 degrees Fahren-
heit with a wind chill of 16.

In such a ﬂuid situation, the
cadets said patience ~— and a will-
ingness to follow orders — was
required.

‘‘I’m a corporal, so I’m pret-
ty much just going to be doing
what everyone else tells me to
do,” third classman Cam Rush-
ton said before getting on his
bus at/ 5 a.m. “Just line up and
go with the ﬂow.”

The cadets handled the cold
and delays with their good hu-
mor intact, laughing and joking
as they walked down 20th Street
back to their buses. They were
also excited to describe the ex-
perience of being so close to
their commander-in-chief.

“It was a pretty cool expe-

rience,” Ryan Buell said as he
got back on his bus. “I mean,
of course it was pretty cold and
we had to walk a long time, but
that’s one of those things we’re
always going to remember. It
was a pretty surreal experi-
ence.”

Hunter Davis, a third-class-
man, said he was surprised at
how smoothly things went.

“It was amazing, and it
pretty much went off without a
hitch,” he said.

But beyond the logistics,
Davis, of Houma, Louisiana.,

said the experience of passing
the president was deeply mov-
ing.

“I’ll tell my grandkids
about a young me who was sit-
ting around a very long time in
the cold  and finally getting
to pass the president, our first
black president. I’ll tell them I
felt honored and privileged.

“This memory will go down
as one of my most powerful:
passing by the president, listen-
ing to that hymn and marching
in uniform.”

 

 

JANUARY 26, 2009

 

 

 

THE RING-TUM PHI ° 4

MONDAY, JANUARY 26, 2009

opinions

 

It is time to start speaking to each other

Centorino wonders why we ’ll spend thousands for FD, but won

By Scott Centorlno
c o L u M N I s T

We at Washington and Lee value
traditions, or so we claim. Most of us
do ﬁnd comfort in the strong founda-
tion of this university. Most of us be-
long to fraternities or sororities.

We live by a century-old honor sys-
tem. We look forward to Fancy Dress
and the Mock Convention. We hang
pictures of those who came before us
on the walls of our dining hall. When
we walk along the Colonnade, we no-
tice how generations of students have
worn the steps beneath our feet. We
wonder what they thought about this
place or whether they knew how many
would follow and admire their steps.

Without a doubt, Fancy Dress will
take place this March. And, despite
our recent false prediction, the country

waits for our next Mock Convention.
We will spend hundreds of thousands of
dollars to keep these traditions alive.

Yet, one tradition still fades - the
free tradition. When we walk out the
doors of Fancy Dress, or meet strang-
ers at the Mock Convention, we will
pass each other in silence. We have for-
gotten this tradition. We have lost the
speaking tradition. _

In 1893, John B. Collyar of Nash-
ville, Tennessee wrote of his experi-
ences as a student here during Robert
E. Lee’s presidency. Collyar describes
General Lee in his oﬂice as being
“gentle, kind, and almost motherly,
in his bearing.” Although expecting a
hardened warrior, Collyar found him to
emanate warmth.

Although Collyar described the
General has having a “broken heart,”

looking “as if the sorrow of a whole
nation had been collected in his coun-
tenance,” Lee still knew every student
by name.

Having just lost the bloodiest war in

come General Lee. In fact, perhaps his
unattainably lofty standard of civility
has doomed us to fail and we should
simply settle for above average civility.
Perhaps we should surrender and be-

T he speaking tradition is so simple and so salvage-

able...It remains one of the few traditions which bring

us together, rather than dividing and categorizing us.

We must not relegate [it] to the prison of the past.

American history, Lee borrowed from
his fountain of strength the ability to
remain cordial and humble with stu-
dents not unlike us.

We could not possibly aspire to be-

come just another liberal arts college.
In doing so,’ we would turn our
backs on our past and cheat ourselves
of what distinguishes us from others.
The speaking tradition is so simple and

’t speakfor free

so salvageable. Its fragility is obvious.
If one generation of students ignore
it, the tradition will die. However, its
strength is contagious.

The speaking tradition, despite its
fading, remains one of the most Visible
traditions on campus. The speaking tra-
dition does not discriminate. It remains
one of the few traditions which bring
us together, rather than dividing and
categorizing us.

We must not relegate inconvenient
traditions to the prison of the past. All
traditions, big and small, should liber-
ate us and guide us into the future.

Traditions, embraced correctly, act
not. as burdens, but as reminders of
those who came before us and suc-
ceeded in the challenge of keeping
such fragile memories alive.

When it comes to food, :Si se puede!

Stockton Bullitt

By Stockton Bullitt
C0 LU MN IST

I had wrapped up my morning
classes and could smell it all the way
from Huntley.

Today was fajita day at the Market-
place, and the hope smelled wonder-
ful.

I rushed down the stairs, knocked
over a couple of Thetas, and edged my
way to the front of the fajita line.

All of my ingredients were perfect-
ly measured to make the perfect Larry
Fitzgerald of fajitas: beef to accentuate
my masculinity, onions and salsa to
spice up the party, cheese and guaca-
mole to sober drive.

However, when I ﬁnally sat down
to eat my beloved fajita, there was a
small problem: my tortilla completely
fell apart and ruined the Mexican dish

 

4

says its time for the Dining Hall to start buying

I had so fastidiously prepared. I was
heartbroken.

I love the Dining Hall. The people
are nice, the selection is great, and
99% of the food is more than up to my
standards of eating, but, alas, they have

Now, you may be asking yourself
why do I have such a problem with one
piece of food, or rather, why am I wast-
ing your precious reading time talking
about tortillas?

Well, there is a simple answer to

If the Pillsbury Dough Boy and Cesar Chavez had a
love child, it would no doubt be some kind of tortilla.

The combination of freedom and ﬂuﬁiness that comes

from eating a tortilla cannot be substituted...

sadly disappointed me in their choice
of tortilla.

It is thin, weak, and tastes like plas-
tic, none of which are all that appealing
to eat. I

totheetilior 
Hazing is unacceptable

Alumni argue that hazing is damaging to fraternities

that: tortillas are arguably the most vi-

tal food piece that you will ever have at‘

Washington and Lee.
First and foremost, tortillas are im-
portant because they tie together the

best ethnic food in America.

Without tortillas, there is no fajitas,
enchiladas, burritos, breakfast burritos,
quesadillas, tacos, or gyros, if you get
tired of our friends to the south. They
make all Mexican food worth eating
because they provide one thing that
other foreign foods‘ cannot offer: con-
venience.

When was the last time you could
eat mu shu pork inside your sesame
noodles? Tortillas bring together all of
Mexico’s dishes into one place.

They make eating democratic.

Tortillas’ standing in the culture of
food are explained by the cheap com-
fort people enjoy from Taco Bell and
the overall essence of Mexico. There is
no better comfort to a distorted mind
and empty tummy than a micro waved
quesadilla. Just try and take tortillas out
of that equation, and you no doubt have

better tortillas

some major issues on your hands.

The best part of tortillas is probably
the only thing that is missing from the
Dining HalI’s version, and that is most
deﬁnitely the love.

Thereis something about the Mexi-
can hamburger bun that just screams
cuddly.

If the Pillsbury Dough Boy and
Cesar Chavez had a love child, it would
no doubt be some kind of tortilla.

The combination of freedom and
ﬂuffmess that comes from eating a tor-
tilla cannot be substituted from my life
or any.

So with a new administration being
sworn in this week, I ask that we call
for change, no matter how big or how
small. '

Let’s change the tortillas. Yes we

can!

  HEYYOU!

Got a bone to pick? Really like arts and
life? Enjoy writing? Huge fan of Generals
sports? Write for the Phi!

Also needed: copy editors, designers
and photographers

Contact phi@wlu.edu

 

 

To the Inter-Fratemity Council and all
fraternity presidents.

Gentlemen:

Many alumni care deeply about the
Greek system at W&L. The members of
the Alumni Board certainly do, and we
want to share our thoughts on the issue of
hazing.

good fraternity system. It doesn’t make
you like or feel better about the house you
have joined, and it gives strong ammuni-
tion to those who wish to criticize or sanc-
tion fraternities.

In the last several years, the well
known zero tolerance policy has been
tested. Unfortunately, ﬁve fraternities
have been punished, including some sus-
pensions from campus. In ‘each instance,

There is an institutional belief in a good and positive

Greek system, and there has been real progress... [we]

ask you to accept our challenge that 2009 be the year

when there is no hazing.

All three of us, and most male alumni,
belonged to fraternities here. They did
and do like the fact that fraternities are a
key part of the active social component of
student life at W&L. _

Freshman ‘beanies’, mandatory coats
and ties to classes, and an ‘assimilation

committee’ which punished fraternity
pledges on a whim, all existed previously
at W&L. That sounds crazy now because
time changes. The most pro-Greek alumni
feel strongly that hazing is not part of a

the conduct was admitted, the IFC per-
formed properly, and the Greek national
organizations were actively involved.
Despite these well—publicized punish-
ments, some hazing took place again last
year, and it should not have surprised any-
one when strong penalties were imposed.
Alumni leaders who do care deeply about
fraternities are n_ot going to defend anyone
or any house if hazing occurs. It threatens
the continuation of Greek life here.
Based on our work as volunteer lead-

ers, we do not believe that the University
is ‘anti—Greek.’ It is, however, adamantly
and correctly opposed to hazing, and so
are we. In the mid l980’s, W&L invested
about $18 million refurbishing your fra-
ternity houses when the overwhelming
trend at other colleges was to shut them.
Vice president for Student Affairs Dawn
Watkins has written and spoken nation-
ally in support of our Greek system. Beta
is returning to campus alter a suspension,
and a sixth sorority has been launched.

There is an institutional belief in a
good and positive Greek system, and there
has been real progress on many fronts. We
congratulate you on that progress, and ask
you to accept our challenge that 2009 be
the year when there is no hazing, so that
W&L fraternity life is not jeopardized.
Help us preserve the long and proud lega-
cy of fratemities.

Thanks for leading, and good luck
completing a successful year for fratemi-
ties. If we can help, please ask us.

For the Alumni Board,

Dan Einstein, ’83, Alumni Board presi-
dent

David Proctor, ’8l, Alunmi Board vice
president

Beau Dudley, ’74, ‘79L, Executive Direc-
tor of Alumni Affairs

PSYCHOLOGY IN THE
WORKPLACE:
Alumni-In-Residence Series

 

FORENSIC PSYCHOLOGY. BUSINESS
CONSULTING. EDUCATION AND COUNSELING.
NON-PROFITS. PRIVATE PRACTICE.
SCHOOL PSYCHOLOGY. RESEARCH.
UNIVERSITY TEACHING.

February 5th Beth Stutzmann ‘9O
February 12th Scott Miller ‘92

Individual Meetings 10- 12
Lunch 12: 15-1: 15
Call 458-8595 for Reservations

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

CAREERSERVICES

careers@wlu.edu

458-8595 careers.wlu.edu

 

  

3.

 

MONDAY, JANUARY 26, 2009

THE RING-TUM PHI 0

5

 

pinions

I Corrections

The editors of the Ring-tum Phi wish to express
our sincerest apologies for the misprints in
last weeks article, “Professor crosses cultural
lines ’’ by Becky Guynn. A number of errors
weré mistakenly left in the version of the story
that went to print. The article describes Prof

_ Indira Somani is ﬁlm, “Crossing Lines, ” which

was screened on Jan. 15 in Stackhouse Theater
on the Washington and Lee campus.

“Crossing Lines” tells the story of an Indian-American

woman, Somani, on her journey to stay connected to India ’

after the death of her father. She describes the ﬁlm as “a
unique story about the relationship of an Indian father and
his American-born Indian daughter.” In the ﬁlm, Somani
explains how she has struggled to stay connected to her In-
dian heritage as a second generation Indian-American.
During the development of the ﬁlm, which took four
years to make, Somani wanted her extended family to know
that women could ‘be accomplished and happy without be-
ing manied. Her friend, Seema Goyal, traveled with her
throughout India and was also the producer of the ﬁlm

there.

During the post-ﬁlm discussion on Jan. 15, Somani ex-
plained that her pariants never pressured her to have a con-
nection to her faith and culture. Before receiving her Ph.D.,
Somani worked as a news producer for ten years at various
stations, including CNBC where she produced the around-
the-clock post-9/ ll coverage. Her extended family in India
loved that she was involved in television, but also respected
that she wanted to follow in her father’s footsteps into aca-

demia.

“Crossing Lines” served to strengthen Somani’s connec-

tion to India through her family and the love she found in
them. Somani’s father had always enjoyed making home
videos, and footage from these videos has been weaved into
her own ﬁlm. She explained how much her family appreci-
ated the ﬁlm and how it “was a way for her family to keep

[her father’s] memory alive.”

Corrections written by Michael Morella

 ~ ~ - WASHINGTON no Ln: Umvsasmr

   R1Nc:ruMPH1 

MANAGING Eoiron
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR
sronrs EDITOR

CONTRIBUTING WRITERS

DESIGN EDITOR
STAFF PHOTGRAPHERS

BUSINESS MANAGERS

DISTRIBUTION MNGR.

ALLISON CHOPIN
JOHN HENDERSON
CODY BEAUCHAMP
CELESTE CRUZ-
CARANDANG

WILL DORRANCE

CRIGHTON ALLEN
STOCKTON BULLITT
SCOTT CENTORINO
JEAN CHAPMAN
LIZZ DYE

JACOB GEIGER
KATIE HATFIELD

IFINDLEY MERRITT

MICHAEL MORELLA
HANK NATHAN
DIANDRA SPICAK
VALAREE TANG
VICTORIA TAYLOR
KIMBER WIGGS

LARA JORDAN
CATHERINE CARLOCK
MORGAN HARRIS
STROCK MOORE
CHARLES PERSONS
ROB GEORGE

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE
RING-TUM PHI to accurately. truthfully, and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community for students, faculty,
parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire
to spark discussions that lead to discovering
information that prompts change.

THE RlNG—TUM PHI IS PUBLISHED MONDAYS
DURING THE UNDERGRADUATE SCHOOL YEAR.
THE RING—TUM PHI IS A MEMBER OF THE MEDIA
BOARD, BUT IS OTHERWISE INDEPENDENT.
QUESTIONS OR CONCERNS ABOUT THE PHI
SHOULD BE ADDRESSED TO THE EDITORS AT
PHI@WLU.EDU OR TO THE MEDIA BOARD AT

MEDIABOARD@WLU.EDU.

THE MEDIA BOARD

IS AN INDEPENDENT, STUDENT—RUN EDITORIAL
OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE WORKING WITH ALL
MEDIA OUTLETS ON THE WASHINGTON &

LEE CAMPUS.

ALL INQUIRIES WILL REMAIN

CONFIDENTIAL. THE RING-TUM PHI WELCOMES I
ALL LETTERS. WE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO EDIT
SUBMISSIONS FOR CONTENT AND LENGTH.
LETTERS AND ADVERTISING DO NOT NECESSARILY
REFLECT THE OPINION OF THE RING—TUM PHI
STAFF. THIS NEWSPAPER OBSERVES CURRENT
COURT DEFINITIONS OF LIBEL AND OBSCENITY.

THE RING-TUM PHI I
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540) 458-4059
EMAIL: PHl@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

Rick Warren insulting

By picking Rev. Warren to pray, Obama oﬂended the gays

By Jean Chapman
COLUM NIST

I was absurdly excited on
Tuesday morning. I woke up,
sent some jubilant texts to my
friends, went to class, then
curled up in front of the TV to
watch the inauguration.

My ecstatic enthusiasm
lasted right up until Rick War-
ren took the podium to give the
benediction. Major downer.

Why on Earth would Obama,
the demigod of the Democratic
Party, choose to bring along a
heel like Rick Warren on the day
of his arrival at Olympus?

He who seemingly could do

no wrong made a seriously er- -

roneous choice.

For those of you not famil-
iar with Rick Warren, he’s the
somewhat slimy, uber—popular
conservative preacher and au-
thor of “The Purpose Driven
Life.” When he isn’t creating
mega-churches and meeting
with rock stars, spends his time
gay-bashing and supporting the
right wing unwaveringly.

Apparently, Obama and he
met several years ago and, in the
words of Mr. Obama, struck up a
relationship in which they could
“agree without being disagree-
able and then focus on those
things that we hold in common
as Americans.”

I hate to sound like a pessi-
mist, and I hate to sound intol-
erant, but while Obama may get
along well with Warren, and I
would love to live in a country
where we all could agree with-

 

out being disagreeable, that’s
not America right now.

Fact of the matter is, Rick
Warren is one of those antago-
nists who apparently cannot dis-
agree politely without forcing
his opinions on others.

The pulpit, no matter whose
pulpit it is, is no place for agen-
da, no matter whose agenda it
is.

Rick Warren abuses his posi-

to form, Obama tried to balance
the controversial pick of Rick
Warren by also inviting the Rt.
Rev. Gene Robinson, Episcopal
bishop of New Hampshire.....
who just happens to be the ﬁrst
openly gay bishop to be elected
in America. Gee, wonder why
he picked him.

Obama, as much as I admire
you, you have got to realize
that choosing two controversial

Why on earth would Obama, the demigoa’ of

the Democratic Party, choose to bring along
a heel like Rick Warren on the day of his ar-

rival at Olympus?

tion and, furthermore, he uses it
to preach intolerance and close-
mindedness. His prayer at the
inauguration, however polite,
was distinctly and unilaterally
Christian, a sharp contrast to
Obama’s open and all-inclusive
speech in which he mentioned
every major religion and non-
believers.

Obama is typically known
for having tolerant, open-mind-
ed inclinations and for favoring
a Lincoln-esque “Team of Ri-
vals” mentality.

Obama allegedly seeks to
bring the best of the best to-
gether to forge a better Amer-
ica, regardless of whether he
agrees with them or not. True

etiliorid

characters does not imply your
neutrality. .

They imply your hypocrisy.

An openly gay bishop and
an ultra-conservative preacher
may represent the two extremes
of the nation’s political-reli-
gious beliefs, and they may in
fact be good as advisors to the
president, but by choosing these
two ﬁgures for his inauguration
Obama only succeeded in send-
ing mixed messages and ticking
off a lot of Americans as well.

This time, Obama made a
newbie’s mistake. Either he is
too naive, or he is too optimistic
to realize that not everyone is as
open-minded as he is.

Issues of faith have long

been amongst the touchiest in
American history, and the issue
of homosexuality still stirs the
most heated debates in every
forum. Combining these two is-
sues and forcing extremes onto
the American public is not the
way to make friends.

On the day of the inaugura-
tion, the Human Rights Cam-
paign issued a statement saying
that “the pendulum has swung
away from the anti-gay forces
and toward a new president and
vice president who acknowledge
our [gay and lesbian] equal-
ity...our community and many
others are looking at a new day
of welcome and great promise.”
Here’s hoping that’s true.

Here’s hoping that Obama’s
dedication to political inclusion
does not hinder his self-pro-
claimed role as “a ﬁerce advo-
cate for equality for gay and
lesbian Americans.”

Because, frankly, Obama’s
actions aren’t matching up to
these words anymore. He barely
mentioned GLBT issues on the
campaign trail, made no state-
ments about Proposition 8, and
then promptly chose Rick War-
ren to bless his inauguration.

As much as I like Obama, my
enthusiasm for his progressiv-
ism is turning into trepidation.
I know there is no way a presi-
dent can achieve all he prom-
ises he makes on the campaign
trail, but there are some things
that just shouldn’t be forgotten.
Here’s hoping this isn’t what he
chooses to forget.

uit spilling that juice

We 7ve run out of patiencewaiting for W&L to grow up

For a few months, we held
our tongues. After all, what
people in their right minds would
want to speak poorly about
JuicyCampus?

None that don’t want their
names posted within the week.

But enough is enough.

Despite rush being ﬁnished
for the year; despite hundreds
of red-herring posts that mock
the very website; despite the
broadcast email earlier in the
year from student leaders con-
demning it—JuicyCampus is
still thriving at W&L.

Need proof? As of press time,
the 20 latest topics on the W&L
page had a total of 10,164 views
between them, meaning each
topic averaged over 500 views.
There were 305 replies to the
topics, for an average of over
15 each.

Let’s assume that out of
all these views, only half are
“original views,” meaning that
it was someone who hasn’t al-
ready looked at that topic. But
let’s also recognize that gossip
is something that’s wickedly
fun to do with other people. So
let’s say that 20% of the aver-
age views involved at least two
people reading the screen. Once
the math is done that means
around 355 actual people view
any given topic, on average.

There are 1,780 undergradu-
ate students at W&L. Let’s

assume that a meager 5%—89
students—are studying abroad

or are off campus for some

. other reason. That leaves 1,691

students on campus. All of this
means it’s entirely reasonable
to assume that around 20% of
the undergrad body sees any
given topic.

That’s unacceptable, “ladies”
and “gentlemen.”

Let’s assume that 10% of
all the comments made on an
average topic are positive (an

assumption that is ludicrously

generous). That means that, on
average, there are 13.5 libelous,
petty, mean, insulting, and de-
grading comments against any
person named on JuicyCampus.
To put two and two together,
that means if someone wants
to smear your good name, they
not only can, but an average of
12 other students will join in,
and a ﬁfth of the student body
will see it.

Assume only half of all those
people actually believe what
they read (again, we think this
is being generous to JuicyCam-
pus’ defenders).That means if
someone were to get on JuicyC-
ampus today and write “Reader
X is a slut with herpes,” when
you walk down the Colonnade
tomorrow a tenth of the students
you pass will think you have- an
STI. And that you’re a slut. And
you have little recourse except
for stoic acceptance.

It’s pathetic how little W&L
has done to protect its stu-
dents——itself—from this pow-

erful weapon against character,
honesty, and civility. It’s time
for the school’s leadership, both
student and non, to step in. What
is being written on the site is
getting worse. and it will be a
mark of shame for the Ruscio
years as well as this generation
of students if ‘we don’t act.

President Ruscio, it’s time for
you to step in, sir. You have the
moral authority to call personal
attacks on JuicyCampus what
they are—honor violations. You
must do so. You must do so
forcefully and often. Consider
also, sir, that you also have the
authority to ban the site from the
campus networks.

For us as journalists, this
is more problematic. No true
journalist wants to call for ban-
ning media. We’re a bit queasy
when it comes to censorship,
for understandable reasons. But,
considering that W&L already
blocks p2p engines like Bear-
Share, Kazaa, and Limewire,
we’re open to your thoughts.

Perhaps the idea of you play-
ing net-nanny gives you as
much pause as it gives us. But
as President of this school, your
priorities must be to protect your
students, even if the means for
that give you some personal
qualms. After all, consider the
following. ’

Last year you responded so
eloquently and forcefully when
only 64 students faced public
defamation in the “Bracket.”

If JuicyCampus is not
stopped, will those 64 will be
nothing compared to the years
of attacks absolutely anyone on
campus could face? Will more
than 64 students be smeared?
Will the cruelty be more forth-
right‘? Will the record be more
permanent and more available to
future employers?

Get back to us, sir. You’re
in the same company as Robert
E. Lee. Whether or not you like
it, you share his burden as an
arbiter and protector of what’s
honorable.

Students—ﬁght back. Who-
ever is posting all the hilarious
fake topics that spam the site
and make the whole thing seem
dumb, keep it up. At least one
Phi editor would love it if you
could explain the rules of cricket
to us. For all you loyal friends
who post comments defending
those who are attacked—you are
true W&L ladies and gentlemen
and not enough good can be said
about you.

IuicyCampus users~—grow
up. Hiding behind a wall of
anonymity while you attack your
peers, or homosexuals, or other
Greek houses, or minorities, is
repugnant to the extreme.

The other day, W&L’s Juicy-
Campus page saw its ﬁrst topic
with over 2,000 views and com-
ments in the triple digits.

For the sake of us all, let’s
make it the last.

  

 

  

6 ° THE RING-TUM PHI

 

MONDAY,

JANUARY 26, 2009

 

rts&|ife

 

Candidate tells her story

English applicant reads a portion of her memoir, audience members mark her as a favorite

By Findley Merritt
STAFF WRITER

Jasmin Darznik, as part of the
application process for a position
in Ethnic American Literatures
and Fiction, read part of her
memoir to faculty and students
Friday afternoon.

Darznik is the last of the three
ﬁnal candidates for the position.

Leslie Wheeler, English de-
partment head, said that out of
hundreds of applicants, this was
the ﬁnal phase.

Darznik stayed two days to-
tal, opting to teach one sample
class earlier before her reading.

She read the prologue and a
short section from her memoir,
“The Good Daughter”.

It is a story about her grand-
mother’s family, who lived in
Tehran, Iran during the 1920s.

The piece was about Iranian
customs and culture.

The narrative shifts back and
forth from Iran to the West Coast,
speciﬁcally San Francisco Bay.

In the story, Darznik explores
the evolution of her Grandmoth-
er’s name, “Cobra.”

Then, the narrative switches
to her grandmother’s days work-
ing as an Iranian seamstress.

Upon ﬁnding an old photo of
her grandmother and husband in
the prologue, she likens them to
“Elizabeth’s Taylor’s Cleopatra
and a sheepish version of Rich-
ard Burton.”

She recounts both the details
of her grandmother’s wedding
then switches back to her own
move to San Francisco.

Darznik ended her reading
there. She said that the memoir
continues in that fashion, criss-
crossing between two time peri-
ods and places.

A question and answer pe-

riod followed the reading.

Darnzik said that her mother
was the major source of infor-
mation for the memoir.

Her grandmother died before
writing the book, so Darznik had
to rely on accounts from other
family members.

When asked about her prepa-
ration for writing the memoir,
Darznik explained that her dis-
sertation on Iranian American
women was a starting point.

She relied on oral histories
from her family as well as multi-
volume encyclopedias.

The entire research process
took her six months. Then, she
avoided looking at her notes in
order to ﬁnd “her own voice,
rhythms, and aesthetics.”

When asked about the authen-
ticity of her work, she quickly
responded “It’s all true!”

Darznik said that because

most of her work came from mother’s veil.

family accounts, they would not
let her make something up.

Apparently, there were sever-
al of great stories that she did not
put in the story in order to avoid
those kinds of problems.

As for her mentor in writing
memoirs, Darznik quoted An-
nie Dillard. “In writing mem-
oirs, you don’t want to act like
a drunk.”

The turnout at the reading
was a good size, and majority of
the room was ﬁlled. — -

There were a lot of English
professors and mostly English
majors.

The students and faculty
members in the audience seemed
to really enjoy the reading.

There were laughs and
chuckles, especially when Dar-
znik demonstrated the “string
of blinking lights” on her grand-

Junior Catherine Carlock
said that “Of all the candidates
for the position, she was by far
my favorite.”

When asked about writing
in the future, Darznik said she
wanted to focus on novels and
possibly write a travel book.

However, both of these proj-
ects will also deal with Iranian
customs and traditions.

She is also currently working
on a historical novel that Ran-
dom House is publishing.

Iran has a fascinating history
that’s compelled me to do the
work I do,” she added at the end
of the reading.

“In the novel, Darznik tries to
construct the details of a famous
Iranian poet’s life using only her
poetry.

Darznik said that “her poetry
has been suppressed due to the

political situation. Therefore,
I have to frame her story using
my research and the work she’s
left behind.”

Jasmin Darznik earned a PhD
in Ethnic American Literature
from Princeton in 2007 and a JD
from UCSF in 1997.

Her dissertation concerned
literature by women of the Ira-
nian diaspora.

She is now a Steinbeck fel-
low in creative writing and an
adjunct professor at the Cali-
fornia College of the Arts. Her
ﬁrst book, a memoir called The
Good Daughter, is forthcom-
ing in 2009 from Grand Central
Press (and simultaneously with
several publishers in other coun-
tries.) She ‘is currently working
on a historical novel.

Jazz orchestra’s performance ﬂoods Wilson hall’

Knoxville Jazz Orchestra concert ‘blends the sounds of the old and new; includes pieces by W&L music professor

By Kimber Wiggs
STAFF WRITER

The second concert of the
SonoKlect music series took
place Saturday night on the Wil-
son Hall stage.

The concert was given by the
Knoxville Jazz Orchestra and
featured jazz compositions from
Stan Kenton’s Progressive Jazz
as well as original compositions
by W&L music professor Terry
Vosbein. Vosbein himself direct-
ed the concert, which was well
attended by members of both the
Washington and Lee and Lex-
ington communities.

The Knoxville Jazz Orches-
tra is led by trumpeter/arranger
Vance Thompson, who formed
the group in 1999. It consists of
ﬁve saxophones, ﬁve trombones,
ﬁve trumpets, and a rhythm sec-

Don’t eat the art!

Art exhibit features some delectable pieces  , 3 , , , ,, ,  ., - ,0 ,. ,2 ,, .,
I With l6-Across and 59-
By Katie Hatﬁeld  it was foimded in 55 if’ 17
STAFF WRITER 6 PM pm“ ,3 1., 2;;
Artists will often use daily life as an inspiration for their work. Some will 1’ M"‘“"?v""l‘ ‘ml’ ""“‘" 3; 33 33 2.;
photograph their children at play while others choose to capture a vibrant sun- 15 R““~"‘ I“ “""‘"‘§
set. Cleveland Morris, whose work is currently on display in Holekamp Hall, I5 5“ l‘-‘\C*°55- ““d- Will‘ 35 36 3" 21‘ 3‘? ‘"
wanted her audience to see an ordinary part of daily life in an entirely different .35‘f,"f"""ls 3"“ l3‘A°.'l’S”’
_ it was founded in I813: «H 33 33 34 35
“gm 17 Look into" i A ‘
Morris’ works focus primarily on normal, household objects: fruit slices 18 Take‘ umiomw meter ,6 37 A. 3,, 4,, 4,
tied up in neatly in bags, bright camations whose petals stand starkly against " I S -
neutral backgrounds, and various fruits intertwined with the wrinkles and folds 19 Ife chunks 42 4.» 44 45
of tissue paper. 29 (int, as an apple V ~
“They were really yummy,” said freshman Lauren Barden. 21 “slrclchcd K’ the hm“ .. 4‘ ‘*7 4“
The collection’s title, “In the Right Light,” was inspired by and based off of 23 R‘'m°‘''“ 3 hr” ,1 Q _ V?
a quotation from contemporary artist Aaron Rose: “In the right light, at the right 25 P““”d“““‘l° P"’P°“3’l°“ W S” 5! 5" A 54 )3 W 5'
time’ everythingis extraordinaryf’ 26 Go from second to third 58 59 M M 62
“My goal was to create drawings that shimmered above the surface of the 23 A““l.‘-"1-*5
paper, rather than grabbed on to it,” said Morris about the collection in his 3‘ T‘camtha%i=1aysinfh«* 65 M 65 66
Artist’s statement on display at the exhibit. _ l“°‘i C“‘"““” I
Through these mediums, Morris shows that even day-to-day objects can be 33 Bl¥h“'”‘l°d““5‘ 67 "3 I”) ‘ll’ 7‘
beautiful depending on the way light is captured and reﬂected in them. 34 MOM" 30°31“ 7, ,1 ,4
“When the light is right, the eye alert, and the mind open, the world is a - 35 3”“ ”"""“"*$ H 1' V
constant source of wonders,” said Morris. 35 T003‘ W’ €**l“"3’ 75 .76 7?
The artist actually created the collection with the McCarthy gallery setting 33 Orinoco. for one
in mind for its effective use of both natural and artiﬁcial lighting. 40 Be nuts about
Cleveland Morris, a still-life painter, exhibits his works mostly throughout I 42 l-Across, 16-Across, and
the mid-Atlantic region. He has been featured in 16 solo shows within the last ‘*3 -“met 75 Bucks and mm 13 WW “mam Wm mg“ 45 ‘mm

tion that includes piano, bass,

drums, guitar, and bongos. In

addition, both alto saxophon-
ists also play the ﬂute, which
was featured in several of the
night’s pieces. Though none of
the evening’s pieces were part of
the KJO’s usual repertoire, they
still brought to the music a pal-
pable energy and excitement.

The concert was divided into
two halves, separated by an in-
termission.

The first half of the program
consisted mostly of pieces ar-
ranged or composed for band
leader Stan Kenton’s Progres-
sive Jazz era, which reached
its height (and ended) in 1948.
Kenton’s band was known in the
‘40s for being experimental and,
at times, controversial, but still
achieved considerable success.

decade and several more group exhibitions.

“I am fond of his still life very much. The way the light hits the tissue and
fruit; you stand back and it is so real,” said Lynda Bassett deMaria, the special

events coordinator and special programs liaison for the Williams School. “He 43 "p~v¢h" n~»iwoi'I>: Fwis
really is an approachable artist.” 49 T’ :1 [d if ._

The artist, who resides in nearby Staunton, VA, got his undergraduate de- 0 Pf‘ h°'h"l”‘ Down
gree from Yale University, before continuing his studies at the West of England 5 '1“ W’ "ml I missy
College of Art, and the Delaware Center for Contemporary Art. He currently 52 l:"“l‘"“d‘ 2 Stick It)
teaches part-time at Staunton’s Beverley Street Studio School and Stuart Hall, 54 ”"“'l" “"5" 3 plum, mm
as well as at Southern Virginia University located in Buena Vista. {I8 w““‘ PM”? 4 g.md,,y _,~e,,L,>

.Morris’ works have earned him honors including the Nell Cook-Byers Merit 6" Relaled 1“-Wmﬁllt‘ 5 Bwbs
Award in 2002. He was also the recipient of both Judge’s Choice and Honor- 61 l‘3m'~‘“‘"5-’ Abbﬁ 5 R,,hem_,,;m_,
able Mention at the Bath County A.rt.S.how this past year. . .  -"-P1?-‘tics’ imd Nlwne 7 guildmg addition

In addition to teaching and exhibiting, Cleveland Morris has also judged at 65 It was founded m 1869 8 Tap
the Bridgewater College Annual Student Exhibition and the Nelson Fine Arts o7 Dry as a bone 9 -,,A“d  came Maude,
Gallery 5 Annual Paint Out Invitational. 69 Attack 1 0 Gﬁdc aim“: Qmnmﬁousgy

The collection will hang in the McCarthy Gallery of Holekamp Hall from 7) Dick (';ravsaii's aIIer—ego .

. . . , ' I 1 Natiimals, oiicc

January 15th until June 10th. The gallery is open Monday through Friday from 72 Nap

8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. The paintings, which are available for purchase range in 13
prices from $150 to $950.

Some of the most controversial
scores 'were composed by Bob
Graettinger, though most of the
music was written by Pete Ru-
golo, Kenton’s chief arranger.
Both Graettinger and Rugolo
experimented with an “Afro-
Cuban” sound in some of their
works, as did Vosbein in one
of his new pieces, “Ahora es el
Tiempo.”

The concert’s nine original
Vosbein pieces, three of which
were performed before the inter-
mission, make up A Tale of Two
Cities. Vosbein composed this
collection over the past year,
while living concurrently in
Paris and Copenhagan. He was
inspired to return to big band
music after having spent three
months studying the Stan Ken-
ton Archives at the University of

North Texas. The ﬁrst half of the
concert was organized such that,
for the most part, the pieces al-
ternated between fast and slow,
culminating in Vosbein’s “A
Slow and Fast Blues.” The ap-
propriately-titled piece was an
excellent way to end Act I and
ﬁt well with the Progressive
Jazz pieces.

The seven works of Act II
were all of Vosbein’s composi-
tion except for the last. Many of
Vosbein’s works featured solo
trombones, which he expressed
as one of his favorite solo instru-

, ments.

The last three of these piec-
es also prominently featured
the electric guitar and electric
bass. Vosbein made a point to
feature several members of the
Knoxville Jazz Orchestra and

to acknowledge each of them
numerous times throughout the
performance. His gratitude to
group was unmistakable. As he
informed the audience, notes
on paper do not make a sound,
so to have his music performed
by such talented musicians was
very gratifying. His own ex-
citement about the works was
evident in way he threw himself
into his conducting.

The ﬁnale of the night was
not an original work by Vos-
bein but by Stephen Sondheim.
After completing the music for
this concert, Vosbein set to work
arranging Sondheim’s Sweeney
Todd for big band. “Johanna”
is the ﬁrst completed song and,
thus, completed the evening. If
Vosbein’s arrangement of “Jo-
hanna” is any indication, his big

band version of Sweeney Todd
will be very exciting. Hearing
the ballad in the big band setting
brought a whole new dimension
to the piece and once again re-
affirmed Vosbein’s love of the
trombone, which carried lovely
“Johanna” melody.

Before the concert began,
Vosbein described what was to
come as a “bath of music.” In-
deed, the concert was akin to a
musical ﬂood washing over the
packed house. The» trumpets
screamed, the trombones wailed,
and everyone in the Concert Hall
felt the years melt away in the
melding of old and new big band
sounds. The audience awarded
the KJO with a standing ovation,
and at least one enthusiastic fan
greeted the evening with a quiet,
yet triumphant “yes.”

"Tl‘i€”

45 I969 Simon and _
Gzxrfriiik-21 single, with 70

«-67 Fine-grained wood

See I6-Across
74 “Silas Marner" author

Founding Brothers by Neville L. F ogarty

Head over to ringtzimphicrossword.biogspot.com to check your solution to this week's puzzle!

many waterfalls
7’? Eighties band ________ __for

-
l~J

Site ofzi steamy 1383
even:

Game that can result iii

cut

14 Tum black. iiiaybe

I 22 C‘hai'lie of ”’l‘wo and 21

Hall" Men"

24 Hugh Jackman will host
them in Febinazy

27 Strength

29 i’v1z\tei‘iaE measurement

30 Autlmr Grafton of the
Kinsey Millhone series

32 Old (.“iei'maii ducky name

34 (:)ui's opposite

37 Ilamnguc

39 Sliawn Johnson or Herbert
Hoover

41 "‘I3iteiius ‘‘‘‘‘‘‘ H‘‘

42 .»\par1’mem type

43 Eiiiiilaie Fatlier Damien
Kui'i':is frotria l97I novel

44 Where to get 2: W(.)]‘l\‘l‘ﬂIf

46 Clear the tablrxs

si Subsidiary imuiidas
53 Shells and bow ties

55 Lixwreiicds land

56 Near-graduate

57 "Fear Factor" challenges
59 See l-Across

60 City near Diisseldorf
61 Everglades wader

64 A.s"litoii‘s wife

V 66 ABC.‘ reality sliow. with

67 Append _
68 1973 Suprexne Court

70 roll

vrrrhclt

decision nzime

9

 

MONDAY, JANUARY 26,2009 THE RING-TUM PHI ° 7

sports

  Lady Generals crush Emory & Henry  

 

Women is basketball beats the Wasps 78-46 behind 25 points from Meghan Ingram

By Wlll Dorrance

SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee women’s
basketball team hosted Emory & Henry
(E&H) to a Saturday afternoon ODAC
game. The Generals trampled all over
their opponents, winning 78-46.

Entering the game Saturday, W&L
was 6-8 (6-4 ODAC) and in a three-
way tie for fourth place in the confer-
ence while the Wasps sat at 3-10 (2-7
ODAC) with a ninth-place ODAC
ranking.

 

It never really was a game as W&L
scored the ﬁrst basket and didn’t look
back. The home team led at the break,
44-23, and increased that lead to as

many as 35 points in the second half.

The Generals were paced by ﬁrst-
year guard Meghan Ingram’s 25 points,
her third highest scoring output of the
season. Ingram went 8 for 13 from the
ﬁeld including 5 for 7 behind the three-
point arc.

Of her success Saturday night, In-
gram said, “I had a lot of open looks
because they had to help off inside so
much to guard our taller post players.
I was also in a shooting slump for the
previous two games, so it was a relief
to ﬁnally have some shots go in.”

One of those post players, sopho-
more center Felice Herman recorded
her ﬁrst double-double of the season,
scoring 14 points and 10 rebounds.

Junior forward Alex Lyons was the
only E&H player in double digits with
15 points. The 46 points that E&H
scored on Saturday was the team’s
lowest total in any conference game
all season. The Wasps shot just 35.8
percent from the floor and committed

“I had a lot of open looks because they had to help

oﬂ inside so much to guard our taller post players.

I was also in a shooting slump for the previous two

games, so it was a relief to ﬁnally have some shots

1

go in. ’

Meghan Ingram, ﬂrst-year guard

27 turnovers.

W&L also ‘edged E&H on the
boards, 38-30. Ingram found this to be
an important factor in the team’s win.
“The thing we wanted to improve on
the most at this point in the season was
our defensive rebounding. We were
able to hold them to 46 points because
we made a point to box out and get re-
bounds, which really cut down on their
opportunities to score,” she said.

W&L still trails in the all-time se-
ries against E&H, 12-18.

Now at 7-8 on the year, W&L hosts
neighboring Southern Virginia on
Tuesday for a 7:00 p.m. tip-off. The
Generals will be looking for their ﬁrst
non-conference win of the year.

According to Herman, the team will
enter Tuesday’s game with a similar
mindset to Saturday night. “We need
to focus on improving our rebound-
ing and maintaining our defensive
presence. Again, playing relaxed and
together is the key to our success as
well as belief in our team unity,” she

President of the Panhellenic
Council, Pi Beta Phi Sorority,

A President/ Captain W&L Polo
Team, University Scholar,
Peer Tutor, Staff Writer for
"The Spectator", Phi Eta
Sigma, Order of Omega,
ODK

Profiles
in

Leadership:
jackie DiBiasie

What energizes you about taking on the respon-
sibilities of campus leadership? “I think the greatest
power of universities is their ability to change students. ‘ We
come to college not only to learn about academic subjects,
but to become greater people. I am energized about the
organizations I am involved in because of the difference they
can make in the lives of students of W&L. We are so lucky
to attend a University that values student self—governance so
highly. This is a blessing and a great responsibility.”

What has been one of the most rewarding as-
pects of leadership at W&L? “My experience in Pa.nhel-
lenic rewarded me in several ways. Before taking office, I
didn't really pay attention to women's issues. Now, I am
very involved in gender issues and how to improve life for
women at Washington and Lee, which has even impacted
and directed my thesis. I also discovered that I really enjoy
leadership of this nature and now look forward to pursuing
University Administration in the future. Watching initiatives
I have helped to start slowly begin a positive change is the
most rewarding aspect of leadership.”

Tomorrow’s Leadership Seminar:
Emotional Intelligence
12:15 and 6:30 PM, Room 214 Eltod Commons
Explore three fundamental facets that contribute to the lead-
ership dynamic: consciousness of context, self & others

I 9
gméa 4 Qzataamnt
PEDAL CAR DINER &. TIN Tor Cm‘.

Order from our complete menu
Or Join usfar one afour ALL YOU CAN EA T Buffers.’

Friday Night Seafood Buffet with Crab Legs 5pm-10pm
Saturday Night Prime Rib Dinner 5pm~10pm
Sunday Baked Chicken, Pork Loin, & Fat Roast 11am-9pm
Friday & Saturday Late Night Breakfast Bar ‘iopm-Zam
Breakfast Bar 7 Days a Weekﬁam-11am
Daily Hot Country Ear item-tepm
Daily Soup, Salad, & Fruit Bar tlamdﬂpm

Order Breakfast 24 Hours a day, 7 days a week!

Home Cooked Meals & Souzltem .lIospitaIiIy.’
Located at

IIIIIIMIIIIIIZI

l~8l {st I-64. Exit. $95, 25 I6 North Lee llwy, l..c:scingt<m_, VA

5-’l(l~463-3478

Eran? food at a great collection of
Antique Pedal Cars at Tin Toys?

 

said.

After hosting the SVU Knights
Tuesday, W&L will begin a nine-game
span of conference opponents to end
the season, beginning with Guilford
on Friday. The Generals have already
faced all nine of these ODAC teams
this year.

“We are very excited about seeing
these teams again for the second time.
We lost a lot of games by single digits,
which proves we’re capable of compet-
ing with any team in the ODAC,” said
Ingram.

Herman echoed her teammate’s
comments. “We feel very conﬁdent
going into the second half of confer-
ence play. We just need to continue
to play relaxed and have fun because
that is when we [play] at our best. We
don’t need to prove anything to other
teams because the second half of the
season is about us and improving our
game,” she said.

Colts coach Tony Dungy retires

Allen argues that Dungy will go down as one of NFL 3 greatest

By Crlghton Allen
c o L u M N I sr

On Jan. 12, 2008, the world of sports
lost a great man to retirement, a ﬁgure at
the height of his professional prowess that
possessed a character beyond reproach.
This man accomplished things that none
in his profession ever had before, shat-
tered a racial barrier and accomplished it
all with a quiet strength and dignity that he
proudly attributed to his Savior.

Who is this man, a man that command-
ed the unﬂinching loyalty of his players,
the deep respect of his opponents and adu-

Smith, were the ﬁrst two African-Ameri-
cans to coach in a Super Bowl, he replied,
in typical Dungy fashion, that he was
more proud of the fact that both men were
Christians.

Dungy’s accomplishments have done
much to further diversity among the
coaching ranks; three other of the league’s
minority head coaches, Mike Tomlin,
Lovie Smith and his successor at the Colts,
Jim Caldwell, all coached under Dungy.
Dungy was instrumental in the establish-
ment of the Rooney Rule, a rule instituted
in 2003 that requires NFL teams to inter-
view minority candidates for head coach-

What the game of football has lost with his retirement, the

world at large has gained, as Dungy will now commit the

huge amounts of time he has poured into football all these

years back into the community he cares so much about.

lation from almost anyone who followed
sports? What can one man have done to
be so great?

This man is named Tony Dungy, and he
is a teacher. Tony Dungy served as a head
coach in the National Football League
for twelve years, from 1996-2008 with
the Tampa Bay Buccaneers and the In-
dianapolis Colts. Over that time span, he
accumulated a resume that compares fa-
vorably against those of the all-time great
coaches with names like Shula, Parcells,
and Walsh.

In thirteen years, he had twelve win-
ning seasons. He became the ﬁrst head
coach to defeat all 32 NFL teams. ‘At 25,
he became the youngest assistant coach in
NFL history and at 28 the youngest coor-
dinator. The crown jewel on his resume
came in 2007, a World Championship gar-
nered with a victory in Super Bowl XLI
over the Chicago Bears.

With that victory, Dungy became only
the third man ever to win a' Super Bowl
ring as both a player and a coach; he
played defensive back on the 1977-1978
Championship Pittsburgh Steelers team.
With his victory, Dungy made history,
becoming the ﬁrst ever African American
coach to win a Super Bowl. While this is
undoubtedly very signiﬁcant, Dungy him-
self made the point that he hopes for a day
when mentioning and celebrating the race
of the coach will not be needed.

Indeed, when asked if he was proud
that he and his coaching opponent, Lovie

I
ing vacancies.

Dungy speaks frequently about his
coaching philosophy, one in which he says
that a coach is ﬁrst and foremost a teacher.
He stresses the importance of priorities;
in his own life, he placed his faith and
his family ahead of football and encour-
aged all his players to do the same. Dungy
teaches that coaches should be models of
calmness, never screaming at or belittling
players.

He believes in the value of all 53 play-
ers on the roster; he takes pride in giving
the 33rd player on the roster the same at-
tention as the third player in order to foster
a sense of common purpose and unity, re-
gardless of what personnel happens to be
on the ﬁeld. This philosophy made Dungy
one of the most respected names in the
coaching world, and his strategy has be-
gin to be adopted by many other coaches.

As much as Dungy has done for and in
the game of football, his character has won
him the most respect. In 2005, the sports
world stood by in respectful awe as Dungy
bore the unimaginable tragedy surround-
ing the suicide of his eldest son James with
quiet dignity, holding fast to his great faith
that has deﬁned his life since the begin-
ning. Indeed, his faith resonates in all as-
pects of his life. He has given generously
of his time and resources to a variety of
outreach ministries, including the Fellow-
ship of Christian Athletes, Family First
and foster parents organizations. .

Most important in all of these, and
what led Dungy to walk away from coach-

V 1

ing at the height of his prowess, has been
a prison outreach ministry. Dungy has
spoken numerous times on how he feels
drawn to this higher calling, to share the
Gospel with the imprisoned. For all his
involvement in the community, in 2007,
President George W. Bush bestowed upon
Dungy a high honor, that of membership
on the President’s Council on Service and
Civic Participation.

Dungy, throughout his whole life, has
truly personiﬁed the cliche’ of being an
ambassador for the game. To Dungy, faith,
family, patience, duty and honor are more
than talking points; they are principles
around which Dungy has built a life wor-
thy of the highest respect. What the game
of football has lost with his retirement, the
world at large has gained, as Dungy will
now commit the huge amounts of time
he has poured into football all these years
back into the community he cares so much
about.

Dungy is, without a doubt, a Hall of
Fame coach. Yet, more importantly, he
belongs in the hall of fame of life for all
he has done and what he plans to do. I
wish Tony Dungy the best of luck in his
future endeavors. No matter what chal-

lenges his new career as a prison minister
may pose, Dungy will bear them with the
same quiet strength that saw him through
the the toughest times of both his private
and professional lives.

 

MONDAY, JANUARY 26,2009

  sports

 

8 0 THE RING-TUM PHI

 
   

            

Mon Tues WED Tuuns FRI SAT

  

 

. vs
Men's a"d°"”" Randolph
M
Basketball 7 ac;n 2 mm
vs t
a
w0m9n's Southern
Basketbal Vlrglnla Gumord
7 P m 7 p.m.
at
Menis Johns
Swlmmln Hopklns
~11 a.m.
at
wolnenrs Johns
swimmlngr Hopkins
’ 11 a.m.
at
¥'I_°a':: A Bucknell
3:30 p.m.
I at
Women's
Track Bucknell
' 3:30 p.m.
at vs
wresulng Southern Johns
Virginia Hopkins
7 p.m. 10 a.m.

 

61

The number of years since the Arizona Cardinals franchise (Chicago,
St. Louis, Arizona) has been to the NFL Championship. The Cardinals
will face off against the Pittsburgh Steelers in Super Bowl XLl|l on Sun-
day. The Chicago Cubs are the only team in the four major profession-

al sports leagues to have a longer championship drought (100 years).

11

The record-setting number of NFL head-coaching changes from the
2008 until the 2009 season. Most recently, the Kansas City Chiefs

fired Herm Edwards after three years.

100-0

The score of a Texas high school girls basketball game last week as .

the Covenant School crushed Dallas Academy.

$18 million

The salary request of Philadelphia Phillies ﬁrst baseman Ryan Howard
in arbitration Tuesday. This is the third highest arbitration request (be-
hind Roger Clemens and Derek Jeter) since MLB began the process
in 1974. Howard helped the Phillies win the World Series last season

with a major-league leading 48 home runs and 146 RBIs.

29th

Seven-time Tour de France winner Lance Armstrong's finish in the Tour

Down Under, his first professional stage race since coming back to cy-

cling affter a three—and—a—half year retirement.

box

“I won’t cheer. I ’m going to stay objective. I ’ve

 

come too far to suddenly show up in the press
box with pompoms. But if you could put a moni-
tor on my insides, you’d ﬁnd a whole fan club in
there.”

Minnesota Spokesman-Recorder sportswriter Larry Fitzgerald Sr. on
covering Super Bowl XLlll—ln which his son, Arizona Cardinals all-pro
wide receiver Larry Fitzgerald Jr., will be playing. courtesy of ESPN
The Magazine. 1

“I'll wash the dishes and take out the trash, what-
ever you want me to do, dear.” I

Seven-time NBA all-star Alonzo Mourning at his retirement press
conference Thursday after his wife asked from the front row what his
retirement plans were. Mourning, who played 15 NBA seasons, turns
39 next month. Courtesy of the Miami Herald.

W&L wins third

straight

MOGRAN HARRIS/ Staff Photographer

Senior forward Ben Heller tries to mantain his balance as he grabs one of his seven rebounds in a home
game against Hampden-Sydney Saturday. The Generals beat the Tigers, 73-60, behind junior forward

Zac White’s 19-point performance.

Men is basketball breezes by Hampden—Sydney Saturday

By Hank Nathan
STAFF WRITER

The Washington & Lee men’s basket-
ball team beat the Hampden-Sydney Ti-
gers 73-60 on Saturday night.

One game after head coach Adam
Hutchinson won his 50th game as the
W&L coach, the team improved its
Coach
Hutchinson attributes camaraderie for the
success of the team midway through the

winning streak to three games.

season.

“Our strengths are our resiliency and
our faith in each other,” said Hutchinson.
“I have never been around a team with
chemistry as good as this one.”

At the same point in time last year,
the Generals were 11-5 overall. After the
win against Hampden-Sydney, this year’s
squad is now 12-4, and this without two
of the program’s best players in Greg Bi-
enemann and
F emi Kusimo
who gradu-
ated last year.
Senior guard
Isaiah Good-
credits
the next man up philosophy for the team’s
ability to replace those players.

“It’s been really cool to see how the
team has evolved in the past year,” said
Goodman. “It wasn’t as much of a loss of
Greg and Femi, as it was an adjustment of
other guys stepping up  I think that is
the mark of a good program; when all the
seniors are gone next year, it won’t be a
loss, just another step in the evolution.”

Team chemistry and players stepping
up was on perfect display against Hamp-
den-Sydney Saturday night.

Early in the game, the Tigers took
a small four-point lead, but sophomore
guard Jason Cimino came off the bench
and ignited the Generals with a pair of
three-pointers. Then, with 13:58 left in
the ﬁrst half, W&L took its ﬁrst lead of
the game on a shot from behind the are by
senior guard Chris McHugh to make the
score 12-11. In total, the Generals went 9
of 18 from three-point land.-

Senior forward Ben Heller also came
off the bench and helped spark the team
with his low—post presence. At the 12:50
mark in the ﬁrst half, Heller grabbed an
offensive rebound after two W&L misses
and cleaned up the garbage with a layup
of his own. On the next possession, Heller
was fouled while down on the right post
and knocked down the foul shots to ex-
tend the Washington & Lee lead to 16-11.
In thecontest, Heller totaled 16 points and
added 7 boards.

 

man

“We are going to get tested over this next stretch of A

games. Winning at this time of year comes down to

whether we dowhat we do better than they do what they

do. I really like our team and our chances. ’

Adam Hutchinson, head coach

)

 

Hampden-Sydney battled back to knot
the score at 20 with 4:50 to play in the ﬁrst
half. However, the Generals took control
from then on and never relinquished the
lead for the rest of the game.

Although the score was within six
points at the end of the ﬁrst half, 31-25,
the Generals extended the lead early in
the second frame and maintained a com-
fortable cushion throughout. W&L’s wid-
est margin was 15 points when senior
forward Kirk Jones banked in a layup off
of the glass while being fouled. The team
went in cruise control for the rest of the
game.

One of the biggest improvements in
this year’s team has been its defense. The
play that demonstrated this commitment
to defense the most came from W&L’s se-
nior captain Goodman. With 3:56 remain-
ing in the game and the Generals up 13,
Goodman out-hustled a Hampden-Syd-
ney player to a loose ball at mid-court and
wound up with the steal.

“We wear teams down by playing a
physical, relentless man-to-man defense
for 40 minutes,” said Cimino.

One of the major subplots of the game

was the battle between the ODAC’s
leading scorer Turner King (21 points
per game) and W&L’s leading scorer ju-
nior forward Zac White (11.2 points per
game). But this one was a no contest as
White tallied 19 points with 17 coming in
the second half, while King did not score
a point.

“We knew he was a great scorer, so all
week we had been studying their offense

I trying to ﬁgure out how to limit his touch-

es,” said White. “Also, he was in foul
trouble during the game, so that may have
something to do with it. He was clearly a
little frustrated.”

‘On Wednesday at 7:00 p.m., the Gen-
erals host Randolph-Macon, the ﬁrst place
team in the ODAC.

“We are going to get tested over
this next stretch of games,” said Coach
Hutchinson. f‘Winning at this time of year
comes down to whether we do what we
do better than they do what they do. I re-
ally like our team and our chances”.

 

MORGAN HARRIS / Staff Photographer

Senior forward Ben Heller goes for two of his 16 points Saturday
night in an ODAC victory over Hampden-Sydney. The Generals are
now 12-4 overall and 5-2 in the conference.

 

 

  

  

ARTS& LIFE / page 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING—’I‘UM PHI.

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2009

BY THE

STUDENTS AND

FOR THE STUDENTS SINCE

1397‘

VOLUME CXII,

Closing the
leadership gap

Author and activist Marie C. Wilson
speaks at W&L about the need for
more women leaders in the US.

By Jessica Stralt
s TA F F w R I T E R

When Marie C. Wilson was head of the Ms. Foundation for
Women, created to support women socially, economically and po-
litically, she found that the best policy ideas were coming from
women not involved in politics or corporations.

So Wilson, who also co-founded Take Our Daughters to Work
Day, created the White House Project, a program designed to train
and put a diverse group of women into elected oﬂices and corpo-
rate boardrooms. As Wilson spoke in Stackhouse Theater on Jan.
26, she challenged Washington and Lee women to reach their own
leadership goals.

Wilson said women’s leadership in the United States is “stuck”
because many women are not taking on leadership roles in college
and missing out on leadership experience.

“Every time women decide not to lead, they get setback,” Wil-
sonlsaid. “If they cut back, it’s hard to get caught up in a culture
that changes so much.”

Wilson said the United States 715‘ in the world for women’s
political leadership, which is behind Iraq (33"’), the Sudan (65“‘)
and North Korea (57“‘), according to an article Wilson wrote for
Feminist.com.

 

“Every time women decide not to lead, they
get set back. If they cut back, its hard to
get caught up in a culture that changes so

much. ”

Marie C. Wilson, White House Project founder

“Women are out of leadership because people think they’re al-
ready in leadership,” she said.

In the United States, women make up 51 percent of the popu-
lation, but only 15 percent of Congress and 14 percent of board
seats of Fortune 500 companies, she said.

Wilson argued that women are needed more than ever because
they bring different ideas and styles to leadership positions. The
reason is that they have learned to lead by being on the outside, “at
the foot of the table,” she said. '

To help women transition to the inside, Wilson founded Vote,
Run, Lead, a progressive, non-partisan program, which has al-
ready trained 6,000 women to run for political ofﬁces and hopes to
train 40,000 in the next few years.

Wilson’s goal is to give women power in numbers. When one
woman runs, she said, media focuses only on “hair, hemlines, and
husbands.” Add more women, and it becomes an issue of “agen-
da, not gender.”

Cortney Patterson, a ﬁrst-year who worked for a political
consulting ﬁrm last summer, found Wilson’s points applicable to
the world of politics, and noted that the media can often give the
wrong impression.

“The media can make it seem like women can’t be anywhere
without men behind them,” Patterson said.

Wilson said that women have the ability but need encourage-
ment. She cited polls showing that most people do trust women
on every leadership trait except decisiveness. But women are not
moving to leadership levels in proportion to the public’s comfort
level.

The root of the problem is that the idea of women leaders

doesn’t become accepted until people see it, according to Wilson. .

The responsibility for change in women’s power also rests with
populariculture, which has already madesmall steps forward with
the creation of a White House Barbie and a TV show featuring a
female President, she said.

Wilson stressed the importance of women honestly and openly
discussing their ambitions with each other. She emphasized that
women moving each other along and working together would be
a huge improvement from the way women often pull each other
down.

Wilson is the author of the book, “Closing the Leadership Gap:
Add Women, Change Everything.”

Breach of
  oonfidenee

 

Sophomore EC representative asked to resign

By Holly Suthers
STAFF WRITER

A student has resigned from
the Executive Committee (EC)
for violating rules for possibly
the ﬁrst time in Washington
and Lee history, according to
EC President Rich Cleary.

After allegedly violating a
conﬁdientiality code, sopho-
more Richard Saum has been
asked to step down from the
committee.

According to the EC’s
public announcement, Saum
violated the conﬁdentiality and
harrassment clause of the White
Book, a student hand book de-
scribing the honor system and
procedures for honor trials. The
clause states:

“The Executive Commit-
tee may take disciplinary steps
against any student involved in
an investigation, any student
witness in a hearing, any advo-

cate, any Executive Commit-
tee II1€II1bE$i.I' the accused for
breaking thi conﬁdentiality.”

Cleary said he could not
disclose the nature of the viola-
tions or the structure oricontent
of the EC ’s ﬁnding process.

In cooperation with the com-

his lack of judgment. He also
said that this has been a very
good learning experience.

“I don’t know ifit would be
appropriate for me to disclose,
but I fully support the actions
of the EC,” Saum said.

Saum has been a member

“I fully support the actions of the EC... This
has not altered my view of the EC or W&L...

The entire experience has certainly been a

learning experience. ’

Rlchard Saum, former EC member

mittee, Saum has voluntarily
resigned. Declining to give the
circumstances of his removal,
Saum stated that he violated the
EC conduct code and regrets

of the EC for two years. He is
active in many roles on campus
including Traveler Dispatch
and Sigma Alpha Epsilon fra-
temity.

Working with the Voting
Regulations Board, the EC has
already held another election to
ﬁll the empty spot.

Sarah Catherine Welch has
been elected as the new sopho-
more representative.

“She was a member of the
White Book Review Commit-
tee so she has a general knowl-
edge of it. I anticipate a smooth
transition for her,” Cleary said.
“I think... Sarah Catherine
will contribute substantially for
honor matters of the EC.”

Saum’s resignation is in ef-
fect only for the remainder of
this Executive Committee term.
He plans to run for the position
again this spring.

“This has not altered my
view of the EC or W&L...The
entire experience has certainly
been a learning experience,”
said Saum.

Who was Osama?

Journalist Steve Coll unearths bin Laden is past

By Joel Poelhuls
STAFF ‘WRITER

Osama bin Laden’s success
with al-Qaeda is largely due to
his experience and proﬁciency
in a modern global context,

according to Pulitzer prize-'

winning author and journalist
Steve Coll.

Coll discussed bin Laden’s
family history and worldview at
length in his speech “Osama bin
Laden and the Globalization of
Terror” at a packed Stackhouse
Theatre last Wednesday. Coll,
who writes for The New Yorker
and has written two books on
the Middle East, said bin Lad-
en’s attitude toward the West
grew not out of ignorance, but
a long line of experiences built
with his role in the family con-
tracting business.

“He was a man of the world

‘— he was not isolated,” Coll

said.
The author identiﬁed bin

Laden as a fairly normative ‘

member of his society during
most of his life: both as a prod-
uct of the transnational Sunni
islamist movement that sprung
up after the Iranian revolution
and a member of the oil-baby-
boom generation in Saudi Ara-
bia.

their power to reinforce a hard-
line traditionalist worldview.
Coll portrayed bin Laden as
“a man whose ideology looks
back to the 7th century,” but
who is a master of modern
global strategies such as using
satellite cell phones, making

“He was a man of the world——he was not

isolated...His personality, his ideology, his

radicalism, is inseperable from this sense of

purcahse. ”

Steve coll, New Yorker columnist, Pulltzer prize-wlnner

This generation was the ﬁrst
in Saudi to have the wealth
and mobility to purchase any
identity they wanted, said Coll.
Some, like Osama’s oldest
brother Salem, used this op-
portunity to lead an extrava-
gant and Westemized lifestyle,
while others, like Osama, used

viral recruitment videos, and
brand management -— crafting
the appeal of al-Qaeda.

“His personality, his ideol-
ogy, his radicalism, is insepa-
rable from this sense of pur-
chase,” he said.

Yet Coll said this new glo-
balization is affecting Gulf

culture in other ways today.
Growing up saturated with
Western media has changed
expectations for many young
people — especially when it
comes to interactions with the
opposite sex. Coll said he be-
lieves an enormous amount of
social pressure is building up
under the restraints of tradition-
al gender relations, which may
alter the way future generations
View the West.

Coll’s speech was spon-
sored by the Fishback Fund for
Visiting Writers. The fund has
previously brought speakers
such as legal scholar Stephen
Carter, sociologist Alan Wolfe
and journalist Robert Kaplan to
campus. After the speech, Coll
signed copies of his books: The
Bin Ladens: An Arabian Fami-
ly in the American Century and
Ghost Wars: The Secret History
of the CIA, Afghanistan and
Bin Laden, from the Soviet In-
vasion to September 10, 2001.

 

NUMBER 13

 
 

UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VA 24450

Hzld 

2 - THE RING-TUM PHI

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2009

opinions

 

 
 

 

I Dear Mr.Centorino, » ’

‘ I f I readlyour article on the speaking tradition in the Ring-Tum
Phi of January 26th and wanted to tell you and the editors how:
impressed I was with it. Next to the honor code, I believe that
the speaking tradition is perhaps our most cherished tradition
at.W&L.. It reflects not oniy civility and etiquette, but also our

. sharedsense of community. The perhaps apocryphal story of
 Doremus visiting our campus in the early 20th century and

being soimpressed by the speaking tradition that he donated a
gymnasium tothe school nevertheless reﬂects how strangers to
our campus mayalso‘ be affected by our friendliness and sense

I ofhospitality. .

Perhaps a bit of background would be helpﬁil. I am from a

- family which has sent four generations consecutively to Wash-
ington and Lee. I tuna member of the third generation, having

' graduated in 1966, and when I was in school the speaking tradi-

i tion was very much alive. You might even say it was being en-

, forced atthat time, partly by something called the assimilation
 committee and partly by an unwritten rule among students and

I » faculty. When my two sons attended here from 1995 through ,

2003, I noticed that the tradition had fallen off somewhat, but
I was still being practiced to some degree...I returned to Lexing-
ton in spring, 2008 and have built a home here. I am on campus
a good deal, and I have to say that from my experience over al-
most an entire year the speaking tradition is almost dead. When
you say, “if one generation of students ignore it, the tradition
wiIldie,”_ Ifhave to respond that it seems pretty moribund to
me now, Rememberthat the tradition is‘ not just about speak-
ing to those you know or even to all of your fellow students; it
is about speaking to everyone on campus whenever you come
. across them. ‘ ‘
I My own personal approach to this problem has been to speak
, to everyone I meet whether they speak to me or not, but I am
I ’ not sure how much difference this is making. If we admit that
something is dead or at least in a comatose state, then we can
seek to ﬁnd a wayto revive it. So far as I can tell this can only
be done by students, and by this I mean a group or groups of
students. Let me give you an example. If the entire staff of
the “Ring~Tum Phi," for example, decided to make and wear
some large badges saying, “Revive the Speaking Tradition” and
spoke to everyone they met for a year, this could make a dif-
ference‘, If allor many fraternities and sororities did the same
thing, this couldbe even more inﬂuential. As much as I admire
v your recent editorial, it, in and of itself, will make very little dif-
I ference. It is only by concerted action of a group of people that
this most worthy of our traditions can be revived.

A I do not wish to be seen as in any way critical of W and L or
of its students. My desire is to be helpful in contributing to the
revival of a tradition which I believe is very important to who
We are.Frommy‘ perspective, if I can be helpful in any way in

working on the revival of the speaking tradition by any group of

;;st11dentsHI...would be happy to do so.

Sincerely,
. Neely Young, Class of 1966

........................................................... .. WASHINGTON AND LEEUMVERSITY 

THE RING-T UM 

ALusoN CHOPIN
JOHN HENDERSON
CODYBEAUGHAMP
CELESTE CRUZ-
CARANDANG
WILLDORRANCE

MANAGING EDITOR
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS 8i LIFE EDITOR

SPORTS EDITOR

LIZ BLACKWOOD
ALEISHA BUTLER
JEAN CHAPMAN
ABEL DELGADO
JACOB ELIUM
NEVILLE FOGARTY
HANK NATHAN
JOEL POELHUIS
DIANDRA SPICAK
JESSICA STRAIGHT
HOLLY SUTHERS
VICTORIA TAYLOR

CONTRIBUTING WRITERS

LARAJORDAN
RYAN ELSEY
MORGAN HARRIS
srnocx MOORE
CHARLES PERSONS
ROB ozone:

DESIGN EDITOR
STAFF PHOTOGRAPHERS»

BUSINESS MANAGERS

DISTRIBUTION MNGR.

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission, of THE
RING—TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community for students, faculty,
parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire
to spark discussions that-lead to discovering
information that prompts change.

THE RING—TUM PHI IS PUBLISHED MONDAYS
DURING THE UNDERGRADUATE SCHOOL YEAR.
THE RING—TUM PHI IS A MEMBER OF THE MEDIA
BOARD, BUT IS OTHERWISE INDEPENDENT.
QUESTIONS OR CONCERNS ABOUT THE PHI
SHOULD BE ADD‘RESSED TO THE EDITORS AT
PHI@WLU.EDU OR TO THE MEDIA BOARD AT
MEDIABOARD@WLU.EDU. THE MEDIA BOARD
IS AN INDEPENDENT, STUDENT-RUN EDITORIAL
OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE WORKING WITH ALL
MEDIA OUTLETS ON THE WASHINGTON &
LEE CAMPUS. ALL INQUIRIES WILL REMAIN
CONFIDENTIAL. THE RING—TUM PHI WELCOMES
ALL LETTERS. WE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO EDIT
SUBMISSIONS FOR CONTENT AND LENGTH.
LETTERS AND ADVERTISING DO NOT NECESSARILY
REFLECT THE OPINION OF THE RING—TUM PHI
STAFF. THIS NEWSPAPER OBSERVES CURRENT
COURT DEFINITIONS OF LIBEL AND OBSCENITY.
THE RING—TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540) 458-4059
EMAIL: PH|@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

By Abel Delgado
corummsr

Those applying for a job with
the new administration need not
worry about paying Uncle Sam.
While not paying your taxes and
breaking the law sounds like a
career-killer for public servants
it defenitly hasn’t been as of
late. Some of President Obama’s
most notable cabinet appointees
have shown a complete disre-
gard for the tax laws everyone
else is expected to abide by.

Imagine if everyone were to
follow the excellent example set
by our new Treasury Secretary,
Timothy Geithner. Geithner did
not see a need to pay nearly
$40,000 in taxes until he real-
ized that not paying them might
be an issue when facing Senate
conﬁrmation hearings. Did it
not occur to anyone that a top
government ofﬁcial, especially

one in charge of our economic
recovery, should not have a his-
tory of stealing money from the
government? That’s essentially
what not paying taxes is, steal-
ing money that should go to the
government to pay for the pro-
grams Geithner and the rest of
Obama’s economic team say are
necessary.

Do they not see the hypocri-
sy in this? It’s like having a Sur-
geon General who drinks and
smokes while pregnant. “Do
as I say, not as a pay” is not an
effective government model.
There is no doubt Geithner was
more than qualiﬁed enough to
lead the Treasury Department,
and of course he did end up
paying the taxes he was legally
liable for before the Senate con-
ﬁrmation hearings, but naming a
tax-evader to the Cabinet sets a
horrible precedent.

Geithner’s transgression
would be just a smudge on
Obama’s supposedly spectacu-
lar cabinet if he were the only
one who had “accidentally”
ripped off Uncle Sam. Now we
know Tom Daschle, former Sen-
ate Majority Leader and current
nominee to head the Department
of Health and Human Services,
also didn’t think it necessary to
pay his taxes. One tax-delin-
quent nominee is an accident,
two is a trend.

In the past few weeks, Das-
chle has paid a mindboggling
$140,000 in back taxes and in-
terest. Much of that money was
due to a car and driver loaned
to him for free by a Democratic
fundraiser. Political favors like

these sound exactly like the.

type of “politics as usual” we all
expect President Obama to rally
against. How is the Obama Ad-

  Do as I say, not as I pay

Obama is cabinet has had too many problems paying taxes

ministration supposed to hold
Wall Street accountable when
they don’t even hold some of
their officials accountable?

This is not a partisan issue.
I am sure if we go over the tax
returns of inﬂuential Republi-
cans we will ﬁnd more than a
few discrepancies as well. Yet
the idea that “public servants”
who depend on tax revenue do
not pay taxes themselves and
can still be considered for lead-
ership positions is ridiculous. I
don’t care how qualiﬁed some-
one is, the second they break the
law, they shouldn’t be part of
our government.

Many members of the past V

administration were rightfully
criticized for thinking they were
above the law. Someone needs
to remind the Obama Admin-
istration they are not above the
tax code.

Where’s the Lip syncing?

Li}? Sync should be about a great act, not just about srats and from

By Dlandra Splcak
COLUM NIST

Lip sync ‘09 went off with
the usual hitches, glitches and
lack of britches. And the gossip
is already churning — who per-
formed what, who wore what,
and what happened backstage.
While Lip Sync has its roots
in the right place — charitably
raising money for food pantries
around Virginia — it also holds
a place high in the social life of
most Washington and Lee stu-
dents.

Besides a way to raise mon-
ey, Lip Sync ‘has become a way
for fraternities and sororities
to showcase their new pledge
classes. What a pledge class
performs reﬂects on its respec-
tive frat or srat, and should ul-
timately show off the qualities
the frat or srat desires in its
members. When planning their
routine, group members should
have kept in mind that what they

present to the audience repre-
sents their respective Greek or-
ganizations.

What does it say of certain or-
ganizations if their pledge class
representatives perform overtly
sexual routines? More so, what
does it say when their represen-
tatives step out on stage, stum-
bling, obviously having thrown
back one too many alcoholic
beverages?

Pledge class routines have
the opportunity to character-
ize and establish the reputation
of their individual social clubs.
Lip Sync has evolved over the
years to be much more than a
charitable event, but an event
that has social connotations for
those who participate.

More so, for those who par-
ticipate, Lip Sync is a time in-
vestment. Groups spend hours
(sometimes even, hours upon
hours) creating and perfect-
ing their routines. Most groups
put a lot of time and effort into

their routines, and should be al-
lowed to showcase them to the
audience. It takes a lot of guts to
perform, as I speak from recent
experience, and those who do
step up to the challenge should
be allowed to follow it through.

No group ever wants to hear
the clang of the gong during the
middle of their routine. Groups
shouldwbe gonged if, and only
if, their routines do not come
off as tasteful. Simply, a set of
general guidelines should be
agreed upon and enacted when
judging.

Basically, the guidelines for
gonging should include the fol-
lowing: if the routine is overtly
sexual or extremely raunchy, if
members are noticeably drunk
or under the inﬂuence of vari-
ous substances, or if the routine
is poorly performed. If such
guidelines are agreed upon be-
fore the event and the judges
exhibit a non-biased attitude,
then Lip Sync would prove to

be a much better, more judicial
contest. Judges should not allow
personal bias to cloud their deci-
sions, and should instead focus
on the overall ideal of competi-
tion: may the bcst men or wom-
en win -— keyword, “best.”

Best does not mean which
group performed the most sex-
ual routine, or which group had
more friends bbehindgthe judges
table, or which group exposed
the most skin. Best, in terms of
competition, means the most
well-perforrned, most entertain-
ing act. The competition was
blown out of the water by the
Klazics and Pi Beta Sigma, as
predicted, but did the best group
really take the coveted third
spot? I think not. Did the judges
perform their duty as non-biased
moderators? Perhaps.

But, only time will tell if Lip
Sync can rise above being a frat
and srat popularity contest — and
begin to be an actual competi-
tion.

What are ‘ladies’ and ‘gentlemen,’ anyway?

In part one of a series on men and women cu‘ W&L, Aleisha Butler examines

how bad deﬁnitions of ‘vice ’ for students might cause ‘Womanizers ’and ‘sluts ’

By Alelsha Butler
C O L U M N I ST

Let’s set a scene: Its 11:45
on a Saturday night. A little too
early to go to bed, but that dance
ﬂoor is getting sweaty and slip-

_pery and that music really is
just a little too loud. Leaving
the room to get some air, you
see a guy and girl, hand in hand,
heading upstairs to where the
bedrooms are. His buddies are
snickering and slapping him
on the back as he walks by,
grinning, and the girl’s face is
turned toward the ﬂoor, toward

the wall, away from the gaze of

the other party—goers who know
just what they’re heading up-
stairs to do. You’re pretty sure
that you saw that guy with a dif-
ferent girl last night, but who
knows. It happens all the time

around here... .

In this inaugural article, I’d
like to ask you to think about
what it means to be a lady or a
gentleman.

How do these elusive char-
acters carry themselves? How
do they treat one another?

Washington and Lee has a
culture all its own, and we be-

gin internalizing the rules of

that culture the day we move all
our worldly possessions into an

un-airconditioned shoebox in
Graham-Lees. Suddenly and
for the ﬁrst time in our relative-
ly short lives we are living next-
door to members of the opposite
sex, free of parental lockdown.
For a while we hang onto
the values and morals that we
brought from home, but then we
begin to change. New friends
with different backgrounds, pro-

~ fessors who challenge us to look

at the world through fresh eyes
and an overwhelmingly permis-
sive social scene. .. all combine
to subtly (or obviously) alter
our worldviews and to push us
into the process of growing up.
College shapes us into the men
and women that we will be, so
my question is: what is W&L
shaping us into?

I polled some people about
their impressions of the words
“lady” and “gentleman,” and I
heard some expected and some
surprising answers.

When I asked for the deﬁni-
tion of a lady I was given words
like mild-mannered, educated,
respectable, sophisticated and
proper. The responses for the
deﬁnition of a gentleman were
similar, and overall it seemed
that ladies and gentlemen are
expected to maintain cool, re-

served behavior and not to
make spectacles of themselves
or act out.

There was one response,
however, that really caught
my attention and that I want
to examine here. One of my
respondents said “a lady keeps
her vices private; if she drinks
or has sex, you don’t know
about it.” He then went on to
say that he believes the same to
be true for a gentleman. If he
has vices, we don’t know about
it. If he womanizcs, he does it

discretely. My next question for ‘

this young man was then, “why
is sex for women a vice?” He
responded by saying, “I don’t
know, but for women it’s still
perceived that way.”

The term “womanize” tends
to carry a powerful, if some-
what lecherous, connotation.

Womanizers are rascals, mis-
chievous young devils who sow
their wild oats with carefree
abandon and maintain a domi-
nant, desired position among
their peers. They may not settle
down, but damn it, they’re good
at what they do.

For women, on the other
hand, there is no comparable
term, although in this mod-
ern era it has become common

knowledge that women like sex
as much as men, and are per-
fectly capable of initiating the
act. Women who enjoy a great
deal of sex with multiple part-
ners do not “manize,” they sim-
ply sleep around. They do not
enjoy an exalted status; other
women don’t want to be them.

Women who sleep around
are sluts, and are looked down
upon by men and women alike,
even though the former tend to
“beneﬁt” from the behavior of
said sluts. It seems to me that
women’s honor, such as it is, is
intricately interwoven with their
sexual comportment, whereas it
is nowhere near the same for
men.

Here at W&L there seems
to be a dynamic interaction be-
tween the characteristics that

- deﬁne sluts, ladies and prudes.

Perhaps, in the 21st century, we
need to update our ideas about
what it means to be a lady and a
gentleman, because it seems that
we maintain a kind of “double-
think” in our expectations about
normal, reasonable behavior for
each of the sexes.

Our expectations of ladies
and gentlemen have changed,
but our deﬁnitions have yet to
catch up with our expectations.

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2009

THE RING-TUM PHI 0

3

 

arts&life

Lenfest to

‘talk Drda’ this
Weekend

“The Apotheosis of Vaclav
Drda ” will feature a deliciously
diverse cast of characters

By Liz Blackwood
STAFF women

For Joanna, the main character in “The Apotheosis of Va-
clav Drda,” nothing seems to be going right. Her director and
ex—boyfriend, Nick, is too much of a pushover to give any
real guidance or help; her co-stars struggle with a range of
personal problems, including huge egos and tiny I.Q.’s; and
her theater space is actually a tiny apartment.

Written and directed by Christopher Cartmill ’84, The
Apotheosis tells the story of Joanna, a frustrated and strug-

gling actress who desperately tries to sustain her career by -

borrowing money ﬁom her skeptical parents to fund a pro-
duction of her favorite play.

“It’s about why we do what it is we do and how we deﬁne
success—and hopefully, have fun doing it,” says Cartmill,
who has written over 30 plays, most of which, he says, he

Unfortunately for Joanna...nothing
seems to be going right: Her director
and ex-boyfriend... is too much of a push-
over...her co-stars struggle with a range
of personal problems, including huge
egos and tiny I.Q. is, and her theater

space is actually a tiny apartment.

feels lucky enough to have had produced and shown.

Although a major in Chinese while at Washington and
Lee, Cartmill was always involved with theatre, acting in sev-
eral of the plays and taking many courses that would further
enhance his love for the art.

“I always knew I-would end up doing theatre,” he told me
at a recent preview of “Vaclav,” choosing to study something
else, like Chinese, purely as a passion.

However, Cartmill has breached the gap between his two
interests, by writing a play partially in Chinese, an addition to
the thirty plus he already has penned.

“Vaclav” is unique, though, in its depiction of a play, with-
in another play. Cartmill has successfully craﬁed both to suit

_ and carry each other

The background story of Drda, as a character, and the ac-
tual play he was supposed to have written not only inspire
the actors, but also later help them to work through their own
problems.

Joanna admires Drda and chooses his play, to showcase
her talents in her favorite theatre piece. She secretly hopes to
catch the eye of a casting producer or agent.

Unfortunately for Joanna, her co-stars’ motives for do-
ing the play with no compensation are less passionate than
Joanna’s.

Played by Kevin Mannering, Gabriel, an egocentric dra-
ma queen, is only doing the play because his agent asked him
to bulk up his resume.

Another character, Celeste, played by Marquita Robinson,
is Joanna’s support and comic relief. Steve, played by Dave
Curran, reiterates throughout the play that he’s just there to,
heaven forbid, enjoy himself.

Everything seems to go downhill, however, when the audi-
ence joins the story already in progress, during one late night
rehearsal. Gabriel is throwing a temper tantrum and Joanna is
obviously frustrated by his immature and selﬁsh actions.

The director, played by Johnny Coyle, is no help in pacify-
ing everyone’s quickly rising tempers, bouncing back between
Joanna and Gabriel’s sides, agreeing with each equally.

Meanwhile, Steve entertains himself with various stage
props while the others argue. Celeste arrives to practice late
after director Nick forgets he told her to come in at the agreed
time. ,

To ﬁnd out whether and how the mismatched cast is able
to pull everything together, come see the play, running from
February 5-8 at 7:30 p.m. in the Johnson Theatre, Lenfest
Hall. .

The KLAZICS dance group took home first place with their show stealing choreography and humor.

This year is lip sync engages, rather than enrages, the crowd

By Jean Chapman
STAFF WRITER

For anyone who remembers Lip Sync last
year, this year’s show was a whole different
animal. To get the ball rolling, ﬁve house
mothers of various fraternities arid sororities
on campus opened the show with a spirited
rendition of ‘‘It’s Raining Men.” One ob-
server commented that the house mothers’
act was “a breath of fresh air” and that it was

“You could tell that most of
the groups worked extremely
hard on their routines...it

wasn ’t easy. ”

Dlandra Splcak, first-year

great “to have competitors who can have a
little fun and put on a great show.”

Not only was the house mother’s perfor-
mance a crowd pleaser, but it set the tone for
the rest of the show. Whereas last year ’s Lip
Synch was somewhat marred by what one
student called “the drunken gonging,” this
year all of the frats and srats really stepped it
up, putting on well-choreographed and well-
executed show across the board. _

As another ﬁrst at this year’s event, Alpha
Delta Pi made their Lip Synch debut and they
were certainly hard to miss. Their 4 groups of
girls all showed of their sorority pride with

classy, talented acts that deﬁnitely drew a
positive response from the crowd. They were
amongst the ﬁrst and the last to perform and
they deﬁnitely represented a welcome addi-
tion to the night’s events. ,

Despite numerous impressive acts, the
epic face-off between the KLAZICS and
Phi Beta Sigma Fraternity stole the show.
Phi Beta Sigma performed first, showing off
their incredible dance-ﬂoor skills as well as
their sense of humor (their rendition of “Put
a Ring on It” was priceless). They fulﬁlled
their initial promise to the audience to shock,
amaze, and make the ladies go crazy.

The men of Phi Beta Sigma brought the
house down with ﬂawless choreography and
professionalism. Though they may have only
received second place this year, they were
without a doubt a crowd favorite and tough
act to follow.

Next up to bat were the ultimate champi-
ons of the night, the KLAZICS. As the Lip
Synch’s only mixed-gender dancing group
this year, their impressive mix of dance
styles and amazingly multi-talented danc-
ers ultimately won them the trophy for this
year. The most stunning part of their act was
undoubtedly the break dancing segment and
the other acrobatic elements of their per-
formance. They wowed the crowd and the
judges, though it was anybody’s guess who
would emerge victorious from the two star
groups that evening.

Kappa Delta took home third place at this
year’s Lip Synch for their stylish mix of Brit-

Looking for a

Job or internship?
Check out these Career Fairs...

C2C College To Career Fair

Richmond, VA

\X/ednesday, February 25, 2009
www.collegetocareerfair.com

Washington Metro Green Job Fair

Arlington, VA

Friday, February 27, 2009

www.vsbn.org

Philadelphia Not-for-Proﬁt Career Fair
Bryn Mawr College, Philadelphia, PA
Friday, February 27, 2009

464.4401

ney Spears hits, complete with costumes that
would even make Brit jealous.'Other impres-
sive acts included Chi Omega’s seven deadly
sins medley, Pi Beta Phi’s rappers who “Let
it Rock,” Beta’s rendition of the Fresh Prince
theme, the Chi Psi’s guest appearance of
Jesus and the devil, Sigma Chi’s infamous
Chippendales routine, and ADPi’s swing-
dancing version of “Diamonds are a Girl’s
Best Friend” which closed out the show.
This year’s Lip Synch was deﬁnitely one
to be remembered. Rasaq Lawal, member of
the Phi Beta Sigma team, commented that
overall this‘ year’s ' show’ iwiI's""‘rriuch‘ better
than last year” and that “the crowd was viva-
cious and 110% engaged in the eventif’
Diandra Spicak, dancer for Pi Beta Phi,
shared similar sentiments. She remarked
that “you could tell that most of the groups
worked extremely hard on their routines”
and also applauded “all the groups and indi-

viduals that had the guts to participate in Lip 0

Sync. . .it wasn’t easy.” Numerous students
said they particularly loved the house moms’
performance, and hoped that the moms will
pull something together again next year.

Lip Synch, clearly a resounding hit this
year, managed to raise over $7000 dollars,
all to be given to Rockbridge area food pan-
tries and food pantries across the state of
Virginia. It was a positive, energetic, and fun
event that not only provided the W&L com-
munity with some great entertainment for the
evening but also did a lot of good for the rest
of the community.

ReclHenLex.com

This Valentinels Dag

treat Ljourselves

to the Most Romantic

clinner in Lexington

www.haverford.edu/cdo/services/
recruiting/nfp.html

Come visit Career Services
for more information!

VVASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

CAREERSERVICES

careers.w|u.edu 540 458 8595 .

at the  Hen

\
Ala carte menu, or a

special seven~course tasting menu

Two seatings: 6 and 8:30

Call 454.4401 now for a reservation!
ll E Washington Street

MORGAN HARRIS / Staff Photographer

 

   

4 0 THE RING-TUM PHI

arts&life

  The blues Won’t get you down

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2009

 

Crouch tells his audience about tragic optimism: there is hope in the struggle

By Vlctorla Taylor
STAFF WRITER

It’s not every day that a
guest speaker sticks his gum on
the podium or excuses himself
to take a bathroom break mid-
lecture. Nor does every speaker
fuel heated debates and ex-
changes during a question and
answer session.

, Those were just a few of the
unexpected aspects of passion-
ate and accomplished writer
Stanley’ Crouch’s lecture on
Tuesday.

In the lecture, entitled
“Blues for Tomorrow,” Crouch
expressed his belief in what
he calls “tragic optimism,” the
idea that life is hopeful despite
its suffering and struggles.

He has the same view of
African-American and Ameri-
can history. Crouch argued that
the 19th century folk anti-hero
Davy Crockett was the original
gangster rapper, representing
what he feels is a tragic, yet op-

timistic evolution.

“If Davy Crockett was
around today,” Crouch said, “he
would be known as Coon-head
Baby D, King of the Wild Fron-
tier and he would get a record
deal.”

According to Crouch, Crock-
ett’s proudly unreﬁned vulgar-
ity and his anti-aristocratic feel-
ings against European etiquette
created an authenticity similar
to that emulated by today’s rap-
pers. Crouch said the Crockett
of the magazines displayed the
same characteristics that would
today be considered street or
ghetto.

“Crockett knew Who he was,
just what he’d done and just
how hard it’d been,” he said.
“[He] did not need the valida-
tion of the educated elite. He
was rough and arrogantly proud
of it.”

The lecture led to an intense
question and answer session
in which Crouch interrupted
participants and ﬂat-out ar-

gued with seemingly anyone
who spoke. It also emphasized
Crouch’s critical views on Rap
music and culture, which had
not been the main focus of his
lecture.

Professor Marc Conner of
the Program in African-Ameri-
cans Studies, said that the way

and anyone who has read him
or read about him knows this.
While it’s difﬁcult for me, per-
sonally, to listen to someone
be somewhat abrupt with our
students, nevertheless that is
a mode of public discourse in
America, and it is good for peo-
ple to see that.”

1

“If Davy Crockett was around today...he

would be known as Coon-head Baby D,
King of the Wild frontier and he would get a

record deal. ”

Stanley crouch, lecturer

in which the question and an- Sophomore Mercy Kibe was
swer session went not unordi- admittedly overwhelmed after
nary given Crouch’s personal- the lecture.

“Wow,” she said. “He speaks
his mind and leaves you with an
opinion.” '

Conner said that the audi-
ence’s decision to focus their

ity.

“Mr. Crouch is known for
being direct, aggressive, even
rude in his public discussions,”
Conner said. “That’s his mode,

 

Opening Night by Neville L. Fogarty
Head over to ringtuinphicrossword.blogspot.com to check your solution to this week's puzzle!

Across 1 2 3 4 5 61 7 s ‘l in 11 12 13
I Stirring M

6 Line, bar, or picture M 13 M 1"

ll ‘Letters before an alias 13 1;; 2,;

14 MM Major

15 Nuke leftovers 3’ 23 33

17 "The Twilight Zone” 24 26 2? g 28 N

creator Serlmg
18 Stan ofa refrain 39 33 53
19 With 62-Across, part of
21-Across: "The WW. .. 34 so 3.7
2] With 38- and 60—Acmss,
event starting on February 3% 3%’ 40 g 4I
5, 2009
23 Live and breaihe 42 43 44 '35 46 47 48 49
24 Either ofunion generals Sf.) 5: 5: 5 3 54
Alexander or William
25 Basebalfs Mel 55 36 5- 58
26 Like Salman Ruslidiefs
verses _ 59 60 (ii
30 "MM Douiitﬁre”
1 1 ; ~ -i

31 The "I" in Torr "“ "" "4 ‘*3 6’
32 Gels down on one's knees 5,; 6,,

33 "Much MM About

Nothing" 7; 1;;

34 Nickel. for one

36 Ring spot:

37 Buckets

33 S“ 3 3 ‘A°’°‘~‘3 73 Like :1 poorly poured beer 26 I S-wheeler 49 Dari»: time for poets

41 Tafdl’ Z7 Willi  wide open 52 George Eliot’s "WM

45 Ketch or lwyak D‘’‘'‘'‘'‘ 23 (int-—riaia of -.1 1975 ABBA WNW"

46 "Eagle's nest 1 may P3” single 52 Jimmy Buffet: lyric: "lfwe
50 Pool 2 It may be iinconveiitioiizii 29 Army bed ‘3?11l‘5“i1 lifflélh We "“‘“ld

. ,0 .
51 Belgrade native 3 Wall Street worker 31 1938 song " ,,,,,,,, ,_ Be Seeing. 5‘ :h E """ “‘ dd n
. . . . v 7 Y‘ , 0112 I10. ‘:1 *0
52 Iraq War bomb, brieﬂy 4 Umts oi mass. brieﬂy ‘ 0“ ,6 D D,‘ m H n We
.. u  . ,- ., . o.:.~u ii 1- .

54 B°"m“ ﬁnd 5 BMW brother 32 ‘Y:I(‘hLlLl') {(:1§:‘g()“:3IB  57 D L itdd 6

55 Dairy mm; 6 {nves n10n§§='.l() ﬂ _ P

_ _ ~ . 35 (gorilla 58 Small egg cell
57 its derivative 13 lfx 7 Mwﬁ 3 ml‘P« i<‘e1’l-“P5 _ , , .
N A. 36 Q-Tap 60 200?. T~shirI slogan: " ‘W
58 Movie remake released on 3 35*‘ greellng _ _ \ wimman ”
06/06106, with "The" 9 pmme 37 D“ *“"‘h _ __ ,
, - ~  . 61 (gasi wearer s ‘ roblem
39 Blblltdl brother 9
59 Be bedridden :0 "pa; (_~1,-,m¢¢2_'*- 62 P ()m_
is--,,-..u..  r ise
66 Seezi-Acmss ii am: ol‘C‘holseaFoo1ball 4" B‘““‘”“‘ “W ml‘ 63 gm M
. . . , , ‘ aw‘ _‘
62 ...of __M" (See I9-Acmss} Club 4' H"m”““’5=g1‘d 64 gm H k ,n a
N . , ’ .  .. rer an: -'~
66 mueﬁns 12 gojmmg ¢a,p_ 42 Floral n£-(.»l\.Ei7lL'e 6‘ Hi ‘ho mm  -------- --
68 Rice University mascot l3 9°P‘“P**‘- “-2- 43 -~- dc T”°mph" 6:’ 70:1  Cr: 6 1,1
69 I-I<:arsr‘s San WM castle "5 1-“idli-T P3113 44  ¥':dF‘11-yirlift-el‘:1<:FSYm .r.-Vanim 11
,, . ,, r, rs * 24 3.‘ .......... ..

70 Post-toast sound 30 "Ms W0 “"1”? 47 B 4 1 W T‘ W mm

71 l1sy~bitsy 22 Go bad 48  ” ‘l

72 par; 9f 1-;)mm 24 Sound of hesitation t 31“ 5 Wm

 

questions on Crouch’s view of
Rap music was an “un-produc-
tive direction for discussion”
because of the rather limited
views on rap shared by some
audience members and Crouch.

“His views on rap really con-
nect to his views of American
culture, but the audience didn’t
want to pursue that.”

Although he had his pre-
sentation on paper, some of
Crouch’s most provocative
comments came from his fre-
quent asides, which included an
anecdote about asking a child-
hood friend who stole ‘cars if he
ever worried if someone would
take his University of Los An-
geles textbooks from the back-
seat. Crouch even took a stab at
Washington and Lee.

“Named after George Wash-
ington and Robert E. Lee,” he
said. “One of them was great
and one of them was who he
was.”

Conner said that the event
itself was very productive and

that the students did a great job
in asking questions and express-
ing their disagreements.

“Yeah, he irritated some
people,” he said, “and yeah, he
made some points which many
people did not seem to agree.
But a university needs to bring
people like this to its campus.
That’s the point of a liberal
education, to encounter other
views and have to wrestle with
them.”

Crouch writes a weekly col-
umn for the New York Daily
News and has published two
novels in addition to numer-
ous essays. The lecture was
sponsored by the Program in
African-American Studies, the
departments of art, history and
politics, University Scholars,
Onyx, Contact and the Oﬂice of
the Dean of Students.

Prgfiles
in

Leadership:

Chris Tutor

  

He serves as large group coordinator for
Generals’ Christian Fellowship (GCF), Secre-
tary of the Student judicial Council, Assistant
Head Resident and advisor to First Year Lead-

ership Council . He is a member of Lambda
Chi Alpha Fraternity and work-study program

at the University Store.

What energizes you about taking on
 the responsibilities of campus leader-
 ship? “I try to have a passion for people that flows
 outyvof my relationship yvith/)]e_sus. God is passionate
aboufthé pe'o'ple"6n this"6einip'i‘i’s'"’ei'iid I w2iii't"‘.t’o‘ ‘be‘’‘
passionate too. I"think’it is qruiteievidcnt to most

people that there is a lot of need on this campus and

that translates into an opportunity to invest in people, build relation-

ships, and transform our school.”

What has been one of the most rewarding aspects
of leadership at VVSLL? “In GCF, I love seeing God meet people
where they are at and truly satisfy their needs and desires. I hope that
doesn’t sound too mystical or silly because I have honestly seen God

work in my life and the lives of other people. How can that not be the

most rewarding aspect of anything I have participated in here? With

the S]C, it’s much more difficult to view my involvement as

“rewarding” because (although necessary) it is a tough and unpleasant

thing to mete out sanctions for conduct violations. I hope that our

work in helping to educate the campus and even sanctioning students

have positively affected individual lives and have fostered a safer cam-

pus. I also want to mention how rewarding my friendships with the

gentlemen on my halls have been year after year.”
Any words of advice for those who follow?
“I suppose the only advice I can offer, the best advice, is in fact advice

from someone else: Love God and love people more than you love

yourself.”

Tuesdays with Leadership:

Con ﬂict Resolution
12:15 and 6:30 PM, Room 214 Elrod Commons
Explore the theory, process and specific steps to resolving

conflict on interpersonal levels

gméy it Emma

P_i?:i:ni. CAR Basin 8: Tia Tor (fart:

Order from our complete meiiii.
0! Join £15 ﬁn’ one isfimr .««‘tL.L YOU CAN EAT Buffets!

Friday Night Seafood Buffet with Crab Legs 5pm-10pm
Saturday Night Prime Rib {Dinner 5pm~10;3m
Sunday Baked Chicken, Pork Loin, & PotRoast1?am~9;::m
Friday 8: Saturday Late Night Breakfast Bar t€3pm~2am
Breakfast Bar 7 Days a Week 6am~l tam
Daily Hot Country Bar Mamrwpm
Daily Soup, Salad, 3. Fruit Bar ltarmﬂpm

Order .Breal<.fast 24 l~lo‘urs a day, 7 days a wrxrki

Home Cooked Meals & Stillfllﬁfﬂ lliirxpiiafiiyi’
Located at

Ill ll ‘Mill PM

I-81 & I-64, list! 195, 2516 Noah Lee llwy,, l..'c><ingi<3n. W.

540-463-3473

daze? feed :3: is great collection of
Antique Pedal Cars & Tin Toys!

 

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2009

‘THE RING-TUM PHI - 5

 

sports

Wrestling falls to  

Johns Hopkins

Generalslose to Blue Jays, 24-
I 8, Saturday despite winning
ﬁve of] 0 weight classes

By Jacob Ellum
smrr warren

Despite jumping out to an early lead, the Washington
and Lee wrestling team lost a hard-fought match Satur- \
day to Johns Hopkins by the score of 24-18.

With the win, the Blue Jays improve their record to
4-6 overall and 2-3 in the Centennial Conference. Mean-
while, the Generals fall to 3-5 overall and 1-3 in con-
ference play. W&L is now ranked seventh out of eight
teams in the conference.

Posting early victories for the Generals were ﬁrst-
years Ben Ersing and Sam Campbell at the 125 and 133-
pound weight classes, respectively. Ersing won his match
against ﬁrst-year Adam Stevens 5-l while Campbell
defeated ﬁrst-year opponent Mike Testa 8-3. This gives
them 11 wins a piece on the season.

After suffering two loses at the 141 and 149-pound
weight classes, the Generals came back in the 157 and
174-pound weight class. First-year David Dennis pinned

“[ We] were more prepared than we

probably ever have been for a match. ”

Mike Bennett, assistant coach
 

JHU opponent William Selba in 4:16, and junior Jon
Brown was able to secure a victory over Mike Keane by
grabbing a quick 2-0 lead with a takedown. In the end
Brown was able to hold off Keane by a 3-2 win.

In the 285-pound weight class, senior captain John
Christopher was defeated JHU sophomore Matt Rugani

‘ in the ﬁnal match of the day by a score of 3-2.This dead-

locked battle was broken by Christopher ﬁrst posting a
quick escape and takedown to jump out to an early 3-
0 lead. He was then able to fend oﬁ‘ a strong comeback
by Rugani long enough for the time to expire. Despite a
strong ﬁnish by the Generals, pins at both the l84ia"nd
197-pound weight classes were too much to overcome.

In the end, winning ﬁve out of the 10 weight classes
was not enough for the Generals wrestling team; howev-
er, W&L assistant coach Mike Bennett was quick to bring

out the positive aspects of
0' the match by examining one
of the tougher matchups of
the day. He pointed to the
one—point loss by sopho-
more Justin Welch to JHU
senior opponent Mike Vec-
chiollo that could have tied up the match, showing how
close the match actually was.

With the loss W&L has lost eight straight matches to
the Johns Hopkins squad.

Bennett went on to say that the team “came out fired”
and that the Generals “were more prepared than we prob-
ably ever have been for a match.”

It will be important that they continue to wrestle with
this intensity when the Generals travel to West Virginia
Tech on Saturday. The Generals return home on February
11 for their last home match of the year against the Ap-
prentice School in the Doremus Gymnasium.

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Sunday’s Recession Bowl

Super Bowl XLIII feels effects of recession, decreased spending

By Will Dorrance
sponrs EDITOR

As I sit down to write this ar-
ticle, it is Saturday afternoon and
I am anxiously awaiting the Super
Bowl tomorrow. You will not see
these words I write until at least
Monday afternoon, the day after
the big game. I write this article
in the future tense, but you will
read it in the past.

In an effort to avoid looking
like a fool, I am not going to make
any predictions for Sunday’s big
game. I have no clue which
team will win. What I do know,
however, is that this year’s NFL
championship will not be as ex-
travagant as most. _

Amid a deepening economic
crisis, the Super Bowl is feeling
the effects of the recession. Typi-
cally, the Bowl is not so much
about football but rather an ex-,,
cessive display of American im-
moderation. But this year will be
a little different.

This is not to say that there
won’t be expensive television ad-
vertisements, widespread media
attention or an electrifying half-
time performance. I’m sure that
Bruce Springsteen will still rock
Raymond James Stadium pretty
hard come intermission.

My point is that in these eco-
nomic times, everyone—individ-
uals, corporations, governmental
agencies, and even the NFL—is
having to cut back on spending.
The Super Bowl will still be a big

deal, but I don’t think it will be

quite as over-the-top.

Fans, for example, are not able
to afford usual Super Bowl ticket
prices. The declined demand
for tickets has driven the prices
down. The cheapest tickets to Su-
per Bowl XLIII went for $500 as
compared to $700 last year—the
ﬁrst price cut in Super Bowl his-
tory.

Although approximately
100,000 people were expected to
travel to host city Tampa, Fla.,

Approximately 200 less journal-
ists will be present_ at this year’s
NFL ﬁnale on Sunday.

The city of Tampa also has not
been able to devote as much mon-
ey to the big game as the host city
usually does. Tampa mayor ‘Pam
Iorio said that she was only able
to budget $40,000 to decorate the
city. “In these tough times, it’s
very hard to justify spending a lot
of money to spruce up the city in
an artiﬁcial way in a short-term

Typically, the Bowl is not so much about foot-

ball but rather an excessive display of Ameri-

can immoderation. But this year will be a little

diﬂerent.

for the Super Bowl weekend, nu-
merous hotels in the area still had
available rooms.

While NBC is still charging a
ridiculous amount of money for
advertising, many Super Bowl
commercial regulars, including
General Motors, Ford, Chrysler
and FedEx, did not purchase air-
time this year. They simply can-
not afford it.

Moreover, Playboy and Sports
Illustrated, companies that are
both known for extravagant Super
Bowl parties, will be hosting no
such events this year.

Media outlets are also having
a difﬁcult time funding the usual
amount spent on the Super Bowl.

The job market is global.
You should be too.

Learn more about the Peace Corps 

Information Session M day Feb

The Commons BlllldIl1g,_:R_00 21
6:30 p.m. - 7:30 p ‘

www.peacecorps.gov

Alpha Delta Pi

way for the Super Bowl,” Iorio
said.

A study conducted by ﬁnancial
analysts PricewaterhouseCoopers
estimated that the city of Tampa
would rake in just $150 million
from Super Bowl XLIII, which is
22.3 percent less than Glendale,
Ariz., did as last year’s host city.

The NFL has denied that the
recession will impact the Super
Bowl festivities, but I do not see
how this is possible. The league is
undoubtedly feeling the negative
effects of the recession. In fact,
Goodell announced in December
that the NFL will be laying off 10
percent of its employees because
of these rough economic times.

Reid Sigmon, the executive
director of the Tampa Bay Super
Bowl Host Committee, had a little
more realistic outlook. “No one

is immune [to the recession], not

the NFL or the Super Bowl or the
host committee,” he said.

In addition to the recession,
the lack of big-market teams in
the Super Bowl might also be cur-
tailing the game’s allure. Accord-
ing to a 2007 Forbes ranking, the
Pittsburgh Steelers have only the
16th highest net worth among all
NFL teams while the Arizona Car-
dinals are 23rd. This compares to
last year, when the undefeated
New England Patriots, who were
ranked with a net worth of third,
met up with the New York Giants,
who Forbes ranked eighth, in Su-
per Bowl XLII.

Obviously, this year’s NFL
championship has ‘less of a po-
tential to rake in the big bucks
because neither team has a huge
market. Additionally, the reces-
sion will further hinder Sunday’s
big game from being the kind of
moneymaker that Super Bowls
usually are.

Despite all this, nearly 100 mil-
lion people will still watch Super
Bowl XLIII. And I will happily be
one of them even without some of
the hoopla that usually surrounds
the Super Bowl. Maybe now we
can actually focus on something
that the recession won’t change:
what happens on the ﬁeld. After
all, isn’t that what really. matters?

Want to write sports
stories for the Phi?

E-mail Sports Editor Will Dorrance
dorrancew@wlu.edu

Also needed: copy editors, designers
and writers for news and opinion
E-mail phi@wlu.edu

Lauren Acker
Hannah Agard
Charlotte Babcock
Laura Ball
Lauren Bardin
Stephanie Beebe
Liz Bell

Liz Blackwood
Katie Boiles
Whitney Burns
Olivia Burr

Kate Cancelmo
Jocelyn Cassada
Grace Clemow
Amaura Cope
Kelly Cossey
Havlin Crittendon

‘welcomes our new Alpha members home to Alpha Delta Pi.

Megan Daily
Kenzie Doss
Susi Eckelmann
Lindsey Edmonds
Jordan Elrod
Allie Espina

Julia Farnham

Liz George

Susie Giampalmo
Kate Gibbs

Blair Gillespie
Kelly Harris

Katie Hatfield
Makenzie Hatfield
Cantey Hattink
Caroline Hopkins
Joanie Hudak

Callie Hughes
Katja Jacobs
Morgan Kinsey
Dominika Kruszewska
Emily Kunkel
JodiLeBoH
Jennifer Linder
Lauren Lukas
Lizzy Mann

Lea Manolagas
Stephanie Marks
Kelsy McCraw
Kali McFarland
Sarah Monte
Ann Morris
Tamara Morse
Ainoa Moure

Christina Nixon

Kate Norvelle

Chase Noyes
Alex Nunn
Elise Parker

. SoRelle Peat

Marissa Pensky
Courtney Perkins

Kari Pfannenstein,

Ryan Pinney
Anna Pobletts.
Gwen Prince
Parker Pritchett
Ruchira Ray

. Ashton Rippeon

Trelsie Sadler

Allison Shearin

Katie Shelor
MacKenzie Shivar
Tina Simpson
Lesley Smith
Adelaide Smythe
Summer Sterling
Annie Stevenson
Natalie Stier
Allison Sublett
Valaree Tang
Emily Anne Taylor
Nicole Tchenakina
Megan Tomlinson
Kelly Tran

Aria Val-nstein

Annie Vesoulis
Brielle Weinstein

We would like to thank the W&L sororities and fraternities for their help to make our colonization a success! M I H

 

  

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2009

6 ‘ THE RING-TUM PHI

 

  
  

       

      
   
  

Mon WED Tnuns FRI SM

     

Tues

 

 

at
asketball Henry 3 P m
7 p.m. I I
VS
Virginia at V5
Women's
asketbal Wesleyan Lynchburg Randolph
7 p.m. 4 p.m.
7 pm.
Men's
SwImmIn#
Women's
Swlmmln
at
Men's VMI
Track Relays
9 a.m.
at
Women's VMI
Track Relays
9 a.m.
at
west Va.
Wrestling Tech
2 p.m.
at
mdmg Randolph
Invite

 

5:14

The length of the Australian Open semifinal match Friday between Ra-
fael Nadal and Fernando Verdasco. It is the longest Australian Open
match ever. Nadal won in five sets to advance to the finals and ended

up beating Federer Sunday to win his first Australian Open.

37 years, 224 days

Arizona Cardinals quarterback Kurt Warner's age as of the Super Bowl
Sunday. He is the third oldest quarterback to start in a Super Bowl,
behind only Johnny Unitas (37 years, 255 days) and John Elway (38

years, 217 days).

26,972

The number of all-time points scored by Phoenix Suns Center She-
quille O‘Neal as of Sunday. With 13 points against the Spurs Thurs-
day, O’Nea| passed Hakem Olajuwon for seventh on the all-time NBA

scoring list.

3

The number of W&L teams to lose to Johns Hopkins Saturday. The
wrestling team lost 24-18 while the men's and women's swimming

teams also fell 143-119 and 156-97, respectively.

 

  

box 

/‘He's going to be backhere March 9. We’ve

entered into a loan agreement with AC Milan [in

which] the player, his agent, AC Milan, ourselves
and Major League Soccer understand the guide-
lines.”

L.A. Galaxy head coach Bruce Arena regarding the speculation as to
whether David Beckham will return to the MLS team after his three-
month loan to AC Milan. Courtesy of espn.com.

“I. really don't think there's anything in the book
at all that’d I ’d apologize for. I feel badly if people
are taking it the wrong way. I'm not going to say
I’m insensitive to it.” 0

Former New York Yankees manager Joe Torre after he was criticized
for revealing what when on Inside the Yankees clubhouse In the book
“The Yankee Years.” Scheduled to be published Tuesday, the book
was co-written by Torre and journalist Tom Verduccl. courtesy of
USA Today.

By Hank Nathan
STAFF WRITER

The Washington & Lee men’s basket-
ball team fell to Randolph College 60-63
in a heartbreaking overtime defeat on Sat-
urday.

After a Wild? player knocked down
a foul shot with .5 seconds remaining in
the extra frame, senior point guard Isaiah
Goodman drove the length of the court
and launched a desperation three-pointer
just outside of the top of the key, but the
shot did not go down.

This game marked the Generals’ sec-

erals were down just six points after the

slow start, but the team remained stuck in
neutral as the Wildcats pushed its lead out
to nine points with about nine minutes left
to go.

One of the major differences in this
year’s squad has been its balance with
ﬁve players averaging at least eight points
per game. Hutchinson reiterated this point
and said depth has been one of the key
factors for thesuccess of the Generals.

“We don’t know who is going to have
the big night or who is going to make
the big play,” said Hutchinson last week.
“We have eight guys that have been will-

“We don ’t know who is going to have the big night or who

is going to make the big play. We have eight guys that

have been willing to carry the load at various points this

season, and we seem to have a feel for who has the ad-

vantage and when to go to them. ’

Adam Hutchinson, head coach

 

ond loss of the week after the team stum-
bled against the ODAC’s ﬁrst—place team
Randolph-Macon on Wednesday. Head-

‘ ing into the battle against Randolph-Ma-

con, W&L received national recognition
from the Division III Top 25 poll by get-
ting three votes. Coach Adam Hutchinson
acknowledged that the praise was a nice
step for the squad but did not want the
team to lose sight of its goals.

“The guys were really excited to re-
ceive votes for the top 25,” said Coach

Hutchinson. “I was really happy to see '

their hard work recognized that way. We
have to understand how ﬂeeting that is
though, and we have to stay focused on
the games in front of us.”

Unfortunately, on Saturday afternoon,
the Blue and White just did not have the
answers for Randolph in the waning mo-
ments of the game.

At the outset, the Generals were hot
from three-point land, sinking four of
them to give the home team the early
12-9 lead. W&L extended that lead’ to
eight points when Goodman hit a three
of his own, making the score 24-16 with
roughly nine minutes left in the ﬁrst half.
However, Randolph was not deterred and
inched its way back to narrow the deﬁcit
to four points at the end of the ﬁrst break
for a 32-28 score.

Unlike the ﬁrst half when W&L was
seemingly hitting everything from beyond
the arc, the Generals came out cold in the
second frame; the team did not hit its ﬁrst
ﬁeld goal until about 10 minutes had gone
by. And, just like in the first half, it was
senior forward Kirk Jones who opened
the scoring with a three-ball. The Gen-

1

ing to carry the load at various points this
season, and we seem to have a feel for
who has the advantage and when to go to
them.”

On Saturday, it was senior forward
Ben Heller’s turn as he carried the team
down the stretch to mount a comeback.

Men is basketball
falls to Randolph-

Macon Wednesday,
Randolph Saturday
in overtime

LEFT: Senior guard Chris McHugh goes
for two of his 10 points Saturday in the
Generals’ 60-63 overtime loss to Ran-
dolph. W&L is now 12-6 overall and 5-4
in the conference. ,

BOTTOM: Senior capatin guard Isaiah
Goodman tries to elude two Wildcat de-
fenders in the Generals game Saturday.
Goodman scored six points and tallied
three assists in 30,minutes on the day.

RYAN ELSEY/ Staff Photographer

With less than six minutes to play, Heller
grabbed an offensive rebound on three of
ﬁve possessions by W&L and cleaned up
the garbage each time with a layup. Then,
with 2:42 left, Heller was fouled while
driving from the top of the key and sank
both shots from the charity stripe to give
the team a 48-47 lead.

But the lead was short-lived as Ran-
dolph went on to hit a ﬁeld goal and then
a foul shot in consecutive trips down
the court. Again, it was Heller who hit a
clutch foul shot with 37.8 seconds which
ultimately sent the game to overtime as
the score was knotted at 51.

In the extra stanza, the Generals start-
ed the same way they did in the second

half as the team missed its ﬁrst few shots.

Randolph capitalized on the slow start
and built a ﬁve-point lead with three min-
utes remaining. Eventually, it was Heller
who brought the team back within two
points and then junior forward Zac White
evened the game at 60 apiece.

However, on the next play White
fouled a Wildcat player who took advan-
tage of the free shots. Randolph then hit
another free throw and won the game as

‘Goodman missed the coast—to-coast run-

ner for three as time expired.

The W&L men’s basketball team is
now l2-6 overall and 5-4 in conference.
The team will next go on the road for
three critical conference games. First up
is a 7:00 p.m. match-up with Emory &
Henry on Wednesday.

RYAN ELSEY / Staff Photographer

O
2;
C‘ I
in
4 .
N
ls.
/\.l

 

  1-1 Weekend

Read the highlights of the women’s

basketball games]
SPORTS / page 6

  

WASHINGTON AN LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING-TUM PHI.

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2009

BY THE STUDENTS AND FOR THE STUDENTS SINCE 1897 VOLUMECXILNUMBERI4

Wide open
spaces

Leyburn Library is main
ﬂoor opens for business
after extensive renovations

Trident goes online

Past debt prevents the  rident from continuing to print

 

By John Henderson
N EWS EDITOR

Spacious, bright, good colors, great comput-
ers and lots of places to sit-- these are some of
the words students have used to describe the
newly renovated Leybum Library main ﬂoor,
which was officially opened at 9 am. last Mon-
day.

By 1 p.m., clusters of students were already
at work around the library. Some were sitting in
the front of the library wherecouches and arm-
chairs are arranged in Various conﬁgurations for
group studying.

Some students had spread out their books on
the long tables or the shorter booth—style tables
in the reference section in the middle.

Still others occupied the group study rooms
in the back and the new computer stations that
ﬂank the glass-fronted offices used by library
staff.

In addition to those who were quietly work-
ing, rnany Visitors walked around to explore
the new space, which includes a centrally-lo-
cated infonnation desk where stylish cylindrical
lights overhead give the clear plastic desk-top a
translucent glow. ‘

For newcomers, there is a sense of awe
at seeing how the old main floor, a poorly lit
labyrinth of shelves and oﬁ‘ices, has been trans-
formed into abright, inviting work place.

“It feels like a normal college library should
 not like a dungeon,” said sophomore Lauren
Skerrett, who had set up shop by the new com-
mons-side entrance to do work last Thursday.

“It used to be the last resort, like, if you can’t
do work anywhere else then OK, I ’ll go to the
library. But now it’s like, ‘Oh, let me go to the

See “Library Opens” on page 2

By Valaree Tang
STAFF WRITER

The Trident, one of Washington and
Lee’s student newspapers, has made a
transition from print to web publication
due to issues with funding.

Because of prior debt , the Trident has
been struggling to fund print editions of
the newspaper.

“We are choosing to cut costs and
publish strictly online,” said Editor-in-
Chief Alexandra Scaggs. “We think that
we can reach the student body and alumni
better this way.” ’

While the EC has never provided
funding for the Trident in the past, writ-
ers for the Trident approached EC mem-
bers to request funds for coverage of old
expenses. The EC did not provide fund-
ing to the Trident for reasons which one
EC member said were conﬁdential.

Nonetheless, the Trident has been
receiving a steady stream of income
from advertisements this school year

“When you take the news-
paper aspect out of a
campus newspaper, you ’re
bound to lose some reader-
ship.

John Scully, back page columnist for
the Trident

that should cover old costs, according to
Scaggs. The debt that the Trident owed
was incurred prior to Scaggs becoming

ticles online on Feb. 3 and should con-
tinue to put out articles exclusively on
the lntemet for the rest of the school
year. Scaggs is hopeful that the Trident
will serve the student body with breaking
news via email. A blog for commentary
will also be available.

The Trident will be publishing weekly
issues, with about five news stories, four
sports stories, and the same writers in the
Distractions section each week. The Tri-
dent will feature breaking news updates
that can be accessed by registering at
www.thetrident.org. The Trident is cur-
rently seeking a Web master to improve
the appearance and layout of the web-
site.

While the Trident has not advertised
its transition from print to web, writers
remain conﬁdent that the changeover will

the Editor-in-Chief.

The Trident started publishing its ar-

See “Trident" on page 2

Recyclemania: bring your bottles

Recycling initiative designed to create sustainable waste disposal begins

VICTORIA TAYLOR / Staff Writer
7

John Coffey, a facilities management grounds worker, loads
mixed paper onto a truck to be taken to the recycling center.

By Victoria Taylor
STA F F W R IT E R

Make sure that you prop-
erly, dispose your plastic cups
because Recyclemania is un-
der way.

Washington and Lee Uni-
versity is participating in the
10-week collegiate compe-
tition to increase recycling
awareness and promote waste
reduction.

The Recyclemania compe-
tition started on Jan. 18 and
continues until March 28. It
is a project of the College and
University Recycling Coun-
cil and is administered by the
National Recycling Coalition.
This year, there are over 500
participating schools.

Washington and Lee’s par-
ticipation complies with Presi-
dent Ruscio’s Climate Com-

toward achieving climate neu-
trality that he signed in 2007.
It is one of the many aspects
of the campus’ sustainability
initiative to become more en-
vironmentally friendly.
Participating schools weigh
and measure the amount of
trash and recycling that they
collect and then report their

 

mitment, a pledge to work.

data by using a forum on the
Recyclemania website. The

data is then ranked to deter-

mine which school has col-
lected the least non-recyclable
waste per capita, the most re-
cyclable waste and the highest
recycling rate.

As a member of the bench-
mark division, W&L’s results
are reported but are not in-
cluded in the official rankings.
Therefore, W&L is not eligible
to win the competition.

Environmental manage-
ment coordinator Chris Wise
explained that Washington
and Lee is not in the competi-
tion division this year because
of the changes caused by the
campus’ incorporation into
Lexington’s curbside recy-
cling program.

In the past, everything
that was recycled on campus
was measured and weighed
separately, Wise said. Now,
aluminum bottles, cans, plas-
tic bottles and cardboard can
be placed into the city’s blue
dumpsters on campus and be
collected as part of the pro-
gram.

Although W&L cannot win
Recyclemania, Wise said that
the campus is involved in the

waste management aspect of
the competition. He explained
that the goal of waste manage-
ment is to not only reduce the
quantity of trash sent to land-
ﬁlls but to cut back on recy-
clables as well.
“Recyclemania is about
trying to see how many tons

“I would hope we
can keep people is at-
tention long enough
to instill lasting
habits of green life-
styles. 

Kara Fitzgibbon, Student

Environmental Action
League co-president

of plastic water bottles you
can recycle,” Wise said, “but
the fact is that there are other
ways that you can drink water.
Any time you recycle some-
thing you actually purchased it
in the ﬁrst place.”

Although the Student En-

vironmental Action League
(SEAL) has taken a lesser
role in Recyclemania this
year, sophomore co-president
Kara Fitzgibbon said the or-
ganization will continue to
raise awareness on campus.
She mentioned that SEAL is
responsible for the eco-facts
in the daily Campus Notice c-
mails and that its members are
working on posters with easy
tips on how to be green.

Fitzgibbon said she is
pleased with W&L’s efforts
toward sustainability.

“I deﬁnitely feel there is
an increased awareness of re-
cycling on campus,” she said.
“With this new fad of going
green it seems that the issue
is at the very least out in the
forefront, and I would hope
we can keep people’s attention
long enough to instill lasting
habits of green lifestyles.”

Wise agrees.

“I think that there has been
more interest on the part of
students,‘ fraternities and so-
rorities thisyear to try to talk.
about recycling and other sus-
tainability-type issues like re-
ducing the amount of energy
and eating local foods,” he
said.

  

UNIVERSITY LIBRARY

LEXINGTON, VA 24450
FEB 1 0 2008

WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY

2 - THE RING-TUM PHI

MONDAY,

 

Where did we go Wrong?

Economist writer Greg Ip reviews past mistakes, forecasts economic future

By Anne Vesoulis
STAFF WRITER

Students and faculty alike
crowded room 327 in Huntley
Hall to hear Greg Ip, a writer
and editor for the Economist,
talk about America’s ﬁnancial
future last Thursday evening.

In his speech, “Economic
9/ ll,” Ip explained how Amer-
ica has reached its current eco-
nomic nadir. Ip described the
approximately ﬁve year period
leading up to today’s ﬁnan-
cial crisis as the “great mod-
eration”—a period of time with
low interest rates during which
America’s perception of risk
greatly declined.

“We had our houses to fall
back on,” Ip said. “We looked
to our houses as ATM’s. We
had this idea that home prices
wouldn’t decline, so we bought
houses instead of stock. We
didn’t question lower income
families receiving mortgages.”

In terms of the global econo-
my, America is “the best house
in a bad neighborhood,” Ip said.
With the economic downturn
causing a global panic, Ip con-
siders the United States to be the
most fortunate.

In a question and answer pe-
riod, Ip explained the possible
geopolitical changes that could
take place due to the economic

downturn.

“It’s going to be hard to make
a case [for other countries] to
adopt free capital,” he said.

Ip began his business jour-

worked at the Wall Street Jour-
nal for over ten years and began
working for the Economist in
July 2008.

His opinions and insight re-

“We had our houses to fall back on. We
looked to our houses as AT M is. We had this

idea that home prices wouldn ’t decline, so

we bought houses instead of stock. ”

Greg lp, writer and editor for the Economist

nalism career at the Vancouver
Sun in 1989. He then trans-
ferred to the Financial Post and
the Toronto Globe and Mail. Ip

Library opens

MORGAN HARRIS / Staff Photographer

Michael 0’Brien (left) and John Ditore take advantage of the new work space on
the Leyburn Library’s main floor.

Trident goes out of print

continued from page 1

go over with little to no complications.

“The Trident is still trying to work on the transition and
hopeﬁilly it will go as smoothly as possible,” said Markheav—
ens Tshuma, writer of the column'“Lex and the City” and for-
mer distribution manager. “Students, alums and parents alike
are very dedicated to the Trident so we foresee the majority of
our readers coming along with us to this new chapter.”

Some readers look forward to the switch from print to web

publication.

“I’m excited to read the Trident online,” said sophomore
Becky Guynn. “I think that it’s great that the staff of the Tri-
dent have found a way to continue to publish stories despite

their ﬁnancial situation.”

While the Trident is now available to anyone with a com-
puter, it will still be written for the W&L community.

“I am getting really positive feedback from alumni on our
website,” said Scaggs. “We welcome any more comments or

suggestions people have.”

The Trident is the only student web publication at Wash-
ington and Lee other than the Rockbridge Report, a faculty-
advised student publication in the journalism school.

Not everyone is as positive about the transiton. “When you
take the newspaper aspect out of a campus newspaper, you’re
bound to lose some readership,” said John Scully, a Trident

writer.

Scaggs remains conﬁdent that the Trident’s success from
the print editions will carry over to its Web publication.

“I’m pretty excited about taking the paper online. We have
great staff members and writers, and I can’t wait to see where
we can take the website,” she said.

garding the current state of the
economy are respected by pro-
fessionals across the country.

“I thought Mr. Ip was incred-

ibly interesting,” said junior
Katie Boiles. “His lecture was
probably the most concise, well
though-out description of what’s
going on. He really did an amaz-
ing job of providing all of the

historical background necessary I

to understanding our current
problem. . .I never got bored.”

Professor Brian Richardson,
head of the journalism depart-
ment, thought Ip’s ability to ap-
peal to non-economists made
his lecture a success.

“I’m not an economist, but
from what I do understand, he
is very knowledgeable,” Rich-
ardson said. “He speaks Eng-
lish--he has a rare ability to of-

fer a sophisticated analysis in a
language everybody can under-
stand. That’s hard to do.”

Toward the end of his talk, Ip
provided insight regarding the
future of America.

“There need to be some pro-
found ‘changes, and I’m pes-
simistic, but there are tentative
signs of a turnaround,” he said.

Ip thinks consumers will
have to practice purchasing re-
straint, increase long-terrn sav-
ing and think about “retirement
sustenance.” Through
things, “we have the opportimity
to press forward,” Ip said.

these

FEBRUARY 9,2009

continued from page 1

library to do my work.’ I just think it works for
a lot of people,” she said.
“This week already I’ve been here more times

than I was last term,” added her friend, sophomore I

Catherine Guilbaud.

The renovation of the library’s main ﬂoor
was one of the_,university’s top priorities but had
to compete with other projects for funding. For
years, librarians recognized that the shabby ﬁ1rni-
ture and interior design needed to change. Even-
tually the school committed $2.5 million, allow-
ing architects to draw up plans for a new main
ﬂoor last April.

As work went ahead this fall, students and oth-
er visitors were directed past the temporary ply-
wood walls by the entrance down to the circula-
tion desk, which was moved to the ﬁrst ﬂoor. The
circulation desk and the help desk had to share the
Northen Auditorium, but employees managed to
assist students despite their cramped quarters.

Without the use of the main ﬂoor, tables and
chairs in other buildings such as the commons
were in constant demand. Now, students have an
alternative, whether it’s studying at one of many
tables in the back or socializing in the Bames-and-
Noble-style cafe’ at the front.

Skerrett and Guilbaud are among many stu-
dents who have discovered the comfort and ﬂex-
ibility that the main floor of the library offers.

Junior James Dick said the good lighting, vari-
ety of seating and openness are all reasons he will
be using the library more in the future.

“I used to come to the library to escape from
people because I thought no one goes to the li-
brary because it’s so ugly,” Dick said. “But now
I think that more people will be here and I would
deﬁnitely want to come here more to study.”

Summer Sterling, a junior, said she would be
using the library as an alternative to the com-
mons.

“A couple of my friends, we always hang out in

the commons to study, and now it’s like de facto,
like, we’re all just coming here because  it just
kind of feels like a big living room,” she said.
The library has attracted students and non-stu-
dents alike. On Thursday a local freelance writer
did work on her laptop at a table near the coffee
and vending machines at the front. In the back of
the library, journalism professor Doug Cumming
sat on a bench-style sofa reading a journalism

A magazine.

Cumming, who estimates his ofﬁce in the jour-
nalism school is the closest one toxthe library, said
he would be using the main ﬂoor as an alternative
to the J-school. Cumming eruditely described the
neutral putty tones and simple furniture as “con-
servative modern.”

“It doesn’t look like a designer was calling at-
tention to him or herself,” he said. “I’m pleased
with it. I know the librarians are happy.”

One library staff member, Carol Karsch, said
she is very pleased with the new arrangement.
Karsch, a data and statistical support specialist,
helps students do research on the brand-new Ma-
cintosh computers and Dell Precision PC’s. Her
ofﬁce is one of six glass-fronted ofﬁces on the side
facing the science building.

Karsch, who used to work behind the circula-
tion desk, said there are more students using the
library now than in the past.

While some features leave room for improve-
ment-—some students say the new furniture is a bit
stiff--the reaction to the new main ﬂoor has been
overwhelmingly positive.

“I like how much light there is. I like all the
open space. I like how there are so many different
styles of study areas,” said James Dick. “There’s
the high chairs, there’s the high-backed couches,
there’s table space. There’s also a lot of space for
group work which I think is really good.”

“I feel like no matter what I’m studying or who
I’m studying with I could come to the library and
ﬁnd some space.”

ALL STUDENTS INVITED

Alumni-in-Residence
SCOTT & TRICIA
MILLER

Scott Mi||er‘92 is Staff Psychologist
at Regents’ Center for
Learning Disorders

Tricia Miller '93 is Head Registrar
at the Georgia Museum of Art,
University of Georgia

Thursday, February 12

Have lunch or individual
conversation with either alum.
Reservations required.
Contact Career Services for info.

careers.w|u.edu

540 458 8595

— 1
gang ¢ featemowt
Pizim. CAR {mas & TIN Tor cm

Order from our complete menu
Or Join usfar one ofmzr ALL FIJU C1451’ EA T Brijfers.’

Friday Night Seafood Buffetwith Crab ‘Legs 5pm-iiipm
Saturday Night Prime Rib Dinner 5pm~iDpm
Sunday Baked Chicken, Pork Loin, St Pot Roast 11am-9pm
Friday & Saturday Late Night Breakfast Bar %€Ipm’~2am
Breakfast Bar ? Days a Week Bemvl 1am
Deity Rot Country Bar tiamdiipm
Daily Soup, Saiad, 8. Fruit Bar iiarmﬁpm

Order Breakfast 24 Hours a day, 7 days a week!

Harm: Canker! Meats & Szmtiieriz Haspitizlitjr.’

in ii mm min

1-83 32; I-(vi. Exit $235. 2316 Noah Lee 1-Iwy, I.eXingion, VA

éreqt food & :1 great cuiieetion of
Antique. Pedui ﬂare 8: Tia Toys?

l..o<:ated at

540-463-3478

 

 

 

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2009

THE RING-TUM PHI ‘ 3

 

opinio

I15

G

 
 
 

Former Phi editor wishes online Trident well

Geiger says going online was the smart move for the Phi is rival and hopes it makes it a better paper

By Jacob Geiger
CO LU M NIST

When the Executive Commit-
tee announced last month that
it would not give any money to
the Trident, I’ll admit that I had
mixed feelings.

It seemed odd — and unfair
— to grant InGeneral more than
$600 while the Trident got noth-
ing. And it ‘seemed strange that
EC members would invite the
Trident to apply for funds only to
leave them out in the cold.

But at the same time, it was
tough to see a campus newspa-
per asking for money from the
student government. It seemed
like a step back, an admission of
failure after several years when
neither the Phi nor the Trident
received a penny from the EC or
the administration.

The EC allocation process
obviously does a lot of good in
our community. For evidence,
look no further than what Cam-

On rooﬁes, gentlemen, ladies

In part two of a series on men and women at W&L, Aleisha

By Alelsha Butler
C 0 L U M N I S T

Lets set a scene.‘ Its cold,
dark and wet. The puddle of
light from the streetlamps stops
short of where you ’re standing.
This discussion didn ’t start well,
and now you ’re stuck on the
sidewalk with him. He is scream-
ing so close to your face that
ﬂecks of spit are hitting your
cheeks and your eyelids. When
you try to push past him and
run home he grabs you under
the arms, lifts you ojf your feet,

' shakes you till your head snaps

back and forth on your neck and
tells you you ’re not going any-

where... you ’re not done talking
yet... tears are squeezing them-

selves from your eyes and your
breath is dragging in and out of
your chest because this guy just
wont let you go... you 're alone
and exposed and you ’re not sure,

but it really looks like you might
get hit tonight...

Did that scare you?

pus Kitchens is doing with EC
money.

I just don’t think journalists
should be relying on the student
government for a handout.

The Trident has basically been
running on a break-even basis for
the last six months. They were at
least managing to pay the bills.
But what ﬁnally sunk their hopes
of continuing in print were large
debts left over from last year.

They’ve moved on-line now,
restoring their old Web site and
sending out weekly e-mail up-
dates. But the printed product
appears to be gone for the time
being.

I know the Trident’s staff
must be disappointed that past
debts are keeping them from see-
ing their work on campus news-
stands. And I also understand that
many of them think the mistake
of last year’s Bracket continues
to hamper their operations this
year, even though the two writ-

It should have, because it’s
happened before and it will hap-
pen again. To your friend, your
sister, your daughter, your wife;
violence against women is com-
mon, and will remain so in a
culture that values male domi-
nance and female. submission.
That uneven structure comes at
a cost: girls are taught from birth
to fear.

“Don’t walk alone at night.”
“Go out with a group.” “Don’t
leave a drink unattended.”
“Keep your car key in your
hand.” “Don’t draw attention to
yourself.”

“Don '1‘ ask for it.”

From the time that we are
very young, we are taught to be
careful, be suspicious, be guard-
ed... and it’s infuriating.

Women and men are evenly
matched when it comes to intel-
ligence, character, and “moral
virtue,” if there is such a thing.

However, women aren’t as
physically brawny as men; our
muscles just don’t get as big (al-

Obama, not Simba
Stockton Bullitt would like to remind
everyone Obama is not the messiah

By Stockton Bullitt
C0 LU M N I ST

On November 4, when Scar
and his neo-con hyenas were
expelled from Pride Rock, I of
course celebrated.

That celebration lasted for
about two months. During that
time, I had the fortune of listen-
ing to all the formerly disenfran-
chised. Now that Obama was
elected, racism was over; toler-
ance would be widespread; there
would be enough money for ev-
eryone; etc. Among liberals at
least, the Bolsheviks had beaten
the Mensheviks all over again.

Then January 20 came and we
got to get drunk before noon!

But now it’s February, and I
am starting to grow weary with
some of the gripes that I have
been hearing for the last decade.

I expected these complaints
to come from the traditional hy-
enas. I expected to feast on the

bitterness of Fox News. Howev— '

er, these guys, and Republicans
for the most part, have taken the
whole losing thing pretty well.

Of course they complain that
the stimulus plan is too much
spending, and that we should
instead focus more on tax relief.
But then again, they are Repub-
licans. I wish they would have
spoken up more when we were
dishing out $18.7 billion to John
Thain and Bank of America. I
do not take issue with any Re-
publicans so far during Obama’s
term.

Instead of the far right, the
people that are really starting
to be a problem is the far left.
These are the people that even

MSNBC is frightened to broad-
cast, the people that shame Keith
Olberrnan. These are the people
who made the “Hope” posters,
who were so quick to canvass
and put the bumper stickers on
the back of their Priuses.

They were essential to the
campaign because they were a
candidates’ favorite kind of de-
mographic: people who do not
know what in the hell they are
voting for. ,.

Two weeks ago, I read an
article in this very newspaper
about one writer’s outrage at the
choice of having Rick Warren
preside over the inauguration
ceremony [Editor’s note: see
Jean Chapman’s “Rick Warren
insulting,” in the January 26“‘
2009 edition].

The writer took issue with
Warren’s stance on homosexual-
ity and gay marriage. She also
mentioned that it was blasphe-
mous of Obama to choose some-
one who opposes gay marriage
as his invocator.

There are a couple of issues
with this outlook on Rick War-
ren.

For one, he did not in any
way impose his views upon oth-
ers in the inauguration, "and he
is not the Antichrist for the gay
community.

Gene Robinson, the only ho-
mosexualjbishop in the Episco-
palian church, mentioned in an
interview with the Daily Show
(Since I am not a serious jour-
nalist, I refuse to watch serious
television), that he was ﬁne with
the choice of Rick Warren and
had even had a conversation

ers have graduated.

Even though I spent some
time as the Ring-Tum Phi Editor,
and competed against the Tri-
dent, I want them to survive and
do well. I think this campus will

Let s face it: when
one paper dominates
a market...its easy

for that paper to get
lazy.

be a better, more informed place
to live, work and study if we have
two papers instead of one.

Let’s face it: when one paper
dominates a market ~ whether
it’s a small college campus or a
giant city — it’s easy for that pa-

though we can debate pain toler-
ance all day long).

That physical inequality com-
bines with the patriarchal norms
of our culture to create a con-
stant, inherent threat of harm.
The awareness of that threat is
drilled into females’ heads from
the day that we start wondering
about the differences between
boys and girls. Sadly, even the
nicest guys in our society, those
who would never consider hurt-
ing a woman, are completely
unaware of women’s constant
awareness. A male friend of

What, may I ask, is
acceptable or arous-
ing about dropping
a drug in a girls

drink?

with him during the inauguration
that did not involve the issue of
homosexuality in anyway.

Secondly, Rick Warren is a
seriously good preacher. His
supposedly “suspect” book “A
Purpose Driven Life” has sold
over 30 million copies, so may-
be it has one or two things going
for it.

The last two reasons are what,
more or less, is wrong with the
far left right now.

Refusing Rick Warren, who
is arguably one of the most im-
portant religious ﬁgures in the
United States right now, to do
the invocation based solely on a
view that is not pertinent to the
situation at hand is ridiculous.

Obviously, Rick probably
should not do the invocation for
the Gay Rights Parade, but this
is an inauguration ceremony.

I am thankful that pro-lifers
give me the time of day to talk,
even though to them, I am for
killing babies. Having differing
views on controversial issues
does not exclude someone from a
conversation. Obama constantly
talks about how he wants people
around him who disagree with
his views. In fact, Obama’s en-
tire campaign was about coming
together for a common cause.

It is unfair to say “Yes, we
can, but no, they can’t.”

Rick Warren represented
the important evangelical de-
mographic, who will need to
somehow accept the atheists if
they want something done. But
conversely, the atheists need the
evangelicals to be on board if
they want to make progress.

_ That is an idea that some of
us liberals need to accept: the
Republicans have just as much to
bring to the table as Democrats,
and progress is only made when
both sides can come to some
sort of coalition. And if you
don’t agree with me, just read

per to get lazy. The Trident was
founded for that very reason; in
the mid-1990s, the Phi had got-
ten lazy and was no longer serv-
ing its readers as well as it should
have.

But the Trident needs to suc-
ceed on its own, in the free mar-
ket. It shouldn’t rely on the Ex-
ecutive Committee for support.

When it’s all said and done, I
think it’s better for them to op-
erate as a web-only outﬁtand be
free of EC money than to keep
putting out a print edition on the
student government’s dime.

Journalists must serve as
watchdogs over those in power,
making sure their actions are eth-
ical, appropriate and correct. Our
publications also serve as a com-
munity forum open to all voices.
Even if those voices can include
the administration or student
government, how can a paper ef-
fectively watch over those insti-
tutions when they receive money

from them? It’s tough.

Even if there is no overt at-
tempt at censorship or pun-
ishment for what’s published,
wouldn’t a paper that takes
money from the school naturally
be more reluctant to criticize the
people who fund their opera-
tions?

One of the Phi’s biggest rea-
sons for striking out on our own
was an attempt by the EC to cut
our funding after we ran stories
about EC misuse of money. That
happened more than a decade
ago, and the Phi is now in its sixth

year of ﬁnancial independence. ‘

It’s given us the conﬁdence to
report things that we may have
hesitated about in past years.

I don’t think it’s a coincidence
that our work has improved since
we started paying our own way.
We know that unless we produce
quality work .that engages and
informs our readers, our adver-
tisements and subscriptions will

dry up.

Making the ﬁnances work
isn’t easy. Our business staff
spends countless hours talking
with advertisers, e-mailing sub-
scribers and — each week — stuff-
ing envelopes sothe papers can
be mailed out.

, I hope the Trident can follow
this path on the web. By cutting
out inost of their ﬁxed costs, I’m
hopeful they can focus their time
and energy on producing good
reporting and strong writing.

The Trident has some excel-
lent editors; I think they’re up to
the challenge of keeping the pa-
per going.

A strong Trident will encour-
age the Phi to work harder as
well. Competition breeds excel-
lence.

I’m just glad I’ll be reading

a Trident this term that isn’t be-'

holden to the EC.

and why they shouldn’t mix

Butler questions the culture of fear W&L is women live in

mine once told me that I have “a
way too active imagination.”

Here at Washington and Lee
we claim to have a tradition of
honor and respect and, for the
most part, we feel like our party
scene is safer than that of a big-
ger school’s.

However, the 2008 National
College Health Assessment de-
termined that while 6% of W&L
men reported being sexually
touched against their will, 20.6%
of W&L women reported the
same. That number is double
the national college average;
Washington and Lee’s statistics
for rape and attempted rape are
also almost double the national
numbers.

Following some depressing
statistics like those, I have to
wonder: does a gentleman cause
someone else to fear?

What, may I ask, is accept-
able or arousing about dropping
a drug in a girl’s drink? Is it hot
and sexy to take a limp, uncon-
senting vegetable home with

Obama’s keynote address at the
2004 Democratic Convention
because, apparently, he does.

The ﬁnal issue I have a prob-
lem with comes from the idea
that this action was somehow
against Obama’s earlier preach-
ing.

During the primary cam-
paigns, Obama was maligned
for being the most socially con-
servative Democratic candidate
among the ﬁnal three in regard
to homosexuality. While he sup-
ports civil unions, he has never
been for gay marriage.

So by choosing Rick War-
ren and not immediately sign-
ing an act demanding universal
gay marriage, Obama is actually
staying in line with what he said
he would do all along.

This is probably the biggest
problem we liberals have with
Mr. Obama: we spent so much
time placing him somewhere
in-between Simba and Jesus
over the last couple of months,
we forgot that he is just a regu-
lar politician who happens to be
pretty good at his job.

Look, Obama will not man-
date universal healthcare. Why?
Because he never said he would.
Neither will he legalize mari-
juana.

Or completely pull out of the
Middle East.

Or even ﬁx racism.

Politically, he is pretty mid-
dle of the road. If you wanted
a bona ﬁde liberal, you should
have voted for Hillary.

The thing that made Obama
so awesome was not that he was
an African-American or even a
liberal; it is that he is a good pol-
itician, who is willing to listen.

Maybe some of us liberals
should follow our pariah a little
more and start to listen to some-
one who is not exactly like us.

Then, maybe we can hope for
some real progress.

x

i you?

90% of assaults are commit-
ted by someone known to the
victim; I can only assume that on
a campus as small as ours, where
everybody knows almost every-
body, that that kind of violation
can only occur when a woman
becomes an object, and sexual
pleasure becomes a goal, an end-
point, a score to be achieved.

I know that there have been .

a few nights that I’ve only had
a drink or two and ended up
spending the entire night on
the bathroom ﬂoor. What was I
drinking?

The same can be said for most
of my friends, and the only rea-
son that my closest friends and
I have managed to avoid some
very bad situations is because
we vigilantly watch out for each
other. “No woman left behind”
is our policy, and at the end of a
night, even if one of our group
isn’t quite ready to leave, we
take her with us.

W&L parties are small and

exclusive. Rarely are outsiders or
non-students allowed in. There-
fore, I can only conclude that the
suspicious drinks my friends and
I have had were mixed by fellow
Washington and Lee students.

What gives someone the right
to incapacitate another person
and take whatever they want?
Why is it necessary for girls to
travel in packs, constantly vigi-
lant, always aware? At W&L we
claim to maintain the traditions
of honorable conduct, but we
seem to be lacking severely as
soon as the sun goes down.

We should consider making
mutual respect and compassion
prerequisites for “honor.” After
all, that girl who’s passing out on
your bed right now with her skirt
around her waist has a mom, a
dad, a gray-haired old dog who’s
been around since she was ﬁve.

She’s got major, goals in life,
and by slipping a muscle relax-
ant into her drink you just took
away her ability to say “yes” or

44 39

I10

 WASHINGTON AND LEE UMVERSITY ................................................................ ..

 RING-TUM PHI.

MANAGING EDITOR
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR

SPORTS EDITOR

CONTRIBUTING WRITERS

DESIGN EDITOR
STAFF PHOTOGRAPHERS

BUSINESS MANAGER
DISTRIBUTION MNGR.

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE
RING—TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community for students, faculty,
parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire
to spark discussions that lead to discovering
information that prompts change.

THE RING-TUM PHI IS PUBLISHED MONDAYS
DURING THE UNDERGRADUATE SCHOOL YEAR.
THE RING—TUM PHI IS A MEMBER OF THE MEDIA
BOARD, BUT IS OTHERWISE INDEPENDENT.
QUESTIONS OR CONCERNS ABOUT THE PHI
SHOULD BE ADDRESSED TO THE EDITORS AT
PHI@WLU.EDU OR TO THE MEDIA BOARD AT
MEDIABOARD@WLU.EDU.
IS AN INDEPENDENT, STUDENT-RUN EDITORIAL
OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE WORKING WITH ALL
MEDIA OUTLETS ON THE WASHINGTON &

ALL INQUIRIES WILL REMAIN
CONFIDENTIAL. THE RING-TUM PHI WELCOMES
ALL LETTERS. WE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO EDIT

SUBMISSIONS FOR CONTENT AND LENGTH.

LETTERS AND ADVERTISING DO NOT NECESSARILY
REFLECT THE OPINION OF THE RlNG—TUM PHI
STAFF. THIS NEWSPAPER OBSERVES CURRENT
COURT DEFINITIONS OF LIBEL AND OBSCENITY.

THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540)458-4059
EMAIL: PHI@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

LEE CAMPUS.

ALLISON CHOPIN
JOHN HENDERSON
CODY BEAUCHAMP
CELESTE CRUZ-
CARANDANG

WILL DORRANOE

CRIGHTON ALLEN
STOCKTON BULLITT
ALEISHA BUTLER
JACOB GEIGER
DIANDRA SPICAK
VALAREE TANG
VICTORIA TAYLOR
ANNE VVESOULIS
RUSS WEEMS
KIMBER WIGGS

LARA JORDAN
RYAN ELSEY
MORGAN HARRIS
STROCK MOORE
ROB GEORGE

THE MEDIA BOARD

 

 

4 ' THE RING-TUM PHI

MONDAY,

FEBRUARY 9, 2009

arts&|ife

 

Poignant play  
shows that magic
can happen

‘Vaclav Drda ’ by alum Christopher
Cartmill examines value of art

By Kimber Wlggs
5 TA F F w R IT E R

The Washington and Lee theater department welcomed back
alumnus Christopher Cartmill for the annual Floumoy Playwright
Festival this weekend. As part of the Festival, Cartmill directed his
The Apotheosis of Vaclav Drda. The show ran Thursday through
Sunday in the Johnson Theater in the Lenfest Center.

The Apotheosis of Vaclav Drda tells the story of a rag-tag group
of theater people ~ none of whom are getting paid — trying to pro-
duce a play with limited funding and even less hope of success.
That play is a powerful commentary on war and oppression in
1938 by the ﬁctional Czech author Vaclav Drda.

Early on, there is obvious tension between the actors in this
play within the play. Gabriel, played by junior Kevin Mannering,
is a self-involved egomaniac who continually boasts about the fact
that he has an agent and a manager. Lisa Reppell’s character, Jo-
anna, is the passionate female lead who fears this production may
be her last chance to “make it” as an actress.

Trying to maintain peace between these two ﬁery personalities
is Nick the director, portrayed by sophomore Johnny Coyle. Nick
means well, but his attempts at pep talks generally deteriorate into
clichés and unﬁnished thoughts. To provide comic relief are the
wise-cracking stage manager Cecily, played by Marquita Robin-
son, and Steve, a happy-go-lucky, sweet-hearted simpleton, ador-
ably portrayed by sophomore Dave Curran.

The ﬁrst half of the show revolves around the conﬂicts between

“In a way, theater is more real than...what

we do day—to—day. ”

Marqulta Roblnson, actress

characters who just do not understand one another, as Cartmill
later put it. They butt heads on almost everything, from the terrible
translation of the Czech script to Nick’s casting to Steve’s amateur
ideas about theater (he calls it “play practice”). Everything seems
to go wrong for this bunch, and the tension builds up until Joanna
breaks down.

After a long break in the rehearsal, and after one of Gabriel
and Joanna’s many arguments, the two leads seem to ﬁnd a real
connection to the work and to each other through a particularly
poignant scene, beautifully acted by Mannering and Reppell. Sud-
denly Joanna asks to stop, inexplicably withdraws into a comer,
and asks everyone to leave. Gabriel explodes at her for stopping
the rehearsal yet again and then storms out. It is a testament to the
actors’ abilities that there was a sense among the audience of just
having witnessed a very awkward public confrontation.

Eventually Joanna is left alone to weep for her dubious future
in the theater. Her grief lasts only a short while, however, as she is
interrupted by a mysterious custodian, played by Brian Devine.

The peculiarly insightﬁil stranger helps Joanna to realize that
“recognition” is not a true test of greatness, and he restores Joan-
na’s faith in theater and in her own hopes of success. '

With the help of this Czech janitor (who just so happens to be
named Vaclav), the rest of the cast and crew also discover the true
meaning of their work and ultimately achieve a theatrical mind-
meld that reveals the ﬁnal image of the play: Jenna Worsham as
an angel who is holding a clock and “is saying to me, ‘get on
with your work, do what you have to do while you have time to
do it.”’ I

Following the performance, Cartmill and the cast engaged in
a talk-back session with the audience. They ﬁelded questions that
ranged from where Brian Devine got his Czech accent to the, ad-
mittedly baﬂiing ﬁnal image of the angel.

Cartmill’s response to the latter query was that the pantomime
angel represented the characters’ renewed faith in the meaning of
the play and their belief that magic can happen.

Theatrically, the image was made even more interesting by the
fact that the “roof” of the acting space was mechanically raised
to reveal Worsham’s angel. That ﬁnal image met varied reactions
from the audience, but Cartmill made a good point that it is for
each member of the audience to decide what that image meant.

On the whole, Christopher Cartmill’s The Apotheosis of Vaclav
Drda was a deeply thought-provoking exploration of the mean-
ing of theater in today’s society. Lisa Reppell commented that,
in many ways, theater has become a consumer industry, which is
unfortunate. But hopefully, talented actors performing a profound
work, such as these W&L students did Friday night, can still give
audiences a meaningful experience.

When asked why she acts, Marquita Robinson spoke of the
emotions she must explore when she steps out on the stage. She
said that “in a way, theater is more real than, sometimes, what we
do day-to-day.” So no matter what audiences think, these seven
students choose to perform because it is still a meaningful experi-
ence for them.

Art exhibit is edgy

Photographer is art includes display on Ku Klux Klan

By Dlandra Splcak
STAFF WRITER

The Staniar Gallery will
open its doors to an exhibition
of William Christenberry’s work
called “William Christenberry:
Site/Possession” on Monday.

Christenberry, a renowned
photographer, is most noted
for his photos of his childhood
home of rural Alabama, but this
exhibit focuses on much more.
The exhibit will feature paint-
ings, photographs, construc-
tions, “dream buildings” and the
“Klan Room Tableau.”

The exhibit offers a glimpse
into the artistic process of
Christenberry, including one of
his earlier drawings from 1959,
when he had just begun to hone
his skills, and also a more re-

cent drawing from 2006, which .

employs the techniques he has
gleaned from his years of work.

The drawings feature a range
of subjects, from Southern gourd
trees to tenant houses to dream
buildings, and each drawing
shows the scope of Christenber-
ry’s 40-year career.

On the more controversial

side, the exhibit also houses the
“Klan Room Tableau,” a mixed-
media display which includes
dolls costumed in Ku Klux Klan
regalia, miniature efﬁgies, pho-
tographs, drawings and signs
that all evoke the KKK’s ritu-
als. '

Christenberry began to as-
semble the Klan Room in 1962
as “a public exorcism of the
demons that have haunted him
ever since he attempted to enter
a Klan meeting more than 40
years ago.”

According to those who
help host the exhibit, while the
exhibit is, no doubt, “in your
face,” the material is meant to
challenge the viewers, causing
them to draw their own conclu-
sions.

“What the Staniar Gallery
does is to try to make Washing-
ton and Lee talk,” publicity and
marketing intern for the Staniar
Gallery, senior Mallory Ruy-
mann, said.

“This exhibit is really edgy,
seeing as it deals with the KKK.
Different people will react dif-
ferently to the material, and see-

.RedHenLex.com

ing as W&L is rather ‘southern,’
parts of the exhibit may be hard
to stomach.”

Though critics have ques-
tioned Christenberry’s creation
of the Klan Room, Christenber-
ry, in his defense, has said the
work is a way for him to come
to terms with the Klan.

During a 1996 interview,
Christenberry was cited as say-
ing, “The Klan is a manifesta-
tion of evil, and‘it’s hurtful to
me as a Southerner, as someone
who in most instances is proud
ofwhere he comes from, to be
identiﬁed with something so
terrible.”

The exhibition is curated by
Dr. Andrea Douglas of the Uni-
versity of Virginia Art Museum.
She will present a lecture on the
exhibition on Monday, Feb. 9,
at 6 p.m. in the Staniar Gallery.

Christenberry will also‘ visit
W&L to give a lecture about
his work on March 11 at 6 p.m.
Both lectures will be in the Con-
cert Hall in Wilson Hall and are
free and open to the public. A
reception will follow each pro-

gram.

Christenberry majored in art
at the University of Alabama
and has taught at the Corcoran
School of Art since 1968. His
art is owned and featured by
many museums, including the
Whitney Museum of American
Art, Museum of Modern Art,
National Museum of American
Art, Smithsonian Institution
and San Francisco Museum of
Modern Art. He is represented
by Hemphill Fine Arts of Wash-
ington.

While the nature of the
Christenberry exhibit in the Sta-
niar Gallery is controversial, the
main point of the exhibit is to
showcase talent and to get the
W&L student population more
involved with the artistic pro-
cess and with art in general, said
Ruymann.

“Art should get you think-
ing, and that’s what this exhibit
does,” she said.

“Hopefully, people will
come to appreciate the works in
the gallery, and understand that
it is more than just a edgy topic
— it’s art.” ‘

Profiles

Leadership:

] uli e Petersen

 

Volunteer at the Manor of Natural Bridge;

Chamber Singers; ODK; Senior Voice
1n Recital with Matt Amling; a role in the
upcoming Bentley Musical, The Secret

Garden; RUF worship music leader
and member of Chi Omega

What energizes you about taking on
the responsibilities of campus leader-
ship? “To live in excess while others live without
does not fit with my personal commitment to love
my neighbor as myself. I think the ability to bring
people together across racial, political, and socio-
economic divides is one of the most inspiring ex-

This Valentineis Dag
treat Ljourselves
to the Most Romantic

dinner in Lexington

at the Red Hen

\
A la carte menu, or a

special seven~course tasting menu

Two seatingsz 6_and 8:50 C

Call 464.4401 now for a reservationl
ll E Washington Street '

 

pericnces I have found. People often get so caught
up in being right, that they fail to see how much common ground we
all share. I have been drawn to the Shepherd Poverty Program and the
music and theater departments specifically for their tendency to attract
people from all walks of life and unite them behind a common goal.”
What has been one of the most rewarding aspects

of leadership at W&L? “Organizing and leading a book study of
]im Wallis’ The Great Awakening last Spring gave me the opportunity to
bring together a group of surprising diversity in age, race, academic ‘
focus and socioeconomic background to discuss how religious faith can
be utilized to unite people behind a just cause, rather than as a divisive
partisan tool. We tackled issues that often prevent deeply partisan
politics from effectively addressing the needs of our society's most
vulnerable members. Facilitating group members of different races and
political persuasions as they found common ground on previously in-
compatible issues was one of my most exciting and humbling experi-
ences at W&L.”

Any words of advice for those who follow? “Find what

you are passionate about and go all out. It takes a lot of work to max"
out life!” V

Tuesdays with Leadership:

Conflict Resolution Part II
12:15 and 6:30 PM, Room 214 Elrocl Commons
Utilizing role plays, experience the challenges of resolving

conflicts using the theories presented last week. ..

 

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2009

THE RING-TUM PHI 0 5

 

sports

A A tainted reputation

Crighton Allen discusses A—Rod is alleged steroid use

By Crlghton Allen
COLU M msr

According to a report by Sports Illustrated,
the national pastime of baseball has received yet
another horrible soar to its already beaten image.
According to the report, Alex Rodriguez tested
positive for anabolic steroids in 2003, when he
was with the Texas Rangers and won the AL home
run title and MVP award. Rodriguez, the 275 mil-
lion dollar man, the face of not only his club, the
New York Yankees, but of arguably all of baseball
allegedly tested positive for testosterone and Pri-
mobolan, an anabolic steroid.

Since his teenage years, Rodriguez has been
hailed as the man that might one day rewrite all
the record books. Blessed with tremendous size,
talent and an incredible drive, he had all the tools
needed to one day go down as the greatest base-
ball player ever. Alas, he, like so many others,
has apparently fallen victim to the allusion that he
needed an artiﬁcial boost in an effort to stay atop
of his profession.

As much as I don’t want to believe this report,
Sports Illustrated bears the most respected name in
all of sports journalism. This isn’t some random
fan rambling on his blog; SI possesses the ﬁnest
reputation in the ﬁeld and would not run the report
and risk its reputation were they not very certain
of its validity.

What a sad, sad day for anyone who calls him-
self a baseball fan! In 2006, when Barry Bonds
broke Henry Aaron’s all-time homerun record
amid cloud of steroid allegations, many took com-
fort in the fact that in all likelihood, Bonds was
only renting the space atop sport’s most hallowed
record. Most everyone assumed that one day,
the Golden Boy, Rodriguez, would one day pass
Bonds and restore the integrity of the record.

Right now, A—Rod stands at 553 homers, need-
ing only 211 more to pass Bonds. At only 33,
Rodriguez has at least another ten years of good
ball left in him, and if he hits, conservatively for
his standards, 25 dingers each year, should com-
fortably pass Bonds. If indeed that happens, I am

left wondering: so what? Will the record mean
anything?

Can it mean anything when so many of base-
ball’s great sluggers of the past 15 years, Sammy
Sosa, Mark McGuire, Rafeal Palmero, and, of

course, Bonds, have all been convincingly linked ,

to steroid scandals? Even pitchers like the great
Roger Clemens have been on the juice as well.

Baseball has always been a reﬂection of the
American mentality. In the days when the Ameri-
can spirit was characterized by gritty determina-
tion, hard work and humility, the great ball play-
ers of the day, think Ted Williams for example,
manifested these traits heroically. Yet, as America
has morphed into a nation obsessed with its im-
age and determined to achieve the desired ends at
cost, baseball players have unfortunately demon-
strated that shift, too. Now, drama queens that tear
apart locker rooms and play for salaries that would
make a big—oil CEO blush have come to dominate
the game. \

Maybe I was naive, but I really thought Rodri-
guez was different. In him I saw a humble hard-
working guy that played the game the right way, a
man that through his honest actions could restore
the game back to its once proud origins. It ap-
pears that I, and the nation, have been duped once
again by someone we thought we knew so well.
It seems the only thing stronger and more fervent
than our hope in the ideal is the harshness of the
reality. A-Rod looked around. him and saw his
great contemporaries cheating and saw no other
recourse but than to join them if he wanted to con-
tinue to compete at his usual high level.

I can only hope that I and Sports Illustrated are
wrong. 1 want A-Rod to be clean, the game of
baseball needs A-Rod to be clean, but it appears
that neither I nor the game can continue to live
under that assumption. It pains me to see baseball
endure yet another scandal, but it looks like we are
in for a long off-season of continued accusation as

speculation about the fundamental integrity of the

game. And I could not be the sorrier.

Swimming conferences

continued from page 6

pared this year’s team to the 2007-2008 squad.
“This year’s team has much more depth in the
strokes. While we miss Alex and Tim, the desire
of each team member this year to race is stron-
ger,” he said.

Shinoﬁeld and his team hope that they can
match and even improve‘ on last year’s success. In
November, the head coach said, “The guys have

- set their goals very high. They want to re-capture

the conference championship and ﬁnish in the top
ten at NCAAS for the third straight year.”

In order to ensure that his team is rested for
conferences, Shinoﬁeld has decreased the difﬁ-
culty of his practices since the Hopkins meet. He
said, “Really for most people it’s just a ﬁne-tun-
ing period. We deﬁnitely back off on the volume
quite a bit. Most of the guys are at about 40 per-
cent of their max volume during the season. And
then the intensity level is down signiﬁcantly as
well. Really most of its just about making sure
the technique is perfected and that they are pre-
pared to go fast.”

The Bluegrass Mountain Conference has 17

I men’s swimming teams in both Division II and

III. Three teams in the conference are in the top
16 of Division 11 teams in the nation, according to
collegeswimming.com.

Shinoﬁeld recognizes the stiff competition that
his team will be up against this weekend. “We
could have a great meet and still ﬁnish fourth in
our conference,” he admitted.

The team’s head coach said his team is anx-
ious for the start of the meet. “I think they are
prepared, but 1 think that if you care about some-
thing, you’re going to be nervous. So I think they
have that nervous energy about them, but I deﬁ-
nitely believe they can do it.”

The team leaves for Charlotte on Wednesday
afternoon.

On the other hand, the women’s team is 9-6
overall and 2-0 in the ODAC. Although they
have had fewer meets against conference teams,
the Lady Generals currently sit at the top of the
ODAC standings.

Head coach Kami Gardner said, “We’ve had
an outstanding season. The freshmen have really
contributed; put that together with our great lead-
ership, and we’ve had a very good year.”

At the beginning of the season,‘ Gardner said,

“As a whole, I want the women to develop into a
great team that is supportive of each other’s goals
and obviously to succeed at the ODAC and na-
tional level.” I

Gardner thinks that the team has indeed ac-
complished the ﬁrst part of that goal. She said,
“[The team] has been very "supportive of each
other and knows what everyone is doing in the
water. They are very invested in the program this
year.”

In 2007-2008, the team went 13-6 including
a 7-0 conference record. In addition, the women
ﬁnished ﬁrst at the ODAC Championships last
year.

W&L is looking to repeat as conference cham-
pions this year, but Randolph-Macon will likely
provide some pretty tough competition. The Yel-
low Jackets are currently ranked second in the
conference with an overall record of 11-3 and a
6-1 ODAC record. Its sole conference loss was
to W&L on Nov. 7 (156-102).

While Gardner recognized that Randolph-Ma-
con is probably the biggest threat" to prevent W&L
from being back-to—back ODAC champions, she
also hopes her team doesn’t focus on their com-
petition. “I think [ours swimmers] are very conﬁ-
dent in that they are going to swim fast. We can’t
control Randolph-Macon. We are looking to fo-
cus on what we can control,” she said.

Just like the men, the women over the past

' week have been tapering for conferences this

weekend. . Gardner said, “Since [the Hopkins
meet], we are really looking to develop speed and
give them rest. I think that we are very healthy,
mentally and physically.”

Senior captain Jule Miata thinks that her
c0ach’s program has worked in preparing the
team for conferences. She said, “I deﬁnitely feel
the changes in my body with the lower yardage
and extra rest time that we have in practices.”

Feeling rested, Miata is conﬁdent for the con-
ference championships. “We have what it takes
to win another ODAC title,” she proclaimed.

W&L women’s swimming team leaves for
Radford Thursday afternoon.

 

C2C College To Career Fair

WHEN: Wednesday, February 25
10:00 am-4:00 pm

WHERE: Greater Richmond Convention Center

Richmond, Virginia

WHO: All W&L students

WHAT:An opportunity to talk with employers about internships and full-
time, post-graduate options
www.col|egetocareerfair.com

WHY: Why not? Explore all of your options!  

Visit the C2C web site to register, and contact Career Services if you are
interested in transportation. ,
There will be space with internet access reserved for your use throughout
the clay.

 

  

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2009

  

6 ° THE RING-TUM PHI

ports

 

tdeck

 

MoN Tues WED THURS FRI SAT SUN
at vs vs
M°"'3 Randolph. Lynchburg: BC
Basketball Macon »
7 p.m. 2 p.m.
7 p.m.
at at
womenvs Emory & Randolph-
Ba5kCtba" Henfy Macon
7 p.m. 4 p.m.
Men's 3‘
swlmmlllﬁ Bluegrass Mountain championships
Women's at
lswlmmlngi ODAC Championships
at _
Mews Lafayette/
Track Rider
4 p.m.
at
womows Lafayette/
Track Rider
4 p.m.
VS
_, at
pp: lye
wresﬂlng school McDaniel
’ 7 Mm 11 a.m.
at
Riding 39
lnvlte
at
Mews Emory &
Tennis Henry
1 p.m.
vs
w°“‘°“’5 Radford
Tennis
4 p.m.

 

The number of points scored by Lebron James in the Cavaliers’
107-102 win over the New York Knicks at Madison Square Garden

Wednesday. He also tallied 11 assists and ‘was originally credited with

10 rebounds. The NBA later decided his last rebound was mistakingly

A credited to him, causing James to lose what would have been the first

50-point triple-double since 1975.

$500,000

Center ﬁelder Andruw Jones‘ 2009 salary after he agreed to a mi-
nor league contract with the Texas Rangers organization. He made

$14,726,910 last year but hitjust .158.

box

“It’s not my decision. It’s theirs. I have nothing
to say, but if that’s they want to do, that’s their
choice. It’s something that USA Swimming came

 

up with. It’s fair. Obviously, for a mistake you

should get punished.”

Fourteen-time Olympic gold medalist Michael Phelps after USA
Swimming suspended him for three months. A photograph of Phelps
inhaling from a marijuana pipe was released last weekend. Courtesy
of espn.com.

“She said make sure that doesn't hurt me on
Valentine’s Day.”

Boston Celtics coach Doc Rivers expresses his wife’s hope that his
recent ﬂne won't affect her Valentine's Day gift. The NBA fined Rivers
$15,000 for verbaling abuslngthe referees In the Boston Celtics’
110-109 overtime loss to the Los Angeies Lakers Thursday. Courtesy
of cbssports.com.

‘‘You’ll have to talk to the union. I'm not saying
anything.”

New York Yankees third baseman Alex Rodriguez after Sports
Illustrated released a report Saturday that he had tested positive for
two anabolic steroids In 2003, the year he was named the American
League MVP. Courtesy of mIb.com.

“I love the fact that Urban had to cheat and still
didn't get him.”

Tennessee head coach Lane Klfﬂn accusing Florida head coach Urban
Meyer of a recruiting violation at a signing day breakfast celebration
Thursday. Kiffin said that Meyer called recruit Nu’Keese Richardson
during his visit to Tennessee’s campus. Richardson signed his letter
of intent Wednesday to Tennessee. The SEC later said that Meyer's
calling Richardson did not violate any SEC regulations. Courtesy of
espn.com. '

W&L goes 1-1 on weekend 1

Women is basketball falls to Lynchburg, beats Randolph

RYAN ELSEY / Staff Photographer

TOP: Sophomore center Felice Herman attempts a shot over
Randolph's Michelle Brockman in the Generals’ 55-46 vic-
tory Saturday. W&L also played Lynchburg Friday night but
lost that game, 70-73.

BOTTOM: First-year guard Meghan Ingram goes for two of
her 16 points Saturday afternoon. Ingram leads the Gener-
als this year with 15.0 points per game.

By Russ Weems
STAFF WRITER

This weekend, the Washington and Lee wom-
en’s basketball team took on two ODAC oppo-
nents, Lynchburg and Randolph, losing one and
winning the other.

Lynchburg came into its contest with W&L at
'7-12 overall with a 5-9 ODAC record. Randolph
was 3-15 and 2-13 in the ODAC before they faced
the Generals. W&L came into the weekend 10-8
with a 9-4 ODAC record.

The team opened up the weekend Friday at
Lynchburg. The Generals came out strong, con-
trolling most of the ﬁrst half. The Generals’ lead
got up to seven points at one point. However, the
Hornets rallied at the end of the half with a 6-2 run
to tie the game at 40 going into half.

Lynchburg carried their momentum into the
second half as they scored the ﬁrst 13 points of
the half. This run was carried on by a shooting
slump from the Generals. W&L missed its ﬁrst 14
shots of the half. This streak was ﬁnally broken
by a Bethany Ridenhour lay-up with 11:31 to play
that brought the score to 53-42. '

The Generals began to chip down the lead
from this point. Ten minutes later, with 1:37 left,
the Generals regained the lead at 69-68 on a free
throw by ﬁrst-year guard Meghan Ingram. The
Hornets went ahead once again with 1:12 left as
junior forward Tamara Snead sank two key free
throws. Clutch free-throw shooting by Lynchburg
sealed the game leaving the ﬁnal score at 73-70
for the Hornets. The loss snapped a ﬁve-game
winning streak for the Generals.

W&L was led by Ingram’s 20 points. First-
year forward Rebecca Bolton added 17 points and
a career-high 12 boards. Ridenhour contributed
15 points.

Saturday, the Generals took on the Randolph
WildCats. Randolph got out to an early six-point
lead over the Generals, but W&L quickly recov-
ered to tie the game at 16. Randolph ﬁnished the
half on a 10-6 run that left the Generals with a
22-26 halftime deﬁcit. -

The Generals started the second half strong,
scoring nine of the ﬁrst 11 points. This run was
capped off by an Ingram three-pointer with 16:15
left that gave W&L its ﬁrst lead of the game at 31-
28. Over the next six minutes, the game was back
and forth with four lead changes. With 10 minutes
left, the Generals started to pull away. They out-
scored the WildCats 18-10 in the last 10:51 to the
earn the win. Lockdown defense for the Generals
created this run. ‘Randolph only made four shots
in the ﬁnal 13:51 of the contest. The ﬁnal score
was 55-46 for the Generals. The victory gave
"W&L six wins in their last seven games and a 10-
5 ODAC record.

The Generals were against paced by Ingram
with 16 points, ﬁve rebounds and four steals.
Ridenhour matched Ingram’s 16 points and also
had seven rebounds. Senior forward Kara Nadeau
had a well-rounded game with six points, seven
rebounds, four steals and three assists.

W&L’s defense was a big part of the win. The
Generals scored 24 of their 55 points off of 30
Randolph turnovers. The Generals also held the
WildCats to 40.0 percent shooting including 30.0
percent from beyond the arc.

The team returns to action on Tuesday as it
travels to Emory & Hemy for a 7:00 pm. con-
test.

 

Generals await championships

Men is and women is swimming teams prepare for conferences

By Will Dorrance
SPORTS EDITOR

Both the Washington and Lee men’s
and women’s swimming teams will
compete in their respective conference
meets later this week. The men are set
to race in Charlotte, N.C., for the Blue-
grass Mountain Championships this
Wednesday through Saturday while the
Lady Generals will swim in the ODAC
Championships this Friday, Saturday and
Sunday in Radford, Va.

Both teams’ last meet was on Satur-
day, Jan. 31 at Johns Hopkins. The men
lost 119-143, and the women also fell to
the Blue Jays, 97-156.

Since then, they have been conserving
their energy in preparation for what will
be, for most swimmers, their last meet of
the year. Those top few that qualify for
nationals will swim at the NCAA Cham-
pionships March 18-21 at the University
of Minnesota.

On the men’s side, the Generals sit
at 9-2 on the year with their only losses
coming to Wingate and Johns Hopkins.
According to collegeswimming.com’s
national rankings, Hopkins is the ﬁfth

best men’s team in Division III while
Wingate is ranked 14th in Division II.
The website put W&L at 13th on its Di-
vision III rankings.

Head coach Joel Shinoﬁeld, who is in
his sixth season at W&L, seemed to be
pleased with his team’s performance in
the regular season. “I think [the season’s]
gone really well considering the number

history. Sweet ﬁnished ﬁrst in the 50 free
at nationals, broke the Division-III record
for that event, and swam in the Olympic
Qualiﬁers this summer. McGlaston was
also a ﬁrst-team All-American and ﬁn-
ished seventh in the 50 free.

Last year, the Generals went 9-2, ﬁn-
ished second at conferences and eighth at
nationals. The only team to ﬁnish ahead

“I think they are prepared, but I think that if you care

about something, you ’re going to be nervous. So I think

[our swimmers] have that nervous energy about them,
but I deﬁnitely believe they can do it. ”

Joel Shinofieid, head coach

we graduated last year and having to rely
on a number of freshmen this year.”

The W&L men’s swimming program
lost eight swimmers to graduation last
year. Alex Sweet and Tim McGlaston,
both members of the Class of 2008, were
two of the better swimmers in the team’s

of them at the 2008 Bluegrass Moun-
tain Championships was Wingate, who
earned 821 points as compared to W&L’s
638.

Senior captain Chris Diebold com-

A See “Swimming conferences" on page 5

 

 

Arch

'*7s.v;§
pail
v. tI2_
m0 J:

co?»

  

The men's

  CouIdn’t beat the odds

basketball team loses in
V ODAC finals.

A SPORTS / page 8

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

E RING-TUM PHI.

MONDAY, MARCH 2, 2009

BY THE

STUDENTS AND

FOR THE STUDENTS SINCE

1897

VOLUME CXII, NUMBER 15

clai

cs team  

5 Victory

W&L web site

W&L team beats Shenandoah College in the
Ethics Bowl, becoming the ﬁrst host team to win

W&L team members, center, hold the Ethics Bowl trophy. From left: Roger Mudd, a 1950
graduate of W&L and former journalist for CBS; Alex Weber, ‘O9; Alisha Laventure, ‘O9; Me-
lissa Caron, ‘09; Alexandra Scaggs, ‘09; Juan Austin, representing event sponsor Wachovla.

By Valaree Tang
STAFF WRITER

With the argument that it is permissible
to use deceit as a last resort in obtaining
information that is in the public interest,
Washington and Lee University’s ethics
competition team won the 10th annual
Ethics Bowl. They were the ﬁfth W&L
team to do so.

The topic of the ethics bowlpthis year

was “Ethics and Journalism.” On the com- .

petition team were seniors Alex Weber,
Alisha Laventure, Melissa Caron and Alex-
andra Scaggs. Weber is majoring in politics
and physics while Laventure, Caron and
Scaggs are journalism majors.

A second exibition team competed
throughout the tournament, including

The ﬁnalists debated a case on whether it
would be ethical for an editor to publish an
article in which a reporter posed as a morti-
cian to investigate a military case in which
deaths, which were due to friendly ﬁre,
were being called “training accidents.”

The teams each took a side of the argu-
ment, with W&L representatives support-
ing the actions of the reporter and Shenan-
doah College representatives opposing the
reporter’s actions.

W&L team members argued that the
editor’s actions would be justiﬁed by a
“journalistic responsibility to truth in dem-
ocratic society...as a watchdog and check
on governmental abusive powers,” said
Weber who made the opening statement.

The team argued their way to victory

.“T he journalism majors were able to use material from

their...ethics classes to great eﬂect in giving responses. ”

James Mahon, philosophy professor

sophmore Beth Valentine, senior Robin
Zheng, sophmore Granvil George and se-
nior Gayle Hubbard.

The competition was held in W&L’s
Stackhouse Theater on Feb. 9. President
Ken Ruscio, Provost June Aprille and fac-
ulty members from the Philosophy and
Journalism departments attended the de-
bate.

This was a rare opportunity for mem-
bers of the university since the competition
team typically attends competitions off-
campus. The W&L victory over Shenando-
ah College made W&L the ﬁrst host school
to win the championship.

“Winning the competition outright was
very special for us this year, because for the
ﬁrst time in its 10-year history, the Ethics
Bowl was held on the W&L campus,” said
James Mahon, a philosophy professor who
has been the debate team advisor for six
years. “The ﬁnal debate in Stackhouse was
even more exciting foreveryone to watch,
because the home team was in the ﬁnal.”

The event spanned two days and fea-
tured representatives from 15 private col-
leges and universities in Virginia. Teams
were split up into two divisions in which
the winners from each division would com-
pete for the championship.

with Caron proving that the deception was
used as a desperate remedy in disclosing
information. Laventure argued that ob-
taining accurate information sometimes
necessitates deciept. Scaggs explored the
concept of transparency, arguing the pub-
lisher shouldexplain how the information
was obtained. Weber, who made the open-
ing statement, focused on how democratic
principles applied to the case.

“The Journalism majors were able to
use material from their journalism ethics
classes to great effect in giving responses
to the questions," said lvlahon.

The W&L debate team has won ﬁve of
the ten competitions held. Assistant advisor
professor Paul Gregory attributed the on-
going victories to the pool of academically
gifted students at W&L, but believes that
this team possessed special qualities that
warranted the triumph over Shenandoah
College. “I "think that this year, we just
had the right combinatiorr of knowledge,
speaking ability, and chemistry among the
students,” said Gregory.

“The victory itself was historic,” Weber
said. “This win adds another history-1nak-
ing accomplishment to the rich history of
W&L’s successes.”

TV’s Bob Schieffer

CBS correspondent says Obama used TV

and rallies to great eﬂect in campaign

H By Allison Chopin
MANAGING EDITOR

ii The 2008 presidential campaign

was a turning point in America’s his- .

tory, Bob Schieffer of CBS told stu-
dents on Monday. A

“There were moments during the
campaign that made you really proud
to be an American,” Shieffer said in
his talk in the Stackhouseffheater.

Schieffer is the chief Washington

‘ correspondent for CBS, and he cur-
rently hosts “Face the Nation,” a po-
litical program that airs on Sunday. In
his own words, he has been a “reporter
for 52 years.” He is the winner of sev-
en Emmy Awards. ‘ '

He spoke as a guestlecturer for the
journalism class entitled “Can Televi-
sion News Be Saved?” The class is
taught by Tom Mattesky, a visiting
professor and veteran of CBS News. ,

Shieﬂer told his audience that the
tactics of last year’s campaign were
like nothing he had seen in a long time.
While other recent campaigns were
waged through the medium of televi-
sion, focusing on debates and ads, this
one brought back something from the
distant past in theform of large public
events and rallies.

“For the ﬁrst time in 'a long time,
we saw crowds,” Schieffer said. “I
think crowds do count, and as we saw
in this election, they count a lot.”

. He said that the most successful
politicians and presidents are those

who know how to dominate the medi-
um of their time. Hecited examples of
Franklin Roosevelt’s use of radio and
John F. Kennedy’s mastery of televi-
sion with his live press conferences.
Effective presidents must know how
to reach and “charm” the public.

But this campaign moved beyond
the boundaries of these traditional me-
dia outlets by making use of rallies,

moving public speeches, the Internet

andgother more specialized media.
Schieffer emphasized that it was

not the media that won the election. J

Barack Obama’s success was that he
was able to charm his audience and
catch the “mood of the country,” he
said. ‘

“This election was not about the
media,” he said: “It was about change
in America. We were there just to
write it down.”

The campaign also focused on the
issues. “The ﬁrst thing that this elec-
tion proved is that people are interest-
ed in politics,” said Schieffer.

The success of Obama’s campaign
may haverelied on his ability to boost
the morale of the nation rather than his
reliance on mass media, but Schief-
fer does not discount the importance
of journalism for America’s political
success.

“You cannot have a democracy
without a free press,” he-said.

  Tuition goes up

With 4 percent hike, tuition will be over $3 7,000

By Queenie Wong
STAFF WRITER

While some students will beneﬁt
from Washington and Lee’s enhanced
ﬁnancial aid program next fall, others
might have to dig a little deeper into
their wallets to pay for the university’s
rising tuition, room and board rates.

Last week the university announced
a unanimous decision by the Board of
Trustees to raise undergraduate tuition
by about 4 percent, the lowest annual
increase in a decade, University Trea-
surer Steven McAllister said. The in-
crease brings the tuition to $37,990 for
the upcomingtacademic school year.
Room and board rates will increase 5
percent and'4 percent respectively.

The university will also expand
its ﬁnancial aid budget by about
$3.2 million, McAllister said. Added
onto the $31.3 million budget is a
$974,000 contingency fund to help
families whose ﬁnancial situations
have changed because of the global
ﬁnancial crisis. I

McAllister said that he hopes that
the new fund will be sufﬁcient enough
to address the anticipated increase in
ﬁnancial need brought on by the eco-
nomic recession and the current tu-
ition hike.

“The students who are here are
going to be effectively held harmless
relative to their change in need,” he
said. ’

But many students — including the
948 undergraduates who do not cur-

rently receive any aid from the univer-
sity — could still be hit by an additional
$1,465 next year.

“I guess it is going to be a relief, es-
pecially for my parents, not to have to
pay that tuition on top of other things
ﬁnancially,” said senior Sarah Ratzel.
She said she receives no ﬁnancial aid
from the school.

“I think [my parents will]
be kind of upset about it...
but the economy is so bad
that it is kind of expected
for it to go up. ”

Ellzabeth Starnes, first-year
 

About 801 students, less than half
of the enrolled undergraduate popula-
tion, currently receive some form of
ﬁnancial aid, according to the univer-
sity’s Common Data Set (CDS). The
CDS provides a standard format for.
supplying data to the higher educatf on
community for various surveys.

“It will deﬁnitely affect my parents.
I think they’ll be kind of upset about
it and I’m sure they’ll complain about
it a lot, but the economy is so bad that
it’s kind of expected for it to go up,”
said ﬁrst-year Elizabeth Stames.

Other students said they weren’t as
concerned about the increase.

“My parents are paying for my col-
lege [education] so it’s not really an
issue,” said freshman Reed Ehrhardt.
“This is an expensive school anyway.
What’s four more percent?”

The rising cost oftuition, room and
board is the university’s latest move
after trimming its annual non-person-
nel operating budget by roughly 4
percent to respond to its shrinking en-
dowment. The operating budget does

' not include salaries and beneﬁts.

Academic departments will have
to cut costs in discretionary spending.
This includes cuts in travel, entertain-
ment, printing and publication, library
acquisitions, postage and subscrip-
tions, McAllister said.

University President Kenneth Rus-
cio, in an e-mail distributed to faculty
and staff earlier this month, said that
the school is ready to deal with the
harsh economic conditions and the ef-
fect on its undergraduates.

“I am conﬁdent that all of us who
ﬁnd ourselves fortunate to be in an
institution that will fare better than
most during these times, stand ready
to provide the moral and emotional
support that some of our students may
need because of changes in their own
personal situations,” he said.

  
 

U.‘.""""‘A.,“-.lW LIBRARY

 

TC'.‘.l Pi LEE UNlVERSlTY

 '—.M£Ri‘l,(yA5242ﬁeB I

 

2 - THE RING-TUM PHI

MONDAY, MARCH 2, 2009

pinions

 

True beauty: only body parts deep?

In the age of Victoria is Secret and SI swimsuit babes, beauty is (sadly) all about parts

By Alelsha Butler
C 0 L U M N I ST

Let’s set a scene:
You ’re 14 years old and big
for your age. There have been
commercials for the Victorias
Secret Fashion Show on T V for
a few weeks now and you really
want to see it, but your mother
tells you that you can ’t watch it
without her there. “Why not?”
you think to yourself as the ﬁrst
of the ‘ glittering, luminescent
goddesses glides into view on
the runway. You ’ve been think-
ing a lot about your own rela-
tively ﬂat chest lately, but seeing
those lofty, slim, incandescent
women on the stage gives you
hope: your boobs will deﬁnitely
look like that someday, you just
need a little time.
Flash forward six years and
you ’re surrounded by a group of
guys salivating over the latest is-
sue of Sports Illustrated.‘ Swim-
suit Edition. You ’re no longer
big for your age but you ’re not
small either. A little wiser than
you were at 14, you look at the
pictures in the magazine and
have to ﬁght back a few tiny,
persistent little “I wishes... ”

and “tfonlys... ” Ifonly I went
to the gym more often, if only I
cut out sweets. I wish my boobs
/ butt/ waist/ arms / thighs / face
were bigger / smaller / trimmer
/ ﬁrmer / smoother / better. You
shake your head, sigh and keep
turning the pages...

German designer Woolfgang
Joop recently said that Heidi
Klum is “simply too heavy” to
be a runway model and that her
big smile is “commercial” and
not at all “avant-garde.” Heidi
Klum is 5’9.5” tall and weighs
roughly 130 pounds, give or take
a few, and she is in no way the
skinniest model on the runways.
Keeping those stats in mind,
now think about the fact that
the average American woman is
5’5” and weighs 150 pounds.

Our culture’s preoccupation
with size and weight leads to a
narrow, constricted deﬁnition of
beauty and creates an unattain-
able ideal for the girls and wom-
en whose lives are saturated with
images of airbrushed angels and
photoshopped fembots.

Just the other day one of my
housemates eloquently dubbed
the present body ideal as “tits-

on-a-stick.” The saddest part
about this cultural phenomenon
is that the advertising industry
plays upon people’s desire for
“perfection” by making it seem
as if anyone can achieve these
unrealistic looks and body types
if they just work hard enough,
buy the right products and take
the right pills.

The Dove Real Beauty Cam-
paign recently completed a mas-
sive national study analyzing
women’s relationships with the
word “beauty” and their percep-
tions of themselves. Surprising-
ly, the results of their research
revealed that while 90% of
American women feel that their
looks are average or above, only

Rather than starving ourselves and dying at

the gym in the hopes of being the hottest girl

at the party...we need to start broadening our

deﬁnition of beautiful.

The unreachable goal of
physical perfection leads to frus-
tration, competition and lowered
self esteem, and women break
themselves down into parts,
wishing for different legs, arms,
boobs, butt or thighs. Women
admit that pieces of themselves
are attractive, but you hardly
ever hear someone refer to her-
self as “beautiful” and really
mean it.

18% were willing to rate their
beauty as above average.

The aversion to the word
“beauty” seems to come from
several different sources, how-
ever. I surveyed a group of
guys about what the word
beautiful means to them, and I
was surprised that they did not
have immediate answers. They
skirted around actually calling
something beautiful; instead

‘An EC (anti) endorsement

Geiger is troubled by Richard Saum is EC candidacy

By Jacob Gelger
COLU M N I ST

In my four years“‘vvith’ the ‘

Phi, I’ve shied away from mak-
ing endorsements during Execu-
tive Committee elections-

For one thing, I don’t always
know all the candidates. For an-
other, I think the community re-
lies on us more for strong cover-
age of student government than
for endorsements.

But this year, there’s once
EC campaign that deserves our
attention.

I’m doing this for one sim-
ple reason: a student who was
forced off the EC in an unprec-
edented action is now running
again for office.

Richard Saum was elected
last spring as one of two sopho-
more representatives. But ear-
lier this winter, he was uncere-
moniously forced out of his post
when the other members of the
committee voted to ask him to
resign.

At the time, EC President

 

leave him well-placed to run
for president a year from now.
Saum is being challenged by
Bill Larson, a 2008 undergradu-
ate alumnus who is now a ﬁrst-
year law student.

Saum was accused of vio-
lating the White Book’s con-
ﬁdentiality rules. For those of
you unfamiliar with the White
Book, it essentially serves as the
constitution for W&L’s student
government, especially the EC.

“All information about an
Honor Violation or an Execu-
tive Committee hearing is high-
ly conﬁdential,” the White Book
says on page four.

The section on conﬁdentiali-
ty goes on to say that the EC can
take action against any student,
student witness, honor advocate
or EC member who violates the
rules.

Smaller violations by EC
members can be punished by a
temporary suspension from the
committee. Lesser punishments
were available, but Saum’s

campus deserves a leadership
role on the EC.

Saum, said that he learned a
lesson from his mistakes this
year, but I ﬁnd it diﬁicult to
believe if he’s only willing to
spend six weeks on the sidelines
before running for an EC lead-
ership position.

I spoke with an EC member
about Saum’s case. (Because
EC members are reluctant to
speak publicly about‘ each oth-
er, and because the investiga-
tion into Saum is covered by the
same conﬁdentiality standards
he was accused of violating, the
person was granted anonymity
in order to speak freely.)

“I ﬁnd it somewhat disturb-
ing that someone who had been
asked to leave by the EC would
run again for a leadership posi-
tion,” the source said.

I wholeheartedly agree.
Saum was willing to act contrite
and apologetic, but his cam-
paign signs have made no ref-
erence to his dismissal or to his

When asked about Saum’s

they mentioned qualities such
as attractiveness and hotness
as attributes that cause them
to take notice. One young man
even said that for him, beauty is
not really a term that applies to
people, but instead more to “art,
or something.” Another guy
said that the closer you get to

someone and the more involved »

you become, the more willing
or able you are to see them as
beautiful.

To me, this statement implies
a link between beauty and emo-
tion; as if, by admitting that you
ﬁnd someone truly beautiful you
admit a sentimental attachment
as well. .. and Heaven knows we
can’t admit weakness or attach-
ment to anyone.

I propose that here at Wash-
ington and Lee, where competi-
tion is the not-so-secret password
for success, we begin to redeﬁne
beauty. Rather than starving
ourselves and dying at the gym
in the hopes of being the hottest
girl at the party, instead of toss-
ing all of our segmented body
parts onto the mercy of the 1-10
scale, we need to start broaden-
ing our deﬁnition of beautiful.

We need to rebel against the
porcelain skeletoniprototype the
media tells us is best. I’m not
saying that Victoria’s Secret and
Sports Illustrated models aren’t
sexy (because they deﬁnitely are,
they’re the most adored models
in the world because they have
curves); I’m saying that they are
just one version of sexy.

There are so many other
types of beauty to be had in the
world. Isn’t it hot just to be alive
and vibrant and full of possibil-
ity and talent? Isn’t it beautiful
to feel your strong, healthy body
boogying across a dance ﬂoor?

We need to begin thinking
of beauty as multifaceted but
at the same time as a cohesive
whole. True beauty is emotion-
ally engaging, and maybe if men
and women saw one another as
beautiful, whole people instead
of as a hodgepodge of parts we
would be able to respect each
other a little more.

After all, that mythic, lami-
nated, 2D woman on a magazine
page is about as warm and com-
pelling as a sculpture behind
glass.

resignation, the source was un-

able, to reveal exac_tly,__w_hat the ,

charge was but did say the mat-
ter was extremely serious.

“As far as I know he’s the
ﬁrst person to ever be asked to
resign,” the EC source said. “So
you can extrapolate that what he
did was pretty egregious.”

I’m usually a fan of second
chances in life. But the honor
system doesn’t believe in sec-
ond chances. At W&L, it’s one
strike and you’re out — gone for
good.

If the honor system — and
the EC — hold students to a
one-strike policy, then the same
policy should apply to its mem-
bers.

Once you’ve lost your spot
on the committee, there should
be no going back.

Editors note.’ As with all
opinions articles, this article re-
ﬂects only the writer is opinions.
The Ring-tum Phi does not of-

Psychology in the Workplace -
Alumni-in-Residence Series
Open to ALL students

March 5: Ben Grigsby ’72

Over 30 years of experience in investment banking and
international capital marketsgcurrently principal of
Rockbridge Advisors, an advisory and consulting practice

March 12: Bernard Lewis ’74

Licensed clinical psychologist, specializing in forensic

psychology

March 19: Elizabeth Spencer ’99

Director of Hospital Services & Professional Education with
the Washington Regional Transplant Community

March 24: Dan Birdwhistell ’01

Founder and CEO of Bigsight Media Group, specializing in
creativity theory and human development

March 31: Michael Burns ’77

Director of the Intuitive Collaboration Department in Bell
Labs, inventing and developing web-based applications and

software tools

Individual Meetings: 10-12
Lunch: 12:15-1:15
Call 540-458-8595 for Reservations

‘WA 5 ll 1 N C} TC! N‘ A N I) E... F2  1.3 N l V  R S I TY

CAR,EiER@sSERVliCES

   

 

Richard Cleary Said he could conduct was apparently serious misconduct. ﬁcially endorse or oppose any ' .
. . enough to merit his total remov- If he insists on running, he candidate for EC, SJC or class P  B°““” Lcaderi Presldmt °_f Ch‘ 9
110i thlnk Of another _instance _ _  1  Omega, 2008; Shepherd Alliance ‘
. . . , al from ofﬁce. owes the students — who Wlll officer elections.
like this one in the school- s re- , , , , . Intern; was a member of the
Cent history. Frankly, I don t think a per- decide whether he s elected - a 1n Mock Trial team for two years
NOW Saum,S running for  who lhas xgiolited conﬁfdflrlr mgr: hco(p1(plete explznljitionl of L d h o .
Secretary’ a position that would ia ity ru es‘ a ou some 0 e w a e 1. wrong-an ow e s ea e1"S 1P _
most sensitive matters on our changed his behavior.
Kelbr Bun dy
V What energizes you about
I I taking on the responsibilities
ed   au ’ of campus leadership?
' “Possibility! The possibility to make
good things even greater, the possi— I‘
 e S a . bility of making positive changes,
‘y 0 and the possibility of growing and
~ V I becoming a different person than I was yesterday all inspire me. I
We don’t want to be con» wish them all luck. EC President W SJC Chairman think everyone has a desire to find their niche and to set them-

dgscendjng" No one at W&L Your candidates for EC Of. selves apart here, and taking on one of the many leadership roles at

is so stupid they have to be ﬁcers are listed to the right. James Dick Crighton Allen 7 W&L Offers 3 W3)’ to ‘*0 Just that _

told about the virtues ‘of vot- or course, we would be Eric Hoffman What has beer} one of tile“ mést rewarding as-

ing.i . amiss not to remind you the Kenneth Hopkins S.ICSecretar_v .- Peas Bf 1eade‘”5h1P at W&L- Seelflg the gTea'‘1mP*{°'‘lhat

’ So we won’t belabor the SJC are also holding elections Denis O’Leary 1:ad’3IrSh1P 3ttV:’h&L Can have 0“ tt1}1]€tC°mm“t“1t{}v*‘}11‘Ca‘: h3PP1(1i>’:a>’ .
point. Instead, we’ll just" for their next year’s oﬂicers. John Twomey Caitlin Cottingham  y::,sn:g0 :5 S:nf:_::::nn mid C1ar}::;eOtru1:zS1:;:1%n:Idavx:hate£
say that we’re pretty excited Your candidates for SJC oi‘ﬁ- Matt Hutton ’ . ,,
‘ - . 1 . means to serve—as a volunteer, as a leader, and as a sister.

about having the most packed cers are also tothe right. I EC Vice President ‘ Any Words of advice for those who follow? «Learn

and Varied ﬁeld of candldates Congratulations to Cngh' to say no and to respect your own boundaries! When you love the

for the EC Ofﬁcefshipﬁ in re‘  (Weill go ahead and can Scott Cemorlno work that you do, it becomes so hard to say no, and Consequently,

cent memory. S , that race), and best of luck to Grant Russell you end up biting off more than you can chew. just because you

It seems like a lot of our all the candidates. can’t do everything all of the time doesn’t mean that you’re any less I

best and brightest are down- W&L, we’ll see you at the‘ EC Secretary of a person!” V

right enthusiastic. about hav- polls! I - p 4, Tuesdavs with Leadership“

mg the most precious respon- Lindsay Grant 1

sibilities at W&L. Bill Laurson Servant Lea dershl p

That’s awesome, and we Richard Saum l 2:1 5 and 6:30 PM, Room 2.14 Elrod Commons
' Explore Robert Greenleafs theory of serving first and the
ten characteristics that best contribute to effective service. .\
I

 

MONDAY, MARCH 2, 2009

THE RING-TUM PHI 0

3

 

opinions

Pop the frat bubble

If your only male friends are in your house, that is sad

By Di_andra Spicak
c 0 L U M N I s T

Let’s talk Greek. More spe-
ciﬁcally, let’s talk student rela-
tions.

We all know of (and most of
us accept) the strong Greek sys-
tem at Washington and Lee. As
a new member myself, I know
I’m contributing to the huge
Greek population. Yet, even as
a recent addition to a sorority, I
still have kept my eyes open as
to what “pledging” has done to
my freshman class.

No, I’m not complaining
about pledgeship, and no, I’m
not complaining about fratemi-
ties and sororities.

But by keeping my eyes open,
I have noticed now (with pledg-
ing reaching the home stretch)
that the freshmen boys have be-
gun to hang out in groups based
on their frats. What is most
startling is the demolishment of
friendships created before join-
ing a certain Greek organization
— or, what I like to call “the frat
bubble.”

.Essentially, the frat bubble
is the lack of inter-fraternity

relations. It seems that because
of the large number of frats on
campus (along with a mix of
smaller pledge classes per frat,
pledging, and the like), the op-
tion to befriend others in dif-
ferent Greek organizations gets
overlooked.

And, it’s not so much as
befriending others in different

these rivalries? Is it because cer-
tain frats rush the same guys and
thus, feel embittered if a certain
individual pledges differently
than expected?

The biggest problem, it
seems, is the large number of
frats — perhaps W&L would
function better with a smaller
number of frats.

What fuels these [frat] rivalries?...T he big-

gest problem, it seems, is the large number
of frats — perhaps. W&L would function better

with a smaller number of frats.

 

frats as it is maintaining friend-
ships from different frats. Varied
discussions with others have led
to conclusions that by joining
a frat, a male tends to reinvent
himself ~ or become so attached
to the frat that he does not tear
himself away from his brothers.

Also, one must factor in the
bitterness some frats bear to-
wards other frats. What ﬁiels

MANAGING EDITOR
NEWS EDITOR

A _ OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS) & LIFE mm‘

SPORTS EDITORL

CONTRIBUTING WRITERS

DESIGN EDITOR
STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER
BUSINESS MANAGER
DISTRIBUTION MNGR.

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY .

THE RING-’I‘UM PHI.

and alumni. Our goal is to

Through our reporting,

MISSION STATEMENT: it is the misston of THE
RING-TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community for students, faculty, parents

affecting campus life and hold leaders accountable.

discussions that lead to discovering information
that prompts change.

THE RING-TUM PHI IS PUBLISHED MONDAYS DURING
THE UNDERGRADUATE SCHOOL YEAR. THE RING-
TUM PHI IS A MEMBER OF THE MEDIA BOARD,
BUT IS OTHERWISE INDEPENDENT. QUESTIONS OR
CONCERNS ABOUT THE PHI SHOULD BE ADDRESSED
TO THE EDITORS AT PHI@WLU.EDU OR TO THE

MEDIA BOARD AT MEDIABOARD@WLU.EDU.
MEDIA BOARD IS AN INDEPENDENT, STUDENT-
RUN EDITORIAL OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE WORKING
WITH ALL MEDIA OUTLETS ON THE WASHINGTON
8: LEE CAMPUS. ALL INQUIRIES WILL REMAIN
CONFIDENTIAL. THE RING-TUM PHI WELCOMES
ALL LETTERS. WE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO EDIT
SUBMISSIONS FOR CONTENT AND LENGTH. LETTERS
AND ADVERTISING DO NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT
THE OPINION OF THE RING-TUM PHI STAFF.
THIS NEWSPAPER OBSERVES CURRENT COURT
DEFINITIONS OF LIBEL AND OBSCENITY.

V THE RING—TUM PHI
 UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
_ FAX: (540) 458~4059
EMAIL: PHI@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

ALLISON OHOPIN
JOHN HENDERSON
convaasucunmr
CELESTE I”
CRUZ-GARANDANG
WILLDORRANCE

ALEISHA BUTLER
JEAN CHAPMAN
KEVIN CORN
MEGAN DAILY
ABEL DELGADO
NEVILLE FDGARTY
JACOB GEIGER
KATIE HATFIELD
HANK NATHAN
DIANDRA SPICAK
BROOKE SUTHERLAND
VALAREE TANG
QUEENIE WONG
RUSS WEEMS

LARA JORDAN
MORGAN HARRIS
STROCK-MOORE
ROB GEORGE

look deeper into news

we aspire to spark

THE L

In so far as what I’ve wit-
nessed as a srat new member,
the relations between different
sororities are pretty strong — and
deﬁnitely friendlier than that
between different frats. Could
this be attributed to the rotat-
ing dinners at different houses?
Or can this be attributed to the
small number of srats on cam-
pus? I have no idea — remember,

I’m still a new member. What I
glean of srat-relations could be
all wrong.

But it does seem easier for

different sororities to get along

better with their counterparts.

Activities that push fraterni-
ties to interact with other frats
may strengthen the bonds be-
tween each organization, and
push inter-frat relations in the
direction of popping the frat
bubble. I’m not asking for there
to be a decrease In the number
of frats, nor am I asking that
pledgeship be thrown out.

Instead, why not try stepping
out of the comfort zone?

Pop the frat bubble, I dare
you.

Rise above petty rivalries and
bitter sentiments ~ brotherhood
does not have to be conﬁned
just to your fraternity. Hang
out outside of parties, establish
bonds of friendship that do not
have certain Greek letters bound
to them, continue friendships
started before pledging and ini-
tiation.

Greek life is huge here, but
don’t let Greek life dictate life.

32/Ida; 4 Razatm
PEDAL CAR 'l)1ni:_R & TIN Tor Cart.

Order I‘rom our complete menu
Or Join usjlor one afoot .<t.I;I, FOL” (RN EA T Buffets.’

Friday Night Seafood Blzitetwiiiz Crab Legs 5pm-éiiipm
Saturday Night Prime Rib Dinner 5;>m~l0pm
Sunday Baked Chicken, Pork Loin, & Pot Roast Iiamepm
Friday 8: Saturday Late Night Ereakfasi Bar iiipmﬂam
Bteakfasi Bar Iv’ Bays 3 Week Sam-I lam
iiiaily Hot Country Bar iiazniopm
Daily Soup, Salad, & Fruit Bar i‘iam—i0pm

(ﬁnder BreaI<_f2ist 24 .I‘I{_ii.1.I‘S 3 day, 7 days a w::el<!

Hattie Crzoiied Meats & Soriiizern Ifrispiiality.-’
Located at
III II RIIII MO

I-31 & I-64. Exit‘ 195, 2526 North I..eeIiwy., l,exingi<in, VA

54Il~«463~3478

évreat food & a great coiizction of
Antique Pedal Cars 6: Tie Toys?

  

FREE BOOK

“Freedom”
by Patrick Henry

at juanjustice.com

' Good Read

  

' THE RED HEN
invites you to enjoy M

 TWILIGHT DINIl\IG 

l;'Monday through Thursday evenings until 6:30 pm.
enjoy three courses of inspired Shenandoah cuisine for $35
reservations strongly recommended

11 E. Washington Street Lexington 540-464-4401
www.redhenlex.com
OPEN Mon. - F?‘I.f0?‘ lunch 6* dinner Saturday dinner 8 Sunday brunch

 

Mr. N o-Responsibility

goes to Washington

Abel Delgado decries Obama ’s
first joint congressional address

By Abel Delgado
c 0 L u M N I s T

Inyhis ﬁrst address to a joint session of Congress, President
Obama once again showed his mastery of the teleprompter, his
disregardxfor the importance of details, and his impressive abil-
ity to minimize obvious contradictions between his rhetoric and
reality.

Apparently the “Era of Responsibility” involves Americans
expanding the government’s list of responsibilities, and hoping
government ofﬁcials fulﬁll those responsibilities despite all the
evidence pointing to them doing the contrary.

In an effort not to sound as gloomy as he and his adminis-
tration has been accused of sounding the past few weeks, the
President went from pointedly describing a dreadful present,
with the word “crisis” mentioned in the third sentence and
constant mentions of the words “deﬁcit” and “recession,” to
promising a rosy future with clean energy, the world’s highest
graduation rate, and even a cure for cancer. How can anyone
argue with that?

Of course, I would absolutely love a car that doesn’t runion
a gas, for my brother to get a free college education, and not
tojhave_ to worry about anyone in my family suffering from
cancer.

I would also love to know how exactly this is all going to

happen and who exactly will pay for it?
The sad truth isthese wonderful promises will probably not

I ’m usually not the one to be pessimis-
tic in the face of Americans dreaming...
But how on earth can we call ourselves
responsible when we are dreaming at the

cost of generatiosn to come?
 

be kept but our generation, and our children’s generation will
be saddled with the costs of government expansion.

I’m usually not the one to be pessimistic in the face Ameri-
cans dreaming of achieving great feats. But how on earth can
we call ourselves responsible when we are dreaming at the cost
of generations to come?

“The cost of inaction” is far greater, the President says.

That is true as long as we are acting correctly. But if our
choice is between inaction and acting incorrectly, then inaction
would be much cheaper.

If we did such simple things as have Congressmen read over
gargantuan spending bills before voting for them, and posting
the bills online before they come up for vote, an idea origi-
nally advocated but subsequently ignored by our transparent
leaders, I’d be much more inclined to believe we were going
to act correctly instead of just throwing money we don’t have
at problems we need more speciﬁc solutions for. I still don’t
know what the speciﬁcs of Obama’s solutions are after sitting
through over ﬁfty minutes of applause lines.

It’s not that I refuse to trust our President. It’s that I cannot
bring myself to take his calls for responsibility seriously. Not
when his mortgage bailout would punish the responsible 92%
of homeowners, many of whom are indeed struggling, for pay-
ing their mortgages on time and reward those who moved into
homes they couldn’t afford.

Not when he talks about the responsibility we have to place
a “market-based cap on carbon pollution,” and doesn’t even
mention nuclear energy, the most realistic non-carbon produc-
ing energy source we have.

Not when he surrounds himself with people who fail to act
responsibly in their personal ﬁnancial matters and fail to see
how their grim public comments make the stock market nose
dive on a regular basis. ‘

Presidents Obama’s speech is being praised as the most ex-
pansive agenda in decades. Funny how not even his most ardent
supporters are calling it the most responsible.

 

Write for
the Phi.

Photographers, designers
and copy editors also needed.
Contact phi@wlu.edu

5r"ts&Iife S
Bands battle it out

Studentbands perform in annual “Battle  on Saturday; Lalai Damas win

MONDAY, MARCH 2, 2009

KEVIN REMINGTON / for W&L
TOP: Robert Wason, Michael Morella and Will Stewart are three members of Rikki Tikki Tavi, the folk rock band that placed second in this year’s .
Battle of the Bands on Saturday night in Doremus Gym. The Lalai Damas won first place for the second year in a row, and The Velva Bar Lights placed
third.

B01TOM: CJ Boyd and Will Stewart of Agent Flynn face off.

MORGAN HARRIS / Staff Photographer

 

 

MONDAY, MARCH 2,2009

THE RING-TUM PHI ° 5

 

arts&|ife

Oil, mindbugs and books

Third SSA research conference hits diverse topics

By Katle Hatﬂeld
surr wansn

Washington and Lee hosted
the “Science, Society and the
Arts” conference on Friday.

This is the third year that
W&L has hosted the undergradu-
ate and law student-based re-
search conference, and this year
proved to be just as successful as
it has been in the past.

Those participating in the
conference gave panel presenta-
tions of their own research papers
covering a wide variety of top-
ics, conducted poster sessions,
gathered among faculty for book
discussions, showed art and gave
demonstrations of theater, dance
and music.

All undergraduate classes
were suspended in order to both
boost attendance and encourage
students to present. Though all
students were able to present,
many juniors and seniors in
particular took the opportunity
to present their theses.

“I thought it was a great op-
portunity for students to interact
with each other academically
outside of the classroom,” said
Mathew O’Sullivan.,

O’Sullivan, who presented on
China and the European Union’s
manipulation of oil pipelines to
gain geopolitical power in their

respective regions, was just
one of many student presenters
during the conference that took
place in Various locations across
campus.

As an added treat to the con-
ference, students and faculty
were invited to dine in Evans
Dining Hall and hear the keynote
address. This year’s keynote
speaker was Dr. Brian Nosek,

Nosek is also the co-founder
and director of Project Implicit,
a virtual lab for research in social
and behavioral science and more
speciﬁcally for implicit social
cognition.

To those who wanted to be
involved without presenting
an original research or creative
work, there was also the oppor-
tunity to be involved in a book

“I thought it was a great opportunity for

students to interact with each other aca-

demically outside of the classroom. ’

Matthew 0’Sullivan, presenter

I

an associate professor of psy-
chology at the University of
Virginia.

Dr. Nosek, who received his
Ph.D in Psychology from Yale
University, spoke on the topic of
“mindbugs,” or the ways people
ﬁlter their perceptions of stimuli
in their environment to develop
biases, whether consciously or
subconsciously.

Among other things, Dr.

colloquium reading. Like a book
club of sorts, members of the
W&L community were invited to
read one of twenty—seven books
and then participate in a round
table discussion

The book selections were
diverse in topics. Some of the
selections that were included
were “The Way of the Cham-
pion” which discussed tips and
goals for athletes by sports psy-

chologist Dr. Jerry Lynch and
“The Mind-Body Problem,” a
coming-of—age novel by Rebecca
Goldstein.

“I deﬁnitely would do it again!
It’s a great way to meet people
and it’s nice to do something like
that when it isn’t required for a
class,” said Jessica Strait who
participated in the “Mind-Body
Problem” discussion. “It was a
rewarding experience.”

“I got to meet mostly other
athletes and faculty members
and hear their discussions,”
said Megan Daily, a participant
in the “Way of the Champion”
reading.

The ﬁrst conference was held
in 2004 and similarly attracted
a wide gamut of participants
from the W&L community who
discussed such topics as geology,
politics, anthropology, history
and management. That year, over
140 people attended the luncheon
with the keynote speaker, re-
nowned physicist and novelist,
Alan Lightman.

Crossword of the week

Washington... Washington... by Neville L. Fogarty

Head over to ringtumphicrosswordblogspotcom to save children, but not the British children.

Across

I Took on

6 Type of party

10 "Glengarry __

Ross"

1.4 Related maternally
I5 Frau's partner

16 Greek liqueur

17 Ed of "Lou Grant"
18 Crucifix inscription
19 Bern's river

20 WASHINGTON...
22 WASHINGTON...
24 _ Tome

25 New Testament idea

foreshadowed in the
Old Testament

27 Watson or
Thompson of "Harry
Potter" films

29 Mouselike animal

30 "Reduce, _,
recycle"

. 34 Ancient Andean

36 Oread who loved her
own voice

38 Role for Sally -Fi.eld
or Dame Maggie
Smith

39 WASHINGTON...

142 WASHINGTON...

44 Citrus drink

45 2005 film "___
Flux"

47 Option offered by
Howie Mandel

48 James of "Psych"
50 Charged particles

52 Jodie F oster‘s alma
mater

55 Feature of some bars

58 Score for Nadia
Comaneci

59 WASHINGTON...

62 WASHINGTON...

64 LaBeouf of
"Transformers"

65 Los __ de los
Muertos

67 F in music?

68 Look like a wolf‘?

69 Marine eagle

 

 

 

 

1 2 3 4 5 o 7 3 9 10 11. 12 13
14 I5 16
17 18 19
20 21
29
36
41
44 45 46
48 49 To
5 56 57 58

62 63
64 65 66 67
68 e9 70
71 72 73

70 Facebook

10 Attribute of Lenin or 41

application "Pieces Chekhov 43
Of ___" I 1 Molokai meal
71 Effortless I2 Poet Pound 46
72 Super Smash Bros. 13 Coward of note?
Ch0iC€ 21 Blitz 49
73 Uses eBay, perhaps 23 Revolted 51
Down . . 26 _g_ support 53
1 Vehicle that doesn't 28 Sarita , = 54
. automatically Cahfomla 56
qualify for the HOV 31 One-Sided 57
lane 32 Good name for a 59
2 Clothing line? la“’Y€r‘? 60
3 Like a Settlers of 33 >Lt.'S inferior. in the
Catan gameboard Navy 61
4 French summers 35 "Hamid and the 63
5 "Team America: Pumle —~—~—"
World Police" word 37 §3‘-“t J_am°S'
6 Japanese religion ' lV_lC;l\,:[1“an and 66
7 Kind of strength Wife constar
8 Ai tmonitor 39 "Why Can't We Be
IP01" . u
abbrv Friends? band

40 Courtroom

9 I - .
n need Ofa affirmation

scrubbing

Gardener's purchase
What every kiss
begins with

They had conquests
all over Europe
Bee colony
Gallows loops
Soup choice
Comes in

Ilumorist Nash
Drops the ball
Man, for one
Perlman of
"Matilda"
Contends

Question Anderson
Cooper once asked:
"Who is the ?"

Fury

If your Vagina,

could speak

Performances of “The Vagina
Monologues ” engage crowd with
thoughts on women 3* issues

By Jean Chapman
surr wrmsn

“The Vagina Monologues,” presented by the Women’s
Law Student Organization last week, drew sold-out crowds
to witness one of the most unique theatrical works of this
century.

Watching “The Vagina Monologues” is an experience like
no other: it is awkward, it is unsettling, it is laugh-out—loud
hilarious and it is moving.

“The Vagina Monologues,” however, is not just about the
audience. The monologues were presented by a nation-wide
organization called V-Day, which uses performances of Eve
Ensler’s award-winning work to promote awareness and raise
money in order to prevent violence against women.

Eve Ensler, author of “The Vagina Monologues,” is also
the founder of the V-Day movement. Each year, performances
of the monologues, typically arranged somewhere in the
vicinity of Valentine’s Day, draw in millions of dollars, and
the performance here on the campus of Washington and Lee
certainly did its part.

Both performances on Wednesday and Friday were sold‘
out, and the Women’s Law Student Organization raised even
more money by rafﬂing items donated by local organizations
and businesses. .

Each year, V-Day chooses one national or international
cause to which all the money raised by the nation-wide
performance of Eve Ensler’s work. This year, the V-Day
movement’s international spotlight falls on the women and
girls of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, where rape
is being used as a weapon of torture and fear on thousands of
women and children.

Particularly in the culture of the nation, victims afterwards
suffer from stigma and ostracism if they were to speak out
against the violence.

Unicef, as well as the UN, are partnered with V-Day to
raise awareness of this ongoing atrocity and get resources and
aid into the area to help victims and prevent ongoing violence
in the Democratic Republic of the Congo.

“The Vagina Monologues” represent the multi—faceted
nature of the V-Day movement. V-Day proclaims that it is a

For any men in the audience, “The
Vagina Monologues " must have been
somewhat unsettling but certainly en-

lightening.

demand that rape, incest, battery, genital mutilation and sexual
slavery must end around the world. It is also a vision in which
women everywhere can live safely and freely, but perhaps
most importantly it is a spirit, a belief that women should live,
create and thrive rather than survive or suffer.

This belief is conveyed not only in the more poignant

segments of “The Vagina Monologues” but also in the more >

humorous.

Drawing from approximately 200 interviews of
women from every age, race, region and ethnicity, “The
Vagina Monologues” shows the full spectrum of female
experience.

For any men in the audience, “The Vagina Monologues”
must have been somewhat unsettling but certainly enlightening.
In one of the ﬁrst monologues, women share the answers to
the burning, yet revealing questions of “If your Vagina got
dressed, what would it wear?” and “If your vagina could
speak, what would it say?” (the most popular answer to the
latter being “SLOW DOWN.”) Later, the audience sees the
perspective of a woman over the age of 65 and a girl at the
age of 6.

Though every individual who performed a segment of the
monologues gave a stunning performance, three monologues
stole the show: Jenna Worsham in “The Vagina Workshop,”
Tabitha King in “My Vagina Was My Village” and Jen Lake
in “The Woman who Loved to Make Vaginas Happy.” Though
the ﬁrst and last of these three were fall-out-of-your-chair
funny, the second was the poignant and saddcning story of one
woman from Bosnia who was raped during wartime.

The audience on Friday night was nothing if not responsive.
Though the DuPont theater was packed, the audience warmed
up to each other and to the monologues, cheering, laughing
and falling into revered silence as the monologues twisted
and turned through every emotion. -

Worsham, a junior, commented that the campus received
“The Vagina Monologues”-well, so much so that she hopes
they may be performed again this year.

 

 

 

6 ° THE RING-TUM PHI

MONDAY, MARCH 2, 2009

sports

 

O
) u o 0 o o o
, Men s team ﬁnishes third while Lady Generals earn ﬁrst place at conference championship F rzday
By Kevin Corn time. “We were in third going into
STAFF WRITER the last three events,” commented
s r _ Doornbos. “We did well in the shot
On rrrdayt rhe Waehrngren and put, rocked the 5,000 and brought
Lee rnenis and Wernenis rndeer home the 4x400 relay to win. I run
rrnek reams were in Lynehburg’ the last leg of the 4x400 relay and
V3‘? at Lrberry Unrvererry rer the it was an incredible race. Every-
ODAC rndeer Traek Charnpr°n' one was crowded around the track
ships. The men ﬁnished third with screaming and yelhrrgu
76 pernrsr but were only 3 heart’ For the men, the distance med- Q
erenkrng rwr’ Pernrs away rrorn ley relay team of seniors Chip Mc-
second. Meanwhile, the women Coy and Michael Welsh and soph_
reek home the eharnprenehre hne omores Davis Franklin and Jack
for the ﬁrst time in W&L’s history Ivy ran a school and championship
nnergarnering r20 points‘ meet record time of 10:39.21 to
The two teams together pro- Claim ﬁrst place '
duced stellar results in the form of “It felt great to beat Lynoh_
20 elreehrerenee eharnprenshrpsr burg in the distance medley relay
seven eenrerenee eharnpr°nShrpS> and to break their previous ODAC “ _ _
‘W0 SC1}°°“€°°‘dS and ‘me Chm" meet record in the event,” reported It felt great to beat Lynchburg in the distance
pronship meet record. Lastly, head Franklhr “They usually have a t .
wornenis Coach Nate Hoey was Very successful distance program,    [0    
named ODAC Coach of the Year. and I think we made a statement _
The women were led by senior with our perforrnancet Mlehael meet record in the event. They usually have a very
Elizabeth  WhO ﬁnished ﬁrst Welshss tremendous effort in the t t
in both the 800 meters and the 1600 meter leg was the main ree_ successful distance program, and I think we made a
mile with times of 2:20.92 and f vs _ _ ,
5:10.59, respectively. In the 5,000 Sonsghlfrﬁrnrsrrecesiett Giordano statement with our performance. Michael Welsh S
meters, Webb ﬁnished second after 1 d d ~ th 200 t ,
c,,,nl,lcm,g the race in a time of gtfeere rjﬁﬁﬁhg  ae time  tremendous eﬂort in the I 600 meter leg was the
18:24.54. Webb was also named h k- t th h l _ . ,, l
the ODAC Farm Bureau Scho1ar- 00:31.i;1lgte1'}i):aI'(::0Glf)Ifd:i:10i‘(2:n:lT€ "W" ’e"S0”f0” 0”’ Success’ 2 3
Athlete of the Year for the second 55 meters rrra time of 6_64 to take
eeneeeunve year‘ third. Giordano was then joined
senior Jessica Shaw ﬁnished by Mccoy junior Ryan Castle and Davis Franklin, sophomore track runner
nrsr in the 5>000 rnerers after ﬁrst-year Tyler Grant on the 4x400
eressing the ﬁnish hhe in a time meter relay team that grabbed third
or rererrz‘ She was reurrh rn the after ﬁnishing in a time of3:32.38.
rnne Wnh 2‘ rhne or 513041’ and Castle also took second in the high
ran with the winning team of se- jump at l_90 meters.
nior Tara Hildenbrand, S0pl'l01’I10I'€ Junlor Billy Billington excelled
Katherine Fenwrck and ﬁrst-year in the shot put alter wlrmlrlg ﬁrst
Casey Ernstes, 1n the distance med- with a throw of 1390 meters He
ley relay team that ﬁnished ﬁrst in then went on to the weight throw
3 rhne or 1332213" where he ﬁnished second after a
Another Senior leading the Gen’ toss of 15.67 meters. Billington
erals to victory was Stacy Doorn- was also named the ODAC Farm
hes who reaped hne a hrsepraee Bureau Scholar Athlete of the Year
ﬁnish in the long jump after clear- award
ing a distance of 5.32 meters. She Meanwhile, senior Vance Berry
also ran the 400 meters in a time and Welsh rounded out the top ﬁn_
Ol 60.61 t0 take fourth 11112116 CVCIII. lshes  their runs in the 5,000
In the 55 meter hurdles Doornbos meters Berry crossed the ﬁnish 

again ﬁnished fourth with a time of
8.79. Doornbos joined juniors Sal-
lie Armstrong and Maggie Suther-
land and ﬁrst-year Natalie Stier, on
the 4x400 meter relay that ﬁnished
third after completing the race in a
time of4:08.83.

Other top performances in-
cluded senior*Becca Taylor’s third
place ﬁnish in the mile in a time of
5:27.70. Sutherland’s leap of 1.53
meters in the high jump was good
enough for second place, and she
then took fourth place in the triple
jump after leaping 10.37 meters.
In the shot put, Armstrong ﬁnished
third after throwing 10.64 meters.
Meanwhile, senior Grace Andrews
took second in the weight throw af-
ter a toss of 1385 meters.

The meet was close the entire

line in a time of 15:34.19 to place
second, while Welsh ﬁnished soon
after in third place with a time of
15:44.10.

After the meet, Billington com-
mented on the team’s ﬁnish, “It felt
great to have a strong team perfor-
mance at ODACS but was frustrat-
ing to ﬁnish only two points out
of second place. We had a lot of
people step up and perform better
than we were anticipating.”

Both the men’s and women’s
W&L teams return to action this
Saturday as they compete in the
Virginia Tech Last Chance Meet
beginning at 10:00 a.m.

 

 

MICHAEL KEENAN / Guest Photographer

Junlor Sallie Armstrong hands the baton off to fellow junior Maggie Sutherland in the 4x400 meter .‘
relay at the ODAC championships Friday. The Generals finished third in this event enroute to winning Q
the conference crown.

Men’s lacrosse starts off season 2-O

Picked 3rd in ODAC preseason poll, Generals beat Mary Washington 6-5 and Colorado 9-7

By llllegan Daily
STAFF warren

The Washington and Lee’s men
lacrosse team improved to 2-0 on the
year, with a 9-7 victory over Colorado
College Saturday. This year’s team has
high expectations for the season.

Last year the Generals went 9-6
and posted a 5-1 conference record
but ended up losing in the ﬁrst round
of the ODAC tournament to Virginia
Wesleyan. The team returns seven
starters from last year including senior
midﬁelder Harry St. John, a preseason
honorable mention All-American.

In the annual preseason ODAC
coaching poll W&L was picked third
behind Roanoke and Lynchburg.

~ Senior goalkeeper Connor Locke
said about this team, “We have a strong
group of 10 seniors, all with signiﬁcant
playing experience; however, there is a
lot to prove.” ’

In the men’s ﬁrst game of the season

against Mary Washington Wednesday,
they used a ﬁrst half six-goal run to
win the game, 6-5. Locke tallied ﬁve
saves on the say. Senior attackman Seth
Fishman, sophomore midﬁelder Drew
Koeneman and St. John all ﬁnished
with two goals in the victory. Koene-

Generals lost 11-15. But this year, play-
ing on the new Wilson Field, the Gen-
erals had an explosive offensive ﬁrst
half and played good enough defense
to contain the Colorado Tigers.

In the ﬁrst few minutes of Satur-
day’s game, it appeared to be an offen-

“We have a strong group of I 0 seniors, all with sig-

niﬁcant playing experience; however, there is a lot to

prove. ”

Connor Locke, senior goalkeeper

man, senior captain midﬁelder Tim
Skeen and junior attackman Will Kei-
gler each registered an assist as well.
W&L outshot the Eagles 28-20 but
trailed in ground balls, 23-27.
Last year at Colorado College, the

sive showdown. The Generals traded
goals with Colorado and the score was
locked at two apiece seven minutes into
the contest. But then W&L reeled off
ﬁve consecutive goals to push the score
to 7-2 at the end of the half. Junior at-

tackman Will Keigler contributed two
goals during the Generals’ run.

W&L gained an 8-3 advantage in
the third period by a Skeen goal off a
St. John assist. Down ﬁve, Colorado
managed to mount the start of a come-
back. The Tigers went on a 3-0 run
in the third to cut the Generals’ lead
to two. However, with three minutes
to play, W&L sophomore attackman
Spence Daw scored off an assist from
sophomore midﬁelder Drew Koene-
man, which once again established the
Generals’ control.

Locke was able to provide a total of
seven key saves in goal for the Gener-
als. Colorado’s sophomore goaltender
Scott MacArthur blocked 11 shots on
the day.

In the second half the Tigers made a
run, but the General’s were able to keep
a two-point edge with a ﬁnal score of
9-7.

The home team led Colorado in
shots, 35-22, and ground balls, 30-26.

W&L next returns to, action to im-
prove upon their 2-0 record, on Wednes-
day when DeSales comes to Lexington
for a 5:00 p.m. game. The Generals
then round out the week ahead with
a 1:00 p.m. bout with Washington on
Saturday in Chestertown, Md.

    

 

 

 

 

MONDAY, MARCH 2,2009

THE RING-TUM PHI 0 7

 

sports

Men’s tennis Wins again

Generals’ beat Salisbury in close match, roll over Bridgewater

By Brooke Sutherland
surr warren

The Washington and Lee men’s ten-
nis team pulled down two solid victories
in a double header against Salisbury and
Bridgewater Saturday. The Generals
defeated Salisbury 5-4 and knocked off
Bridgewater 8-1.

The day began with a tough
morning match-up against 23rd ranked
Division III Salisbury, whom the 19th
ranked Generals defeated 5-4 last year.

“Going into this match, I
knew they would have revenge on their
minds,” said head coach David Detwil-

» er. “They are always good and always

vocal. They create a good atmosphere.
I’m just glad it was a home turf instead
of a visiting turf.”

The usual quietness of tennis match-
es was nowhere to be found as the W&L
fans made a strong showing even with
the early 9 a.m. start time. Even senior
captain James McCardell’s dog made it
out to cheer on the Generals.

W&L grabbed an early lead in dou- ~

bles with wins at the number two and
three spots. Junior Brent Meyers and
ﬁrst-year Jonathan Gaffney defeated
Salisbury’s team of ﬁrst-year Daniel
Bamas and sophomore Andrew Nottage
9-7 in the number two doubles spot.
First-year Jeremy Becht and junior Alex
Brooke defeated sophomore David Lu-
pinetti and junior Marcus Robinson 8-2
in the number 3 doubles spot. McCa-
rdell and sophomore Tim Watson lost to
juniors Evan Thomas and Scott Burtz-
laff in number one doubles, 8-5.

Up 2-1, the Generals headed into
singles play. After a long, tough three-
set match, McCardell fell to Burtzlaff 6-
7 (6-8), 6-1, 6-2 in number one singles.
The second singles line proved another

toughumatch as Gaffney fell 6-3, 6-1
to Thomas. Meyers countered, how-
ever, defeating Salisbury’s Lupinetti at
the number three singles spot 7-5, 6-
4. Becht fell to Barnas 6-3, 3-6, 6-2 at
number four singles, but ﬁrst-year Ben
Fass then went on to an easy 6-3, 6-1
victory over Nottage at the number ﬁve
spot.

The match score was now tied at 4-
4 and the Generals’ victory was in the
hands of ﬁrst-year number six singles
player Michael Freeman. With all eyes
watching, Freeman gritted his teeth
and despite some minor net disputes,
smoothly delivered a 6-2, 6-4 victory
over senior Sasha Felikson.

“This was our ﬁrst true test in D-III,”
Detwiler said. “We played a D-I school
over Feb break when we played F urman
and we did well, but this match really
shows us where we stand in D—III. I’m
really happy with our doubles play and
our singles.”

Detwiler speciﬁcally cited the play
of Meyers and Fass in singles.

“Meyers had a hard fought match
that really showed his maturity,” he
said. “Fass just played really solid and
didn’t have a lot of errors, which is what
we really needed.”

“I felt like I was a little tight at ﬁrst,”

Fass said. “But I ended up playing well.
I’m pretty happy with how I played.”
' The elation over the victory was
short-lived, however, as play against
Bridgewater began immediately after
the conclusion of the match against
Salisbury.

Two matches in one day can be a real
grind, but Detwiler had no doubts about
his team’s endurance heading into the
next match.

“The NCAA limits us to 20 play dates
so we really have to double up in order

to play more matches,” Detwiler said.
“It can be tough on the guys that have
to play both singles and doubles in both
matches, but I feel like we’re in good
enough shape to handle two matches.”

Added Fass: “I feel like our teams
are in really good shape, all thanks to
[assistant coach] Pristach.”

The Generals made a clean sweep
of the doubles. Watson and McCa-
rdell set the tone with an 8-4 win over
Bridgewater’s seniors Ryan Radke and
Brian Remsch in number one doubles.
Gaffney and Meyers followed with an
8-2 victory over junior Chris Radke and
sophomore Brad DeWitt on the second
line. Brooke and Becht closed out the
Generals’ domination, taking the num-
ber three doubles match 8-2 over sopho-
more Teddy Callow and senior Andre
Thornton. ‘

In singles, the Generals were equal-
ly as strong. Gaffney defeated Ryan
Radke 6-3, 6-4 in number two singles
while Becht defeated Chris Radke 6-2,
6-1 at number three. Freeman pulled
off an easy 6-2, 6-1 victory over Cal-
low for number four singles. First-year
Brian Roberts took 6-0, 6-4 victory
over DeWitt at the ﬁfth spot, followed
by Brooke’s 6-3, 6-2 victory over ﬁrst-
yearBrent Floyd in the number six spot.
The Generals’ only loss came in the top
singles match where McCardell suffered
from cramping issues and lost 6-4, 5-7,
10-7 to Remsch.

_ “Both of these wins were really im-
poitant for our conﬁdence,” said Detwil-
er. “A win against Salisbury really gives
us a boost and Bridgewater is deﬁnitely
one of our tougher ODAC opponents
we’ll face all year.”

W&L is now 4-1 overall and 3-0 in
ODAC play.

Season over

Women ’s basketball falls to Bridgewater in playoffs

By Russ Weems
STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee women’s
basketball team faced Bridgewater
this Thursday in the first round of the
ODAC Tournament. W&L came up
short, losing the game, 65-77. The Gen-
erals came in as the ﬁfth seed to face the
fourth-seeded Eagles in the Salem Civic
Center. It was the second meeting of the
two teams in a week.

W&L and Bridgewater tangled last
Saturday, with Bridgewater getting
the best of the Generals in a close 76-
72 contest. In the game, the Generals
forced 27 turnovers but allowed the
Eagles to shoot nearly 60 percent from
the ﬁeld. W&L got a shot a revenge on
Thursday.

The game started with neither team
able to gain a sizeable advantage. After
a jumper by sophomore center Felice
Herman with 14:05 to play in the ﬁrst
half, the game was tied up at eight.

After that point, Bridgewater staged
the ﬁrst run of the game. They scored
the next ten points, leaving the score at
18-8. First year forward Becca Bolton
stopped the bleeding with a lay-up with
10:32 left in the half. The lead extended
to twelve, but the Generals battled back
to close the margin to four with :13 left
in the half. A couple of late Bridgewa-
ter free throws left the half time score
at 38-32.

The second half started as the ﬁrst
half did. W&L wasn’t able to cut into
the lead much, but Bridgewater did not
extend it either. Bridgewater’s margin
of six was unchanged with 14:50 to
play. However, a key three by Bridge-
water’s junior forward Kristin Bosser-
man with 13:59 to play started a big run
that would ultimately decide the game.

mmpaeaeou

  
 

    

 

  OLLEGE

   
  

SATURDAY MARCH 14TH

 

  MARCH’ 125151.11,

kewnuscnnrs wnsrmtaworc 

SPRING BREAK 2009

THREE NIGI-ITS LODGING THREE DAYS OF TICKETS
I-‘REE TICKETS ON DAY OF‘ ARRIVAL

S299 PER PERSON*

CALL 866-865-5885 FOR RESERVATIONS.

sear-ran 3333331 on notnam occupancy in A s-numaan saoxza noon.
an-rs: noas nor-—n:c:..una nmanva-non paocassnw ran on wax.

OFFER SUBi’EGT_ TO AVAILABILITY AND MAY CHANGE  ANYTQEE.

rm »    ______ . .... ..,..333..33r_5_53i3_:_=-’,Wi
  WWW.sNOWSHOEMTN.GOm

  

.~ .0‘

 

    

   

 

Bridgewater outscored the Gener-
als 19-7 over the next 6:49 to take a
commanding 65-47 lead with 8:01 left
to play. W&L fought to close the lead
to seven (68-61) on a lay-up by senior
guard Bethany Ridenhour with 3:45 re-
maining. However, that was as close as
the Generals would get as Bridgewater
claimed a 77-65 victory.

This was the Generals’ third defeat
at the hands of the Eagles this season.
Bridgewater won again Saturday to ad-
vance to the ﬁnals but ended up falling
to second-seed Randolph-Macon, 69-
65, in the ODAC championship game.

Two ﬁrst-years led the Generals in
the contest. Bolton had a game-high 21
points and grabbed nine boards, while
guard Meghan Ingram added 15 points
and ﬁve rebounds. Senior guard Beth-
any Ridenhour also had a strong perfor-
mance in the last game of her career. She
had seven steals along with 14 points.
Sophomore center Felice Herman added
10 points with seven rebounds.

Senior forward Jennifer Saunders
led Bridgewater with 16 points. Sopho-
more guard Jordan Burkholder was not
far behind with 14 points and ﬁve as-
sists.

The Generals were plagued by poor
shooting, going only 33.9 percent from

' the ﬂoor including 19.0 percent on

three-pointers. However, the Generals’
defense was strong. W&L forced 24
turnovers including 14 steals and also
outrebounded the Eagles.

The loss ends The Generals’ 2008-09
season with a 14-12 overall record with
a 13-8 ODAC mark.

 

 

MONDAY, MARCH 2, 2009

8 ' THE RING-TUM PHI

sports

 

 

rdeck  

 

MoN Tues WED Tuuns FRI SAT SUN
l
1 Men's TBD
Basketbai NCAA announces post-season schedule Monday
l
3 Men's
Iswimmln
l
Women's
swimming
at
t Mews Vlrglnla
Track Tech
1 10 a.m.
at
lwomews Virginia
Track Tech
10 a.m.
vs - vs
, Hampden- Virginia
 Baseba" Sydney Wesleyan
3 p.m. 12 p.m.
at
Golf Callaway Collegiate
invite
 Vs at
3 ""°"'5 Desaies Wash-
Lacrosse
5 p.m. 1 P-m-
vs
vs
lwomems A BC Franklin &
1 Lacrosse 4 Marshall
. p'm' 1 p.m.
l at
, Menrs vlfglnla
 Tennis Wesleyan
2 p.m.
at
‘womenrs Vlfgllllﬂ
. Tennis Wesleyan
 2 p.m.

numbers
.20

The number of years since the last time W&L men’s basketball team

 

advanced to the ODAC finals. The team lost in the conference champi-

onship Sunday to Virginia Wesleyan, 62-66.

8

The W&L men’s basketball team’s seed in the ODAC tournament. The
Generals beat the ninth-, first-, and fourth-seeded teams but ended up

falling to seventh—seeded Virginia Wesleyan in the championship.

0

The number of NFL players besides quarterbacks to sign for a $100
million contract before defensive tackle Albert Haynesworth agreed to

a seven—year, $100 million deal with the Washington Redskins Friday.

12096

The self-assigned chance that 42-year-old pitcher Curt Schilling will
return for the 2009 season, as he told ESPN Friday. Schilling, who
is currently a free agent, missed the 2008 season after undergoing

shoulder surgery.

 

box

“My best advice to you is, shut up. Quite frankly,
we bring in $12 million to the university.  Get

 

some facts and come back and see me.”

University of Connecticut head men’s basketball coach Jim Calhoun
after a reporter asked him at a press conference why the coach of a
public university was making $1.6 million during these tough economic
times. Connecticut governor later called Calhoun’s comments an
“embarrassing display.”, Courtesy of cbssports.com.

“it’s an emotional decision. It saddens me. But!
feel it’s in the best interest of two of the things I
love the most, and that’s the Washington Nation-

als and baseball. ”

Former Washington Nationals general manager Jim Bowden in a press
conference Sunday announcing his resignation. Bowden is under
federal investigation for allegedly skimming signing bonuses given
to Latin American prospects. Courtesy of cbssports.com.

 

Senior guard Chris McHugh goes for three of his game-
& Henry 84-81. The team went on to beat Guilford in t

falls i nls

nals but lost to Virginia Wesleyan in the ODAC finals Sunday.

MORGAN HARRIS / Staff Photographer

high 21 points on Tuesday as W&L beat Emory
he "quarterfinals and Bridgewater in the semifi-

Virginia Wesleyan beats Generals 66-62 in ODAC championship

By Hank Nathan
STAFF WRITER

After a rollercoaster ride in the regular
season, the Washington & Lee men’s bas-
ketball team saved its best basketball for
last in the ODAC Tournament. The eighth-
seeded Generals turned its disappointing
second half of the year into a Cinderella
story by defeating Emory & Henry, Guil-
ford and Bridgewater in postseason play
to advance to the ODAC championship
game Sunday.

The team took on seventh-seeded
Virginia Wesleyan in the conference ﬁ-
nal. After falling behind by as many as
16 toward the end of the ﬁrst half, W&L
mounted a comeback but fell just short,
losing to the Blue Marlins 66-62. Junior
forward Ben Goetsch had a chance to tie
the game with three seconds togo, but his
contested shot inside the paint did not fall.
Goetsch led the Generals with a career-
high-tying 19 points and ﬁve rebounds.
More information was not yet available as
of press time Sunday. ,

But the magic ﬁrst started during the
play-in round against number nine seed-
ed Emory & Hemy at the Warner Center
Tuesday. W&L started out on ﬁre and cre-
ated a 17-3 lead with 12:34 to play in the
ﬁrst half. However, the teams switched
roles as the Wasps went on a 23-7 run
over the next six minutes. By halftime,
E&H created an 11 point lead and the
score was 41-30.

Facing elimination, the Blue and White
were not deterred in the second half.

“This team is all about persevering,”
said sophomore guard Jason Cimino.
“We’ve been through so much as a team,
mentally and physically, that everyone
knows we have each other’s backs.”

And persevere is exactly what the
Generals did as the team mounted a
comeback. With 10:19 remaining in the
game, senior guard Chris McHugh nailed
a three-pointer from the left side to cut the
lead to one. Less than two minutes later,
senior forward Ben Heller took the ball
from the top of the key and drove through
the lane for a layup with a defender in his
face to knot the game at 56.

The game went back and forth down
the stretch before the Wasps extended its
narrow lead to three points with less than
one minute to play. McHugh, who helped

‘ lead the comeback with several shots from
behind the are, added in one more pivotal
3-ball with 33.5 seconds left to send the
game to overtime.

“If l’ve learned anything about our
team over the last four years, it is that we
will never quit,” said McHugh who ‘scored
a career-high 21 in the game. “I knew that
when we were down, all we would do is
continue to ﬁght.”

In overtime, W&L struck ﬁrst with
some foul shots and the team never lost
the lead after the 3:31 mark. The ﬁnal
score was 84-81 as the Generals won its

" ﬁrst postseason game since 2000.

Head coach Adam Hutchinson praised
his squad’s effort after the game.

“Senior leadership has played a rolein
every win we had this season, [but] what I
found really encouraging about this game
was that everyone on our team‘ exhibited
leadership,” said Coach Hutchinson.

Following the thrilling overtime vic-
tory against Emory & Henry, the Gener-
als traveled to the Salem Civic Center to
face the number one seed and nationally
ranked Guilford College in the round of
eight.

Prior to the game, at the ODAC’s an-
nual banquet, two W&L players received
conference awards. Heller was selected as
the ODAC/F arm Bureau Scholar-Athlete,

sions to re-gain the lead.

The game continued to remain close in
the waning moments of the contest. With
less than 20 seconds to go, the Quakers
sank two foul shots, giving the team a
slim one-point lead at 66-65. Zac White,
who did not score a point all game, drove
to the basket on the next possession and
was fouled with 6.2 seconds left. White
knocked down the ﬁrst shot from the
charity stripe, but the second one rattled
around the rim and would not go down,
sending the game to overtime.

In the extra stanza, the Generals car-
ried the lead throughout, but could not
preserve it as the Quakers netted in a la-
yup with ﬁve seconds left to force another
overtime. This time, Guilford took the

“If I ’ve learned anything about our team over the last

four years, it is that we will never quit. I knew that when

we were down [against Emory & Henry], all we could do

is continue to ﬁght. ”

Chris McHugh, senior captain guard

 

and junior forward Zac Whitewas tabbed
as honorable mention All-ODAC.

While the game against Emory & Hen-
ry may have been classiﬁed as a thriller,
the Guilford contest even surpassed that
and was elevated to instant-classic status.

Throughout the match, both teams bat-
tled and neither could separate from one
another; the largest lead of the game by
either team was seven points. In the ﬁrst
half alone, there were eight lead changes
and four ties.

The Generals were carried by senior
guard Isaiah Goodman in the ﬁrst stanza
who was getting it done on both the offen-
sive and defensive sides of the ﬂoor and
set the tone for the game. The ﬁrst half
was marked by defense as W&L forced
the Quakers into turning the ball over 12
times.

“With our team, it’s all about a uniﬁed

‘ defensive attack [with] constant commu-
nication and giving it your all until you
can’t give anymore,” said senior forward
Craig Sauers about the team’s defensive
effort.

Despite the sloppy game by Guilford,
the score was 30-28 at half in favor of the
Blue and White. In the second half, the
Generals jumped out to a quick start and
extended the lead to seven, but Guilford
thwarted the run and immediately chipped
away at the lead. With 8:50 left in regula-
tion, junior forward Andrew Payne was
called for an intentional foul which re-
sulted in the Quakers re-taking the lead.
However, right after that, Goodman car-
ried the team for the next stretch by scor-
ing on the Generals’ next three posses-

early lead, but the resilient W&L squad
answered when McHugh hit his ﬁfth 3-
pointer to give the team the lead once and
for all at 3:57. The ﬁnal score was 82-76.

“We put everything on the line [in the
Guilford game] and it feels great to come
out with the victory,” said Goodman after
the game. “It shows how good our team
can be if we give it our all.”

The Generals’ win over Guilford was
just the second time in ODAC history that
the number eight seed has knocked off the
top seed in the conference post-season
tournament.

W&L then matched up against fourth-
seeded Bridgewater Saturday in the semi-
ﬁnals of the ODAC Tournament.

Fresh off of two emotional wins, the
Generals remained up to the task in an
effort to get to the conference champion-
-ship.

Just like in the E&H game_, the W&L
squad came out ﬁring and took an early
11-point lead with the score 16-5. Once
again, the lead dwindled and, by halftime,
the team narrowly maintained a one-point
lead at 36-35.

At the 6:30 mark left in the game, the
Generals took a two-point lead and did
not look back. The ﬁnal score was 77-67
as W&L would not be denied its ﬁrst birth
in the championship game since the 1988-
1989 season. In the effort, Goetsch led the
way with a career-high 19 points.

W&L ﬁnished with 16 wins on the
year, the most since the 1988-1989 sea-
son.

 

  

5

  THE

How many couples do you
know at W&L?

Columnist Aleishae Butler wonders why students
here think dating is “weird.”

OPINIONS / page 3

WSHINGTON Am; LEE UNIVERSITY

RING—TUM PHI.

ONDAY, MARCH 9, 2on9 3 y T H E

STUDENTS AND

FDR THE

STUDENTS

SINCE 1897

VOLUME CXII,

.1

Law school gets  
$2 rn.for new
curriculum

The donation from law school alum
John Huss will support a new hands-
on approach for third-years

By John Henderson
NEWS EDITO R

The Washington and Lee School of Law has received a $2 mil-
lion gift from John Huss, a W&L law school alumnus from the class
of 1965, to support the new third-year curriculum which puts stu-
dents through real-world legal simulations to provide a transition
between school work and legal work.

“John’s extraordinary gift comes at a critical time in the history
of the law school,” law school Dean Rodney Smolla said, according
to a recent university news release. Smolla said in the inaugural
year of the program, which will begin in the 2009-2010 academic
year, one-third of the faculty will join with judges and practitioners
from top law ﬁrms to create these real-world simulations.

“John’s gift will help ensure that this new program will be abso-
lutely ﬁrst-class in every respect,” Smolla said.

The program is an unprecedented step away from the traditional
law school curriculum, which focuses on classroom instruction, ac-
cording to the new release Instead, third-years will have the chance
to interact with clients and develop the skills necessary to practice
law. All third-year students in the program will be required to ob-
tain a Virginia practice certiﬁcate.

At the same time, these students will be immersed in a year-long"
professionalism program consisting of legal ethics, civility in prac-
tice, civic leadership, pro bono service, and law ﬁrm economics.

' “We are at a turning point in the history of the legal profession
and the history of legal education,” Smolla said in a message to the
community regarding the new program.

Smolla said law schools nationwide have followed the Harvard
Law School’s curriculum for the past 100 years, developed by Dean
Christopher Columbus Langdell, which teaches legal theory, rea-
soning and doctrine. While this model is apt preparation for ﬁrst-
years, it does not completely prepare students for the law profes-
sion, Smolla said.

Now, law schools are recognizing the need to revamp their style
of education to prepare students for the real world, Smolla said.
“At Washington and Lee, we are proud to be a leader in this na-
tional movement. We believe it is incumbent on our Law School to
be more ambitious in our mission and innovative in our approach
to education,” he said.

The recent $2 million gift will go toward clinical activities and
technical and administrative support for the new program, accord-
ing to the news release It will also fund faculty positions and visit-
ing professors.

Law professor Mary Z. Natkin, law school class of 1985, has
already been promoted to Assistant Dean for Cinical Education and
Public Service. The school has also brought in Virginia Supreme
Court Justice Donald W. Lemons and criminal defense attorney
Judy Clarke'to help teach the new simulation courses.

The law school has also announced the addition of James E. Mo-
litemo to the faculty. Molitemo, a leading educator in experiential
learning, designed the ethics, skills and professionalism program at
William and Mary’s law school.

Elections, 2009

New oﬁcers vow to uphold transparency and accountability

Bylamie Kim
STAFF WRITER

Transparency and account-
ability were two dominant
themes during the Executive
Committee (EC) and Student
Judicial Council (SJC) elec-
tions this year, in which Eric
Hoffman, Scott Centorino,
Bill Larson, Crighton Allen
and Caitlin Cottingham have
all won positions. The elected
will take up their new positions
spring term.

In the March 3 elections
and March 4 runoff, second-
year law student Hoffman was
elected EC president, sopho-
more Centorino was elected
EC vice president, ﬁrst-year
law student Larson became
EC secretary, sophomore Al-
len was voted in as the SJC
chair, and junior Cottingham
was elected SJC secretary.

The campaigns leading up
to the election featured color-
ful posters and ﬂyers distrib-
uted throughout the commons,
speeches, Facebook groups
and numerous emails sent to
student organizations, friends
and friends of friends.

“The posters were fun to
look at,” said sophomore Alex
Sweetser, who said it was help-
ful when candidates visited the
sorority houses.

“They were very witty,”
said sophomore Rasaq Lawal,
referring to the see-through
signs symbolizing transparen-
cy created by Denis O’Leary, a
candidate for EC president.

“I thought it was ‘a very
tight race as far as the presi-
dential bracket goes,” he
added. “It was exciting to see
a potential African-American
EC president.”

The race for EC president
came down to a runoff on
March 4 between Hoffman and
senior Aaron Toomey.

“I deﬁnitely put a lot of
effort into the election,” said
Hoffman. “It pretty much
dominated my life for about

two weeks. It was pretty ex-
hausting, but it was also great,
meeting new people and talk-
ing about issues I care about
that related to W&L.”
Emphasizing the impor-
tance of transparency during
his campaign, Hoffman said
the EC would have regular
meeting times, inform students
of their ability to come to the
EC to discuss any issue or con-
cerns related to the university,
and create a regular dialogue
with the Phi and the Trident.
Beyond transparency, he
plans to work on various is-
sues related to student life,

next year. “

Kenneth Hopkins, another
candidate for EC president,
said the election created new
challenges because he was ad-
dressing the entire school, not
just his class. Hopkins who
currently represents the class
of20l0 plans to run for his seat
next year. “It would be great to
ﬁnish college doing something
I enjoy,” he said.

Centorino said he got
through the stressful cam-
paign-period with help from
his fratemity brothers.

“Campaigns, on any level,
should never be left to one

“I would really like to increase student

awareness for who we are, what we do

and how we can start to be seen as less of

a punitive body and more a resource for

I

students. ’

Crighton Allen, SJC chairman-elect
 ‘

such as Traveller, student self-
governance, student relations
with the Lexington Police De-
partment, designated tailgate
areas at home football games
and student turnout for athletic
events.

“I can’t say all of those
ideas would be successful, but
at least we will create a dia-
logue on these and other issues
to improve student life,” Hoff-
man said.

Hoffman has served as the
law school’s class of 2010 rep-
resentative for the last year.

“I think the biggest differ-
ence with being president will
be the time commitment and
representing the EC and the
student body to the faculty, the
administration and the Board
of Trustees,” he said. “I’m
deﬁnitely up for the challenge
though, and am excited for

person because they can eas-
ily tum into a self-serving,
monolithic conquest,” he said.
“I like always having people
around me, giving me feed-
back, bringing me down to
earth. The great thing about
the campaign is it that it really
helps you see the big picture
all over again and it helps you
remember why you ran for the
EC the ﬁrst time.”

Centorino said he enjoyed
going out and talking to stu-
dents about the issues they care
most about on campus, such as
sexual assault, the health of the
honor system, the administra-
tion and the Greek system.

“While it is important to
master the technical side of
closed hearings and the bud-
getaiy process, it’s also impor-
tant to always keep in mind the
people you’re representing and

their much bigger concerns,”
he said.

Allen, who is currently
serving as the sophomore jus-
tice on the SJC, said his fore-
most goal for the SJ C next year
is furthering R. E. Lee’s notion
of individual responsibility for
one’s actions.

“I am not sure that some
in the W&L community fully
understand what the SJC is and
what kind of cases we handle.”
he said. “I would really like to
increase student awareness for
who we are, what we do and
how we can start to be seen
as less of a punitive body and
more of a resource for students
with questions about the stan-
dards of conduct they are ex-
pected to uphold.”

Alongside Allen will be
Cottingham, currently the law
school’s class“of 2010 repre-
sentative, as the new SJC sec-
retary.

“The other current SJC
members were a huge help
with the campaign, especially
on the undergraduate side,”
she said. “My new role as sec-
retary will involve more logis-
tics and planning hearings.”

To EC secretary-elect Lar-
son, maintaining a strong
relationship with the W&L
community continues to be an
important goal.

“I have enjoyed and felt
honored to serve as the ﬁrst
year law representative this
past year,” he said. “The EC
secretary has more responsi-
bilities. I look forward to the
challenges ahead and working
to improve communication be-
tween the EC and the student
body.”

Current EC President Rich
Cleary said some of the ofﬁ-
cers’ previous experience on
the EC and commitment to
the Honor System will serve
them well, “as they uphold our
esteemed traditions of honor,
integrity and student self-gov-
ernance next year.”

Toni Locy offers a lesson in ethics

Locy defends the right of journalists to use government insiders, but warns of the risks

By Jessica Strait
STAFF WRITER

When journalism professor
Toni Locy was a reporter for
USA Today, she refused to re-
veal her conﬁdential sources in a
federal court case, believing the
law was on her side.

“I thought the First Amend-
ment of the Constitution would
be enough to protect me,” said
Locy.

It did not. Locy was ﬁned
$5,000 a day to compel her to
reveal her sources, and the court
banned her employer and family
members from helping her pay.

Locy did not budge, and sev-
eral days layer a higher appeals
court put a stay on the ﬁne. Locy
shared her unique experiences
with an audience of students and
faculty last Friday as the keynote
speaker for the 47th Institute on
Ethics in Journalism.

Journalism department head
Brian Richardson introduced

Locy as a journalist who protect-
ed her sources and made tough
decisions to provide the public
with the information it needed.

Locy, a veteran cops and
courts reporter who has worked
at the Washington Post and U.S.
News and World Report, remem-
bers the “palpable fear” in Wash-
ington that came after the 2001
anthrax attacks.

“The two and a half years af-
ter 9/ll were the most intense in
my career,” said Locy, who was
working at USA Today at the
time. She recalled the “highly
charged atmosphere” of the
country following the terrorist
attacks.

Of the thousands of stories
she has written in her career, two
stories that weren’t even front-
page scoops were the cause of
her trouble.
several months after Attorney
General John Ashcroft named
Steven Hatﬁeld a “person of in-
terest” in the anthrax attacks.

The stories came I

Locy found the accusatory
term suspicious and in best jour-
nalism fashion started to dig.
She said the term is used even
more today, usually when there
is a lack of evidence. ’

with ulterior motives from those
sources who have reliable infor-
mation.

Locy defended her record as
an accurate and fair reporter who
did her job by questioning those

“I worry that editors and publishers will avoid

covering tough stories...Journalism is in dan-

ger of being destroyed out of fear ’

7

Toni Locy, journalism professor and keynote speaker

 

Following Ashcroft’s an-
nouncement, Locy relied on
sources that included some 12
people in the FBI and Justice
Department.

Locy argued that journalists
need government insiders now
more than ever, but must be
careful about the sources they
use. She warned students in the
audience to follow their instincts
and separate the “pretenders”

in power and informing the pub-
lie of what the government was
up to. _

“I did my job and I did it
well,” said Locy. “Everything I
wrote was true.”

Locy said her sources were
upset when Ashcroft targeted
Hatﬁeld, and spoke to Locy be-
cause they wanted to help cor-
rect the inaccurate reporting that
was going on at other papers.

In her stories, Locy ques-
tioned whether Hatﬁeld, who
was on 24/7 surveillance at the
time, should be the FBl’s sole
focus.

Hatﬁeld was later cleared and
the man who was apparently be-
hind the attacks, Dr. Bruce Ivins,
committed suicide before being
formally charged.

Hatﬁeld promptly ﬁled a
privacy act lawsuit against the
government in 2003, in which
U.S. District Judge Reggie Wal-
ton called on Locy to reveal the
conﬁdential sources she used in
her stories. When she refused to
give up the names of her sources,
Walton imposed the $5000-a-day
ﬁne.

Before the ordeal, Locy said
she didn’t believe in shield laws,
which protect journalists from
revealing sources. Now she sup-
ports them and spent last week
testifying in front of Texas leg-
islators on a shield law that is up
for consideration in that state.

“I worry that editors and pub-
lishers will avoid covering tough
stories” due to the possibility of
a lawsuit against news organiza-
tions, Locy said. “Journalism is
in danger of being destroyed out
of fear.”

Locy’s talk was well-attended
by students and faculty from the
journalism department as well as
participants in the Ethics Insti-
tute, including a polling analyst
for yhe Washington Post, report-
ers from the Virginian-Pilot, the
Richmond Times-Dispatch and
the Roanoke Times, and CBS
news correspondent Bill Whit-
taker. ‘

“I think her comments about
conﬁdential sources are impor-
tant,” said junior Alex Eichen-
baum. “You’re not only protect-
ing your own credibility but also
the credibility of others. If you
give up one, who’s to say you
don’t have to give up all? It kind
of opens a ﬂood gate.”

NUMBER 18

  

UNIVERSHY LIBRARY
WASHINGTON 8: LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON. VA 24450

MAR 1 :3 ;?si!£!8 Congratulations to the Class of 2009

GRAD FAIR

  3-DA Y ANN UAL U G GRAD FAIR
Wednesday, March 11th - Friday, March 13th

9:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m.
/ Atrium, Elrod Commons

The time to celebrate the end of your four year journey is fast approaching!

From the moment you ﬁrst stepped on campus, you knew you were entering a most special place.
The deﬁning traditions of Washington and Lee University: academic rigor student self governance
and lives measured by truth and integrity will mark you as honorable men and women and leaders
of the future. As your journey comes to a close and as you celebrate your graduation day on June
4th, enjoy the memories of campus life, afternoons spent at Goshen, hikes up House Mountain,
Fancy Dress and the many friendships you have made. Celebrate with family and friends this ‘
special day!

 From the moment you ﬁrst

stepped on campus, you knew you
were entering a most special place.
The deﬁning traditions of Washington
and Lee University: academic rigor, student self governance
and lives measured by truth and integrity will mark you as
honorable men and women and leaders of the future. As
your journey comes to a close and as you celebrate your
graduation day on June 4th, enjoy the memories of campus
life, afternoons spent at Goshen, hikes up House Mountain,
Fancy Dress and the many friendships you have made.
Celebrate with family and friends this special day!

Washington and Lee
University

Engraved Chairs

Arm Chair or Rocker
“a lasting memory ”

 

The Official Class Ring A   2009 Graduation photos

S en 1- am! (Each graduate will be photographed

Order in time to Wearfor graduatl-On! as they receive their diploma from the

University President. Photos may be

purchased at PhotoStore after graduation)

Quality photo frames, lined
with a mat embossed with the
University name and crest are available at
the Grad Fair and the Washington and Lee
University Store

PhotoStore
photostore.wlu.edu

 

 

 

 

0

MONDAY, MARCH 9, 2009

THE RING-TUM PHI ° 3

 

opinions

 WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY .................... ..

 RING -TUM PHI.

ALLISON CHOPIN
JOHN HENDERSON
CODY BEAUCHAMP
CELESTE CRUZ-
CARANDANG

WILL DORRANCE

MANAGING EDITOR
. NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR

sponrs EDITOR’

CRIGHTON ALLEN
ALEISHA BUTLER
JAMIE KIM
KATHERINE ROBERTS
JESSICA STRAIT
VALAREE TANG
SUSAN TAYLOR

CONTRIBUTING WRITERS

DESIGN EDITOR
STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER
BUSINESS MANAGER
DISTRIBUTION MNGR.

LAR‘A JORDAN
MORGAN HARRIS
STROCK MOORE ‘
ROB GEORGE

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE
RING—TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community for students, faculty,
parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire
to spark discussions that lead to discovering
information that prompts change.

THE RING—TUM PHI IS PUBLISHED MONDAYS
DURING THE UNDERGRADUATE SCHOOL YEAR.
THE R/NG-TUM PHI IS A MEMBER OF THE MEDIA
BOARD, BUT IS OTHERWISE INDEPENDENT.
QUESTIONS OR CONCERNS ABOUT THE PHI
SHOULD BE ADDRESSED TO THE EDITORS AT
PHI@WLU.EDU OR TO THE MEDIA BOARD AT
MED/ABOARD@WLU.EDU. THE MEDIA ‘BOARD
IS AN INDEPENDENT, STUDENT-RUN EDITORIAL
OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE WORKING WITH ALL
MEDIA OUTLETS ON THE WASHINGTON &
LEE CAMPUS. ALL INQUIRIES WILL REMAIN
CONFIDENTIAL. THE RING—TUM PHI WELCOMES
ALL LETTERS. WE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO EDIT
SUBMISSIONS FOR CONTENT AND LENGTH.
LETTERS AND ADVERTISING DO NOT NECESSARILY
REFLECT THE OPINION OF THE RING—TUM PHI
STAFF. THIS NEWSPAPER OBSERVES CURRENT
COURT DEFINITIONS OF LIBEL AND OBSCENITY.
THE RING—TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540) 458-4059
EMAIL: PHI@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

W&L Women's Cross-Country
(Captain), Track & Field (Captain), Peer
Mentor for Information Literacy/
Econometrics , Undergraduate Economic

Prcyfil es

111

Leadership:
Kitchens volunteer, Kemper Scholars
RebeCCC1 Ta)/101' Program, member ofODK, Pi Beta Phi.

Review (Associate Editor), Campus

V _V What energizes you about taking.

. V on the responsibilities of campus
I leadership? “I get energized about the Con-
sensus building aspects of leadership; establishing

  
 
  
  
 

goals as a team/community along with the steps
‘or accomplishing these goals. Anything I can do
to facilitate these aspirations and to keep them in
focus gets me excited.”
V What has been one ofthe most re-
warding aspects of leadership at W&L? “I find that in
motivating others, especially when they are as talented and driven as
those in the W&L community, I keep myself motivated toward my
own goals.”
What legacy ofleadership do you hope you've left for others
at W&L? “Positive thinking, believing in your purpose, and dedication
are contagious. One ofmy favorite quotes is from Jim Henson’s The
Muppets: Ifjust one person believes in you

Deep enough and strong enough

Believes in you hard enough and long enough

Before you knew it, someone else would think

“If he can do it, I can do it”

Making it two. Two whole people who believe in you.

And maybe even you can believe in you too."
Any words of advice for those who follow? “Don't take
yourself too seriously; however, your dreams are never a laughing
matter.”

Tuesdavs with Leadership:

Effective Communication
l2:l5 and 6:30 PM, Room 214 Elrod Commons
Explore the concepts and both the speaking and listening

skills necessary to communicate well

P§£l}AL Cart {mesh 3;. "ins. ’i§"()v Cf.»il<“l§

 

(i}rtla;' from our complete menu
Or Join as for mu: ofom" ALL l""(;>i./' CAN 133 T Ergfjets.’

Friday Night Seafood Buffet with Crap Logs 5pm~1Qpm
Saturday Night Prime Rib Dinner 5pm-1 0pm
Sunday Saked Chicken, Pork Loin, & Pot Roast Mani-9pm
Friday & Saturday Late Night Srealsfast Bar 10pm-2am
Ereakfast Bar 7 Days a Week Gain-‘i iam
Daily Hot Country Bar t‘iam~1{}pm
Daily Soup, Salad, St Fruit bar ‘ttamtl Gpm

("inlet §3rcaI»:.fasr 24 t~lours :3. day. 7 days a week!

I-Ionzra CT‘r.iois“eri Meals & Smirfzcrn lfuspiltzliiyf
'l.oc:u«;:d at

3.32 El HATE} PLAZA

I483  I-6-1, I-Exit I95, Z-Z516! lwluiséi Lee Elwyn. l.s:>cingtori. VA
5=l~{)~<if~63«34‘?’S

Great food 3: a great cnltecrion of
Antique Pedal cars 3; Tim Toys!

 

The frat bubble myth

Allen responds to last weeks complaints that frats don ’t mix

Crlghton Allen
co LU M NIST

Diandra Spicak, in last wcck’s
Ring-Tum Phi, wrote a piece
calling for a “popping of the frat
bubble.” She writes that Greek
men tend to isolate themselves
within their fraternity once they
pledge and that there is a subse-
quent “dcmolishment of friend-
ships created before joining a
certain Greek organization.”

While I agree with Ms. Spi-
cak that to a certain degree, some
friendships forged during the fall
of freshman year may wither
away as individuals that joined
different houses fall into their
new friend groups, I disagree
with her most strongly when she
alleges that W&L suffers from a
problem of a “frat bubble.”

To be fair, she wrote her col-
umn when many freshmen men
are in the throes of New Member
Education, a process designed to
bring together a pledge class that
may be comprised of guys that
prior to pledging the same frater-
nity did not know each other.

Many fraternities encourage
their New Members to eat meals
together and spend any free time
that they may have with their new
pledge brothers so‘ as to get to
know each other better, so I can
understand how she may have
come to her conclusion.

However, she goes onto elab-
orate that she sees a “lack of in-
ter-fraternity relations” and that
a remedy to this perceived prob-
lcm may be “a smaller number
of frats.” In this, Ms. Spicak is
wholly incorrect.

I believe that if she could
see the Greek system from an
upperclassman’s perspective, she

would see that W&L does not
suffer at all from a frat bubble,
quite the opposite, in fact.

W&L’s vibrant Greek system,
with a wide variety of different
fraternities and sororities, serves
as a distinguishing factor that
gives our school its own distinct
personality and separates it from
many other similar small liberal
arts schools that it may otherwise
very closely resemble.

The large number of frater-
nities here at W&L ensures that
for men choosing to join a Greek

boundaries that may be erected
by Greek afﬁliation.

This sense of community
comes from W&L students’ near
universal respect for the Honor
System, the Speaking Tradition,
and of importance of active par-
ticipation in the many the differ-
ent facets of school life.

W&L students gain friends
from the sports they play, the
clubs the join and the classes
they take. The friendships W&L

. students make from these other

activities are not magically ter-

T he large number of fraternities here at W&L

ensures that for men choosing to join a Greek

organization, there is almost certainly a house

that ﬁts their needs and personalities.

organization, there is almost cer-
tainly a house that fits their needs
and personalities. If the number
of fraternities were diminished,
many men that would otherwise
be Greek may be denied that op-
portunity.

But back to her overall point
that W&L men tend to cloister
themselves within their fraterni-
ties. I give Ms. Spiack my per-
sonal assurancc that there is not
one Greek here at W&L, male or
female, that does not have many
close, intimate friends outside
their own Greek organization.
While I myself love my fraternity
brothers as much as the next guy,
some of my best friends here are
from different fraternities or not
Greek affiliated at all.

W&L possesses a sense of
community that transcends any

minated because the teammates
or classmates pledge different
houses.

Back when I was a young pup
touring colleges, I was struck by
something my W&L tour guide
said as we strolled through the
campus. He said, and I can still
remember his exact quote, “Ev-
ery party at W&L has a guest list,
the student directory.”

Fraternity parties, often
viewed as the dastardly institu-
tion that fosters Greek exclusiv-
ity, do the exact opposite here at
W&L. Every student is welcome
at any Greek party; I myself am
always warmly greeted by my
friends in other fraternities when
I attend their parties and am al-
ways glad to see them when they
attend mine.

Ms. Spicak writes that she

views “a sense of bitterness some
ﬂats bear towards" other frats.”
While it is undeniable that dur-
ing Rush Week, there are some
bruised egos when a coveted
freshman guy decides to join one
house and spum the others that
rushed him, these feelings are
ﬂeeting and certainly do not lead
to lasting animosity that prohibit
inter-fratemity friendships.

Greek life is huge here at
W&L, no question. Yet, on the
other hand, it is not. While large
numbers of W&L students have
a Greek aﬁiliation, most students
here possess the objectivity to re-
alize that a fraternity is really not
that big of a deal.

They are smart enough to
recognize they are no cooler
than someone else because of
Greek aﬂiliation. You could be
the sweetest, fratiest bro ever to
grace Windfall Hill or the most
iconoclastic, vehemently anti-
Greek student here; something
as simple as a fraternity does not
deﬁne how you are characterized
here at W&L.

Unlike many schools, I think
W&L has, just like the real
world, a deemphasized View of
the importance of fraternities and
their meaning. Here, students
are judged by inﬁnitely more
important standards here than
the letters above the door of the
house they belong to, standards
like character, intelligence and
personality.

I love the Greek system here
and think it a wonderful thing for
our school. However, the value
I place in the institution comes
not from the institution itself,
but from the friends I have made,
friends that reside in every single
house on this campus.

We just don’t date here

Aleisha Butler wonders why our school thinks couples are the weird ones

By Alelsha Butler
C 0 L U M N IS T

An upperclassman girl walks
past a group of freshmen girls
who she knows well as they dis-
cuss the newest guys in their lives.
Overhearing their conversation,
she stops to chat. One freshman
girl in particular has an upper-
classman guy interested in her,
and the older girl asks if they ’re
dating. “I don ’I really know, " the
younger girl responds, “we just
hang out at parties and go back
to his room or my room. ”

"Well, ” the older girl says,
“have you guys gone out to din-
ner or anything yet? ”

“N0, ” the first-year answers.
"Everybody says that people
don ’t really date here. ”

“That is what everybody says, ”
the sophomore girl agrees, “and
people here say that I ’m hard on
guys, but I think that  you’re
hooking up with a guy he should
at least be buying you dinner. ”

Here at Washington and Lee
we are infamous for “not really
dating.” Having participated in
my fare share of give-the-number,
go-to-dinner, see-how-things-go
dates in high school, I was dumb-
founded by the way that guys and
girls interact when I ﬁrst arrived
here as a freshman.

It seemed illogical to me that
people would try to get to know
each other in dark, ear-splitting,
alcohol-soaked environments un-
til I realized that no one is really
trying to get to know other people
in those settings. Sober at most
parties of freshman fall term be-
cause I played volleyball, I was
recurrently embarrassed when
saying hello to someone on cam-
pus who clearly had no recollec-
tion of our introduction the night
before. I quickly discovered that
good friends are (soberly) made
in donns, d-hall and classrooms,
and afterwards become better

friends through the escapades of
weekend adventuring.

People spend their weekends
looking for some good unac-
countable ﬁin, and don’t appre-
ciate being reminded of their
behavior in the sunlight of the
following day. However, this
setup spells death for romantic
relationships, as most people at
our school use any and all free
time for blowing off the steam of
the workweek.

People are so busy escaping
from the stress of schoolwork that

ing, but as a whole we conform
to the perceived gender norms of
our school’s social scene and do
not demand a more mature, re-
spectful environment.

Why do we continue to con-
done each other’s behavior? After
we leave the co-ed environment
of the freshmen dorms, guys’ and
girls’ lives become almost com-
pletely segregated, barring class-
room activity and parties. Both of
these casesVare rigidly structured
social environments that require
extremes of behavior that are of-

It seemed illogical to me that people would try

to get to know each other in dark, ear-split-

ting, alcohol—soaked environments...we forget

what it is like to have a conversation...

they forget the fun and intriguing
challenge of actually dating. It’s
so much easier to get drunk, go
home with somebody and act like
nothing happened the next day.
We get so caught up in the fun
of anonymity that we forget what
it’s like to have a conversation,
an experience, with another hu-
man being. Even when a date is
so bad it should go down in his-
tory as the World’s Worst Date,
it still makes for a more comical
and unique story than the formu-
laic one you can overhear almost
anywhere on campus on a Mon-
day morning. That story usu-
ally starts with: “So I was totally
wasted on Saturday night...”
The biggest problem with ev-
erybody’s commitment phobia is
that it leads to a devaluing of all
male-female relationships. Most
girls on our campus are disgusted
by guys’ lack of interest in dat-

ten unrelated to an individual’s
normal tendencies.

There’s nothing wrong with
cutting loose every now and
then, and there’s nothing wrong
with sexual intimacy between
two mature and compassionate
adults, but there is something
wrong with the myriad deﬁni-
tions of dating that I’ve,heard
frequently around our campus:
four or more hookups and you’re
ofﬁcially “dating,” buying a $40
bottle of wine to give away as a
birthday present or designating a
certain pillow on the bed as “their
pillow.”

W&L students seem to desire
a personal accountability that
stops at the classroom door. We
want to be seen as capable, elli-
cient students and potential em-
ployees, but when the sun goes
down we don’t want to be seen
at all, or only very little. Why

else would we keep the lights out
at parties and dc-tag our entire
Facebook repertoire before ap-
plying for jobs?

Truly dating somebody in-
volvcs seeing and being seen,
observing and being observed,
assessing and being assessed.
Nobody wants to “put themselves
out there” and risk rejection, so
W&L’s wildly permissive social
scene creates the opportunity for
a buffer in which anonymity and
alcohol provide an avenue of es-
cape from potential embarrass-
ment.

Sadly, the Nobody Dates Here
norms of our school create a
cycle that is hard for students to
break out of. Recently one of my
male friends took nearly a week

"to ask a girl out to dinner. He

didn’t have a huge crush on her,
he wasn’t madly in love with her;
he simply wanted to have a good
meal and a good conversation
with a smart, pretty girl.

While he was somewhat wor-
ried about rej ection, he was more
worried that she would think he
was weird, and what is sad about
our social structure is that by our
junior year here, it is strange for
two acquaintances to set up a
casual dimer outing. A lot more
people at our school would feel a
lot more comfortable with mem-
bers of the opposite sex if we
took those Dating Is Fun signs a
little more seriously. Dates don’t
have to be layered with all kinds
of tension and expectations.
They can just be ways to meet
and make better friends.

I’m not saying that every-
body needs to "‘boo-up” and
ﬁnd themselves a future spouse.
Everybody is looking for a little
more respect, so what I’m saying
is that we shouldn’t be afraid to
give it.

 

 

4 - THE RING-TUM PHI

arts&|ife

Sta I1 your toes

S. W &L Repertory,» Company givesdazzling performance

MONDAY, MARCH 9,2009

0

 

The White House is

NOW HIRING 

for Summer and Fall internships

    

The White House Internship Program
invites you to apply for a Summer position
by March 22"“

Internships run from May 22"” to August 14"’,
so talk to your advisor about taking the
Spring Term Option

Visit www.whitehouse.qov/about/internships
for details about the summer and fall internships.

Check out W&L JobLink and visit Career Services
for announcements and job postings.

‘rV.«"£5}'il§NGTClN April‘) LE5}? l:..ll‘~§'l'b’l:ZRi‘:lil"1”‘r"

CAREEReSERV.iCES

KEVIN REMINGTON / for W&L

The W&L Repertory Dance Company
performed Thursday and Saturday night.
The show consisted of 13 distinct seg-
ments. Student choreographers created
several of the pieces. Guest choreog-
raphers Jack Arnold and Clare Tunkei
also afforded their talents for dance
composition along with Assistant
Professor of Dance Jennifer Davies and
Dance instructor Sophie Meythaier. The
« performance featured a variety of danc-
ing styles. Everything from a hip-hop
performance to an Indian dance to an
aerial piece was received with a grand

     

 

HE ED HEN ~
invites you to enjoy ~-

 TWILIGHT DINING 

 

applause from theaudience.

www.redhenlex.com

Festival hits the right notes

Groups from W&L and other universities featured

By Katherine Roberts
srixrr WRITER

Five student a cappella groups and a crowd
from the Washington and Lee community ﬁlled
the Wilson concert hall on Saturday for the fourth
annual a cappella festival.

The event opened with its host, General Ad-
mission (GA}—W&L’s oldest co-ed a cappella
group. The songs were arranged by Julie Slo-
necki, the group’s musical director. GA started
things off with Lily Allen’s “Smile,” which “al-
ways made us happy to do,” said GA member Jen
Hampton.

“It was really good to have a
couple of visiting groups but

also show more unity among the

3

W&L a Capella scene. ’
Kimber Wlggs, GA acting president

Their most challenging song, acting president
Kimber Wiggs said, was Estelle’s “American
Boy” because “we have so many parts in it. “But
we made it!” said Hampton. They did make it:
“American Boy” made it clear that the members
were having a great time up there. That energy
carried over to their last song, which Wiggs pre-
ceded by telling the rest of the group, “This is the
last one, and we want to make sure they enjoy
it.”

Wiggs sang “Paper Planes” by M.I.A.: “GA,
third world democracy. Yeah, we got more re-
cords than the registrar.”

For their festival debut, the year-old Washing-
tones sang more classic rock. They opened with
the theme from The Ofﬁce, capturing the admi-
ration of the audience. The Washingtones were
obviously having a great time onstage, acting out
the lyrics and pretending they were playing in-
struments. When they sang the 80’s classic “Time
After Time,” they forewent the vocal accompa-
niment common to a cappella and relied instead
on incredible harmonies and experimenting with
the ‘rhythm; their creativity came through in the

, next song as well, a medley of “Stand By Me”
and “Every Breath You Take.” They closed with
“Build Me Up Buttercup.”

The lovely ladies of JubiLee sang next. They
dedicated their ﬁrst song to the one and only
Markheavens Tshuma: “Kiss Me” by the Cran-

berries. I could see Markheavens ﬁ‘o1n where I
was sitting, and he blew a kiss to the ladies. They
followed up their great start with “Bubbly” by
Colbie Caillat and “New Soul" by Yael Naim, “
which showcased their voices. Deep Blue Some-
thing’s “Breakfast At Tiffany’s” was the most
interactive, as the audience recognized it imme-
diately and clapped along.

The festival also showcased two groups from
other universities: The Fading Point from South-
erin Virginia University and The Madison Proj-
ect from James Madison University. There have
been more groups from outside W&L in the past,
said Wiggs, but “this was a year when it was re-
ally good to have a couple of visiting groups but
also show more unity among the W&L a cappella
scene.”

Having the visitors was exciting, said Becky
Guynn, who attended the festival for her second
year. “It’s nice to be able to hear our own groups
but also bring in groups that we might not other-
wise be able to hear,” she said.

For The Fading Point, it was their ﬁrst
time performing at W&L; hopefully, it will
not be their last. As GA member Clarke
Morrison put it, “SVU: domination."
They were so much fun to listen to, but also to
watch. They had impressive choreography; of
course, everyone loves a good jazz square.

“They were amazingly tight, and very enter-
taining,” said Wiggs. “Everyone was great, but
that was just a surprise because we didn’t know
what to expect from them.”

Near the end of The Fading Point’s perfor-
mance, the batteries in one of the microphone
died; while they were waiting for more batteries,
one of the members befriended a man in the au-
dience, Lee Taylor. He had us all cheer for Lee,
and told Lee: “This next song we’re going to sing
is just for fun, but it’s all about you." They sang
Justin Timberlake’s “Cry Me A River.” and incor-
porated Lee’s name into it several times... “Let
me hear you say ‘Lee,’” “Cry Lee." that sort of
thing. That earned them a standing ovation, and
Lee even stood and bowed. _

The group Madison Project found success in
their second-year performance. Their vocal talent
was incredible, and they were so clearly enjoying
themselves. When they sang Chicago’s “You’re
The Inspiration” “Love You Madly” by Cake was
unfortunately the last song of the evening, but the
audience, left laughing and dancing, a great end
to a great night.

“Monday through Thursday evenings until 6:30 p.m.
enjoy three courses of inspired Shenandoah cuisine for $35
 reservations strongly recommended

11 E. Washington Street Lexington 540-464-4401

OPEN Mon. — Fri.for lunch 5* dinner Saturday dinner 6* Sunday brunch

S
t
u
d
e
n
t

U3

W&L Students Welcome

 

are

looking

National
Capﬂal
Region

is
3
e
e
e
W
M

Tuesday, March 10, 2009 - 3:00-7:00pm

* Northern Virginia center, 7054 Hayoock Road, Falls Church, VA
Adjacent to the West Falls church-VT/UVA Metro Station

- Exposure to many companies in the Virginia-DC-Maryland region

~ Entry and mid-level opportunities available. Please check our website
for an uptodate listing of attending companies and positions available

- interviews may be conducted on site for professionals of all levels
0 All job seekers are welcome — Professional dress required

HELP! It has been a while since i have been to a job fair!

Attend the “How to Make the Most of a Job Fair” Session - 2:00 pm
Learn how to work the room, what to say to employers, and what they?! expect to hear from you!

Visit the website for more information:

www.novajobfair.org  

  

Be sure to register oniine and submit your resume by irlarch 5th

 

cn--::<Dc:.c:--(1)

 

- Modern saints

MONDAY,MARCH 9, 2009

THE RING-TUM PHI °

 

arts&life

Artist uses his work to address issues in the Americas

MORGAN HARRIS / Staff photographer

Dobin-Bernstein's exhibit blends religious iconography and modern day
scenes to create a sense of cultural identity in the Americas.

By Valaree Tang
STAFF WRITER

From January 19 to June 7,
“Saints and Other Sightings,” a
photography exhibit featuring
photos by Noah Dobin-Bemstein,
displays 35 various black and
white and color photographs tak-
en from two ends of the continent
in The Williams School of Com-
merce, Economics and Politics.
The Gallery hours are from 8 AM
to 5PM from Monday through
Friday.

With photographs from Buenos
Aires, Argentina to New Haven,
Connecticut, Dobin-Bernstein’s
photos have been displayed in
three other previous exhibitions.
The pieces range from contem-
porary saint icons along with pro-
tests in Buenos Aires and diners
in New Haven.

The “Saints and Other Sight-
ings” exhibition includes photos
of massive protests and small
movements between friends.
They show the complicated beau-
ty of contemporary lives of two
distinct comers of the Americas.

Dobin-Bemstein recognized
several reasons the saint icon was
created: to glorify a religious be-
lief, to establish a local identity, to
rally masses, to assert authority,
to claim authenticity, to protest
and to sell cards with prayers on
the subway. He hopes that each
reproduction reaffirms the myste-
rious power of these images, ex-
ceptional photographs even trans-
forming these meanings.

The “other sightings” of the
exhibition is a “search for new
character and new ways to tell
stories about contemporary life
at opposite ends of the Ameri-
cas,” wrote Dobin-Bemstein. The
photographs that complement the
saint icons are “not a documen-
tary nor is the angle of [the] lens
very wide. But hanging side by
side, they offer one View of the
complicated beauty of various

twenty—ﬁrst century lives,” wrote
Dobin-Bemstein:

There are a few select pieces
that stand out despite the fact that
none of the pieces have titles. One
photograph features a woman
dressed in dark clothing avert-
ing her eyes toward the camera.
The desperation and hope that is
portrayed through the woman’s
eyes is the main focus of the pho-
tograph. This color work-of-art is
featured on the ﬂyers promoting
the exhibition.

“Saints and Other Sightings” ex-
hibition, and shows the contem-
porary and complicated beauty of
the twenty—ﬁrst century life.

The photographs are on sale
and range from one work at $120,
with most‘ of the pictures costing
$300.

Dobin-Bemstein lived in
Buenos Aires, Argentina for two
years following his graduation
from Yale University. Dobin-
Bernstein, 23, studied under Lisa
Kereszi and David Hilliard and

“[ T he 4‘other sightings ’of the exhibition is a]

search for new character and new ways to tell

stories about contemporary life at opposite

ends of the Americas. ’

Noah Dobln-Bernstein, artist

1

 

Yet another color work that
particularly stands out among
the works, is one that presents a
young girl, thumb in mouth, in
a run—down setting. The fact that
such a young person in poverty
can be a saint in her community
is an interesting outlook, and even
transcends the reasons the saint
icon was created.

One color work shows a wom-
an dressed in blue from head to
toe, with her head covered and
standing among columns and pil-
lars. Her hands are in the praying
position, and the woman is a dis-
heartening parallel to some Cath-
olic icons of the virgin mother
Mary.

One black and white photo-
graph uses artistic angles and
features a nude young woman.
Tastefully photographed, the
woman’s face is hidden by the
way her head is angled, with her
knees pulled to her chest and her
breast exposed. This painting is a
part of the “other sightings” of the

received a post-graduate fellow-
ship from Yale to build a dark-
room and teach photography in a
community center rim by Asoci-
atién Civil Engranajes, an Argen-
tine non-proﬁt organization that
uses arts education as a means of
community-building and social
transformation. ,

While in Argentina, the pho-
tographer also worked with a
bakery in Argentina that cooper-
ates with the Unemployed Work-
er’s Movement of La Matanza to
make a bilingual, photographic
cookbook. This cookbook is on
sale at the exhibition and features
black and white pictures that
show bakers working night shifts,
preparing traditional pastries that
they will sell at low prices to ben-
eﬁt the community. Entitled “La
Masa Critical” or “Critical Mass
Bakery”, the cookbook can be
purchased in Huntley Hall Room
205-B for $15.

16
17
18
20

U‘!
G\

U!
N!

63
66
67
68

69

Head over to ringtumphicrossword.blogspot.com to check your soiution to this week's puzzle!

Across

1 More plentiful
7 Come (from)
1! Record stat

14 Getting it may

require good
behavior

Ccles1“iai bear
Brewed drink
Lens cover‘?
Alamo, for one
Shawn Johnson's
area of expertise
Cousin ofcaiypso
1773 jetsam
Tabloid twosomes
Nervous twitches
Pcspi alternative
Backstahher
Loser

Poodle. for one
Randy Johnsonﬁs
area of expertise
Hang

Vietnamese city that
gave Jane Fonda a
nickname
Passbook abbr.
Seasonni drink
US l and others
One hit Nagasaki in
[945

"Batman" _
onomatopoeia
Extreine s;uft'ix
Magic Johnson’s
area of expertise
Like part of
Williamsburg
Burn to a crisp
l\11anngc, with "out"
Jazz's Fitzgerald
2002 film with a
second sequel
coming out in July
Nine-digit JD

\

Johnson Scholars by Neville L. Fogarty

A night to save lives

Concert to help hurricane victims in Haiti

 

 

 

l 2 3 4 5 6 7  <2 :0 1: :2 is

lit 15 in

i7 is

30 I.’ S

22 22 24

26 27 28

33 34

37 33

43 44

45 46 47 43 49 so 5:

52 53 54 55 56

57 Sr 59 60 6! I

oz (:4 65

(if) (3?

69 71".»
70 Winter blanket 13 Most basic 45* l990 Kevin Costner
71 W-ashcd~out 19 Dead  hi-----;,—» Wm’

*0 yes‘
21 "Hooray!"

Down 22 Norms‘ bbr 46 Theyre read on a

- ' ‘” ' ' die
1 Big lug . . Km

' 23 Aussies neighbor -.
2 VE Days momh 27 Spring purchase 47 C ommon allergen
3 Provided a 29 C. ‘I S d 49 Cove” ~w~
clisclaiiner, maybe '£ om 0 mecca 50 ?.()(l(}s TV and book
30 V\"l1at to do at 30- series " (}irI"
4 Hang out ~~'----
Down ' ,
5 "Middleniarch" 31 S f H V ,b. d 53 L0“
author 34 [:5 3°35 irh 55 Usualiy duotheistic
6 Makes over 1 a cm W“ no mhgxm
t . - ~ x
7 "Raise you}, hand!" 36 fr’ ‘OI’; bi “W 58 Place for 21 tiring
deodorant brand ' """““f 3' OWE“ 59 mm Al“), Calif-
8 "Dinosaur Comics" 38 109"? piece 60 "Thﬁm Wiéhla be
character 39 its higher on the WW against that!"
9 Feudal worker ‘hwy’ 61 Winter air?
[0 Rose [(31-1]1edy_,  C alcuivus too‘  Technique USQCE I0
notably 4} R€_}€Cil03}S make 63—A(:ro§;~;

11 More irreverent 42 53531103 65

12 TV type

"If oniy  listened

By Susan Taylor
surr wmrsn

If you like music and helping peo-
ple, and have no plans for Sunday,
then you should go to the “One Acous-
tic Evening” beneﬁt concert.

The concert features a variety of
solo artists and groups. J. D. Marti-
nez, who has been writing original
songs since the 1960’s is scheduled
to perform. It seems that the concert
has some genuine celebrities in their
lineup. James Leva, the subject of nu-
merous articles in Sing Outl, Acous-

W&L joins the Lexington
community in supporting
and aiding the hurricane

survivors.

tic Guitar Magazine and Dirty Line
will be performing some of his famed
numbers along with James Tubbs, who
has sung at the National Anthem at the
Pentagon.

Washington and Lee will be rep-
resented by a number if its own or-
ganizations. The Catholic Campus
Ministry chorale will lend their di-
vine voices to charity for the evening.
Their program is comprised of a num-
ber of songs sung in Creole, the lan-
guage of Haiti. They are directed by
Josh Harvey, who also directs Joyful
Noise Gospel Choir, also scheduled to
perform. Some familiar W&L groups
such as the Washingtones, Rikki Tikki
Tavi and Agent Flynn, will perform
folk and classic rock.

The Washingtones were most re-
cently seen in W&L’s a capella festi-
val where they were met with grand
applause. '

Rikki Tikki Tavi and Agent Flynn
both successfully competed in this
year’s Battle of the Bands.

Local bands Jonathan Vassar &
The Speckled Bird and Generation
Gap will also be performing.

Finally, the concert features the
headliner Gary Ruley and Mule Train.
Gary Ruley is one of the best ﬁatpick-
ing guitarists in the Shenandoah Val-
ley, and has released ﬁve CDs.

There will be many types of music
to enjoy, from country and gospel to
folk rock to blues and bluegrass, and
even some new grass. It’s like a mu-
sical buffet, with a lot to sample and
enjoy.

The concert supports ongoing relief
efforts in Haiti, which was severely
damaged by hurricanes Fay, Gustav,
Hannah and Ike during last summer.
Some of the eﬁbrts include building
a school, constructing a church estab-
lishing a medical center, and aiding
Ebenezer Orphanage.

W&L joins the Lexington commu-
nity in supporting and aiding the hurri-
cane survivors. The medical clinic ini-
tiative is co-sponsored by Lexington
Presbyterian Church and St. Patrick’s
Catholic Church. The concert is co-
sponsored by The Caribbean Society,
Catholic Campus Ministry and the Of-
ﬁce of Religious Life. A

Tickets are $10 or two for $l5, and
you can buy them at Neon Bamboo at
20 W. Washington Street from Mon-
day through Saturday between 10 a.m.
and 5 p.m. ,

When you stop by to get your tick-
ets, be sure to see the ﬂash Haitian
Art Gallery, Karant Jou, also at Neon
Bamboo. Tickets will also be avail-
able during lunch in the Elrod Com-
mons living room a week before the
performance, and tickets will also be
available at the door. 300 tickets are
available. The concert takes place in
Wilson Hall at 7 p.m. Sunday.

  

MONDAY, MARCH 9, 2009

- THE RING-TUM PHI

sports

 

 

Mon Tues WED Tnuns FRI $Ar SUN
‘ t V5 VS
a PsU- Lynchburg
Baseball Fenum rlarrisburgr (x2)
3 pm" 3 p.m. 12 p.m.
Golf
vs Vs
Mews USMMA Franklin &
Laerosse Marshall
5 p.m.
7 p.m.
at
Women's UMW
Lacrosse -
2 p.m.
at at
M°"'5 Roanoke UMW 1
Tennis
3 p.m. 1 pm-
at
lIlIomon’s
UMW
Tennis
11:30 a.m
at
M°"’9 NCAA indoor
hack Oh i hi
amp ons ps
at
W°m°"’9 NCAA indoor
1' k
we Championships

 

The number of teams in NCAA Division I men's basketball history to

beat the number one team in the country twice in a season. Pitts-
burgh beat top-ranked Connecticut 76-68 on Feb. 16 and again 70-60

on Saturday.

61

The number of Florida State athletes that allegedly cheated on an
online test from 2006 until 2007, according to the NCAA. As a punish-
ment, the university will lose some scholarships and might have to

forfeit games.

6

The national ranking of the Washington College men's lacrosse team

that was beat by nineteenth—ranked W&L Saturday, 9-3.

$30 million

The amount of pitcher Jon Lester's 5-year contract extension with the
Boston Red Sox. Lester was diagnosed with cancer during the 2006
season but came back to win the 2007 World Series-clinching Game 4

over the Colorado Rockies and pitched a no hitter last season.

box .

“I must move on, and it’s another beginning for
me. If! can be that extra added piece to get
them to the playoffs, then that’s what I’m here
for. I looked at the defensive side of ball and of-
fensive side of the ball, and these guys have all
the pieces.”

   

.>. W

Wide receiver Terrell Owens after he signed a one-year, $6.5 million
contract Saturday with the Buffalo Bills. Just three days earlier the
Dallas Cowboys released Owens for causing team chemistry issues.
Last year the Bills went 7-9 and ﬂnlshed In last place In the AFC East.
Courtesy of cbssports.com.

“A lot of players show their affection just with
words. David Beckham is one of the very few who
has shown it with deeds.” -

AC Milan chalrman Adriano Galilanl Sunday after his team, the Los
Angeles Galaxy and David Beckham agreed to a multimillion-dollar
deal that will allow the superstar to remain with the Italian team
through the end of June. The LA Galaxy loaned Beckham to Ac Milan
for two months that was supposed to end Monday. Both AC Milan and
Beckham himself will be paying the LA Galaxy a signiﬁcant amount
of money to extend the loan (exact numbers not disclosed). courtesy
of sports.yahoo.com.

W&L loses ﬁrst game 

Women is lacrosse falls to number two F &M 11-9

By Will Dorrance
spoars EDITOR

Heading into Saturday’s
game against Franklin & Mar-
shall (F&M), the Washington
and Lee women’s lacrosse
team was ranked eighth in all
of Division III, according to
the Intercollegiate Women’s
Lacrosse Coaches Association
(IWLCA).

Unfortunately for the Gen-
erals, F &M is one of the seven
teams ranked ahead of them.
W&L was unable to pull off
the upset of the 2007 nation-
al champions, losing a close
game to the second-ranked
Diplomats, 11-9.

The Generals entered the
game 3-0, having outscored
their opponents 43-18, but
Saturday was a different story.

W&L did get out to an
early lead on a goal 1:47 into
the game from junior attack-
er Meredith Freeman. The
Generals’ initial lead was
short-lived though as F&M’s
ﬁrst-year midﬁelder Lauren
Ehrhardt scored just over a
minute later. W&L answered
back when senior attacker Ka-
tie Flippen scored just under
four minutes into the game to
put the home team up 2-1.

However, the Diplomats
began to take over from that
point on, outscoring the Gen-
erals 6-1 over the rest of the
first half. W&L did see some
offensive opportunities but for
the most part failed to put the
ball in the back of the net.

Robinson said the team
remained upbeat going into

halftime. “Knowing that we
still had thirty good minutes
of lacrosse to play, everybody
was on the same page that we
were still in this game and that
we had nothing to lose by just
going out there and giving it
our best.” M

Down 7-3, W&L came
out ﬁring to start the second
half. The Generals scored
four straight goals over a six-
minute span to tie the game at

S€V€I'l.

After calling a timeout once
the Diplomats took the l0-9
lead, W&L lost the draw, and
F&M did not tumover the ball,
running out the last three min-
utes on the clock. The away
team also added an insurance
goal with three seconds re-
maining to claim its second
win of the season in as many
attempts.

W&L was paced by Free-
man’s three goals and one as-
sist to give her 10 goals and two

“Although we clidn ’t win, we playecl a

great game. F &M is tough competition,

and if anything, we proved to ourselves

that we continue to belong at the top of

our division. 

Katie Flippen, senior attacker

F&M senior attacker Jen
Pritchard, a 2008 ﬁrst-team
All-American, scored her ﬁrst
goal a minute-and-a‘-half after
W&L tied the game.

But sophomore midﬁelders
Emmy Mathews and Wilton
Megargel teamed up to score
two goals in 40 seconds to put
the Generals back on top.

Pritchard, Lacrosse Mag-
azine’s 2009 Division III pre-
season Player of the Year, then
scored with both ten minutes
and three minutes remaining
to take back the lead that her
team would never relinquish.

assists on the year. Pritchard
led the Diplomats with three
goals and one assist.

Despite Pritchard’s statis-
tics Saturday, Freeman thinks
W&L’s defense played well
against the All-American.
“She is a very dynamic ath-
letic player, and we were ex-
pecting her to be a constant
threat. I think we did a great
job neutralizing her and forc-
ing F&M to show us that they
have more than one dynamic,
athletic player on the ﬁeld,”
said Freeman.

Robinson echoed her team-

mates’ comments regarding
Pritchard. “We deﬁnitely
knew she’d be one of their
major threats. She obviously
had a good game, but I think
we did a good job of not let-

.ting her dominate. She’s usu-

ally their main threat on draw
controls, and we deﬁnitely
took that part out of her game
on Saturday.”

Just as the team has been
doing all season, sophomore
Katharine F arrar and ﬁrst-year
Jennifer Linder split time in
goal. Farrar started the game
and surrendered seven goals
while making seven saves.
Linder gave up four goals in
the second half and made two
saves.

Having barely lost to last
year’s national ﬁnalists, Free-

man thinks that W&L is con- '

ﬁdent moving forward. “It
shows us how far hard work
and preparation can take us,
and our near-win just gives us
an incentive to continue work-
ing hard and pushing each oth-
er in practice, so if/when we
see F&M again, the outcome
will be a little different,” she
said.

Flippen summed up Sat-
urday’s game, “Although we
didn’t win, we played a great
game. F&M is tough com-
petition, and if anything, we
proved to ourselves that we
continue to belong at the top
of our division.”

Now at 3-1 on the year, the
Generals next travel to Freder-
icksburg, Va., Saturday to take
on Mary Washington in a 2:00
p.m. game.

 

 

Spring Sports Preview  

Baseball

2008 Record: 22-12 (10-8 ODAC)
2008 Post-Season: Beat Virginia Wes-
leyan 15-4; lost to Randolph-Macon 3-

13; lost to Lynchburg 6-7 in 12 innings

in the double elimination tournament
ODAC Coaches Preseason Poll
Ranking: 5

Key Returnees: Terrence McKelvey
(OF); Will Lewis (C); Hunter Seren-
betz (IB)

Key Loss: James Madden (OF)
Current‘Record: 8-3 (1-2 ODAC)
Coach Jeff Stickley’s Expectations:
“As always, our goal is to get to the
tournament and win it. That is certain-
ly the long term goal and short term is
to win as many games as we go along
and get better each week.”

Golf

2008 Post-Season: First place at

' ODAC Championships; 16th place at
the NCAA Championships '
Key Returnees: Brad Watts; Joe Gib-
son
Key Loss: Nathaniel James
Coach Gavin Colliton could not be
reached for comment.

Men 3‘ Lacrosse

2008 Record: 9-6 (5-1 ODAC)

2008 Post-Season: Lost to Virginia
Wesleyan 12-13 in ODAC Semiﬁnals ‘
ODAC Coaches Preseason Poll
Ranking: 3 ’
USILA National Ranking: 19

Key Returnees: Harry St. John (M);
James Shanahan. (D); Tim Skeen (M);
Austin Wernecke (D)

Key Losses: Will Englehart (A); Spot-
ty Robbins (M); Ned Rider (A)
Current Record: 4-0 (0-0 ODAC) 0
Coach Gene McCabe’s Expectations:
“Our goal is to make it to the NCAA
playoffs _by either winning the ODAC
title or earning and at large bid.”

Women is Lacrosse

2008 Record: 17-3 (8-0 ODAC)

2008 Post-Season: Beat Roanoke 13-4
in ODAC Championship; lost to Am-
herst 8-10 in the second round of the
NCAA Tournament
ODAC Coaches
Ranking: 1
IWLCA National Ranking: 8

Key Returnees: Kelsi Robinson (A);
Colleen Evans (M); Britten Mathews
(A) 7

Key Losses: Kat Michaels (D); Sarah
Tilbor (GK); Megan Slosson (M)
Current Record: 3-1 (1-0 ODAC)
Coach Brooke Diamond’s Expecta-
ﬁons: “Our team goals include win-
ning ODACS and earning a place in
the NCAA Final Four while earning a
team GPA of above 3.5 and contribut-
ing positively to the W&L community
as a whole.”

Preseason Poll

Men is Tennis

2008 Record: 18-5 (9-0 ODAC)

2008 Post-Season: Beat Hampden—
Sydney 9-0 in ODAC Championship;
lost to Mary Washington 4-5 in the sec-
ond round of the NCAA Tournament
ODAC Coaches Preseason Poll
Ranking: 1

ITA National Ranking: 18

Key Returnees: Jamie McCardell;
Brent Meyers; Alex Brooke

Key Losses: Tim Ross; Nat Estes; Seth
F eibelrnan; Stuart’ Sanford

Current Record: 7-1 (5-0 ODAC)
Coach David Detwiier’s Expecta-
tions: “To win the ODAC which quali-
ﬁes us for NCAAS [and] to make it to
the top 8 in the country.”

Women 31 Tennis

2008 Record: 28-1 (10—0 ODAC)
2008 Post-Season: Beat Bridgewater

9-0 in ODAC Championship; lost to .

Williams 4-5 in NCAA Championship
ODAC Coaches Preseason Poll
Ranking: 1

ITA National Ranking: 2

Key Returnees: Katie Tabb; Meg
Spalitta; Lauren Caire '
Key Losses: Rebecca Timmis; Leah
Weston; Kelly Will

Current Record: 4-1 (4-0 ODAC)

C ouch Eric Islzida could not be reached
for comment.

Men is Track

2008 Post-Season: Third place at
ODAC Championships

ODAC Coaches Preseason Indoor
Poll Ranking: 3
Key Returnees:
Vance Berry

Key Loss: Michael Keenan

Recent Results: Third place at ODAC
Indoor Championships on Feb. 27
Coach Nate Hoey’s Expectations:
“The guys had a very good indoor
championship meet — scoring the
most points since 1995. We have a
great group that is eager to continue
training and make that next step at the
outdoor championship meet.”

Billy Billington;

Women is Track

2008 Post-Season: Second place at
ODAC Championships

ODAC Coaches Preseason Indoor
Poll Ranking: 2

Key Returnees: Stacy Doornbos; Jess
Shaw; Elizabeth Webb

Recent Results: First place at ODAC
Indoor Championships on Feb. 27
Coach Nate Hoey’s Expectations:
“The women are coming off win-
ning the indoor ODAC Championship
title. It was a huge team effort, and
they are all very excited to be heading
into the outdoor season with a lot of
momentum. We are looking to carry
that positive momentum into a great
outdoor season.”

 

 

1
I ' wt .-

 

Praises for fire safety

, Good planning and lessons learned from past
tragedieskept Thursday’s fire at Pi Kappa Phi from
being fatal. I

  

OPINIONS / page 4

WAIIIGTN AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING-TUM PHI.

1897

MONDAY, MARCH 16, 2009 VOLUME cxn,‘ NUMBER 17

BY THE STUDENTS AND FOR THE STUDENTS SINCE

  Averting

 

MORGAN HARRIS / Staff Photographer

Most of the damage in Thursday’s fire was done to the front porch and doorway of the house.

Pi Kappa Phi fraternity house is still standing and students
are safe after porch ﬁre, residents move to Kappa Sigma

By Joel Poelhuis
3 TA F F w R IT E R
Five days after a ﬁre destroyed
parts of the Pi Kappa Phi house, the
17 former residents are settling in
at the empty Kappa Sigma house.
“Three kids lost just about ev-
erything,” said sophomore Da-
vid Coriell, who was treated for
smoke inhalation he suffered dur-
ing the ﬁre.
“We don’t have any furniture
or anything yet,” he said Saturday.
Yet Coriell said the transi-
tion to the new house has been

“Three kids lost just
about everything...we
don ’t have any furni-
ture or anything ﬁor

the new house] yet. ”

David Coriell, sophomore
PI Phi

made as smooth as possible
thanks to support from school
administration. He said President
Ken Ruscio, Dean David Leonard
and Clay Coleman, director of stu-
dent affairs and Greek life, were
all on the scene less than half an
hour after the ﬁre broke out.

Leonard personally drove Cori-
ell back from the hospital.

The cause of the ﬁre, which
started shortlfy after 4 am. Thurs-
day morning, has not been conclu-
sively determined.

Jimmy Swink, assistant ﬁre

chief of the Lexington ﬁre depart-
ment, said the ﬁre began under
the porch in the mulch. It took the
ﬁreﬁghters about 20 minutes to
control the blaze.

The department will release
their report to the school early this
week

Swink said the department
receives numerous calls ev-
ery spring about ﬁres that start
in ﬂammable fresh mulch.

Coriell said the school has pro-

See “Fire" on page 3

  dis aster

Safety ﬁxes ﬁromi ‘fraternity
renaissance ” may have
saved Pi Phi ﬁom blaze

By Jacob Geiger
5 TA F F W R I I E E
On April ll, 1984, Ed Bishop and several other
alumni from Washington and Lee’s Phi Gamma Delta

, fraternity peered into the smoking ruins of their fra-

ternity house.

A ﬁre had started early that morning. Thomas Fell-
in, a sophomore who had recently become the frater-
nity’s president, was dead, overcome by smoke just
feet from the door. Almost all of the other students
had been gone that night, home on spring break. Fellin
had arrived back in town just hours after the ﬁre, re-
turning from a trip with his baseball teammates.

The university was in a time of transition. Applica-
tions had been dropping sharply over the last several
years, and just three months later, the Board of Trust-
ees would vote 17 to 7 to begin admitting women to
the undergraduate portion of campus. I

“We just took it upon ourselves to rebuild,”
said Bishop. “There were a lot of ideas about
bulldozing it, but we wanted to rebuild. It cost
$800,000 dollars, which is a lot of money.”
Insurance would cover about $300,000, but the alum»
ni and undergraduate brothers would have to raise the
rest.

The rebuilding would take years, but the result was
a house that preserved the historic exterior architec-
ture but had a modern feel inside.

In the aftermath of the ﬁre, the alumni decided to
have the interior built almost entirely out of steel and
concrete, reasoning that this would limit the damage ‘
of any future ﬁre. They also had a sprinkler system
and extensive fire alarms installed.

Like most W&L fraternity houses in the 1980s,
the FIJI house was not in great shape before the ﬁre.
Each house was owned by the individual chapters,
and maintenance efforts were often put off longer than
they should be. Bishop and other FIJI alumni decided
that they would need to make some changes before

1 they could seek donations.

They set up a Housing Corporation, a group of
alumni who would oversee the fraternity ’s operations,
especially ﬁnancially. They set about hiring a house
mother, something FIJI and other W&L fraternities
had done away with a decade before because of ﬁnan-

' cial difficulties. And they decided to put some rules

see “Fire safety” on page 2

Fraternity sentenced to year off

Phi Kappa Psi is supended for a year after violating hazing policy on tear night

By Valaree Tang
STAFF WRITER

Phi Kappa Psi fraternity has
been found guilty of violating
Washington and Lee Universi-
ty’s hazing policy and has been
suspended for one year.

Acording to a release from
Brandon Dotson, Associate Dean
of Students, an incident report
was submitted by an anonymous
source to the ofﬁce of Greek life
on tear night. The ofﬁce then an
investigation of the fratemity’s
operations.

The ﬁndings of the Interfra-
temity Council (IFC), as well
as Phi Psi’s violation and the
University’s policy on hazing
were reviewed by the Univer-
sity Board of Appeals (UBA), a
panel consisting of students and
faculty.

The fratemnity was put on
a one-year period of “critical
social probation” by the IFC in
March of last year after an inci-
dent involving a visiting Johnson

scholar who was hopsitalized af-
ter attending a Phi Psi off-cam-
pus party.

This ruling stipulated that
if the fraternity were to violate
university or IFC standards, it
would be considered for suspen-
sion or dismissal from the Uni-
versity.

In January the IFC issued an-
other statement saying that Phi
Psi had breached the Univer-
sity’s hazing policy. The UBA
then reviewed an appeal based
on the IFC’s earlier decision to
place Phi Psi under social proba-
tion.

In a unanimous vote (4-0),
the UBA overturned the IFC’s
original ﬁnding that Phi Psi in-
fringed an alcohol policy ac-
cording to the University’s Ini-
tiatives on Alcohol and Other
Drugs. Instead, the UBA found
that the fraternity breached the
University’s hazing policy.

In another unanimous vote
(4-0), the UBA deemed the IF C’s

sanction inappropriate given the
circumstances of the violation of
the hazing policy.

According to Dotson, who is
chair of the UBA, the IFC and
Phi Psi agreed that the fraternity
violated the alcohol and hazing

He did not vote in the UBA’s
hearing. Dotson said the UBA’s
decision was ﬁnal.

In a majority vote (3-1), the
UBA imposed three separate
sanctions on Phi Psi. The frater-
nity will be suspended for one

“When an organization is found responsible

for hazing, they will be held responsible and in

this case it resulted in suspension. ’

1

Brandon Dotson, Associate Dean of Students

policy, but they disagreed with
the suspension.

Dotson said in an interview,
“Consistent to University policy,
when an organization is found
responsible for hazing, they will
be held responsible and in this
case it resulted in suspension.”

year from W&L, with the earli-
est readmission as a recognized
Greek organization on January
9, 2010.

The fraternity also must work
with its national headquarters to
revise its new member education
program and risk management

practices.

In addition, the newly revised
new member education program
must be submitted to the ofﬁce
of Greek life and the IFC by the
end of the fall 2009 semester
for approval by the University’s
director of Greek life and the
IF C.

Robert Claiborne, president
of Phi Psi and Carson Bruno, co-
chair of the Greek Vision Coun-

.cil and a member of Phi Psi, both

declined to comment on the is-
sue.

“We don’t want to talk about
it yet,” said a member of Phi
Psi. ‘

While hazing is a criminal
offense in Virginia, Phi Psi will
not be held legally rezpoirsible.
The fraternity will be held under
disciplinary action by the Uni-
versity.

When asked how the suspen-
sion of Phi Psi will inﬂuence
campus and fraternity dynamics,
Teri Cugliari, assistant director

of student activities and Greek
Life, said, “I think that it reiter-
ates that people are being held
accountable by peers, and that
student governance is alive and
well and people are held respon-
sible for their actions.”

Phi Psi will remain in their
chapter house until the end of
the 2008-2009 academic year.

Although the ﬁrst—year mem-
bers have already been initiated,
they will be unable to live in
the fraternity house in the fall
semester of next year. No com-
ments were made by members
of Phi Psi regarding the details
of where the new members will
live.

 

 

UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON. VA 24450

   

2 ° THE RING-TUM PHI 0

MONDAY, MARCH 16, 2009

MAR 1 7 mg

 

pring forward

New spring term holds exciting opportunities

By Victoria Taylor
STA F F W R l T E R

The reduction of the traditionally six-week
spring term to four doesn’t just mean less time to
tube down the Maury.

The 2009-2010 academic year will debut the
new four-week spring term. During this short se-
mester, students will be “fully engaged” in one
course. According to English professor Marc
Conner, who is the director of the Quality En-
hancement Plan (QEP) leadership team which is
guiding the transition, students will only be able
to take one other credit-bearing activity, such as a
physical education or music class. Overloads will
not be permitted and the Pass/Fail option will no
longer be available for spring term.

This change means that, starting with all

“As of any change, especially
here, it 71 take a while, but even-
tually [the reception] will be

positive. ”

Sam Gilleran, sophomore
 

classes on campus in the fall of 2009, 113 credits
will be necessary to graduate as opposed to previ-
ous requirement of 115 credits.

On Monday and Tuesday, Conner held an in-
formation session for students on the logistics of
the new Spring Term in Commons. He said that
the faculty has been working for nearly a year
to develop 140 new courses, each of which will
require an average commitment of 30 to 35 hours
per week. Class meetings will account for eight
to 10 of those hours and many classes will in-
clude some kind of travel component.

There are currently 100 courses in varying
stages of development. New courses include Pro-
fessor Gregory Dresden’s Mathematics of Cryp-
tography and theater Professor Owen Collin’s
Design & Performance: Properties, Puppets and
Masks.

The reduction of spring term by two weeks
will also bring changes to the academic calendar.
Commencement will be one week earlier, putting
it at May 27, 2010. Holiday break will now be a

full three weeks, with the winter 2010 semester
beginning on Jan. 11.

But the changes don’t end there. Registration
for spring tenn will also experience drastic chang-
es. Course descriptions of spring term courses
will be available online in the fall and students
will preregister for their top three choices late in
the ﬁrst semester. Registration will take place in
late January and students will be assigned their
classes before Washington Break. Once spring
term has begun, there will be a two-day drop/add
period.

The new spring term will still provide students
with some of the unique study abroad opportuni-
ties that have characterized the short semester. A
few programs, like Washington term and Con-
ner’s program in Ireland, will remain six-weeks
in length.

The QEP is the main component of the reaffir-
mation of accreditation by the Southern Associa-
tion of Colleges and Schools (SACS), a process
that colleges and universities go through every
ten years. The “revitalization” of spring term is
the subject of Washington and Lee’s QEP.

Conner said he became involved with the QEP
program because he feels developing the program
in Ireland and the term in general have provided
him with the most valuable teaching experience
of his career.

“I really believe in the spring term,” said Con-
ner. “I don’t want to see it lost or diminished for
the students or the faculty.” ‘

He reassures that the administration is “not
trying to kill spring term,” citing the huge under-
taking by the faculty and staff of creating the new
courses as well as the administration’s commit-
ment of $500 thousand to the project.

Sophomore Sam Gilleran said he thinks the
new spring term is an improvement and has the
opportunity to be effective.

“As of any change, especially here, it’ll take a
while,” Gilleran said, “but eventually [the recep-
tion] will be positive.”

Corrections

In last week’s story, “Election, 2009” on
page J.-
The EC presidential run—oﬂ° was between second-year law student Eric Hoffman and

junior John Twomey. The SJC secretary-elect Caitlin Cottingham is also a second-year
law student, not an undergraduate junior.

NEEDED:
Writers, layout designers
and copy editors for the Phi

contact Alison Chopin at
phi@wlu.edu

Fire safety

continued from page 3

in place that were aimed at controlling what
Bishop called the “Animal House atmosphere”
so prevalent at W&L fraternities in those days.

“The school took notice and school said, ‘geez
if it works there maybe it’ll work elsewhere,”
Bishop said.

So a group of alumni from each fraternity on
campus began meeting. In 1988, the Trustees
unanimously approved what became known as
the Fraternity Renaissance. The program would

“It was a unique undertaking.
Most schools were trying to get
rid of frats, so it was a big de-

1

parture from the norm. ’

Ed Bishop, Phi Gamma Delta alumnus

renovate 17 houses, and the Cadaver Society
made an immediate splash by donating $100,000
in support of the plan.

Construction began on the Red Square houses
in June 1990 and continued to Davidson Park in
subsequent years.

“It was a unique undertaking,” Bishop said.
“Most schools were trying to get rid of frats, so it
was a big departure from the norm.”

One of the people leading the effort was
Frank Parsons, an alumnus and long-time uni-
versity employee who worked in President John
Wilson’s office. Parsons was the university presi-
dent’s point man on all building matters, meeting
with architects and engineers.

“We in the president’s oﬁice, the alumni and
the board of trustees knew we had to do some-
thing about the houses that were growing deeper
and deeper into decay,” Parsons said. “There was

enough food on the walls of Beta [Theta Pi} to
feed a small nation from all the food ﬁghts. They
were eating on homemade picnic tables there.”

Discussions about what to do began even be-
fore the FIJI house bumed. When the fraternity
was restored in such successﬁxl fashion, Parsons
said the school realized they had a model they
could follow.

As the school purchased and renovated the
fraternity houses, each building was brought up
to match the new ﬁre code. Bishop and Parsons
said most of the houses had been grandfathered in
previously and had not met ﬁre code regulations.
Now all of the houses got code updates, including
sprinkler systems and new smoke detectors that
would trigger loud alarms.

The school’s meeting with alumni led to a set
of standards for the fraternity, including regu-
lations on the physical condition of the house.
But the school quickly realized most fraternities
would never have enough money to repair their
houses and meet the standards.

“All of this came at a time when fraternity
interest at W&L was at its lowest ebb ever,” Par-
sons said. .

The plans had to wind their way though Lex-
ington’s bureaucracy, winning approval from the
planning commission and City Council. The city
manager at the time wanted approval for the reno-
vations to be tied to the imposition of an automo-
bile tax on students who had cars in Lexington.

“President Wilson told the planning commis-
sion that they must not care if W&L ﬁxed up the
derelict houses in town,” Parsons said. “The next

thing we knew the tax was out of the way and

other things fell into place.”

Parsons, who still lives in Lexington, retired
from W&L about a decade ago. It’s been years
since he had anything to do with the fraternity
houses, but he was still relieved to hear that the
measures put in place 20~years-ago worked last
week. ’

“We were very concerned in the Pi Phi house
about ﬁre safety,” he said. “One of the best things
I’ve ever heard was the news that the ﬁre alarm
and sprinklers worked as they were supposed
to.”

There will be a free

NOLS

(National Outdoor Leadership School)

presentation held at Washington & Lee University
in the

Outing Club Meeting Room
(114 Elrod Commons)

on March 25 @ 7pm.

This will include a
slideshow and talk.

Also, from 1 1:00 - 1 pm
there will be an information
booth in the Commons.

This is a great opportunity if you do not
have an internship for the upcoming summer
or if you are just interested in the outdoors.

Please feel free to stop by.

 

ﬁx

 

O

 

 

C)

MONDAY, MARCH 16, 2009

 

COURTESY OF SHANE RAMEE

TOP LEFl': The fire is believed to have started on or near the front porch around 4 a.m.
Thursday morning. The damage is worst along the front of the house, near the door and

porch.

TOP RIGHT: Firefighters knocked a hole in the roof of the house, allowing smoke and
flames to escape by creating a natural chimney. This room on the third floor housed two
students, though at least one of the students was not in the room when the fire broke out.
BOTTOM LEFT: The upstairs of the house also suffered damage.

BOTTOM RIGHT: Though the damage is severe, President Ken Ruscio said there does not
appear to be any major structural damage and that the school hoped the house would
reopen in the fall for the start of the next school year.

RIGHT: Most of the house's 15 residents were able to salvage their clothing, which the
school paid to have dry cleaned. Insulation fell out of the ceiling and was scattered

throughout the upper floors.

Fire

continued from page 1

. vided toiletries and bedding for the beds in Kappa
Sigma and is dry cleaning clothes damaged in the
ﬁre. I

The Kappa Sigma house has been empty since
the fraternity was removed from campus in 2007.
In recent years the house has been used as head-
quarters for Campus Kitchens, an organization that
provides free meals to local residents.

Jennifer Sproul, coordinator of Campus Kitch-
ens, says ‘she expects to continue to use the kitchen,
but that no arrangements had been ﬁnalized.

“We’re waiting to see exactly what’ll happen,”
she said.

Campus Kitchens’ oﬂices are being removed to
accommodate Pi Phi’s house director, who must
also move out due to ﬁre damage and reconstruc-
tion efforts.

The Pi Phi brothers are now eating their meals in
the campus dining hall, but Coriell said they hope

to have their regular cook back soon for meals at
Kappa Sigma.

A wooden sign reading “Pi Phi West” sits on
the table in the kitchen at Kappa Sigma. Coriell said
the brothers have been trying to strike a balance
between making the house feel like their home and
not intruding on Kappa Sig’s heritage.

According to Coriell, the senior former members
of Kappa Sigma have been supportive, even offer-
ing suggestions about room assignments.

Coriell said he is optimistic about Pi Phi’s house
being ready for the new sophomore class in the fall.

_-.’;-

THE RING-TUM PHI

IIGWS

 

 

MONDAY, MARCH 16,2009

THE RING-TUM PHI

    

-4

opinioﬂ

 

Fire safety saves lives

How a 25-year-old tragedy saved students at Pi Kappa Phi

By Jacob Geiger
C0 LU M N I ST

As students and administra-
tors pick up the pieces from
Thursday moming’s ﬁre at Pi
Kappa Phi fraternity, one truth is
emerging: a combination of good
planning and good luck helped
everyone make it out alive.

The fratemity’s sprinkler
systems and alarms worked like
clockwork.

The reason the defense mech-
anisms in Pi Phi’s house — like all
other Greek houses on campus —
were able to protect the residents
is rooted in another fraternity ﬁre
at Washington and Lee.

In April 1984, the Phi Gamma
Delta (FIJI) house was mostly
empty. It was spring break, and
only a few baseball players were
home. One was Thomas Fellin,
a Pennsylvania sophomore who
had just taken over as the frater-
nity’s president.

When the house caught ﬁre in
what investigators later said was
arson, Fellin was killed, over-

come by smoke just a few feet
from the exit.

The house was almost totally
destroyed; only the exterior walls
- made of virtually indestructible
stone — survived.

The house was then owned by
the fraternity chapter. FIJI, like
other houses at Washington and
Lee in the 19805, no longer had a
house mother, having abandoned
the system in the mid-1970s.

When the members and alum-
ni of the fraternity decided to re-
build, a group of alums cut a deal
with the school. If the alumni
group could raise the roughly
$500,000 in repair costs that
weren’t covered by insurance,
the school would buy the prop-
erty and then lease it back to the
chapter.

Among the more practical
amenities were improved ﬁre
exits and an extensive sprinkler
system.

The chapter also agreed to
hire a house mother and abide
by some new rules governing be-
havior in the houses.

The beautifully redone house
opened a few years later, and the
school liked the setup so much
that it launched a fraternity re-
naissance, buying up and reno-
vating virtually every fraternity
house on campus. As each house
was redone, ﬁre exits were im-
proved and sprinkler systems
were installed.

The program wrapped up
more than 10 years ago, and stu-
dents have been enjoying the top-
of-the-line houses ever since.

About 99.99 percent of the
time, we focus on the beautiful
building, nice dining rooms and
spacious bedrooms.

This week was the other 0.01
percent, the time when we re-
member that the school’s deci-
sion to remodel the frat houses a
decade ago gave us top-notch ﬁre
protection.

When the school embarked on
its fraternity renaissance, most
universities were trying to dis-
tance themselves from fraternity
life. Many schools considered
frats deadweight, groups that

could only lead to bad publicity
while contributing little to their
campuses. Thankfully, the alum-
ni and administration of W&L
knew better.

W&L is blessed with some
of the nicest fraternity houses
around. There’s no doubt that a
few individual chapters at vari-
ous schools around the country
might have nicer houses, but
I challenge you to ﬁnd a single
campus that has a whole system
of houses as nice as ours.

Colleges around the country
have learned from bitter experi-
ence that fraternity ﬁres are all
too common. We learned the
same deadly lesson at W&L in
1984.

Thursday morning’s ﬁre could
have been a worst-case scenario.
It came hours after a major party,
meaning students were likely
tired and groggy.

Thank goodness our school
learned the right lessons after
Thomas Fellin’s death. Those
lessons helped save lives Thurs-
day morning.

The celebrity round-up

Grace Andrews talks Chris Brown, Joaquin Phoenix, and more...

By Grace Andrews
c o LU M N I ST

Today’s article is going to be
about pop culture, or better yet,
what is currently happening in
popular culture.

Let’s start with our resident
pop-tart, Britney Spears. Ms.
Spears‘s much talked about tour
has begun and she’s managed to
lip-sync without teetering across
the stage or forget to move her
lips all together. I think this
means that her comeback is of-
ﬁcially a success. Good for her!

I’m not going to lie; I’ve
been worried about the so-called
Princess of Pop and am happy
to see that her life is getting on
the right track. I still don’t think
she has any real vocal talent, but
she sure can make a catchy tune
(starts humming the beat for
Womanizer).

I guess that’s why it’s been
reported that she’s been lip-syn-
ching all of her songs during the
“Circus” tour. I must say, I’m
not opposed to that, her voice
isn’t great and it’s especially
rough when she’s out of breath
from running around on a stage.
I just want Britney to add a few
more dance moves to her reper-
toire. If she does one more body
roll with a front head dip and leg
pop, 1 may have to pop her in the
front of her head with my leg.

Speaking of pop, the King
of Pop Michael Jackson and
his protégée, Chris Brown have
been in the news (read: frivo-
lous magazines as well as other
media outlets) for very different
reasons.

Apparently, Mr. Jackson will
be having a series of farewell
concerts in the UK, or some-
thing like that. I didn’t really pay
attention to the article, because I
didn’t really care.

I actually think that’s how
most people will feel. I love old
school Michael and I’m the ﬁrst
one pulling my pants up to ex-
pose crisp new thick white cot-
ton socks with freshly polished
black dress shoes while moon
walking and spinning in public
places. However, Michael has
not lived up to his level of ﬂyness
in a long time. It seems like ever
since Free Willy’s soundtrack,
he just hasn’t been able to make

a truly remarkable single.

Maybe this will be differ-
ent and his 200'“ comeback will
have some staying power. With
the riffraff noise playing on the
radios nowadays that tries to
pass itself off as music, I’d love
to sit down and hear a real artist
sing. Best of luck to MJ!

Now let’s talk about the little
one that wanted to follow in
MJ’s footsteps, the young and
talented Chris Brown. It seems
that he’ll be following his idol
all the way to court.

I was never a big fan of Mr.
Brown’s, but I respected his

I know that such private mat-
ters are none of my business (or
you, the readers either), but I
hope to see our judicial system
bring him to justice and pro-
vide the mental help he clearly
needs.

I also pray that Rihanna ﬁnds
the strength to do what is best
for her. I happen to think that
leaving Chris Brown may be the
most favorable option, but as of
recently, the two stars are back
together and apparently “hap-
py,” that is until something sets
him off again.

As more news of the attack

I ’d be lying if I said that I didn ’t want Chris
Brown to go to prison for what he did to Ri-

hanna, but it would also be unfair of me not

to acknowledge the fact that his mother was

physically abused by his stepfather and that

he is a product of an abusive home.

drive to be an amazing singer,
dancer, and actor. I was just as
shocked as everyone else to learn
about the Rihanna situation. The
situation concerning these two
young and up-and-coming stars
is extremely saddening.

I refuse to make excuse for
either party, or pretend to un-
derstand truly, since I’ve been
fortunate enough never to have
been on either end of a domes-
tic violence dispute. I think that
such a sobering situation shows
the public that stars are humans
too, ﬂawed and prone to mess-
ing up, just like the rest of the
world. ,

It makes us realize that vio-
lence against women is a shock-
ingly commonplace problem
that deserves to be discussed in
public forums, so that people
can receive help.

I’d be lying ifl said that I
didn’t want Chris Brown to go
to prison for what he did to Ri-
hanna, but it would also be un-
fair of me not to acknowledge
the fact that his mother was
physically abused by his stepfa-
ther and that he is a product of
an abusive home.

becomes public, Chris continues
to lose credibility as a person
which has been affecting his
credibility as an artist.

He recently pulled out of
Nickelodeon’s Kid Choice
awards due to controversy sur-
rounding his nomination. Ironi-
cally, some people wanted Ri-
hanna to withdraw her name
as well. I know why Chris was
asked to withdraw, but I’m still
confused about Rihanna.

The whole debacle just
worries me; apparently it wor-
ries Oprah, Jessica Simpson,
and a slew of other celebri-
ties. Oprah’s having a show for
abused women and dedicating it
to Rihanna. Jessica S. most re-
cently announced to an audience
oat one of her concerts that she’d
been in an abusive relationship
and that women should leave
any situation where a man hurts
you physically or emotionally.
It sounds like EVERYONE has
something to say to Rihanna.

But I’ve actually got a few
choice words for Mr. Brown. It
seems that despite all this talk-
ing people aren’t actually step-
ping in to help either of these

two stars. Maybe it really isn’t
our business and we should let
them make their own “adult” de-
cisions about their relationship.
I will again reserve my criti-
cisms and judgments, but I’m
sure that those of you who know
me can only imagine what I’m
thinking.

On a happier note, Joaquin
Phoenix has decided to become
a rapper. The actor recently re-
tired to pursue a career in mu-
sic. I’m not sure what part of his
new disheveled look, full bibli-
cal beard, incoherent speech,
and obvious mind loss have to
do with that, but when I ﬁgure it
out, I’ll be sure to let you know.

His recent life choices and
behavior even received the unso-
licited opinion of a medical doc-
tor who called Joaquin crazy.

I’m neither trained medical
professional, or close friend of
Mr. Phoenix’s but I’m inclined
to say that the man’s most re-
cent shenanigans are an indica-
tion that he may need a good ol’
fashioned talking to.

He’s acting a fool and needs
to be told about himself (that’s
southern dialect for “someone
tell him he’s being stupid and
should stop acting in such a
manner.”

I nominate my mother. She
has an afﬁnity for getting to the
point and making you feel small-
er than an ant without saying
one mean word. I’m sure she’d
whip his Hollywood behind in
shape quicker than I could read
this article out loud.

On a more relevant note, it’s
Daylight Savings and we’ve
sprung forward.

This means that you and
I both lost an hour of our ever
precious time. I’m actually
quite devastated and heartbro-
ken about this. When I think
of the sleep I’m losing and the
time I’ve already wasted I can’t
help but want to smash a clock
in with my ﬁsts. Yet, I’ll restrain
such aggressive urges and be
thankful for more hours of sun-
light, and walk away.

Maybe I should teach Chris
Brown about my positive cop-
ing mechanisms for when I get

angry...

By Jean Chapman
COLUMNIST

only scratch the surface.

Gender relations here at Washington and Lee suck.
We have a sexual abuse rate twice that of the national average,
men and women seldom interact outside of class or parties, and
we keep blaming all of our problems on the Greek system.
Somehow, it’s easier for all of us to pretend that the bubble of
fraternity and sorority life causes all of our issues than face up to
the fact that something else is going wrong at this university.
Admittedly, women are pretty new on this campus compared
to other universities. W&L only went co-ed about 20 years ago
and, frankly, women on this campus have had an uphill battle.
The good ol’ boys southern mentality that brought us the honor
system and the speaking tradition also brought a sense of chau-
vinism to campus that hasn’t really gone away yet. Don’t get me
wrong, I haven’t had any problems as a woman here on campus.
What remains from that old fashioned system, though is the sense
that men and women live in somewhat diﬂerent social worlds
from each other and have to act by different standards.
Yeah. I bet a lot of you just rolled your eyes. “Is she seriously
going to complain about double standards?” Well, I just want to
point a few things out. First, ever notice that women dress up to
parties, when men dress down? Women spend serious time and
effort on makeup, clothes, hair, the whole nine yards, and men
don’t usually waste their time with it unless they’ve been forced
to come up with a good costume.

It doesn’t really end with going out to parties, either. On any
given day walking around campus, take a look around at every-
one around you. I’m willing to bet that more of the women that
you see will be dressed up than the men. A man who goes to class
in sweats is barely noticed, but if a woman goes out dressed that
way, it tends to be remarked upon. I don’t mean to imply that one
should not try to look one’s best, but it makes me wonder if we
women on this campus feel that we have something to prove. We
dress up, we work hard, and we try to be taken seriously.

I don’t want to lecture and I don’t want people to start being
less fashionable, but I do want to point out some discrepancies.

Perhaps the reason why we have issues connecting to each
other is not because we get separated sophomore year by the
Greek system. Perhaps we still have different expectations from
men and women on this campus. These expectations might not be
academic, but they are certainly social.

I don’t mean to limit my examples to clothing and appear-
ance. Those just happen to be the most easily visible examples of
double-standards on our campus. My larger point here is that men
and women on our campus need to work a little harder to under-
stand each other. A few good ideas have been proposed recently
to improve gender relations, including mixed gender lunches and
the possibility of co-ed housing for freshmen, but those really

The gender gap *

OI; why W&L women have to dress up

To be honest, people, we need to start acting like adults in-

stead of seventh graders at a dance.

Members of the opposite sex aren’t aliens or different species

so we should stop treating them that way. We need to learn to treat

each other with respect, understanding, and real honor. Gentle-

men and ladies do not have to be separated from each other and
“honor” does not have to mean different standards or behaviors.

‘E

M WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY ----—---—

RING -TUM

PHLF

MANAGING EDITOR
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR

SPORTS EDITOR

CONTRIBUTING WRITERS

DESIGN EDITOR
STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER
BUSINESS MANAGER
DISTRIBUTION MNGR.

ALLISON CHOPIN
JOHN HENDERSON
CODY BEAUCHAMP
CELESTE CRUZ-
CARANDANG

WILL DORRANCE

GRACE ANDREWS
ALEISHA BUTLER
JEAN CHAPMAN
MEGAN DAILY
NEVILLE FOGARTY
JACOB GEIGER
KATIE HATFIELD
JOEL POELHUIS
KIMBER WIGGS
VALAREE TANG
VICTORIA TAYLOR

LARA JORDAN
MORGAN HARRIS
STROCK MOORE
ROB GEORGE

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE
RING-TUM PHI to accurately. truthfully, and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community for students, faculty,
parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire
to spark discussions that lead to discovering
information that prompts change.

THE RING-TUM PHI IS PUBLISHED MONDAYS
DURING THE UNDERGRADUATE SCHOOL YEAR.
THE RING—TUM PHI IS A MEMBER OF THE MEDIA
BOARD, BUT IS OTHERWISE INDEPENDENT.
QUESTIONS OR CONCERNS ABOUT THE PHI
SHOULD BE ADDRESSED TO THE EDITORS AT
PHI@WLU.EDU OR TO THE MEDIA BOARD AT

MEDIABOARD@WLU.EDU.

THE MEDIA BOARD

Is AN INDEPENDENT, STUDENT-RUN EDITORIAL
OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE WORKING WITH ALL
MEDIA OUTLETS ON THE WASHINGTON &

LEE CAMPUS. ALL INQUIRIES WILL REMAIN
CONFIDENTIAL. THE RING-TUM PHI WELCOMES
ALL LETTERs. WE RESERVE THE RIGHT To EDIT
SUBMISSIONS FOR CONTENT AND LENGTH.
LETTERS AND ADVERTISING DO NOT NECESSARILY
REFLECT THE OPINION or THE RING—TUM PHI
STAFF. THIS NEWSPAPER OBSERVES CURRENT
COURT DEFINITIONS or LIBEL AND OBSCENITY.
THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540) 458-4059
EMAIL: PHl@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

A

 

 

 

  

° Do you want to talk?

O»

 

MONDAY, MARCH 16, 2009

  

THE RING-TUM PHI

- 5

 

opinions

In relationships, gendered understandings of speech cause problems

By Alelsha Butler
c o L u M N I s T

A young woman and a young
man are cooking dinner As the
girl finishes preparing the food
she gestures toward the sink
and asks the guy, “Do you want
to do some of those dishes? ”

“No, ” he answers ﬂatly.
Instantly the girl is irritated,
and the guy grins impishly as
he says, “But I thought you al-

.ways wanted me to be honest?

Isn ’t honesty one of the building
blocks of our relationship? ”

“Yea well...”

“Well what? ” He 3 still grin-
ning.

“That was the wrong an-
swer, ” she growls.

“Just tell me to do them,
then.”

She sighs. “I don’t want to
sound like a shrew. ”

Many linguistic studies have
found that 55% of communica-
tion is body language, 38% is
tone of voice and 7% is the ac-
tual words you say.

Therefore: when you text
someone you’re only using 7%
of your communication abili-
ties, and the phone isn’t much
better, leaving you with only
45% of your communication
powers. Not being able to hear
the inﬂection associated with
someone’s words or read the
sapréssilpns on t19¢itifééi;tmark-
edly reduces the efﬁciency of
conversation. As convenient as
modern technology canbe, mis-
communication abounds when
people try to use it to discuss
important, heavy topics.

Silence can say a lot, and
when it stretches between text

messages or IM’s the people on
each end, being unable to read
facial expressions, are left won-
dering what is going through
the other’s head.

When these waiting periods
are laid side-by-side with the
gendered forms in which men
and women speak a communi-
cation barrier springs up.

Linguistic anthropology
studies have determined that
when men and women com-
municate, women use qualiﬁers
like “would” or “could” and use

tions are from each other, from
our education, from our lives?

Are we speaking to each
other or are we talking at one
another? Are we simply play-
ing out the gendered roles that
were handed to us at birth?

If we resolve conﬁicts based
on gender assumptions, we
might not really be solving any-
thing.

If, like the couple in the
scene above, we continue to
ask the wrong questions and be
unhappy with wrong answers,

Are we really communicating? When we con-

verse with members of the opposite sex do we

really make clear who we are, what we want,

and what our expectations are... ?

open-ended questions and state-
ments that invite further conver-
sation.

Men tend to use clipped an-
swers and questions that shorten
communication. Neither gender
uses these strategies in a con-
scious way; they merely speak
in the manner in which they
were raised. Women are taught
to be polite; men, to be direct.
However, when a woman is di-

«rect and a- man is soft-spoken,
she is a bitch or a shrew and he
is weak. How enlightened.

This phenomena leads to
my true question: are we re-

When
we converse with members of
the opposite sex do we really
make clear who we are, what

ally communicating?

we want, and what our expecta-

we’re never going to get any-
where or understand each other
at all.

Who, in a ﬁght, is “sup-
posed” to -say sorry ﬁrst? Does
it depend on the subject of the
conflict at hand? Does it depend
how “important” the issue is?
What do we do when a member
of the opposite gender answers
a direct query with a word that
throws focus away from the true
topic?

For example, we’ll look at
the word “ﬁne.” An elusive
little creature, it carries layers
of meaning in its current cul-
tural context. It can mean that
someone is very sexually attrac-
tive; it can carry a general posi-
tive connotation, a fairly neutral
connotation or, most frustrat-

ingly, it can mean that there is
a lot to more to be said. The
problem with this word is that
when men use it, they generally

mean they’re feeling positive or .

neutral, but when women use it
they mean to imply that they’re
upset or dissatisﬁed; the reason
they’re not voicing their con-
cerns is that they feel they can-
not or should not.

Men tend to misunderstand
women’s implications when
they use “ﬁne” and then women
feel as if the men in their lives
aren’t trying hard enough. Fol-
lowing such an interaction, cha-
os and mayhem usually ensue
until someone ﬁnally expresses
themselves in a clear and articu-
late way.

Why then, if we all know of
words like “ﬁne”, do we con-
tinue to speak to each other in
unclear and frustrating half-
truths?

I think the problem is that
members of each gender fully
believe in the clarity of their
speech because in homogenous
groups it is completely clear.
Here at Washington and Lee,
modern technology .is rampant
and genders are pretty severely
segregated after freshman year.

We are rarely forced to use
cross-gender conversation skills
and we forget that certain words
have different connotations in
different settings.

If things are ever going to
change here, if we’re ever go-
ing to really communicate with
each other, we just have to keep
in mind that words have mul-
tiple meanings, and the value of
body language is priceless.

  
 
   
   
 
 
  

Profiles
in
Leadership:
Harry St. john

What energizes you
about taking on the re-
sponsibilities of campus
leadership? “Every day I have
the opportunity to try and moti-
vate my teammates, which is an
extremely challenging task, given
the length of a season. Luckily I
have two other captains, and ten
seniors, that are just as inspiring
and dedicated to lead this team.”

What has been one of
the most rewarding as-
pects of leadership at

University Scholar, Tri—captain of the

Lacrosse Team and member of Phi

Kappa Sigma

 

VV&L? “The most rewarding aspect of being a captain of the lacrosse

tea.m is the way in which I was elected. Anytime your teammates en-

trust you to represent themselves is an honor.”

What legacy of leadership do you hope you've left for others
at W&L? “We still have a long way to go, but I hope my teammates
will remember me as Completely dedicated member of this team, will-

ing to sacriﬁce absolutely anything for our betterment. Being a part of

the lacrosse team will be my greatest memory at Washington and Lee.”
Any words of advice for those who follow? “I'm still learn-
ing as I go — I'll get back to you on that one because there’s always room

for improvement.”

Tuesdays with Leadership:

Vocation and the Ethics o_fAmb1't1'on

12:15 and 6:30 P/ll, Room 214 Elrod Commons
Explore the concept of vocation in its relationship with both

a job or a career, and the importance of reflection

It ta lees more than

6.000! Locate
to get ajob!

 

Visit Career Services for:
Resume and Cover Letter Help
Practice Interviews
Job and Internship Resources
Networking Advice

Quick Questz'0ns  70-7 7am and 2-3pm
After Hours (T, U7, Th): 4-7 pm

VVJKSI-IINGTGN A=.\”I’.) I/IEF; I..lNl"¢'l:'i'lt2iiiT’t"’

CAREER@SERVICES

SOUTHERN INN
RES TA URAN T

A Downtown Lexington Tradition Since 1932

 

Now Serving

Brunch on
Saturday &
Sunday
Starting at
10:00 AM!

540-463-3612

Www.southerninn.com

37 S Main St
Lexington, VA 24450

 

 

 

6 ' THE RING-TUM PHI

MONDAY,

MARCH 18, 2009

arts&|ife

 

 

    

 

Geoff Tate is improvisation and
creativity made the theater
Dubyuhnell by Neville L. Fogarty , ,
Head over to ringtiimphicrossword.biogspot.coni to check your solution to this week's puzzle! vlbrate wlth laugh ter
gﬁcross 9 {(3 ll 12 H  Khnbef 
1 "Freedom" food of STAFF WRITER
2003 '5
6 M ichael of in The General Activities Board gave students the oppor- .
"A‘”“’3‘e’‘l " tunity for a real laugh with Comedian Geoff Tate.Although
Dgevelolnnem 23 new to the scene, Tate has earned fame from several suc-
10 10"D°w"’ 53‘ 28 cessful shows as well as an appearance on Comedy Cen-
14 Bﬁmkfbrs _ tral. He graced the stage of the Stackhouse Theater on
15 Vs alkietaikie word Wednesday night
16 mm 0 S {Post cereal} ‘ _ ‘ _ Tate is relatively new to the world of professional com-
'l7 l8(), so to speak 3’ "4 35 "" - - - -
edy. He began his career in February 2003. Despite this,
18 Om ofmany in at Tate delighted and entertained everyone who made it out
many Monets to his Show.
20 Fonower amok“? 46 47 48 His erfoimance was uite well-attended It seems that
22 Sound Ofdeught 5; the Werdnesday night rejelries did not prevent students
23 Alt. to Chicago or fr . t th t
.I.umbim 55 om coming 0 e even .
24 Lesbian mm h The shotxlav had a bit of a rocky start, as feedback from
27 Gmmmous  e microp one disrupted‘Tate s opening remarks. Luck-
,, _ ily, technical difﬁculties did not stop Tate’s hilarious ﬂow
29 Desperate V’ ( ‘ M {,5 , , , _ _
Housewivesn locale 9- M > ) of humor. Like an expert, he took it in stride, using the
31 Ketchum 0f 6% opportunity to chastise the audience for avoiding the ﬁrst
"pQkem0,;" three rows and to poke fun at various attendees. .
32 christian name-\_) 69 70 71 Once the show got underway, the laughs did not stop.
33 Light sensitive
meinbraiie “ ,
3., Hardly mrming I thought he was more engaged with
39 Sarcastic 905 68 "Family Guy" father 12 "'I”wilight“ 43 Atkinson who the audience than most comedians who
sentence add~on 59 yam Clancy hem protagonist played Zazu in "The
41 Do It cashiers job Jack 13 Sort of flush 1-19“ King" come to L ”
42 Lincoln's Secretary 70 Be reicaseci, as an 19 Swissxfrencli river 44 Ready 70 E0 0”‘
ofState album 21 spelling of-‘"BeVcr[V 46 Turkish horioritic Joel Poelhuls Iunlor
45 Some are green 71 Kind of preview Hills 90210" 47 Goofs
48 A °"“.‘l’*“’3" hopes to Down 24 Cleans the geek 50 He Worked Em “There were literally moments when I could not breathe,”
keel’ ll black 25 One ofinaiiy in Z: TYCM 373419 . -
, _ 1 Winm. Wm, , said one amused audience member.
49 What 3 businessman supermarket 5} Like a women's bars , .
, ., , . , , _ _ Tate s humor was both topical and anecdotal. He ad-
may ha“? 3'‘ "00" 2 De“) ”1°“Iy 26 "Get outta here! " 52 Kitten at times
. _ _ _ - - _ H ‘_ , ‘ dressed such issues as the economy, international affairs,
52 50”“? Of tmﬁml 3 Sh? In 3 pm 2'7 l\'l£1j0]' artery 53 lower in Song of .
55 D00’ Pans 4 All “mghl up 28 Primes a new watch S"l°m0“ and college life. . . . .
56 Adams madam 5 Put audio and video 30 + or _ item 54 Stepping Stone in R The latter was something Tate admits to knowing little
. . to rethgy _ _ .. f about, as he did not attend college. However, his outsider’s
57 N11‘? T691119 E’ 34 Cake in greclicnt pm‘) . . . . . . .
58 Sticky Stuff 6 Milk dispensers? 35 Vice idem john 58 COOKS measy interpretation was hilarious, as were his theories regarding '
59 Movement with a 7 S’paceW‘E‘lk‘ 3'3‘ WW Ganier 0 Sufﬁ-X Whh Caesar the ecollomyi
second wave starting 8 Turn :1 film into a 36 Egyptian Symbols of 61 Half of a Mardi Gras Pamculary’ Tate asserted that the people who saved
in [kg 603 TV" show, perhaps life‘ song title money for college and those who spent that money on
62 punching bag in 9 Tissue type 38 Josh Harmm mm (,3 Beehive state native cigarettes are pretty much in the same boat.
cartoons 10 Eanhiink competitor "Black WW Down" 64 Grazing locate Tate also shared an absurdly comical story about when
66 llumorist Bonibeck 11 Cap features 40 [-iatfg more 55 [)e1uge refugg he once fought a Storm Trooper. He then wrapped up the
67 Responses to mice night with a joke he “literally wrote in the car” about what
the jingles would be like if Elton John opened a breakfast
restaurant.

Tate’s prepared jokes were very funny, but some of the
real gems of the evening were those he clearly made up
on the spot.

His interaction with the audience, in particular, stole

Q ’ . “ z‘ ‘( ‘ \{ the show. He bantered with a few people who arrived late

~ j 3.  A ‘ or left early, but he really hit his stride when he brutally

é e¢  E '\ tongue-lashed two young men who will remain anony-

mous.
‘PEDA§J CAR D"N'ER & Tm? T03: Am]: These late arrivals entered the theater about twenty .

minutes into the show, yelling in Russian. Tate’s reaction

. . " tfZ hGl'ﬁ k’ buk' hkl,

Order tram our complete menu ;:1a:i:ev’:‘;:3:::S:nw‘:aini:g‘ 3“ ‘S re mg a e° er

9’ Jam usfbr WW Ofawi ALL YOU CAN E’4TE“ﬂ €13‘, Junior Joel Poelhuis, who attended the event, said “I
, V thought he was more engaged with the audience than most

Friday Night Seafood auftet with Crab Legs 5pm~t0pm comedians who come to W&L”
Saturday  Prime  Dinner 5pm-10pm After the show, Tate shared a bit about his career. He
Sunday Baked Chicken, Pork Loin, & Pot Roast Ham~9pm cites Bill Cosby and Mitch Hedberg as his inﬂuences, but
Friday & Satorday Late Night Breakfast Bar tOpm~2am 116 aflmitted that before aétually Starting t° become a 00-
Breaktast Bar "Z Clays 3 Week 6am»? 1am “‘°d“‘“’ he “d}d“" k“°“’ 1‘ W“ ‘T ‘ea‘J°‘°‘”

Daiiy HQ: Country Bar ,3 1am_.§ mam . Once he.disco(\1/Zred that crucial Eict, l'(1:e S'CaI'c:6dC2lttet:1d1.

, . in 0 en mics an as now a eare on ome en a .

Dally Soup‘ Salad’ & Fruit Bar 1 iamui Opm Gfofl‘) Tate is married (sorrypl)adies) lives in Cincinnati

A . z‘nm'i€S Wu to enjoy  and owns a cocker spaniel.

l)l'd§3l" Bfﬁﬂkliiﬁl  l‘.lC§l.ll.‘$ 3 day,   3. Wﬁeltll ‘E 4 5% Those who missed the show can ﬁnd him on Youtube,
   or in L.A. and Minneapolis, where he will be perfonning

,, . , _ i, v in the coming weeks. Tate’s ﬁnal message to the W&L

Home Loziked Meals‘ & Sozdtzern .Ho.rpi!tzlzi[v.« TUESDAY WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY EVENINGS UNTIL 630 community was about Success. “if you do,” quit, evenm .
Lacateﬁl at ' ’ ' ally it’ll be alright.” Also, he wants everyone who didn’t
W   PM enjoy three courses of Shenandoah cuisine for $35 attend t° feel really bad-
. reservations strongly reconzniended
1431 Se l~64_. Exit 195, Z5lf3North Lee t-in-3:, ioexiagtoii, VA
540-463-3478  11 E. Washington Street Lexington 540-464-4401
Great food 3: a great coflectiort of www'ledhenIex'wm
Antique Pedal Cars 11'! Tl?! T6ySi OPEN TUESDAY’ FRIDAY FDR LUNCH AND DINNER SATURDAY EOR DINNER
U

 

  

 
 

M 0 N DAY, MARCH 16, 2009

THE RING-TUM PHI ° 7

 

arts&life

~ Artist talks about controversial exhibit

Christenberry addresses “Site and Posession ” including his KKK exhibit

 

0;

By Katie Hatﬂeld
STAFF WRITER

There is a new addition to
the Stanair Gallery and it’s not
a new exhibit. Since the open-
ing of William Christenberry’s
“Site and Posession” and the
“Klan Tableau,” work-study stu-
dents can be found guarding the
entrance to the exhibit. Clearly,
Christenberry’s work has gar-
nered a considerable amount of
controversey.

In an attempt to explain the
nature of the exhibit as well as
the thought behind it, the Staniar
Gallery staff has held a number
of discussions about the contro-
versial exhibit.

On Wednesday the Stanier
Gallery hosted an artist’s talk
and reception with renowned
photographer, painter, and sculp-
tor William Christenberry, in the
Concert Hall of Wilson Hall.

Several students as well as
local supporters of Christenber-
ry’s work turned out to hear him
discuss the many eclectic pieces
featured in his exhibit, Site/Pos-
session.

Christenberry’s lecture is one
of several in this series. Prior to
this event was the gallery’s open-
ing which included an introduc-

tion to the exhibit and a panel
discussion mediated by Art His-
tory Deparment Head George
Bent. Washington and Lee Pro-
fessors Pamela Simpson, Ted
Delaney, Marc Conner and VMI
professor Rob McDonald were
members of the panel.

Christenberry’s presentation
was peppered with many of his
own interesting and captivating
anecdotes.

Not only did these offer back-
ground on the slides projected,
they added a frank view of how
a photograph can capture more
than just an image, but a memo-
ry, a lifestyle, and a culture.

The key focus of Christenber-
ry’s works is that his photographs
are almost all taken from around
his hometown and the surround-
ing villages within Hale County,
Alabama. A place Christenberry
described as a “rusted worn out
bullet-ridden place.”

Christenberry’s works were
mostly focused on photographs
of vintage Southern Americana,
not unlike the works of Norman
Rockwell, just of a different gen-
eration. Though unlike Rockwell,
nothing was artiﬁcial within his
works; he was not an illustrator.
In his photographs, the lighting
was never forced, and the sub-

jects were never altered.

“I was not contented with
total abstraction in my paint-
ings as a student,” Christenberry
explained about how he got his
start in the medium of photogra-
phy.

Christenberry who received
a B.A. and Masters in Fine Arts

had just a shutter an a release and
no focus. However, though there
are very few left in existence
with the advent of high tech digi-
tal technology, the Brownie is a
medium he still utilizes, along
with an 8x10 View camera.
Though Christenberry is very
accomplished as an artist, fame

“I was not contented with total abstraction

in my painting as a student... [I was ] consid-

ered a pioneer of color photography. I don ’t

know why... [I] have somewhat of a reputa-

tion as a photographer. ’

William Christenberry, artist

) .

from the University of Alabama
at Tuscaloosa, is a fan, to this
day, of the Crimson Tide. “Ob-
sessively so,” he admits.

Christenberry, at the begin-
nings of his career, took pictures
of the “landscape of my child-
hood” with a Kodak Brownie
Camera.

Incredibly rudimentary as an
instrument, the Brownie camera

has not appeared to have gone to
his head. Explaining sincerely,
“[1 was] considered a pioneer of
color photography. I don’t know
why.” And adding, ‘‘[I] have
somewhat of a reputation as a
photographer.”

Though he often did not know
the purpose of a unique looking
building or those who may have
dwelled inside, he developed a

kind of relationship with what he
described as “vemacular archi-
tecture,” often returning annu-
ally to photograph it again.

One photograph in particu-
lar, of a sun bleached barbeque
hangout, he returned to often for
twenty years until the building
was knocked down and all that
remained was the cement plot on
which it once stood.

Christenberry aims to pre-
serve such architecture with
his photographs, drawings, and
sculptures because, “the most
cookie cutter kind of things go
up in their places,” he explained.

The locations he was particu-
larly fond of he turned into min-
iature sculptures.

Christenbeny, though ver-
bose, provided a very entertain-
ing and enlightening experience
to those enrolled in arts courses.

“I have to say it was the best
lecture by a visiting artist that
I have attended so far, “ siad
Sophomore Jack Pandol of the
presentation.”

“As a student in Photography
2, I really appreciated his docu-
mentarian approach to photog-
raphy, as well as the funny and
interesting stories he was able
to present with almost every im-
age. Christenberry himself was

a true Southern gentleman, and
his Southern drawl really accen-
tuated the narrative style that he
presented his work wit .”

Kate Gibbs added, “William
Christenberry was a really great
speaker. He really brought mean-
ing to his beautiful exhibit.”

Though, even those not en-
rolled in arts courses could iden-
tify with his avuncular attitude
and friendly narrative tone.

To the disappointment of
many audience members, Chris-
tenberry was quite evasive when
it came to questions about his
Klan Tableau.

Sometimes failing to answer
questions and in other instnaces
telling a somewhat distracting
anecdote, it seemd that the art-
ist did not want to talk about the
deeply personal exhibit.

Christenberry’s exhibit, Site/
Possession, will be on display
in the Stanier Gallery until April
10.

Those in the art department
are also fortunate enough to en-
tertain Christenberry for a week
as a visiting artist during his ex-
hibition.

ie;~s.:..5:  :—2‘* i..~-4;.-3.
me . ' "

E; _\.(:)VE OUR N .1

Emily Ackerman

Christina Benedetti
Lauren Borden
Anna Kathryn Clark

Melissa Dahl

Lizz Dye
Casey Ernstes
Dana Fredericks
Tricia King
Ashley Leinweber

Ali Longobardo

if 

Annie Martin

Anne Masich
Maddie McKaig

Claire Moryan

Eva Rofﬁs
Ellen Rogers
Gillian Sacks
Katie Salvati
Alex Shabo

Corinne Smith

Brooke Sutherland

 

  

MONDAY, MARCH 16, 2009

  

8 ° THE RING-TUM PHI

sports

 

 

       

       
  
 

TUES WED Tuuns FRI

 

SUN
V5

vs
Southern ;: PSU-
Basebau Vlrglnla 3 m Kenslngton
3 mm. p' ' 12 p.m.
at
If
G° Jekyll Island collegiate
vs vs
M°“’5 Sewanee . *
Lacrosse
7 p.m. 4 pm-
vs vs vs
womenvs Trlnlty Sweet Vlrglnla
I-BI-T0550 (conn.) Brlar Wesleyan
4 p.m. 4:30 p.m. 1 p.m.
vs vs
vs
Many; Hampden-~ carnegle
Tennls Rzndolph Sydney Mellon
pm‘ 3:30 p.m. TBA
Vs vs vs at

1 women’; R°;"a‘;k° James carnegle Emory &
: Tennls R_Mc Madison Mellon Henry

, 4 p_m_ 4 p.m. 12 p.m. 2 p.m.

‘ at

‘ Menrs Lynchburg

' Track lnvlte

j 9 a.m.

l at

1

‘women’s Lynchburg]

i T|'a¢K lnvlte

, 9 a.m.

  

  numbers
6

The number of overtime periods in the Syracuse—Connectiout Big East
tournament quarterﬁnals Thursday. After never leading in the ﬁrst five

overtimes, Syracuse won the game 127-117.

0

The number of W&L women track and ﬁeld athletes to earn indoor All-
American accolades before Stacy Doombos placed fourth in the pen-

tathlon at the NCAA Indoor Championships this weekend.

551

The number of career regular season wins by New Jersey Devils goalie
Martin Brodeur after the Devils beat the Canadiens Saturday. Brodeur
is tied with retired goalie Patrick Roy for the most all-time victories.

The Devils take on the Chicago Blackhawks Tuesday.

9,507

The number of career points scored by Miami Heat guard Dwayne
Wade. Only 27 years old, Wade passed retired center Alonzo Mourn-
ing as the all-time franchise scoring leader in a win Saturday over the

Utah Jazz.

 box

“I was only wearing two things when I hit the

 

shot: my jocks and my golf glove. Shirt, trousers,
socks, shoes, hat, the lot was off. Obviously, play-
ing in Florida I didn’t have any rain gear in the
bag, so that option went out of the window.”

Swedlsh golfer Henrlk Stenson after he took of hls clothes to hlt
a ball near the edge of a water hazard Thursday at the WGC-CA
Champlonshlp at Doral. Stenson ﬂnlshed tied for 77th place at +11
on the weekend. Courtesy of sports.yahoo.com.

“I don’t anticipate it this season. Obviously we will
do it. We’ve made that commitment. He deserves
to have his number retired. I just think both sides

need some time.”

Green Bay Packers team president and CEO Mark Murphy Saturday
vowing to retire Brett Favre’s]ersey at some point. There was tenslon
last summer between Favre and the Packers when the future Hall of
Famer declded he wanted to return from retirement but the Packers
did not want hlm back. courtesy of espn.com.

Generals race at N CAAs

Stacy Doornbos and Elizabeth Webb place fourth and ninth, respectively

By Megan Dally
smrr want»:

This past Friday and Saturday, almost
450 track and ﬁeld athletes from 134 dif-
ferent schools competed in the NCAA
Division III Indoor Track and Field Na-
tional Championships at the Rose-Hu1-
man Sports and Recreation Center in
Terre Haute, Ind.

The Washington and Lee women’s
track team had two athletes qualify to
compete this year. There had previously
only been one woman in the history of the
Generals’ indoor track and ﬁeld program
to qualify for indoor nationals.

The women’s track team had an in-
credible season. From the very beginning
meet at VMI, W&L posted strong results.
The team kept building throughout the
year and garnered impressive results.
Several school records were shattered,
and it culminated in the team’s winning
the ODAC indoor championship.

Senior Stacy Doombos, who is a three-
year letterwinner and a team captain,
qualiﬁed for the meet at the University
of Wisconsin-Whitewater Last Chance
Pentathlon with a school-record setting
performance and a facility record of 3395
total points for the pentathlon earlier this
season.

Senior Elizabeth Webb, who also is a
three-year letterwinner and a team cap-
tain, qualiﬁed for the meet at the Lafay-

ette-Rider Winter Games with a record
setting mile time of 5:00.91. Webb has
really shown consistent improvement
throughout her career. She was named the
ODAC Farm Bureau Scholar-Athlete of
the Year for the second consecutive year
and was the Co—Athlete of the Meet at the
ODAC championship.

Looking back at her career, Doombos
said, “Running for the Generals the past
four years has been awesome. My senior

shot put, leaped 5.47 meters in the long
jump and had another personal-best of
2:27.08 in the 800 meters. With this out-
standing performance Doombos became
the ﬁrst W&L woman track athlete to
achieve All-America honors in the indoor
season.

Webb competed in the mile and ran a
time of 5:01.36 in the preliminary round
on Friday. This seventh-place preliminary
ﬁnish was good enough to advance to the

“Running for the Generals the past four years has been

awesome. My senior year has been great because I don ’t

take any race for granted knowing that it is one of my last

here at W&L. ”

Stacy Doombos, senior

year has been great because I don’t take
any race for granted knowing that it is
one of my last here at W&L.”

Doombos certainly did not take the
indoor ﬁnals for granted; she competed
Friday and placed fourth in the pentath-
lon. For a combined total of 3,390 points,
Doombos ran 8.81 in the 55 meters,
cleared 1.48 meters in the high jump,
tossed a personal-best 10.43 meters in the

ﬁnals. Webb completed the race with a
time of 5:03.90 for a ninth-place ﬁnish.

After such a successful indoor track
campaign, expectations are set high for
the outdoor season. The Washington and
Lee men’s and women’s outdoor track
and ﬁeld teams begin their 2009 seasons
on Saturday at the Lynchburg Invitation-
al.

Men’s lacrosse tops F&M

Generals use fourth-quarter comeback to beat the Diplomats

By Wlll Dorrance
sponrs EDITOR

The nationally 10th-ranked Wash-
ington and Lee’s men’s lacrosse team
downed Franklin and Marshall (F&M)
7-6 Saturday on rainy Wilson Field.

Last year, the Generals fell to F&M
7-8 in overtime on March 15, but Satur-
day’s game proved to be different.

W&L’s junior midﬁelder Chris Wash-
ington opened up the scoring with 5:53 to
play in the ﬁrst quarter off an assist from
junior attackman Will Keigler. Behind
two goals from Keigler, the Generals
then alternated scores with the visiting
Diplomats to seemingly tie the game at
three as the clock was winding down in
the second quarter.

With just one second left in the half,
though, W&L senior attackman Seth
F ishman found the back of the net on an
unassisted goal to put the Generals ahead
4-3 going into intermission.

The Diplomats took over in the third
quarter scoring three goals compared to
the home team’s zero. Down 4-6 heading

into the game’s last 15 minutes, W&L
scored three goals in three minutes and
blanked F &M to secure the 7-6 non-con-
ference victory.

Talking of the difference in the team’s
play from the third to the fourth quarter,
Fishman said, “I think that their was a
collective feeling on this team that we
were not going to lose this game. We had
a tough loss to F&M last year, which left
a bad taste in our mouth. It was a game
that we felt we let slip away and refused
to let it happen again. We knew what we
needed to do going into the fourth quarter
and refused to let their third-quarter run
get us down.”

Keigler paced the Generals with two
goals and three assists. F ishman netted
two tallies while senior captain midﬁelder
registered one goal and one assist. Senior
captain Conor Locke played the entire
game in goal, recording nine saves.

The Diplomats were led by senior at-
tackman Mark Hild’s two goals and one
assist. Junior Chris Marcozzi stopped 14
shots in between the pipes for F &M.

The Generals outshot their opponents

35-24 and collected 14 more ground
balls.

While W&L did come out on top, the
rain did not allow the Generals to play
their best lacrosse.

Fishman said, “I don’t think that we
really executed the X’s and O’s like we
thought we would in this game, but our
comeback revealed a lot about the nature
of our team. Even though it was not the
prettiest win, we toughed it out and got
the W.”

W&L now sits at 6-0 on the year and
faces off against Sewanee in a home
match-up Wednesday at 7:00 p.m.

The team is heading into its last three
non-conference games before it begins
its ODAC schedule March 28.

“We just need to keep getting better.
Every game for us is another step towards
our goal of winning an ODAC champion-
ship and of playing in the NCAA touma-
ment. We can’t take any team for granted
and need to make sure that we play four
good quarters of lacrosse in each game in
order to prepare us for ODACS.”

ODAC Standings

As of Sunday
Baseball Men’s Tennis
Em Conf. Oiill Tam Conf. Oﬂall
1. Virginia Wesleyan 2-0 11-4 1. WASHINGTON & LEE 5-0 8-2
2. Lynchburg 2-0 1 1-6 2. Hampden-Sydney 2-0 2-2
3. Hampden-Sydney 2-1 7-8 3. Randolph-Macon 1-1 2- l
4. Guilford 1-1 10-5-1 4. Bridgewater 1-1 2-3
5. Roanoke 1-1 6-7 5. Emory & Hemy 0-1 3-5
6. Eastern Mennonite 1-1 6-9-1 6, Lynchburg 0- 1 1-3
7. Bridgewater 1- 1 6-9 7. Randolph 0- 1 1-4
8. WASHINGTON & LEE 1-2 9-4 8. Roanoke 0-1 0-3
9. Randolph-Macon 0-2 4-8 ‘ 9. Virginia Wesleyan 0-1 0-5
10. Emory & Henry ,0-2 2-8 10. Guilford 0-2 0-3
Women’s Lacrosse Women’s Tennis
Tj C0_I1f- E111 M Conf. L

1. Virginia Wesleyan 2-0 3-3 1. WASHINGTON & LEE 2-0
2. WASHINGTON & LEE 1-0 3-2 2. Virginia Wesleyan 1-0
3. Sweet Briar 0-0 3-0 3. Emory & Hemy 1-0
4. Lynchburg 0-0 3-1 4. Sweet Briar 1-1
5. Hollins 0-0 1-1 5. Bridgewater 1-1
6. Randolph-Macon 0-0 1-1 6. Hollins 1-1
7. Roanoke 0-0 3-3 7. Lynchburg 1-1
8. Guilford 0- 1 2-4 8. Randolph-Macon 1-2
9. Bridgewater 0-2 1-3 9. Randolph 0-O

NOTE: The ODAC has yet to begin Its ‘°~ R°a“°ke 0*’

men’s lacrosse conference schedule. 11. Guilford 0-3

0

 

 

  

  

 

 

  Drink UP!     
Smartwater proven to make
    Sratrow cheers.      I  

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING-TUM PHI.

MONDAY, MARCH 30, 2009

BY THE STUDENTS AND FOR THE STUDENTS SINCE 1897

Pi Phi not
the same
as...Pi Phi

Confusion over stickers and ‘

mixers ﬁnally cleared up

By Katrina Rogers
3 TA F F w R I T E R

Pi Phi and Pi Phi are two distinct Greek-letter
organizations, according to anonymous sources
within Panhellenic and the IFC.

This conﬁrms the recent rumors that the Pi
Phi to which men belong is not the same as that
to which women belong, which were fueled by
the tendency for Pi Phi men not to buy the pink

and blue, arrow-covered picture frames and I

post-it notes at the bookstore.

“I just felt like the sticker with the light blue
stripes and the curly lettering didn’t look right
on my laptop,” a Pi Phi man said in defense of
hisrejection of the really cute sticker he could
have bought. “It didn’t accurately reflect, to me,
what it means to be a member of Pi Phi.”

Similarly, Pi Phi women were conspicuously
absent from Pi Phi’s recent mixer with ADPi.
When questioned, they said no mention had

been made of the mixer in chapter meeting the

week before. 7

Some have suggested that, in the wake of the
fire at the Pi Kappa Phi house, the two organiza-
tions merge; others have refused to believe they
were ever anything but one and the same.

One prospective student who recently stayed
for an over-night confused matters by swearing
on his life he’d been “to the coolest Pi Beta Phi
house - Thunderlodge baby!”

However, the explanation of Pi Phi and Pi
Phi being separate organizations clears up sev-
eral other conundiums, such as the two Pi Phi
houses-and the mysterious middle letters.

I Pi Phi women identify themselves as mem-
becs of Pi Beta Phi, while Pi Phi men are in Pi
Kappa Phi.

These middle letters are rarely used and prob-
ably:don’t mean anything important, but the dis—.
parity was a telling clue that there is more than
one Pi Phi on campus.

“Yeah, we’re totally not the same,” said a Pi
Phi. “One is for girls and one is for guys.”

This news follows the recent revelation that
Sigma Chi and the Lodge are indeed one frat:
Sigma Chi Psi. At least, judging from who are
the last 20 guys on the Late Nite dance ﬂoor
they’re the same.

 

W&L to be
renamed in 2010

Ruscio docsn ’t expect much will change, actually.

By Mltch “The M|ss|le” McDonogh and
Ryan “wrlnger” Wllllams
STAFF WRITERS

In 1749, what would eventually become
Washington and Lee University was established
roughly 20 miles north of the little city of Lex-
ington in Rockbridge County, Va.

Its purpose was to teach the lost arts of hon-
or and integrity and to insure that the handful
of men who graduated were the best southern
gentlemen in the nation.

They succeeded.

But on September 9, 2010, Washington
and Lee University will be renamed “Top Gun
University,” after a unanimous decision by the
Board of Trustees, the deans of the College and
the Williams School and Paramount Pictures.

“We’re up there with the best of the best, we
might as well let ‘em know it,” said Aviator-clad
University President Ken “Cobra” Ruscio.

“Today, we call it Washington and Lee. To-
morrow, we call it Top Gun.”

University ofﬁcials say the proposed change,
which will take effect beginning the 2010-2011
academic year, will cost an estimated $15 mil-
lion. The cost will include construction of a
new ﬂight school, Cougar Hall, to support sev-
en new major programs, including Flight Stud-
ies and Insubordination.

“For those less academically inclined, the
Maverick major will provide ample preparation
for students who hope to hone their skills at us-
ing good looks and charm to get ahead in life,”
said Professor Sam “Merlin” Wells, before ex-
ecuting a sick double high ﬁve.

The athletics department will retire its “Gen-
erals” apparel as all university sports teams
adopt their new title — the Wingmen.

“A good Wingman is compelled to evalu-

ate what’s happened, so he can apply what he’s
learned,” said men’s lacrosse coach Tom “Ice
Man” Kazansky ’86.

“Up there, we gotta push it. That’s our job,”
he said.

Changes will occur in all aspects of campus
life. The university’s new Johnson Scholarship
Program will be renamed the Bradshaw Schol-
arship Program, in honor of Lt. Nick “Goose”
Bradshaw ’86, the best damn pilot this place has
ever seen.

adopt the military alphabet. Organizations such
as Sierra Alpha Echo and X—Ray Oscar will re-
main a hallmark of the TGU social landscape.
New Member Education programs will now in-
clude mandatory sessions with towel whips and
awkward shower moments.

Student response to the broad—sweeping
changes has been overwhelmingly positive,
mostly because this school is stuck in the ‘80s.

“Real slick, my man,” high—ﬁved Tripp
“Danger” Douglass IV ’ll. “Real slick.”

“The Maverick major will provide ample preparation for students

who hope to hone their skills at using good looks and charm to

get ahead in life. ”

Sam “Merlln” Wells, professor

 

In Bradshaw’s memory, Lee Chapel will be
rechristened Goose Chapel. The new Goose
Chapel attire will call for sunglasses and leather
jackets for men and string bikinis for women.

The Traveller Safe Ride Program will be
renamed Tomcat, the W&L Swing will be re-
placed with Kenny “Stinger” Loggins’ “Danger
Zone.” Aviator sunglasses will become a man-
datory part of the Williams School curriculum.
Oh, wait...done.

All intramural sports will be fused into a
yearlong beach volleyball round-robin touma—
ment, with winners getting the girl and losers
biting the dust. Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity greet-
ed the news with enthusiastically before book-
ing Snackbar Jones for the 80th time this term.

The Greek System, one of the purest and
proudest traditions at what is now W&L, will

All courses in the humanities, including art,
music, theater, English, religion, and philoso-
phy, have been ejected. This will afford profes-
sors the opportunity to incorporate new courses,
such as “The History of Top Gun” and “Motor-
cycle Fashion.”

Professor Mike “Viper” Metcalf sees noth-
ing but opportunities in the revised course of-
ferings. In preparation for the transition, Viper
will teach a course this fall entitled “Too Close
For Missiles, I’m Switching to Guns: A Com-
prehensive Survey of Instinct and Aerial Com-
bat Tactics.”

“You don’t have time to think up there,” he
said. “If you think, you’re dead.”

Also, the Williams School will also intro-
duce it’s “Risky Business” term abroad starting
in 2010.

 
 
  

 

VOLUME CXII, NUMBER 18

. Student challenges Cadavers

Senior Briana Gapsis demands payment for catching a member of the society

By Jeremy Halllson
uuozncovenunrsnn

Briana Gapsis hopes unveiling more
Cadavers will help pay for medical
school.

Gapsis, a senior at Washington and
Lee, has publicly stated her intention to
“take on” the Cadavers, a secret society
at W&L, for a second chance to have her
medical school tuition paid for.

“I just think it sucks that I unveiled
a Cadaver once already, and so far, they
have yet to make good on their sup-
posed obligation to make me a member
and pay for my medical school tuition,”
Gapsis said in an exclusive interview
with the Ring-Tum Phi. “That’s why I
plan to take them on a second time.”

Gapsis claims she successfully
chased down and unveiled a member
of the Cadavers society two weeks ago
with the help of a friend, sophomore

Sam Gilleran, who put down the masked
man with a blunt blow to the sternum.
“It’s not like I play football, but
when I saw that guy coming at me like a
freight train I just followed my instincts
and stiff-armed him,” Gilleran said. “It

veiling a Cadaver, whom she did not
recognize but claims she could identify
in a line-up. Despite posting two cam-
pus notices on March 17 and 18 an-
nouncing her successful unmasking of a
Cadaver, Gapsis said she did not receive

“I will unmask one of their members each week until

I am either inducted or compensated... This is a small

campus, and I ’m a pretty fast runner: I caught them

once, and I can do it again. ’

I

Brlana Gapsls, senlor pre-med student
 

was pretty sweet until the other Cadav-
ers ganged up on me and started pum-
meling me.” Gilleran said he still has
the bruises to prove it.

Now Gapsis wants her due for un-

so much as a bird’s skull from the secret
society. That’s why she plans to send
them a message they will hear.

“If I do not hear from the Cadavers
soon, I will unmask one of their mem-

bers each week until I am either induct-
ed or compensated. Even secret societ-
ies should honor their commitments,”
Gapsis said.

Though Gapsis is confident she can
take down one Cadaver a week, she is
keeping her methods a secret to main-
tain the element of surprise. She did
indicate the ambush would happen at
night, when Cadavers tend to roam the
W&L campus drawing their distinctive
skull logo on sidewalks and cars.

“This is a small campus and I’m a
pretty fast runner. I caught them once,
and I can do it again,” Gapsis said.

In support of her crusade, Gapsis’
friends have created a Facebook group,
“To Catch a Cadaver,” which will pro-
vide updates of Gapsis’ raids on mem-
bers of the secret society.

Philosophy professor James Mahon,
dean of students Dawn Watkins and di-
rector of religious life Burr Datz are all

backing Gapsis’ cause.

“That girl has spunk—if anyone can
do it, Briana can,” Mahon said. “But
she’ll have a hard time of it, to be sure.
Those Cadavers are elusive, like lepre-
chauns, only they don’t make ridiculous
offers to lead you to pots of gold when
you’re trying to get home after a late
night out. Jerks.”

Watkins said the deans are collec-
tively behind Gapsis: “We think that
this kind of proactive attitude is exactly
what the W&L student body needs to
see. You go, gir .”

For his part, Datz has personal rea-
sons to support Gapsis. “Those punks
stole my Martin back in 1974,” he said.

President Ken Ruscio, Provost June
Aprille and the board of -trustees have
remained silent on the issue. Figures.

 
 

lW!\¥ﬁ3ll*?tlHM.!V
WASHINGTON & use umtytasjisv,
LEXINGTON, VA, 24459.
APR 0 1 mg

2 0 THE RING-TUM PHI

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 30, 2009

 

Male student could be a Vampire

Students spot a mysterious blood-thirsty, attractive man around campus, but maybe he is just weird

By AnnaBella Bach
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR

Rumors circulating last week report
sightings of a pale-skinned, angry male
student at Washington and Lee who, ac-
cording to several women on campus,
must certainly be a vampire.

“There aren’t any emo or goth kids
at W&L,” an unidentiﬁed sorority mem-
ber was overheard saying during dinner
this week. “The only other option is a
vampire.”

Other students provided what they
claim is concrete evidence that a vam-
pire is attending school here.

“I see him at parties, standing in the
comer and staring at girls,” said a stu-
dent who was reluctant to indentify her-
self and only gave her name as Jessica.

“He’s creepy, but he’s really at-
tractive! I just wish I wasn’t scared of
him.”

Jessica described this man’s appear-
ance as tall and thin, with a fair com-
plexion, dark piercing eyes and tousled
dark hair.

“Pale, skinny guys are hot,” she

added.

Sources could not provide a name
for this mysterious ﬁgure. “Does he
even go here?” asked another student.
“He only wears black. Like, who does
that?”

Others recalled having seen him, but

without approaching them. She said his
expression turns angry and frightened
whenever someone tries to talk to him.
“Once I saw him on the hill. He was
yelling at this girl for no reason,” she
said. “She must be afraid that he is go-
ing to kill her or turn her into a vam-

“He 3 creepy, but he is really attractive...I ’ve never

seen him eat real food, and he looks too young to be

in college...hasn ’t anyone read “Twilight?” Its all in

I

there. ’

Jesslca, anonymous student

they couldn’t give speciﬁc details when
asked.

“I think he might be in my fraterni-
ty, but I’m not sure,” said junior Blake
Harris.

Jessica claims this man must be a
vampire because she has witnessed
him looking longingly at other people

Trident moves
to Twitter

Lack of money, writers and any real interest in
reading news forces staﬁ’ to post one-sentence

By Allce charlottes
STA F F W R IT E R

pire.”

Other students are less sure that this
man is actually a creature of the under-
world.

First-year Elizabeth Carter said she
thinks he is probably just depressed.
“He’s not a vampire,” she said. “He’s
just really weird.”

By Wyatt Heaton
STAFF WRITER

But others hold that this person has
displayed nearly all of the deﬁning fea-
tures of a typical vampire.

Jessica reported that she and oth-
ers have witnessed him staring at her
friends nervously, lifting heavy objects,
driving too fast down Main Street and
even walking around in the woods be-
hind campus.

“I’ve never seen him eat real food,
and he looks too young to be in college,”
she said. “Clearly he is only pretending
to age. Hasn’t anyone read “Twilight?”
It’s all in there.”

Another anonymous female student
claims to have seen his eyes change
color from day to day. She suspects this
happens because he is thirsty for blood.

“He’s in one of my classes, and
sometimes he disappears for days at
a time,” said this same source. “No
one knows where he goes, but I know
he must be hunting. He probably kills
animals to drink their blood. I’ve never
heard of him killing a human, but I’m
still afraid of him.”

Harris said he doesn’t think this man

ever sleeps, and other sources conﬁrmed
that this too is a vampiric trait.

“I’ve heard he is a really good musi-
cian, and everyone knows that Edward
Cullen plays the piano,” said Jessica.

Sophomore Nicole Allen said she
has seen this man surrounding by a
group of similarly pale, good-looking
young people on campus and at parties
two or three times.

“They’re the only ones I’ve ever seen
talking to him,” she said. “They must be
his vampire family, like the Cullens in
‘Twilight!”’

While most students admitted they
are glad they have never had to talk this
student, Allen said she regrets he is shy.
“I wish he would talk to me,” she said.
“My friends make fun of me, but I think
he’s really cute.”

No one would comment who has
actually been in contact with this per-
son, and the admissions office refused
to state whether there is a policy against
admitting students who are vampires.

Two poverty    
majors face arrest ~

With charges of assault and kidnapping, two
unnamed students face up to 29 years in prison

  

A few weeks after the editors of the Trident
decided to move online because of overwhelm-
ing debt, the paper may be forced to abandon
the Web site and turn to Twitter to deliver the
news.

The staff was optimistic about moving to the
Web the ﬁrst time around, but it turns out that
there aren’t even enough money, resources or
staff members to maintain the Web site.

So instead of producing full-sized news
stories and photos, the editors will simply post
brief headlines and lead paragraphs to the Tri-
dent’s page at Twitter.com, where readers can
easily “follow” the updates and stay informed.

This may seem like a bizarre solution to
the newspaper’s troubles, but editor Alexandra
Scaggs said she thinks it’s the perfect idea.

“I don’t know why we didn’t think of it be-
fore,” she said. “We’ve just been wasting time
and the money We didn’t have putting out a
newspaper and then a Web site. It’s so much
easier to just post a sentence or two from my
Blackberry.”

Some traditional news consumers may be
outraged by the idea that they will not be able
to read full news stories, but a member of the
journalism department said that this old-fash-
ioned perspective is just not practical for the
fast-paced media world we currently live in.

“People want news on demand, and they
don’t have the attention span to open a news-
paper, click through a Web site or even read a
whole paragraph,” said this professor.

“The industry has to change to meet these

new needs, and the Trident’s got the right idea
by switching to Twitter.”

Junior Jake Richards, a writer for the Tri-
dent, is relieved that creative thinking, outlining
and actual writing will no longer be needed for
him to report on the news.

“No one reads it anyway, so why should we
bother?” he said.

Scaggs agrees that she and her staff are only
keeping up with the demand, or maybe even
staying ahead of the game.

“When the nation’s newspapers are folding
and moving to the Web, it’s obvious that we
need to be constantly adapting to a new me-
dium,” she said. “When’s the last time that any
college student actually read a newspaper any-
way? Print is obsolete.”

So are complete sentences, it seems. If the
we’re keeping up with the need for speed,
what’s next? Some suggest that information
projected directly into consumers’ minds is the
industry’s next goal.

As for the Trident staff, if Twitter doesn’t
work, the editors will resort to sending news
reports as text messages to approximately nine
readers each week. They ﬁgure no one will re-
ally notice.

The Ring-Tum Phi has learned the Lexington
Police Department will make two arrests of Wash-
ington and Lee students this week.

The two students facing arrest are Shepherd
Poverty Program majors, but are yet to be named.

The announcement of the names and arrests will
be covered exclusively by W&L’s Rockbridge Re-
port which aires on local channel 18. The inforrna—
tion is expected to be made public around 2 p.m
today.

The arrests will result from two assaults and kid-
nappings which took place on the night of March 2.
Two government insiders have conﬁrmed that the
kidnapping began outside Parrnly Hall and ended
in the Doremus Gyms saunas, where two students
were eventually found and then hospitalized for
three and four days.

Alyson Chalmers was the W&L Facilities Man-
agement employee who found the two beaten stu-
dents, Chip Gordon II and Kate Elizabeth Arnold,
with their hands and feet bound in the sauna.

“When I found them they were shriveled to rai-
sins and beaten like stray dogs. It was horriﬁc to
come upon. I’m still unable to get the image and
the smell out of my head.”

The two sources intimate with the case agreed
to speak to The Phi on record but refused to allow
attribution to their names. The sources work for the
Lexington Police Department. Other sources con-
ﬁrmed the story off-the-record.

The Phi would always prefer to give name at-
tribution but cannot in this case due to the sources
proximity to the case.

The incident stemmed from when Gordon II and
Arnold insulted the social prevalence and validity
of a school-wide Shepherd Poverty display dealing
with rural homelessness, according to Gait Cum-
mings, a friend of Gordon 11 and Arnold.

Rural homelessness is a rampant problem in
Rockbridge and the surrounding counties. 2008 US
Census Estimates indicate that there are as many
as eight thousand men, women and children living
amongst nature in this portion of the state.

Cummings conﬁrmed that his friends questioned
the display in the Commons, where they publicly
ridiculed the student leaders responsible for the
Shepherd Poverty display.

Cummings and other students present at the lam-
basting affirm that some of the Shepherd Poverty
Program members became livid with raged and
vowed for revenge.

It is at that point that the details become less
clear. At some point on the night of March 2, Gor-
don II and Arnold were subdued outside of Parrnly
Hall. They were found 7:37 a.m. the next morning
by Chalmers.

Gordon II is a member of Phi Kappa Theta, Wil-
liams Investment Society, Sigma Society and the
Men’s Basketball Team. Arnold, who has since
transferred, was a key player for the Women’s Ten-
nis Team, a C-School Major, a Peer Counselor and
a Fancy Dress Chair. She was, of course, a Kappa
Kappa Gamma.

Both refused to comment due to their role in any
possible trial.

Phi cancels A ril Fools’ issue

Editors cite having real news for the ﬁrst time, ike, ever, with apathy as reason for cancellation

By chrls Bukkakuson
DOES ANYONE EVEN READ THESE?

In an editorial decision sure to draw
sharp criticism from Washington and
Lee’s eagerly waiting student body,
Ring-tum Phi Managing Editor Allison
Chopin announced today that the Phi
will not be creating its annual “April
Fools’ Issue.”

The issue, usually considered to be
the most anticipated social event of
W&L’s school year, was scrapped last
minute due to staff apathy say sources.

In an unprecedented moment, the Phi
also conﬁrmed they had actual news to
report. Chopin conﬁrmed that the two
factors were the basis for her decision to
cut the issue.

The Phi’s “April Fools’” issue, which
ALWAYS falls on April 1st, has not
missed a yearly appearance since, like,
2003 probably. Phi Business Manager
Strock Moore was unavailable to help
us sort through the back issues to ﬁnd
out, and all the other editors were “too
clueless” about “how to sort through

this stuff,” report insider sources.

When reached for comment, Opin-
ions Editor Cody Beauchamp expressed
outrage that the editors were being de-
nied their one opportunity to foist bad-
pun-riddled headlines and only mod-
erately bemusing jokes about W&L’s
frattiness upon the student body.

“Dammit. I guess I’ll go back to
assigning stories for next week,” said
Beauchamp before picking up a dart
and throwing it at a board with sections
labeled “Attack Frats,” “Praise Frats,”
“Administration,” and “Diss D-hall /
Co-Op.”

News Editor John Henderson ex-
pressed disappointment at the news,
but also noted that “without those fake
pages, I might actually get to spend a
little of Sunday outside of that office.
Wow...I...I wonder what that’s like...
free time. . .wow. . .Henderson out!”

Arts & Life Editor Celeste Cruz-
Carandang did not respond to repeated
phone calls seeking comment, prob-
ably because she was too busy taking
as many pictures of random C-School

photo galleries as possible in the hopes
of actually getting people to read her
section.

Sports Editor Will Dorrance was un-
available for comment, as he was sin-
gle-handedly covering a women’s ﬁeld
hockey game, both lacrosse games, the
Phi Kap—FIJI IM basketball game, foot-
ball spring training, a competitive ping
pong match, two baseball tournaments,
some kind of swimming thing, a 1,023-
cup game at Fallout and SAE’s weekly
Sunday trip to golf.

Design Editor Lara Jordan was also
unavailable for comment. Sources con-
ﬁrm she simply walked out of the Phi’s
oﬂices after the twentieth time an editor
asked her to change a page’s design.

She was last spotted heading towards
Goshen like a normal person.

The Phi has no Copy Editors to con-
tact (anyone want a resume stuffer?).

The cancellation came as a huge dis-
appointment to administrators, who are
conﬁrmed to wait for each year’s issue
with great anticipation.

“Oh, I love it,” said President Ruscio

in an exclusive interview. “I just love
it when undergrads make up ridiculous
quotes I’m supposed to have said, all
in the name of satire,” Ruscio said be-
fore screaming “f"‘** tha police! Eyze
tha mayne dawg, doncha be forgettin it
thug!” and hanging up the phone.

Provost June Aprille said she will
miss the jokes about the University of
Richmond taking over W&L. “I’ve
been hiring no one but old U of R peo-
ple all year,” Aprille said. “C’mon Phi!
I was looking forward to see another
round of those jokes.”

One journalism professor who
wished to remain annonyrnous stated
that the cancellation came as a “huge
blow to fans of dry humor every-
where.”

Rumors are also circulating that the
cancellation has something to do with
next year’s freshmen class. One rumor
held that they are so damn cool they’ve
actually already bought the Phi so that
they have the media on their side when
they arrive on campus in the fall. They
are the best class ever. Like, of all time.

They make the rest of us look like the
four week spring terrn--not as ﬁm,
pointless, though still pretty hot.

Director of Greek Life Clay Coleman
has reportedly been considering resig-
nation following the Phi’s announce-
ment. “I simply don’t know how I can
keep doing my job without the once-a-
year gag article saying the frats have
all been kicked off,” Coleman said in a
statement to the Phi.

When asked whether next year
would see the return of the April Fool’s
edition, Chopin expressed doubt.

“The reality is that issues like that are
usually just excuses for over-worked,
under-funny people to make a bunch of
in-jokes because they’re secretly jeal-
ous of the Trident’s complete disregard
for any kind of quality,” said Chopin.

“And those kind of self-referential
in-joke ﬁlled, unfunny articles will nev-
er run in the Phi,” she added. *Smirk*

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING-TUM PHI.

 

MONDAY, MARCH 30, 2009

BY THE STUDENTS

AND FOR THE

STUDENTS SINCE

1897

VOLUME CXII, NUMBER 18

Blazing
the career

Jobs may be scarce
but W&L students have
a competitive advantage,
Career Services says.

By Holly Suthers
STAFF WRITER

The job market is more competitive

than ever, but W,&L, students are _wel_l_ ‘.

positioned to get offers, Career Services
director Beverly Lorig said.

Because of this year’s economic cri-
sis, fewer job positions are open to grad-
uating seniors. From areas of ﬁnance to
social work, landing a job is competitive.
Not only are college graduates compet-
ing with each other, but also with more
experienced applicants.

The National Association for Col-
leges and Employers has reported that
companies are hiring 22% fewer gradu-
ates this year than in 2008. They found
that the largest drop off was in ﬁnance
with a 71% decrease in job openings.

Students majoring in ﬁnance and
journalism may have a particularly
hard time ﬁnding a job. Both markets
have been signiﬁcantly affected by the
economy, making large cuts to both job
forces.

Laura Sanders is a senior journalism
major hoping to work in television news
as a reporter or a producer. At this point,

Sanders said she is willing to take the
ﬁrst offer she gets. She has sent resumes
to 10-15 different stations and plans on
sending out more.

"“My philosophy is, beggars can’t be
choosers. In this economy I’ll probably

Washington and Lee’s strong alum-
ni network is aiding students in leads,
placements and recommendations.
Some students have said that the sup-
port from alums and professors is part of
what makes W&L unique.

“Do not lose sight of your senior year. Continue to

make the most of it. Make good connections with fac-

ulty, focus on close relationships and have a good time.

You are going to be in the job force for a long time and

will always need this support. ”

Beverly Lorlg, Dlrector of Career Servlces
 

be more inclined to take whatever is of-
fered to me first,” said Sanders.

While times are touch, getting a job is
not impossible. According to the Bureau
of Labor Statistics, the areas of health
care, biosciences and technology will
create the most new jobs this year. The
government is also creating thousands
of jobs targeted towards students.

“The professors and alums have been
really great! They all want me to sue-
ceed. It has been really nice to utilize
some of the connections they have in the
business world, too,” Sanders said.

Beverly Lorig, W&L’s Director of
Career Services, said seniors ought to
know that jobs are available, and that
career services has the resources to help.

According to Lorig, alums this year are
volunteering to help and support students
more than ever. Even the alums that are
working in volatile areas continue to be
supportiveand encouraging.

Walter Robertson, class of 1976 and
President and CEO of Scott & Stringfel-
low, spoke to a group of students several
weeks ago in Richmond. He encouraged
students to be persistent and productive
when applying for a job.

“Every hire that a company makes
this year is going to be signiﬁcant,” said
Robertson.

Robertson believes that while the
job market is very competitive, W&L
students are up too the task. He said
the caliber of W&L students continues
to get better each year and that they are
some of the most educated and prepared
students in America.

For some of the seniors that met with
him in Richmond, his words served as a
comfort to them. Some said the gloom of
the lack of jobs has prevented them from
recognizing that they are among the best
college graduates in the job market.

For students looking to prepare for
a job interview, Lorig believes demon-

 

LENORA NUNNLEY / Staff Photographer

Career Services director Beverly Lorig talks to first-year Amber Cooper in the career services office.

strating oral and written skills, the abil-
ity to work collaboratively, and the abil-
ity to quickly learn new information is
very important. ‘

“Motivation and determination is
going to be important in students who
assume new jobs. Employers will have
higher expectations from the start,” said
Lorig.

Lorig advised students to be realis-
tic when searching for a job and to use
the W&L outlets to help create multiple
plans. The job search could take longer
than expected, she said.

“Students are saying why should I
bother, well you are going to have to
ﬁnd a job one way or another. Prepare
now or suffer later,” she said.

Lorig also had this advice:

“Do not lose sight of your senior
year. Continue to make the most of it.
Make good connections with faculty, fo-
cus on close friendships and have a good
time. You are going to be in the job force
for a long time and will always need this
support.”

, Camille Allen ‘O7 battles cancer

Despite a serious diagnosis, Allen puts her best foot forward with help from friends

 

By Vlctorla Taylor
surr wnnzn

Camille Allen, Washington and Lee
class of 2007, has been diagnosed with
stage four squamous cell carcinoma of
the tongue, the second"-most common
form of skin cancer.

Since Allen’s diagnosis in February,
current and former W&L students have
shown their support by starting a scarf
and ponytail drive on campus to raise
awareness for Allen and other women
battling cancer.

Her personal story has been a driving
force behind the effort. Allen was ac-

tively involved in many aspects of cam-
pus life during her time at W&L. She
was president of Kappa Kappa Gamma,
head Peer Counselor, a tour guide, a
Volunteer Venture leader and a member
of the College Republicans.

After graduating from W&L in 2007 ,
Allen moved to Washington D.C. to
work for Cvent, an event planning soft-
ware company. In January, she went to
the company’s Indian office on a tem-
porary assignment to mentor and train
other sales personnel.

While overseas, what was once a
small ulcer on her tongue turned into a
larger, painful sore. A doctor in Gurga-
on, India performed a biopsy and found
that Allen had squamous cell carcinoma
of the tongue, a type of skin cancer. A
pathologist in her hometown of Jackson,
Miss. conﬁrmed the ﬁnding and Allen
was diagnosed with cancer.

Squamous cell carcinoma is a type
of skin cancer that forms in the ﬂat cells
that make up the skin’s surface. Accord-
ing to the National Cancer Institute, it is
the second most common form of skin
cancer.

Allen has already undergone one
round of chemotherapy at the M.D. An-
derson Cancer Center in Houston and is

scheduled for ﬁve more rounds before

i having surgery in May.

In response, Allen’s friend and soror-
ity sister Katherine Shell launched the
Crush Chemo website on March 22 to
help raise awareness for Allen as well as
the scarf and ponytail drive.

“Camille is an amazing,
amazing person. She has
always been such a good
friend to me and everyone

that I know. ”

Katherlne Shell,
Crush chemo creator

Shell recently sent out a campus
notice through dean of students Dawn
Watkins with information regarding
these efforts.

“I’m just really trying to get the word
out,” Shell said. “Just raising awareness
and expressing interest means a lot.”

Shell said Allen is the type of person
who is able to “reach across groups.”

“Camille is an amazing, amazing per-

son,” Shell said. “She has always been
such a good friend to me and everyone
that I know.”

Allen is helping to raise awareness
by making regular contributions to her
online journal on a Web site set up by
her sister, Courtney.

“I talked to her today and she’s sick
but she still has a good attitude about it,”
Shell said on Wednesday.

Cruch Chemo represents a joint effort
to help women undergoing chemo treat-
ments by organizing scarf and ponytail
donations. The hair donations are set up
through the Pantene Beautiful Lengths
campaign, which encourages women to
grow out, cut and donate their hair to be
used for wigs for cancer patients.

In addition to Shell, who cut off her
ponytail on Wednesday, eleven other
women have pledged to donate their
locks in honor of Allen. The group in-
cludes a mother and daughter from Lou-
isiana who were touched by her story
without knowing her personally.

Shell is also encouraging people to
donate large scarves and hats. She said
that those that do not go to Camille will
be donated to the American Cancer So-
ciety.

On campus, students have already

started getting involved with the ef-
forts to help and support Allen. Emily
Whipple, the president of Kappa Kappa
Gamma, said the sorority is planning on
doing a scarf drive during Spring Term.
The seniors in the sorority sent Allen a
care package with letters and magazines
to show their support. Kappa also reg-
istered a Relay for Life team in Allen’s
name.

“Since Relay for Life is alumni
weekend, we are hoping to get some ad-
ditional support from Camille’s friends
and pledge sisters and really make our
part in that event special for Camille and
her ﬁght against cancer,” Whipple said.

Allen’s sister Courtney has set up
a page on the CaringBridge website,
which is designed to help friends and
family stay connected to loved ones
during critical illness, treatment and
recovery. The site includes a blog that
Allen’s family updates almost daily and
guestbook in which visitors can leave
messages. The site already has almost
40,000 hits. '

For more information, visit the
Crush Chemo website at http://sites.
google.com/site/crushchemo/Home or
visit Allen’s CaringBridge page at http://
caringbridge.org/visit/camilleallen.

 

 

2 0 THE RING-TUM PHI

MONDAY,

MARCH 30, 2009

By Monica Chlnn
FROM THE ROCKBRIDGE REPORT

Associate Supreme Court Jus-
tice Clarence Thomas told Rock-
bridge County residents Monday
to “eam the sacriﬁces” of their
forefathers and “preserve liberty
for future generations.”

Thomas, the nation’s second
black Supreme Court justice,
urged students and community
residents gathered at Washington
and Lee University’s Lee Chapel
to hold tight to their optimism
to achieve that goal. Thomas’
March 16 speech was sponsored
by the the Contact committe.

“This is a challenging time.
All times are challenging, really,
but somehow you’ve got to be
positive,” Thomas said. “Treat
people the way you want to be
treated. Be humble — we’ll all
be a bit better off.”

i ‘It was a rare speech for Thom-

as, who is known for refusing in-
terviews and shying away from
public appearances. Following a
messy and lengthy conﬁrmation
hearing process in 1991, which
included allegations by a former
co-worker of sexual harassment,
he faded from the limelight, be-
coming one of the high court’s
quietest members.

But what most listeners took
away from the conservative jus-
tice’s hour-long remarks was not
what he said, but how he said it.

“I was just so impressed with
what a sense of humor he has,”
said Lauren Santabar, a W&L se-
nior. “He’s so warm  not what
you think of when you hear ‘Su-
preme Court justice.’ ”

Thomas prompted laughter
in the chapel as he cracked jokes
several times throughout the
night.

On judges’ opinions: “They
just make them up.”

On amicus briefs: “They
should just call them the ‘Let’s
just get ourselves involved
briefs.’ ”

On his college days: “I don’t
have an iconic view of the ’60s.
I’mjust glad I survived.”

An “originalist” interpreter of
the Constitution, Thomas con-
siders the words of the document
with the framers’ intentions in
mind. While a staunch support-
er of this approach, he admitted
that he did not have answers to
tough issues such as abortion or
the death penalty.

That impressed Jacque Lin-
ton, a W&L senior.

“He is obviously smart
enough to know to say that he’s
not an expert," Linton said.

Contact, a W&L student-run
committee that invites speak-
ers to campus, brought Thomas
to Lexington. President Robin
Wright said committee members

set their sights on the justice be-
cause his position in the judicia-
ry system attracts international
renown.

He arrived at Lee Chapel to
ﬁnd a waiting audience that in-
cluded many local supporters.
County resident Loretta Simp-
son called Thomas one of her
heroes. She said she admires the
justice’s dedication to standing
up for what he believes in and
would be happy to hear “any-
thing out of his mout .”

Another local admirer who
braved the rainy weather was
Natural Bridge resident Wil-
liam Mack. Mack, who had read
Thomas’ best-selling book “My
Grar1dfather’s Son,” made his
way to the chapel on crutches, to
hear what the justice had to say.
Mack said he once traveled to
Washington, D.C. to see Thomas
on the bench.

“I sat listening to cases all

day,” Mack said. “He spoke, but
only one time.”

Thomas talked to his audi-
ence about the importance of
seeing the big picture, which he
said involves observing people
from afar. That quality was
something he said his grandfa-
ther, Myers Anderson, stressed
to him when Thomas was a boy
growing up in Georgia.

Thomas described how his
grandfather told him to see op-
portunity amid racial ridicule
while attending primary school
in Savannah and during his time
at both the College of the Holy
Cross in Worcester, Mass., and
Yale University Law School. He
said he attended both schools
during the era of Affirmative Ac-
tion begun by presidents John F.
Kennedy and Lyndon B. John-
son. » v -r - l
Today, Thomas said, he keeps
the big picture in mind by tak-

ASHINGTON AND 

‘H Ur1iver.s  

  

O

celebrnmzg "a place like no arisen’

DO YOU T
 FOR BREAK?

Store ‘H

[l11¢le1*g1*:atluate Students

F ire 17.-111.91! .Ex:rr:u.s'? Bgforrr Zatifi.‘-Piiilg’ crarrgms;

bring _)3'01H’ banks to the ITNIVERSITY STORE

Textbook

 

Buyback!

. . . Get caizli (up to :Fi)‘?~*t» of 'v:;rl1.1e ofibookﬁ
. . . Help yollr St.0l‘i3§l'l:1'V£E Inore 1_1serl and cl1eape1r*books for fliture selnestersi

8 Days in the Elrod Commons’ Atrium
Tl1111*sday' &. Frirlay', April 2 & 3, 9 a.m. — 6 p.m.
Satiirdajs, April -1, 10 a.m. —  p.m.
Monday - Friday, April 6 — 10, 9 a.m. — 6 pm.

Preserving the
Constitution

S. C. Justice Clarence Thomas
draws a crowd of students and
local residents to Lee Chapel

Photograph courtesy of university photographers
Patrick Hineiy and Kevin Remington.

Supreme court Justice Clarence Thomas, who Is thought to be the most
private of the justices, made himself acceslbie to students during a re-
ception in the Hotchkiss House following his speech In Lee Chapel.

ing annual trips to the Civil War
battleﬁeld in Gettysburg, Pa.,
with his court clerks. The visits
remind his team that while they
spend all day trying to discern the
intention of the men who wrote
the Constitution, they play just
a “bit part on the big stage in the
preservation of liberties.”

Thomas said he uses that
sense of humility whenever he
hears a case. While the public
often gloriﬁes the justices’ work,
they are not special, Thomas
said. They are not all-knowing
and they are not charged with
deriving new truths from the
Constitution, only interpreting
what is already there, he said.

“I’m not going to cook gour-
met meals with your Constitu-
tion,” he said.

 

 

 

.3

 

 

 

MONDAY, MARCH 30,2009

THE RING-TUM PHI 0 5

 

opinions

 

totheetilior

Loved “Love Your Body Week”

The President of Knowledge Empowering Women Leaders sense gender relations change is close

Love Your Body Week began as a
mere idea, thrown out at of one of our
meetings by Senior Jackie Burns two
winters ago.

As a group, KEWL has grown quick-
ly from its modest beginnings. Though
perhaps not one of the most well-known
organizations on campus, our e-mail list
currently includes 95 members. As a
group, we are ﬁercely-committed and
intelligent female students who per-
ceive injustices in our community and
strive to ﬁx them with action. We seek
to empower women to become leaders
in the community, both at W&L and in
greater society.

Our vision for Love Your Body
Week was two-fold: to empower and
create solidarity among women, and to
educate and galvanize our school into
addressing issues which are so crucial
to our being, but which are continually
swept under the rug and forgotten — is-
sues of body image and self-esteem, re-
productive health, and sexual assault.

Despite the continued efforts of
the administration and various student

groups, people too rarely stop to ponder
the negative consequences facilitated
by the social climate at this school.

Upon enrollment as a ﬁrst-year,
one is almost force-fed the unique cul-
ture that has been characterized by the
Princeton Review as “Major Frat and
Sorority Scene” and “Lots of Hard Li-
quor.”

True, some students may have cho-
sen W&L because of its “Work hard,
party harder” attitude; but a lot of us,
myself included, were initially over-
whelmed with the social scene, and
completely oblivious to the underlying
problems embedded in such a culture.

Students’ quiet acceptance of the
warped social scene, especially of the
degrading hook-up culture and exces-
sive under-age drinking, is extremely
disturbing. This apathetic mentality,
which is shared by so many, perpetuates
a culture which erodes the slightest sem-
blance of a normal male/female interac-
tion, objectiﬁes both males and females
to unacceptable levels, and brews feel-
ings of inadequacy. As we well know,

Leadership team for Campus Kitchens ;

these feelings of not being gorgeous or
skinny enough pave the road for much
graver problems, such as eating disor-
ders, anxiety, and depression.

These deeply-entrenched self-image
problems are difﬁcult to dislodge, but
not impossible. We hope that our post-
ers, games, cut-out women, and Post
Secret campaign shed light on the dark-
er recesses of college life in a meaning-
ful and productive way. We hope that,
as a result of our eﬂbrts and those of
SPEAK and Voices for Choice, we have
stimulated introspection among W&L
students and that discussion about these
core issues will continue even when
Love Your Body Week has ended... We
also hope that the positive, life-aﬂirm-
ing secrets that we shared as a campus
serve as a beacon of hope and begin the
healing process, both individually and
collectively.

This process, however, has not been
easy. Our efforts were met with shock
and resistance at the beginning of the
week. Some believed that content de-
picted on our Post Secrets were too

graphic and offensive to visitors of the
university, particularly prospective stu-
dents and children. There was discus-
sion as to whether our “Sex and the me-
dia” poster displayed in Cafe’ 77 could
be interpreted as pornographic, though
the pictures were cut out of Cosmopoli-
tan Magazine, which can be purchased
in the Bookstore.

Sexual assault posters were torn
down and thrown away by our peers.
The tour guides were informed not to
enter the library through the front en-
trance because we had displayed W&L’s
sexual assault statistics. The admis-
sions ofﬁce was afraid that these sober-
ing statistics would frighten prospective
students and their parents away, and not
give the university a proper chance to
explain. And although they eventually
realized the error of their ways, a larger
message was sent regarding what we
value on this campus: silence.

However, thanks to support and en-
couragement from faculty members,
most notably Dr. Robin Le Blanc, our
faculty adviser, and the administration,

we were able to keep our posters and
Post Secrets alive and up for all to see.
Public announcements were made to
elicit support for our campaign and its
objectives. Provost Aprille even offered
to help sell KEWL t-shirts! The contin-
ued applause of our campaign and en-
couragement to pursue and unveil these
uncomfortable realities only makes me
more optimistic that W&L may be “be-
hind the times” in some ways, but is
now on the brink of change.

As I stood over the staircase this
week and witnessed my own peers pon-
dering the proclamations of sexiness,
dark insecurities, and other never-been-
told secrets of real W&L students, I
could not help but think that there was
an energy in the air, which was very
different. A fundamental impasse had
been torn down, and I am so proud to
have been a part of it all.

Grace Wang
President of KEWL

What is the cost of rape, sexual Violence?

 

 

Profiles

Student Consulting and currently work-
1n ing with a group on a project for Hoof-
_ beats riding center; Outing Club trip
 leader for the past three years; Service

. Chair for Kappa Alpha Theta.
E11111)’ Deddens ODK member and volunteer as a men-

tor in the Lexington community.

What energizes you about
taking on the responsibilities of
campus‘ leadership? “I have enjoyed
taking positions which allow me to more
fully become a member of the community
at Washington and Lee and in Lexington.
To me, being a community member en-
tails participating in activities which bene-
fit the community at large.”

What has been one of the most
rewarding aspects of leadership
at W&L? “Leading Appalachian Adven-
ture trips has been one of my most re-
warding activities in college. Being part of
their experience as new freshmen enter W&L each year is always excit-
ing and helping to introduce them to the school has been very reward-
ing for me.”

What legacy of leadership do you hope you've left for
others at W&L? “I hope I have shown people that it is not enough
to simply enjoy the benefits of the community in which you live but
that you must also do things to continually improve that community.”
Any words of advice for those who follow? “I have found
that participating in a few carefully chosen activities is both more en-
joyable and more meaningful than trying to do everything, even if this
means giving some things up.”

Tuesdays with Leadership:
Leadership Without Easy/Answers

12:15 and 6:30 PM, Room 214 Elrod Common:
Adaptive leadership requires revitalization of civic life, such

that technical solutions to complex issues no longer suffice

Career Services

Quick Questions
comes to you...

Stop by

The Fitness Center,
Commons Living Room.
or Leyburn Library

to have your resume, cover letter,
interview, networking, internship, and
job search questions answered.

March 30"‘ - April lO*"
2-3 pm
Tuesdays in the Marketplace
ll:30am-lpm

KVASHINLTETON .M'dl)I.l31"-L UNIVi§RSIT’i”

CAREER®SERVICES

Reactions to shocking sexual assualt stats show W&L is hypocrisy

I am an English major.

I feel the need to state this
up front because I do not deal
with emotions. I deal with the
thoughtful and reﬂective articu-
lation of emotions. Thus, it is a
great aberration for me to utter
“repugnant,” “deplorable,” and
“unconscionable” with red face
and wildly gesticulating limbs.

Such was my reaction to in-
formation I received regarding
responses to KEWL’s “Love Your
Body Week” in conjunction with
SPEAK’s Take Back the Night
rally designed to give voices,
strength, and solidarity to those
of us who have been judged and
abused by a culture that applauds
the merits of men while degrad-
ing the value of women.

Then I overheard the follow-
ing from my seemingly well-edu-
cated ﬁrst-year male peers:

“Dude, what are
cards?”

“They’re so fat chicks with
low self-esteem can feel better
about themselves.”

The responses to the cards and
the posters on display through-
out campus have ranged from
concerns over the welfare of the
Common’s walls to pomograph-
ic displays to the reputation of
W&L in general.

To these ends, I question the
following: How does the cost
of repairing the shattered con-
ﬁdence of a woman raped by a
trusted friend compare to the cost

those

of a coat of paint? How can one
oppose vehemently the “pomo-
graphic” display of women’s bod-
ies cut from the pages of Cosmo
and defend the sale of Maxim in
the University Bookstore? How
does one remain mindful of the
future with a provincial attitude
that endorses sweeping issues
under the rug to retain the appear-
ance of gentility rather than sup-
port students actively engaged in
making the campus a better and
safer place to live?

And to those of you concerned
about the supposed material in-
appropriate for children, I would
like to remind you, as my good
friend so eloquently phrased it,
that the Commons is not a civic
center. If we cannot express
ourselves freely in a building de-
signed to bring our community-
not the greater Lexington com-
munity—together, will there ever
be a safe place for the necessary
albeit controversial discourse of
students hoping to enter the real
word as free-thinking adults?

I am sure no one would coun-
ter me in stating W&L is hardly
a campus of activists; therefore,
it amazes me how a few posters
commenting on the reality of
life at W&L can cause such an
uproar. To enact real change re-
quires provocative ideals along-
side incontrovertible fact, both of
which were embraced in the con-
struction of this campaign.

From an institutional stand-

point, W&L expects to be taken
seriously by peer colleges, and I
completely understand the neces-
sity of maintaining strong public
relations. But does anyone really
believe that the way to do this is
to hide behind a facade of student
eﬂicacy when, in reality, our at-
tempts are thwarted?

Yes, these statistics and im-
ages are terrifying and offensive.
But what is even more offensive
is the unwillingness to accept
the empowering message behind
them all in an effort to make
W&L safer, not just for women,
but for everyone. If we are to
deny these realities, then let us
stop pretending to be anything
other than an apathetic and rep-
rehensible student body.

No well-rounded, intellectual,
and innovatively—minded pro-
spective student would make a
decision on an institution of high-
er education without ﬁrst gather-
ing all the information pertaining
to his or her future safety.

Although a subsequent apol-
ogy was issued, tour guides were
commanded at the beginning of
the week to avoid the front doors
of the library at all costs because
parents would become alanned,
and the guides just would not
have the time or the infom1a-
tion to explain everything. Of
course.

How does one explain a rate
of sexual assault that is two times
the national average on a campus

that professes slavish devotion to
honor and accountability?

I am bound by conﬁdential-
ity as a result of my position as a
Peer Counselor, but I can tell you
that W&L’s rate of sexual assault
is not twice the national average.

It is much greater than that,
but we will never have a conclu-
sive statistic to validate my asser-
tion because ours is a culture, like
everywhere else in America, of
underreporting. It is demoraliz-
ing to see those around me dem-
onstrate such hostility to women
struggling for validation to over-
come the wrongs that have been
done to them simply because they
did not have the good fortune of
being born a man.

To those of you as enraged as
I have become this past week, I
urge you to initiate the ongoing
dialogue that the uninformed
among us have tried so imma-
turely to stymie. Why? Because
the outline of my body is now
strapped to a tree with statistics to
which the traumas of my friends
have contributed. Because my
story is on one of those cards that
you, dear ﬁrst-year male, derided
with such swift dismissal. I will
not be belittled. I will not be ig-
nored. And I will certainly not be
silent.

Yours,
Rebecca A. Koval
Class of 2009

W&L must act to curb sexual Violence

The time to create student-lea’ anti-sexual assualt policies is now

In the turbulence and excite-
ment of the aftermath of Love
Your Body Week, a campaign
that would have been impos-
sible without the wide-ranging
encouragement and support from
numerous student organizations,
concerned students, faculty, and
staff, I am left wondering: what
next?

As I have walked up and down
the stairs in the Commons, I have
been saddened, angered, empow-
ered, and inspired — but most of
all, I was impassioned. In one
short week, we were forced to
confront the statistics, the cold,
hard facts about our nation and
most importantly, our commu-
nity.

Through the secrets that we
shared, we brought these facts to
life. We saw that the jokes about
the hook-up culture are not jokes
to many of us, men and women
alike. That, although the SFHB
hardly ever hears a sexual assault
case, members of our community
have been indeed been assaulted

and raped by our peers and only
felt comfortable exposing it
anonymously. As a community,
we recognized our problems,
and many of us refused to be si-
lent about these crucial issues for
any longer. As I stood in a room
of at least 20-25 people making
outlines of their beautiful bodies,
I think we crossed a threshold.
It was painful, it was hard, and
some of us had to be pushed. But
we did it.

But what next? Those secrets
on the walls are only a step in the
healing process, both for each
survivor and for our university.
We cannot choose to stay com-
placent any longer... We should
not ask to hear more stories like
these before we act. Once should
be the last straw. We cannot only
engage in meaningful, produc-
tive conversation and action one
week a year. If we truly love and
respect ourselves, we will act and
we will act now.

I have never seen our campus
so vibrant as it was March 23“-

27“‘. I never felt more alive, more
powerful, and more conﬁdent in
myself and in the student body. I
can honestly say that I loved my-
self and everyone else who real-
ized the importance of the Love
Your Body Week message.

As a senior leaving in only
two months, I am hopeful. How-
ever, the road is long and we have
just begun the journey. As a
school that supposedly prides it-
self on self-govemance, we must
reassume our power. We must
institute student-created policies
on sexual assault and the danger-
ous substance abuse, which feeds
into our deplorable rate of sexual
misconduct.

When I and the rest of the
class of 2009 leave, this is your
campus. While the administra-

tion and admissions have a vested
interest in our campus image, it is
we, the students, who are raped
and perpetrate those rapes. It is
our responsibility to bring honor
into the system in a way that we
have frankly been unwilling to in

the past.

We must look beyond Post
Secret to our future. Let’s go be-
yond being “not unrnindful of the
future” — let us be active partici-
pants in our future, shaping it, not
being shaped by it.

My ﬁrst year, I vowed to help
leave this school better than I
found it. I believe I have fulﬁlled
that goal. As I prepare to leave
W&L, I hope to be leaving my
alma mater in capable hands. Be-
cause I refuse to come back to a
campus where the rates of sexual
assault and rape are higher than
the national average across the
board (for both women and men).
I will not tolerate an apathetic
student body. I will not toler-
ate more of the same. There are
some traditions that are simply
not worth keeping and our collec-
tive inaction is one of them.

We’ve recognized the prob-
lems, but that is not enough. We
must search for solutions.

Regina Mills ‘09

 

 

 

MONDAY, MARCH 30, 2009

THE RING-TUM PHI

0 inions

 

Hffman two-faced

New EC President shows his beliefs in campaign e-mails

By Jacob éelger
C 0 LU M N I S T

When Eric Hoffman, a second—year law student at
Washington and Lee, campaigned for the post of Executive
Committee president, he told undergraduates that he was
just another W&L student, albeit one who happened to
attend classes on the other side of Woods Creek.

The message was clear. Hoffman wanted undergraduates
to understand that he would conduct EC business in an
evenhanded way, not favoring one side of campus or the
other.

Over on the Hill, Hoffman ran as someone who could
relate to all members of the student body. Sadly, he was
running a very different campaign over at the law school.

In a campaign E—mail forwarded around by law
students, Hoffman outlined three reasons those students
should vote for him.

The first was budgeting for the Student Bar Association,
far and away the most important organization on the law
side of campus. Hoﬁman said law students should help
elect him so he could “make sure that the SBA gets as
much money as possible.”

The SBA is a worthy, important organization, of course,
and it deserves to be fully funded. But shouldn’t Hoffman
be running because of a desire to protect and promote the
Honor System, not so he can become appropriator-in-chief
for a law student organization?

Sadly, things go downhill from there in points two and
three. Hoffman wrote that he should be elected so the law
school could control ﬁve of the 13 seats on the EC. “This
would make a huge difference when it comes to Closed
Hearings, because the law students can provide a more
informed and mature point of view,” Hoffman wrote.

Wonderful! The incoming EC President thinks
undergraduates are immature and incapable of providing
a fully informed perspective on honor cases!

The third plank of Hoffman’s platform is quite simple.
If he’s elected, he thinks the law delegates can make sure
nothing will be passed by the EC that he and other law
delegates don’t think is in the law school’s best interest.

Sadly,'the arrogance over on the law school side of
campus doesn’t stop there.

Rick Hallenback, the SBA treasurer, urged law students
to elect Hoffman so that there would be “a more mature and
more tempered voice on the issues facing our school.”

~Again,7 the insinuation is clear: undergraduate leaders

"are not“mature enough or experienced to handle the

weighty issues of student self-govemance.

Ryan Germany, the EC’s outgoing third-year law
representative, added that having a law student as president
would help with SBA budget allocations and ensure that
major issues facing W&L “are deliberated maturely and
thoughtfully.”

Let’s stop and examine this whole question of maturity

An explanation is needed, Eric

If Hofﬁnan can tjustzﬁz his e—mails to the undergrads, he should resign

and thoughtfulness. The current EC is led by President
Rich Cleary and Vice President Ellie Hanson. Cleary was
a ﬁnalist for the Rhodes Scholarship, one of the most
prestigious graduate awards in the entire world and one
that looks heavily at a student’s leadership skills and ability
to deal with deep, complex issues. Hanson is a Boren
National Security Fellow. The fellowship helps facilitate
research and analysis of important issues surrounding
American national security.

Yep, those don’t sound like thoughtful undergraduates
to me. And we don’t need to stop at the academic
qualiﬁcations of our current EC leadership. I’ve dealt
extensively with both Cleary and Hanson over the last four
years, and they — like every other EC undergraduate leader
I’ve ever met or worked with — put an enormous amount of

I ’m not sure whats more disappoint-
ing: Hoﬂman s arrogance, or the fact
that he ran such different campaigns

on the two halves of our campus.

thought and consideration into their jobs on the EC.

W&L has had strong EC leaders come from the law
school before. Last year Josh Payne and Jane Ledlie, two
law students, provided excellent leadership as the student
body president and secretary, respectively.

But Payne and Ledlie treated undergraduates like
valued colleagues. They made real, _honest efforts to
build meaningful ties on both sides of campus rather than
focusing on what was best for the law school.

It’s possible that Eric Hoffman will manage to ﬁgure out
that his job is to rise above issues like getting more money
for the Student Bar Association. It’s possible that — in his
third year on this campus — he’ll ﬁnally drop his arrogant
belief that law students are necessarily more thoughtful
and mature when it comes to ruling on the fate of a student
or discussing the key issues facing our community.

It’s possible, but I’m not holding my breath.

I’m not sure what’s more disappointing: Hoffman’s
arrogance, or the fact that he ran such different campaigns
on the two halves of our campus. '

Hoffman told undergraduates that he was running as a
leader for all of us. But he told law students that he was
running to get them more money and protect them from
immature undergraduates holding the reins of power.

W&L students aren’t supposed to lie. But who was
getting the truth about Hoffman’s plans during the
elections? The undergraduates, or the law students?

Transcripts  Hoffman campaign emails .
From Eric Hoffmamseeond year law representative on the EC, candidate for presi-
dent: S ’ '

The BC serves as the student government and administers the Honor System forthe
entire University —~ so the BC is in charge with budgeting for ali student crganiia-
tions appointing students to student-run committees, meeting with faculty, the ad-
ministration and alumni, and overseeing any investigation or Closeﬂearing related’ I
to any alleged Honor Violation. If the EC President is a law student this is beneﬁciai
to the law school in a few ways: . I "5 I

l. SBA Budgeting: The EC decides how much money SAB gets for their entire bud-I _
get every year, and it would be very helpful and beneﬁcial for this process to V
have a law student at the helm, to make sure that the SBA getsas much money
as possibie. A I ‘ ’ ‘ I t

2. Greater representation for the law school. Ifl am elected EC president, that leaves
s I another spot open for our class to have a representative position. Because Bili I
Larson,.a first-year law student, won for EC Secretary, that would mean that a
Win for me would bring total law school representation on the EC to ﬁve out of ‘
13 (the rest being undergrads), instead of three out of 13. as we have now. This I
. can make a huge difference when it comes to Close[d] Hearings, because the
law students can provide a more informed and mature point of view - and since
we’re talking about expulsion ﬁ'om school, this can be a pretty big deal.

3. Great awareness of Law School issues on the BC: In the same vein, having-more
law students on the EC means that every decision that the EC makes affecting
student life will be fully aware of how it would atfcct the law school, and I think ,

; this would. mean that itwould most likely beiu the Law School ’s best -interest, 

or it wouldn’t pass.

From Rick Hallenback, Student Bar Association Treasurer
To:.Law Class of 2009, Law Class of 2010

You may not realize it, but everything the SBA does depends very heavily on the
EC for funding. In the spring, our new President and Treasurer will attend the EC’s "
budget hearings to ‘secure funding for all of the events sponsored by the SBA,,the
individual classes, and the law school’s organizations. It’s sometimes‘ easy to see the
EC as an undergraduate entity, but makes decisions that truly affect the live of all of
W&L’s students, inciuding law students. I

.1 ur[g]e you all, therefore, to take this opportunity to have an active rolein shap-

ing the EC. It is important that law students participate in the process because we '
have a more mature and more tempered voice on the issues facing our school. It is
imperative that we have effective and strong representation on the EC to make that
voice heard. ‘ . .. More representation on the EC means our concerns and interests are
more adequately addressed. I ure you all to come out and support your fellow law
students, your SBA, and the EC by voting today. s I I I i

From Ryan (irennany, 3rd year law representative on the EC
To: Law Class of 2009

  Having a_ in student as ac rresidem is obviously greatfor“the‘»law scseoi 4 it .

ensure that issues facing the law school get the attention they deserve and it also
helps with SBA budget allocations. In addition to representing the law school well,
Eric has shown that he puts just as much time and thought into issues facing just I
the undergrad campus or the University as a whole. Having a law student moderate
the discussion of these ensure that they are deliberated maturely and thoughtfuliy.
Thanks for your time, and please remember to vote today. I f

 

By Cody Beauchamp
OPINIONS aonon

It’s time for Eric Hoffman to consider
one of two courses of action.

Our new EC President either needs to
explain some of the emails that originated
from his campaign for president, or it’s time
for him to resign.

Yes, you read correctly—-resign.

I won’t belabor the point and re—explain
the predicament Mr. Hoffman is in.

If youare unaware of what has happened,
I’d encourage you to read Jacob Geiger’s
excellent piece on this page entitled “Hoff-
man Two-Faced”

I agree with Geiger that, when he was
campaigning, Hoffman had tried to convey
that he “was someone who could relate to
all members of the student body.”

I also agree with Geiger’s sense that
“Hoffman wanted undergraduates to under-
stand that he would conduct EC business in
an evenhanded way, not favoring one side
of campus or the other.”

All the more reason for why Mr. Hoff-
man absolutely owes the undergraduate stu-
dent body an explanation for his emails and
those written on his behalf.

Both the transcripts of the emails and
Jacob’s article give you the emails’ ‘great-
est hits.’ Ungrads aren’t “mature” enough
to helm the EC. The Student Bar Associa-
tion should receive “as much money as pos-
sible.” If a policy proposal is not in the law
school’s best interests, it shouldn’t pass.
Eric Hoffman is the candidate for all these
problems, etc., etc., etc.

To be fair, let’s not rush to conclusions.
I can speak from experience—experience
as a columnist for this paper, in fact-—when
I say that words can be misunderstood.

Something written with harmless intent
can be takenout of context. I’ve been ac-
cused of being everything from racist to so-
cialist because people have misread unclear
writing of mine in the past (I’d like to think
I’m neither racist nor socialist, by the way.
I certainly don’t intend to be either).

So I don’t want to accuse Mr. Hoffman
of being a “carpetbagger,” as one friend la-
beled him upon reading his emails, at least
not yet.

But my patience and hesitation to judge
will be limited. All of us undergrads should
expect an explanation from Hoffman soon.
If we don’t get it, we should become ac-
cordingly upset.

If you’re reading this, Eric, I’ll even
make you an offer——use the Phi’s opinions
pages. I’ll even set aside some prime space
above the fold. Feel free to get into touch.
I’m sure a lot of my fellow undergrads are
looking forward to your response. We’ll at-
tempt to be patient and mature about this.

Of course, if an explanation for these
emails doesn’t materialize soon, all of the
undergraduates should be upset. The emails
were, frankly, very patronizing. Jacob used
the word “arrogant” to describe their tone.
It ﬁts.

I’m not saying that Eric Hoffman isn’t
mature, maybe even just as mature as the
other candidates he ran against.

One of Hoffman’s opponents that I
spoke with (who has been granted anonym-
ity due to the delicate nature of this issue)
said that Hoffman was “one of the brightest,
most articulate people I ever worked with
on the EC.”

Candidate X even said he wanted Eric to
win the position if he didn’t (which, obvi-
ously, happened).

But simply being bright and articulate is
no excuse for also being arrogant and pa-
tronizing, especially not when the person in
question holds such a powerful and influen-
tial position.

Hoffman is the figurehead of a system
based upon mutual respect and trust. His
emails suggest that he neither respects,
nor trusts the undergraduate population of
Washington and Lee.

The Honor System is also one which
should not be political. Some politicking
is necessary to get elected, of course. That
politicking is‘ distressing I suppose, but
only, for instance, in the same way the poli-

ticking that goes into electing a new Pope
is distressing.

What I mean is, you kind of want to point
out that the nature of the job should prohibit
anyone who would desecrate its purpose by
making it something political.

And all of this completely ignores the
other distressing portion of Hoffrnan’s
emails—the money. Hoffman, I can only
believe, will have tremendous sway in de-
termining where EC funds get allocated.
And I believe he actually will stick to his
campaign promise to bring the pork home
to the Student Bar.

Not that the Student Bar doesn’t serve
a great purpose, and not that they couldn’t
justiﬁably use greater funding. But that
type of one-minded allegiance to the Law
School disturbs me because I have to won-
der if Hoffman can say “when” when it’s
enough.

Or will equally valid organizations like
Students for Life, K.E.W.L., G.A.B., the
G.S.A., and others suffer ﬁnancial cutbacks
in the name of more SBA events?

The bottom line is that Hoffman needs
to justify what he and his advocates said on
one part Woods Creek to the people on the
other side. The undergrads Hoffman has not
expressed much respect for compose 4/5ths
of his constituency. He is responsible to us,
whether he particularly likes us or not.

So if he cannot justify what he said—if
he has no excuse for implying that under-
grads are immature, or planning on bring-
ing all the pork he can back home to Lewis
Hall, he needs to resign.

It’s nothing personal, of course. It’s just
that it would be shockingly hypocritical to
have someone who doesn’t respect most
of the school at the head of its Honor Sys-
tem (remember that whole mutual respect
thing?).

If Hoﬁman cannot explain his seemingly
condescending views of 4/5ths of Washing-
ton and Lee, he should at least prove he’s
mature by stepping aside and letting some-
one who actually respects both sides of our
University have a shot.

 
   

 

: TH E HEN
ii invites you to enjoy  
2 TWILIGHT DINING 

'€£"Monday through Thursday evenings until 6:30 p.m.
enjoy three courses of inspired Shenandoah cuisine for $35
 reservations strongly recommended

11 E. Washington Street Lexington 540-464-4401

www.redhenlex.com
OPEN Mon. - Fri. fbr lunch £9 dinner Saturday dinner 8 Sunday brunch

gecéy it Qectcwmt

P.El)Al. CAR DINER &. Tn: Tor Carr;

Order from our complete menu
Ur Join usfor one of our.-<iI;L YOU CAN EAT Buﬂizts.’

Friday Night Seafood Buffet with Crab Legs 5pm-10pm
Saturday Night Prime Rib Dinner 5pm~10pm
Sunday Baked Chicken, Pork Loin, & Pot Roast 1tam~9pm
Friday & Saturday Late Night Breakfast Bar 10pm-2am
Breakfast Bar ‘F Days a Week 6am~i tam
Daily Hot Country Bar ‘Ham-10pm
Daily Soup, Salad, & Fruit Bar iiam—iOpm

Order Breakfast 24 Hours a day, 7 days a week?

Home C0t?k£’dfi’1c‘.’tifS & Srmiizern Hospitality!
mated at

ill Illmlil Plﬂl

l-81 & I-64. livit 193, 2516 l\il)fl'll Lee llwy., Lexington, VA

540-463-3478

Erent food & a great coltection of
Antique Pedal Cars 8: Tin Toys!

 

    

O

 

 

  

O,

 

 

MONDAY, MARCH 30, 2009

THE RING—TUM PHI 0 5

 

opinions

———-~—-«H WASHING’1‘0N AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING—TUM PHI.

MANAGING EDITOR
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR

SPORTS EDITOR

CONTRIBUTING WRITERS

DESIGN EDITOR
BUSINESS MANAGER
DISTRIBUTION MNGR.

ALLISON CHOPIN
JOHN HENDERSON
CODY BEAUCHAMP
CELESTE CRUZ-
CARANDANG

WILL DORRANCE

LIZ BLACKWOOD
ALEISHA BUTLER
MONICA cnmgr
MEGAN DAILY
NEVILLE roenrv
mcos GEIGER
WYATT HEATON
FINDLEY MERRITT
MICHAEL MORELLA
KATHERINE ROBERTS
BROOKE SUTHERLAND
HOLLY SUTHERS
VALAREE um:
VICTORIA TAYLOR
ROBERT WASON

LARA JORDAN
STROCK MOORE
ROB GEORGE

MISSION STATEMENT: It is -the mission of THE
RING—TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully. and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community for students. faculty,
parents and alumni. Our goal is to 'look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting. we aspire
to spark discussions that lead to discovering
information that prompts change.

THE RING—TUM PHI IS PUBLISHED MONDAYS
DURING THE UNDERGRADUATE SCHOOL YEAR.
THE RING—TUM PHI IS A MEMBER OF THE MEDIA
BOARD, BUT IS OTHERWISE INDEPENDENT.
QUESTIONS OR CONCERNS ABOUT THE PHI
SHOULD BE ADDRESSED TO THE EDITORS AT
PHl@WLU.EDU OR TO THE MEDIA BOARD AT

MEDIABOARD@WLU.EDU.

THE MEDIA BOARD

IS AN INDEPENDENT, STUDENT—RUN EDITORIAL
OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE WORKING WITH ALL
MEDIA OUTLETS ON THE WASHINGTON &

LEE CAMPUS.

ALL INQUIRIES WILL REMAIN

CONFIDENTIAL. THE RING—TUM PHI WELCOMES
ALL LETTERS. WE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO EDIT
SUBMISSIONS FOR CONTENT AND LENGTH.
LETTERS AND ADVERTISING DO NOT NECESSARILY
REFLECT THE OPINION OF THE RING—TUM PHI
STAFF. THIS NEWSPAPER OBSERVES CURRENT
-C_OURT DEFINITIONS OF LIBEL AND OBSCENITY,
THE RING—TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540) 458-4059

exual assualt silenced

The University s reactions to Love Your Body Week were shameful »

By Alelsha Butler
COLU M msr

This past week KEWL spon-
sored a weeklong event entitled
“Love Your Body” (“LYBW”).

The purpose of the week was to
create a dialogue about women’s
bodies, to raise awareness about
the issues that affect women and
their self-images.

Part of KEWL’s mission was
to provide PostSecrets, a way of
anonymously expressing an inner
pain, embarrassment, or betrayal
that no one else knows about.

Another part of KEWL’s mes-
sage entailed posting statistics all
around campus about sexual as-
sault, and some of those posters
discussed the (abnormally high)
sexual assault statistics here at
W&L.

When we were gearing up for
LYBW in the days beforehand,
I myself thought that maybe the
week shouldn’t put so much focus
on the sexual assault statistics. I
thought that it really wasn’t re-
lated to KEWL’s message about
loving your body.

However, when I saw the in-
credibly negative reaction that
some of the faculty, staff and stu-
dents were displaying toward the
sexual assault posters, I had an
epiphany. Loving your body is
not just about being comfortable
in your own skin; loving your
body involves speaking up and
speaking out on its behalf.

Within the very ﬁrst day of,
KEWL’s campaign, several staff
members expressed concern over
the “potential offensiveness” of
some of the PostSecrets and post-
ers being displayed around cam-
pus. One administrator sent an
email saying, “there are people
in the W&L community that have

as offensive, particularly by folks
on campus tours, etc.” Thisstaff
person advised moving all the
PostSecrets to the display case of
the second ﬂoor of the commons.

They would make such an im-
pact on the staggering number of
people who walk by that display
case, wouldn’t they?

Another staff member from
the admissions office sent out an
email to the tour guides explicitly
ordering them to avoid the front
doors of the library where KEWL
had posted signs displaying some
of W&L’s less prestigious statis-

people were doing their best to si-
lence the statistics and the secrets
being presented to the public eye.

1. The “negative” and “offensive”

cards and posters around campus
seemed to be revealing an aspect
of the truth that people don’t want
to hear.

While I was talking with an-
other female student about the
reaction to LYBW, she said “well
this is a time of year that a lot
of prospectives come for tours.”
My answer to that statement is: so
when is a good time to talk about

the negative aspects of W&L’s

If administrators are uncomfortable with some

of the [sexual assualt] statistics they saw then

they should be motivated to act...not sweep

them under a T rident-emblazoned rug.

tics. She said, “We do not want
this to be the lasting image stu-
dents have of W&L... This has
nothing to do with the campaign
or with the mission of KEWL but
has everything to do with parents
freaking out without us having
time to explain ourselves and the
mission.”

In a later apology email the
same administrator said “but I
thought it hard for parents or
prospective students to have per-
spective on the issue without be-
ing a part of the larger campus
conversation that is going on this
week.”

My response to those last
comments is: what conversation?
What explanation can the school
possibly give for the high num-
bers of sexual violations we see

culture? When is there going to
be a time that no outsiders are on
campus?

Truthfully, if administra-
tors, students, faculty and staff
are uncomfortable with some of
the statistics and cards they saw
then they should be motivated to
action. They should be inspired
to change those statistics, not
to sweep them under a Trident-
emblazoned rug. You can’t be
shocked by our statistics and then
do nothing more than tear down
the posters.

The overall conservatism at
this school masks a gendered
power dynamic in which wom-
en’s sexuality, health and social
status is secondary, and this con-
servatism was evidenced by a
complaint that was made about a

sexually-charged images“ that
could be found in any fashion
magazine. It incorporated words
that were meant to raise questions
about the messages promoted by
these types of images. What do
children and adolescents learn
about sexuality via airbrushed im-
ages of muscular men dominating
delicate, pale women?

The complainant misinterpret-
ed the poster, saying “In a build-
ing such as the Commons where
the University hosts visitors, pro-
spective students, parents of pro-
spective‘ students and even CHIL-
DREN of the community I cannot
imagine that this is something we
want to display as portraying the
values of this place.” All I have
to say to that is if that bothers you
get off your high horse, because
the illustrious University sells
Cosmo and Maxim in the book-
store.

Gender inequality’s partner in
crime is silence. If some of the
images and messages displayed
this past week offended you,
then you should be motivated to
change them. The fact that sexual
assault is still not a formal honor
violation speaks volumes to the
permissiveness of our culture here
at W&L. Isn’t a sexual attack the
ultimate in violation?

Further, the attempt by sev-
eral people to “tone-down” and
avoid the realities put forth by
the LYBW posters was shameful.
That reaction does nothing but
translate a message to female stu-
dents that their health, safety and
peace of mind is less important
than the University’s image.

Why do we hide from the
truth? It may not be pretty but if
we ever want it to change it has to
be exposed, discussed and defeat-
ed in an open atmosphere where

 

EMAIL: PHI@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

 

 Iaoiheetibr

already commented that some of
the secrets could be interpreted

here?

It is very clear that several

poster hanging in the co-op this
past week. The poster depicted

conversation is encouraged, not
stiﬂed.

Phi Kappa Psi suspension unjust

Former Phi Psi president Bruno calls on the University to correct the University Board of Appeals I

Members of the Student Body and
University Administration,

On Wednesday, March 11 the Uni-
versity Board of Appeals determined
that the IF C’s previous sanctions on Phi
Kappa Psi were “not appropriate given
the circumstances of the hazing viola-
tion,” and since Phi Kappa Psi “was al-
ready on Critical Social Probation when
the hazing incident occurred” the UBA
decided that suspension until January 9,
2010 was the more appropriate sanction
for the fraternity.

In order to expose the ﬂaws and in-
justices that occurred during the Phi Psi
hearing, we ﬁrst must go back to last
year when Phi Psi was put on Critical
Social Probation.

Aﬁer sitting in the SAC hearing
where the IFC’s sanction of Critical So-
cial Probation was created and upheld
by the SAC, I spent my tenure as Presi-
dent of Phi Kappa Psi ensuring that the
chapter complied with Critical Social
Probation; as a result, I have a unique
knowledge of the sanction that most on
campus do not share.

The UBA inappropriately misled
when they stated “if Phi Kappa Psi
violated University or IFC standards
during the subsequent calendar year it
would be considered for suspension or
dismissal from the University.” Rather,
Critical Social Probation was created
for our unique case during the Johnson
Scholar incident and pertained only to
open social events under University and
IFC standards. At the end of the hear-
ing, I speciﬁcally asked how this would
affect New Member Education and even
posed the question of how this would
affect a hypothetical hazing violation if
one occurred in the future; I was assured
by the SAC that Critical Social Proba-
tion is different from Critical Probation

and hazing violations would be looked
at separately from our Critical Social
Probation.

It is clear, then, that the UBA did not
follow this procedure. Following the
SAE precedent and others on campus,
one hazing violation typically leads to
Critical Probation, not suspension. So
at most, since Critical Social Probation
should not have been related to the hear-
ing, Phi Kappa Psi should have received
one year Critical Probation.

However, Phi Kappa Psi leadership
was not allowed to properly explain

View of the IFC sanctions and their jus-
tifications — not a rehearing of the case.
As a result, Phi Kappa Psi could only be
heard as a witness for the IFC. Yet this
was not the case, as the appeal turned
into a rehearing of the incident. Since
the UBA has the power not only to over-
turn the IFC ruling — the only power of
an appellate court — but also can make
decisions de novo — issue sanctions of
their own as if it were a hearing of the
case - then shouldn’t the defendant be
present and allowed to present an appro-
priate defense?

If Phi Psi had had the ability to provide a defense, the
[University Board of Appeals] would have learned
the dijference between Critical Social Probation and
Critical Probation...the UBA failed to ensure a just

outcome...

Critical Social Probation, and because
the UBA called Critical Social Proba-
tion by “Critical Probation” in its jus-
tiﬁcation, it is clear that the board was
not aware of the differences between the
two sanctions.

That leads me to the fundamental er-
rors that occurred during the UBA Hear-
ing. First, it is odd that the IFC’s sanc-
tions were appealed in the ﬁrst place.
Mike Young, acting as an‘agent of the
University, appealed the IFC sanctions
citing “insufficient penalty.” In accor-
dance with due process, isn’t it the de-
fendant who has the right to appeal, not
the judge, not the prosecution?

However, the appeal went forward
and Phi Kappa Psi was informed by all
those involved that thehearing was a re-

If Phi Psi had had the ability to pro-
vide a defense, the UBA would have
learned the difference between Critical
Social Probation and Critical Probation.
In this regard, the UBA failed to ensure
a just outcome and did as little as it pos-
sibly could have to execute any sort of
a fair trial.

The UBA needs to ﬁgure out if they’
want to be a judicial body or an appel-
late body because you cannot be both
and still maintain integrity.

Yet, interestingly enough, the UBA
should not have heard the case in the
ﬁrst place. After issuing the ﬁrst report,
the IFC went back and revisited the
case and found that Phi Kappa Psi, in-
deed, had committed a hazing violation
and issued a new report. According to

UBA rules, since new information was
presented to the UBA in the form of the
IFC’s new issuance, the UBA should
have remanded the case back to the IFC
for reinvestigation and re-sanctioning.

Overall, procedural errors in the sys-
tem have rendered student governance
ineffective and obsolete. Under the
guise of an appellate board, the UBA is
actually just another judicial body to ap-
ply pressure to student governance. Cit-
ing the zero tolerance policy on hazing,
the UBA and Mike Young argued that
suspension was the only appropriate
sanction for Phi Kappa Psi, especially
when considering the Critical Social
Probation. I counter this: a) Critical
Social Probation has nothing to do with
hazing but rather open social events and
b) zero tolerance does not mean one
sanction, it means that an appropriate
and constructive sanction is necessary.
Being the only hazing violation for Phi
Kappa Psi in recent history, the most
constructive and appropriate sanction
would have been Critical Probation for
a year.

If the University is actually serious
about Student Self-Govemment ~ I call
on them to make an appeal process that
actually serves the students, engages the
students, and allows the students to ap-
propriately participate.

The UBA suspended a chapter that
aims to help the IFC improve risk man-
agement in the Greek Community. Af-
ter receiving the Critical Social Proba-
tion sanction, as President, I wrote and
implemented a new risk management
policy that strengthened our on-cam-
pus risk management procedures and
brought many of them to off-campus
parties. While following this new pol-
icy, Phi Kappa Psi managed one of the
strongest recruitment efforts, gaining 20

new members. We proved to the Greek
Community that you can successfully
recruit, have fun, and still follow a strict
risk management policy. Following
the hazing investigation and the IFC’s
original sanctions, the Phi Kappa Psi
leadership rewrote my risk management
policy to include New Membership Ed-
ucation. The IFC even approached the
SAE leadership with our policies upon
their return to campus, and they subse-
quently adopted many parts of our risk
management strategy.

Phi Psi acting inappropriately is not
the question here any longer; that was
adequately addressed by the IFC. The
appropriate question concerns how the
UBA handled itself during the appeal
and how it proved that injustices in the
system not only exist, but blatantly af-
fect the results.

As I end my time at Washington and
Lee, I have realized that errors in a new
system do occur. While it’s unfortu-
nate when you or your organization is
the guinea pig to expose those errors,
the errors do need to be ﬁxed. I have
the utmost conﬁdence that Phi Psi will
survive suspension next year and return
on January 9 a stronger house — but no
one — not Dean Dotson, not Dean Wat-
kins, not President Ruscio can hide be-
hind a ﬂawed system without losing the
respect and trust of many great alumni
and students.

I challenge the school - I challenge
the student body to do what’s right and
improve the system and put full judicial
power back in the hands of the students
and create an appropriate appellate sys-
tem that follows due process and ren-
ders constructive sanctions.

Thank you,

Carson J.F. Bruno ’09

 

    

0 THE RING-TUM PHI

MONDAY, MARCH 30, 2009

arts&|ife

 

I Blown away

. ' Wind Ensemble Spring Concert is a hit

By Llz Blackwood
STAFF WRITER

On Tuesday, March 24, the Washing-
ton and Lee University Wind Ensemble
had its spring concert in Wilson Hall. The
program, selected by visiting conductor
Peter Del Vecchio, included a wide range
of songs that varied from the quick and ex-
citing to the slow and grand. “It’s a lot of
pieces I’ve loved through my career,” said
Del Vecchio.

His career has been a long one. Del
Vecchio has over 40 years of American
wind band experience under his belt and

- is an accomplished performer himself. He

currently serves as founding conductor of
the Southern Virginia University Wind En-
semble and director of the SVU Pep Band
in neighboring Buena Vista. Luckily, this
semester, he spent his time at Washington
and Lee, holding laborious practices with
the ensemble to make Tuesday the perfect
performance.

“Long and intense is how I would de-
scribe them,” said Henry Harris ’l2, a six
year percussion player, when asked about
the 7:30 to 10 pm practices.

Del Vecchio admits that practices were
“torturous,” but the effort obviously paid
off.

The concert was thoroughly enjoyable
and 1, although completely unfamiliar with
classical music, thought the ensemble did
an impressive job. My personal favor-
ite “Festivo” by Vaclav Nelhybel was an
upbeat, and strong piece featuring brass,
Woodwinds, and percussion in a textural
juxtaposition.

“It’s the most fun to play,” explained
Pete Rathbone ’ll, a seven year eupho-
nium player.

The ensemble, comprised of 60 people,
also features community members in ad-
dition to -students, who hold the majority
at 70 percent. Ranging from local Rock-
bridge high school students to Washington
and Lee faculty, the ensemble has 27 dif-

ferent instrumental sections. During the
concert, Del Vecchio advertised to the au-
dience that the ensemble is always looking
for more communityhnvolvement. He also
mentioned afterward to Dr. Barry Kolman,
the founder and conductor of the Univer-
sity wind ensemble, that he was excited for
incoming freshmen to join the group next
year. Five seniors performed in the con-
cert on Tuesday.

In addition to conducting, Del Vecchio
also showed off his composing skills with
his own piece “Trimurti.” Written when
he was only 23 while a “cloistered swami”
of the Sivananda Yoga Ashram in Reeders,
Penn., “Trimurti” is the symbolic musical
combination of the religious Hindu trium-
virate of Creation, Existence, and Destruc-
tion. Although “Trimurti” is close to his
heart, Del Vecchio admits that his favorite
piece of the evening was Gustav Holst’s
“First Suite in E-Flat major for Military
Band.”

“The ensemble exceeded my expecta-
tions,” said Del Vecchio. “It’s hard mu-
sic.”

Another piece performed during the
concert was the familiar “Irish Tune from
Country Derry,” or better known as “Dan-
ny Boy,” by Percy Aldridge Grainger. The
song featured a vocal performance by Mat-
thew Amling ’09, a member of the Univer-
sity Chamber Singers. ‘The lyrics of the
tune, written by English lawyer Frederick
Edward Weatherly in 1910, were origi-
nally intended as a parting message from
a-woman to a man, although now they are
widely interpreted to be the farewell of a
parent to a son heading off to war.

With a strong attendance and stirring
performance, the concert was most deﬁ-
nitely a success. Although not a frequent-
er of classical music concerts, I certainly
enjoyed the performance and look forward
the University Wind Ensemble’s next per-
forrnance.

It’s one class act

One Acts 2009 brings both laughs and tears

By Katherlne Roberts
STAFF WRITER

One Acts took place on March 26,
27 and 28. It featured ﬁve different
plays directed by theater students.

4 The plays provided a variety of fast-

paced, hysterical entertainment and
intense soul-searching drama.

Baby Food, directed by Junior
Marquita Robinson, told the humor-
ous story of an eerily protective cou-
ple trying to do what they think is
best for their newborn child and find

the perfect godparents. Their search_

for the ideal couple includes serving
the placenta or the umbilical cord to
potential godparents.

It featured Melissa Szumlic,
Francis McWilliams, Sophie Xiong
and Greg Zimmerman. Xiong, a
relative newcomer to the W&L the-
ater scene, successfully took on the
role of the discontent (and drunken)
wife. Zimmerman, who also made
his debut in One Acts 2009, made
the audience roar with laughter at
his rendering of Sophie’s somewhat
bumbling and awkward husband.
Szumlic and McWilliams pulled
off their strange, placenta-serving
characters with a comical grace. the
gravity with which the actors pre-
sented this terrifyingly ridiculous
premise made it all the more enter-
taining. That poor baby.

Senior Matt Harkins directed the
second play, There Shall Be No Bot-
tom. It parodies the traditional play-
within-a—play technique by including
actors whose motives include every-
thing but acting. Kimber Wiggs, as
Jane, simply wants to ﬁnd a date
from the audience. Jeff, played by
Wyatt Heaton, cannot understand
his lines. Nevertheless, he will stop
the action until he has said them cor-

Spring Is Here by Nevilie L. Fogarty

Head over to ringtumphicrosswordblogspot.com to check your solution to this weelds puzzle!

Across
1 Mediterranean city
7 F31! Out Boy's genre

10 Cause of intlation?
13 Little girl’s

plaything, maybe

14 1997 Ice Cube film
16 Horse trainer's

equipment _

17 Notable building
with twice as many
bathrooms as
necessary

18 French l0l yerb

19 Letter opener‘?

 

21 Stand for
something?

22 Cry outfor
24 Brainiac

26 Former House
Majority Leader
Tom

   

28 What to do to seeds
30 Guinness and others 69 - 7o
32 Webmaster‘s
creation
33 "Eureka!"
35 W59?“ b03’5 Wm be 63 Califomia dessert 9 The pianets. for 39 One face of a
503“ wine example dodecahedron
37 PC ‘3"ml3°"°m 65 Joyful hymn word 10 "Rugrats" roie 40 Party sort
33 5'39 l4‘D°W3 67 Blind devotion ii The second 41 Far from festive
42 L3“5in8"°‘Fiim di“ 68 Like haunted houses, §°mf“a‘}d"‘°"i 42 Subculture with tight
43 Round number? compared to imbltls 1‘ shirts and pants
44 "Baby" met by 8r’er °rdm31’Y h0U5¢5 32 (_)P‘°~‘mi"-fl 46 Chart holder
Rabbit 69 Sought a seat 14 See 38-Across 43 La Ema goo
45 Challenge for a 70 Nonetheless 35 They might be 50 "A11 in the Famijy"
barber 71 says g;$@_x springdoaded’? rage
47 One of two 20 "Take on Me" band 51 More spjne-ting1ing
armament control Down 23 Swget P33 52 Agrees to be 3
“cams: abbr‘ 1 g“lV”_5il§' mm’ 25 Home ( in on) witness, in a way
‘*9 S*°““~‘ “;°'g“‘ °'”‘ » 27 To this day 54 F-ilibuster
S3 teiam,  Afternoon service 29 Zoom . 56 net fads
55  eky K k , 4  top if 31 Shaker contents 59 Something to build
lms - 0l"S3 0V‘ S X remc su. ' IX . . , . _
«The -rage Qfmw 5 Gmm bmm 34 I hey re often bitter 0“
saltan" 6 S d i ‘d 36 Peter, for one 63 Played the m~1m¥33l
re‘ ' r "ill ,_ . ,
57 Screwed up 7 C: d_ dim‘ ff 38 But Fonda amt got (‘3 W... -lmdan
. . _ , ‘ ~ ’ emlca 5” ‘X a motor in the back 64 TV screen
58 lrayelers stopovers 8 L _ . _)
OCR: in El barns of her Honda — my (,6 Bonanza ﬁnd
60  b§'0VV'ﬂ """""""" "sq _  NIix_a_L0t
62 Kind of deposit

rectly. Ashton Sullivan plays Joe: an
actor who is probably drunk during
the rehearsal. Lastly, Jed, played by
Dima Slavin is not even part of the
cast: he ’s just a tech guy ﬁlling in for
an actor stuck in traffic.

All of the actors somehow pulled
off bad acting quite well. Wiggs,
Heaton, Sullivan and Slavin worked
particularly well as an ensemble
cast. Although each of their char-
acters was hilarious, the audience’s
attention was never focused on one
ﬂawed artist for too long. The plot
of this play isn’t made entirely clear
because the actors are just having so
much trouble. Parts of the set fall
over, sound cues sound off cue, and
the actors are trying to remind each
other of their lines.

Jenna Worsham, a junior, devi-
ates from the comical trend by se-
lecting a dramatic piece. The Ris-
ing of the Moon is set during the
tumultuous 20th century Ireland.
The characters are forced to ques-
tion their morals and decide exactly
which side of the law they are on.
It tells the story of an Irish sergeant
who has to choose whether or not to
arrest a wanted revolutionary.

The cast performed the entire
play in authentic Irish accents. Brian
Devine and Dave Curran, who play
the Sergeant and the outlaw respec-
tively, worked well as men who may
have been in the other’s place had
life taken a different turn. Their work
was far more introspective than the
other plays, compelling the audience
to question rather than chuckle.

Junior Markheavens Tshuma fea-
tured a small cast in his rendition of
Answering the Echo. Echo follow
the lives of a couple who may (or
may not) have hit a rut. I knew Echo
would be good when I saw the bed

with red silk sheets in the middle of
the stage. Appropriately, it’s a wom-
an’s attempt to ﬁnd out whether or
not her husband is cheating.

She writes the word “cutie” on
his back is astonished to ﬁnd the
word “pie” written next to it the next
day. Driven crazy by the prospect
of there being another woman she
keeps seducing her husband in order
to communicate with this woman
via his back.

Helen Coupe was captivatingly
crazy as the potentially-wronged
wife. Morey Hill, who played along-
side Coupe as her husband, gave the
play a heartfelt level. Shiri Yadlin,
my fellow theater goer, described it
as precious.

The Mystery of Twickham Vicar-
age, directed by Kevin Mannering
’10, closes out the show. Twickham
satirizes the histrionic tendencies of
the Sherlock Holmes style British
mystery.

Complete with piercing shrieks
and femme fatales, the over—exag—
geration brought tears to the au-
dience’s eyes. Over cocktails, we
learn, the murder victim criticized
the mundane nature of the conversa-
tion and the party: “We’re pathetic,
toothy, boring creatures with ridicu-
lous accents.”

And as the inspector ﬁnds out
through overdramatized revelations,
the man who was murdered has been
sleeping with all the suspects: his

S wife, the couple at whose house they

were having dinner, and the sofa.
Everyone has a motive, and every-
one is absolutely hysterical in both
senses of the word. To give away the
ending would be cruel... but suﬂice
it to say that the sofa is not entirely
innocent.

What did you do on
Fancy Dress?

Phi Beta Sigma Fraternity sponsors an
initiative led by Habitat for Humanity,

By Flndley Merrltt
STAFF WRlTER

On Saturday March 21 Washington and Lee students participated in a Habitat

for Humanity project.

Fancy Dress aspirations aside, the brothers of Phi Beta Sigma as well as a va-

riety of other students came together in Glasgow, Virginia.

Members of the fraternity included Chris Rucker, Marcus Newsome, Zaq La-

wal, and Bena Tsishiku._

However, students not afﬁliated with their greek organization also joined. “It

was deﬁnitely more of a collaborative effort,” explained junior Zaq Lawal.

The project was mainly orchestrated by Phi Beta Sigma member, Marcus New-

SOIIIC.

The initiative was part of their fratemity’s community service requirement, in

which they select a nonproﬁt organization to aid every so often.

Newsome worked with Nabors organization, who put him into contact with

Habitat for Humanity.

They gave him the location, contact information, and then volunteers came

running.

Habitat for Humanity is a nonproﬁt, ecumenical Christian housing ministry.
Essentially, they invite people from all backgrounds to work in partnership with
families in need. Through volunteer labor, Habitat builds and rebuilds houses
with the help of the homeowner families. Habitat houses are then sold to partner
families at little or no proﬁt and affordable loans.

As Lawal explained, “Low income families have the opportunity to get af-
fordable housing. However, they have to work so many hours on the house for
improvements in order to get it for free.”

The group worked from 9:30AM to 2:00 that aﬂemoon.

Their jobs were simply laying the foundation for the house, leveling the ter-
rain, and creating a perimeter. “We mainly worked on the foundation, but it was a
multiple step process,” explained Rucker.

The group did not get to meet the family they ‘were working for because they
were not present throughout the process.

However, the group did get to meet some of the board members from Habitat
for Humanity. ‘

Although s Newsome initiated the project, a Washington and Lee alum was
in charge of the overall process. Leo Decanini, class of ‘95, oversaw most of the
work. “He was incredibly impressed by our work and our attitudes. He kept saying
that,” explained Lawal.

When asked who the natural at construction work was, they responded Leo
Decanini. “He’s been around construction and handling machinery since he was
ten. He put us all to shame,” stated Rucker.

When 2:00 rolled around, the tired group packed up their stuff and reﬂected
on the work they’d just done. “There was deﬁnitely an air of satisfaction,” said
Lawal.

And the best part about the experience? “The lunch break,” joked Lawal. “No,
I’m kidding! The think I liked best was how well the group came together. Nobody
whined, despite the fact that it was FD morning, and the weather was amazing.”
Rucker agreed stating “It was the feeling of satisfaction I got from working for
someone else.”

Habitat for Humanity succeeded once again in providing families and students
with an experience they will remember.

 

  

MONDAY, MARCH 30,2009

THE RING-‘TUM PHI 0

9

 

arts&|i e  

" They won’t give you the “Run-around”

ﬁ.

 

Activities Board.

others.

Blues Traveler concert is a
huge success for the GAB

John Popper is the lead singer and harmonica player
for Blues Traveler, the band that played for a large,
enthusiastic crowd in the Student Pavilion Friday
night. The concert was sponsored by the General

The most anticipated song of the evening was the
band’s well-remembered hit “Run-Around” from
1994. But the group also entertained the crowd with
a variety of other songs, such as selections from their
newest album, and a few improvisational moments.
From New Jersey, Blues Traveler was founded in
1987. Their sound has been described as taking from
the genres of blues-rock, folk, Southern rock and

KEVIN REMINGTON / for W&L

A darker side of campus culture  

Love Your Body Week surrounded by controversey, administration rumored to thwart KEWL is efforts

By Valaree Tang
STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee has often been
criticized for the gender dynamic on
campus. With nationahstatistics regard-
ing sexual assau1£’ﬁear1y‘d5iib1e thejiial
tional average, the criticism is all but
unwarranted. The organization, Knowl-
edge Empowering Women Leaders
(KEWL) launched a week-long cam-
paign in an effort to educate women and
prevent them from becoming another
statistic.

Love Your Body Week was a ﬁve-
day campaign sponsored by KEWL held
on March 23-27. KEWL worked along-
side other campus organizations such
as SPEAK and l-in-4 in order to raise
awareness about issues such as sexual
assault, gender relations, body image,
and eating disorders.

The campaign began with KEWL
members putting up posters with en-
couraging statistics about women in
various scattered locations throughout
the campus.

Tuesday focused on sexual health and
was co-sponsored by Voices for Choice.
The day featured a “Sex Wheel” that
asked its spinners questions regarding
sexual health. Condoms and brochures
concerning sexual health were also dis-

tributed.

Dr. Novack, from the Sociology De-
partment, collaborated with his wife,
who is a psychologist at Mary Baldwin
College, gavea ‘lecture entitled “Who

;CQnttOlS;v;W0mQﬂ’$ Bodies?: How. the H

Media Affects Female Body Image” on
Wednesday. In addition, KEWL began
implementing the white board compil-

; «

allowed women to realize that beauty is
not solely attributed to outward physical
attributes. Complimentary home-baked
goods were also provided at a table in
the Commons Living Room.

_,' The campaign included a PostSecret
campaign, which mimicked the move-
ment in which participants mailed con-
fessions to an address to be published in

“There are many different ways to educate people,

and a broad variety is sometimes necessary. In the

case of PostSecret, it provided a platform to talk

about different topics important to W&L ”

Dawn Watkins, Dean of Students

ing women’s favorite body parts.

Take Back the Night, promoted with
SPEAK, was held on Thursday and fea-
tured speakers that talked about their
traumatizing experiences with sexual as-
sault. KEWL members also put up more
posters about sexual assault statistics re-
garding women at W&L on Wednesday
in preparation for Take Back the Night.

Friday, Indulgence Day, gave women
the opportunity to “dress down” in pa-
jama pants and wear no make-up. This

a book that compiled their secrets. Love
Your Body Week gave students the op-
portunity to submit anonymous cards
to boxes located throughout campus
with confessions about body image and
sexuality. While the campaign aimed to
show women that they were not alone
in their problems regardingself image
and sexual health, the index-sized cards
caused a commotion among the student
body as well as within the University’s
administration.

Some submitted cards had “crude,
disempowering or insulting” messages,
according to Catherine Kruse, a member
of the KEWL executive board. Rumors
spread that the administration directed
campus tour guides to avoid the areas
that exhibited these offensive PostSe-
crets and daunting statistics about sex-
ual assault because it “revealed some
of the dark aspects of campus culture,”
said one administrator. In an email writ-
ten to a concerned student, Provost June
Aprille clariﬁed that the decision to re-
direct campus tours to avoid campaign
materials was made by a young staffer,
and was not sanctioned by administra-
tion. In addition, it was also reported
that Commons staff did not like the
image that the cards portrayed about
W&L. “These individuals were speak-
ing for themselves, and I hope you will
not jump to the conclusion that they
speak for the units and organizations in
which they happen to work,” said Pro-
vost Aprille in the same email.

Dean Dawn Watkins, Dean of Stu-
dents, said in an interview that she be-
lieved that “there are many different

, ways to educate people, and a broad va-

riety is sometimes necessary. In the case
of PostSecret, it provided a platform
to talk about different topics important

to W&L.” She also noted that there is
complete support for KEWL’s Love
Your Body Week campaign. A
A campus-wide email was sent by
Bob Strong, Chair ofggthe University

‘ Committee, o:;j1ng1usivéne’sé"an‘d Cam-

pus Climate. In the email, he wrote that
his committee “supports the efforts of
KEWL to raise campus awareness of
critical issues about body image, sexual
misconduct, sexual assault and violence
against women.”Further, he acknowl-
edged that the committee also is in dis-
agreement with illicit removal of Post-
Secret cards.

Despite the controversy that came
along with Love Your Body Week,
many students and administrators agree
that the campaign was a success. “To the
extent that they were trying to get us all
talking about women’s bodies and the
way in which they are shaped and used
by larger public discourses on what con-
stitutes femininity and sexiness, I think
the LYBW campaign has been an unde-
niable success,” said Professor Robin
Le Blanc, Acting Head of Women’s and
Gender Studies and advisor of KEWL.
She also said that the campaign has had
“real power.”

Announcement of a Fellowship for Members of the
Rising Senior and Junior Classes

Members of the Classes of 2010 and 2011 are invited to apply for the S. Cullum Owings, Jr.

Job Opening

Undergraduate Admissions Counselor

Fellowship for the Academic Year 2009-2010. The holder of this fellowship will receive a credit of $1250
toward each term’s tuition and will be expected to make several visits to secondary schools around the
country to promote the Initiative for Academic Integrity under the guidance of the Washington and Lee
Institute for Honor. Together with most such visits, the Owings Fellow may also visit the local chapter of
the Washington and Lee Alumni Association to discuss the state of the University from a student’s point of
view, with particular regard to the Honor System.‘

Cullum Owings was a member of the Class of 2003, an exceptional individual from Atlanta,
Georgia, who died tragically in an automobile accident during his senior year.

The Fellowship is administered by the Campus Committee of the Washington and Lee Institute
for Honor. Criteria for selection of Owings Fellows are, ﬁrst of all, that the applicants should possess
outstanding personal integrity. They should be good scholars, but the fellowship is not limited to students
with exceptional grade-point averages. They should be articulate, with some grace and poise in demeanor,
while at the same time being sensitive to the values and opinions of others. They should be students who
show promise of developing into community leaders of high standards.

Applicants may submit their applications to Professor Emeritus Lewis G. John, Department of
Politics, through campus mail. There is no application form, but the application should include:

(I) A copy of the student’s transcript

(2) A resume of activities and special talents

(3) An essay of approximately 250 words with the heading, “How my personal values and
experience qualify me to represent Washington and Lee as a Cullum Owings ’03 Fellow”

(4) A statement of willingness to make the off-campus visits as described above

(5) Names of two or more members of the faculty from whom the selection committee may seek
recommendations

Applications are due by Friday, April 10, 2009. The selection process will include interviews early
in the spring term with those applicants judged most worthy on the basis of their written applications.
Questions may be addressed to Professor Lewis John at johnl@wlu.edu

The Washington and Lee Ofﬁce of Undergraduate Admissions announces
an opening for Admissions Counselor. Responsibilities include managing
a recruitment territory and travel schedule, conducting group information
sessions and interviews, and evaluating admission applications. Other
duties will be assigned based on the selected candidate’s background and
skills. Evening and weekend work is expected during the academic year,
especially during peak application reading and travel seasons.

A Bachelor’s degree, a valid driver’s license, and the willingness to
commit to the position for a minimum of two years are required. Strong
communication skills and demonstrated organizational abilities are
expected. The successful candidate will be both willing and able to work
as part of a highly successful admissions team, yet will be capable of
creative self-direction. Preference will be given to W&L graduates.

Interested candidates should apply for the position through W&L’s Human
Resources website (go.wlu.edu/jobs) no later than Sunday, March 29,
2009. A W&L Employment Application, a cover letter, resume, and the
names of three references are required. '

  

MONDAY, MARCH 30, 2009

10 0 THE RING-TUM PHI

sports

 

deck

 

Mon Tues WED Tnuns FRI SAT SUN
vs
vs
Baseball tynchburg shenam
h
(X2) doa
3 pm_ 3 p.m.
Golf
VS
Men’-9 Guilford
Lacrosse
5p.m.
- at VS
WOIIIOIIIS I-ynchburg Homns
Lacrosse 7 p_m_
4 p.m.
Men's
Tennis
at
Women's Randolph
Tennis 430 P m
Riding

 

numbers
0

The number of times before this year that all one, two and three seeds

made it to the Sweet Sixteen NCAA Men’s Basketball Tournament.

7

The number of overtime periods in the Virginia-Maryland men’s la-
crosse game Saturday. Virginia beat Maryland 10-9 in the longest

game in NCAA men’s lacrosse Division I history.

25

The number of consecutive seasons that Arizona has made it to the
NCAA Men's Basketball Tournament. The longest active streak, Ari-
zona is two seasons behind the record held by North Caroiina (1975-

2001).

 box

“In a 508-page manual, a mistake could have

 

been made. Do I know that any have been
made? No, I’m not making judgments one way or
the other.”

Connecticut head men’s basketball coach Jim Calhoun on the
possibility that the team could have committed a recruiting violation.
In a report Wednesday Yahoo! Sports claimed that former Connecticut
manager Jo h Nochimson illicitly provided Nate Miles with hotel stays,
meals and raveling expenses when he was a recruit. Courtesy of the
Connecticut Post.

“Somebody said that we’re not in President
Obama’s Final Four, and as much as I respect
what he’s doing, really, the economy is something
that he should focus on, probably more than the
brackets.”

Duke head men’s basketball coach Mike Krzyzewski after President
Obama picked Duke to lose to Pittsburgh in the Elite Eight round on a
Sportscenter special on March 18. Duke ended up losing to Villanova
77-54 Thursday in the round of sixteen. Courtesy of foxnews.com.

“You hear all the speculation, and you talk to the
owner of the team, and he reassures you, you're
not going anywhere and then, out of left-ﬁeld and
you get blindsided. "

Wide receiver Terrell Owens on how team owner Jerry Jones told him
that he would be back in 2009 and then later released him. Owens
also said that he thinks Cowboys executives pressured Jones Into
making the decision. Courtesy of espn.com.

W&L and VMI host track carnival

Generasl ’ track teams ﬁnish strong, Andrews breaks a school record

By Kevin Corn
STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee hosted a track
meet with Virginia Military Institute called
the W&L/VMI Carnival this weekend.

Despite the cold and the rain, W&L had
a strong meet, and the men’s and women’s
track teams held their own against a large
ﬁeld of participants. Senior Grace Andrews
was even able to break a school record in
the hammer throw with a distance of 33.46
meters.

The women were also led by senior
Becca Taylor who took ﬁrst in the 3000
meter Steeplechase after crossing the ﬁn-
ish line in a time of 11:37.98. Seniors
Elizabeth Webb and Jessica Shaw also had
strong showings as each captured third in
their events. Webb ran a time of 17:51.39 in
the 5000 meter race, while Shaw’s 4:51.69
came in the 1500 meter run.

Taylor said, “It felt great! And I’m ex-
tremely excited to be able to say that I won
the very ﬁrst steeplechase run on our new
track.”

Shaw also shared her excitement: “I
was really stoked about my race. I don’t
usually run the 1500, but I had a blast. The

atmosphere was competitive and exciting.
The girls in my heat really pushed me, and
in the end, that’s what we all needed.”

Junior Sallie Armstrong notched ﬁrst
in the Heptathlon with 2,190 points, while
senior Stacy Doombos had two top ﬁve
ﬁnishes in the 100 meter hurdles and the
100 meter dash. Her times were 15.40 and
12.92, respectively.

“It was nice to be competing against
women from schools other than the usual
ODAC crowd,” said Armstrong after her
event.

On the men’s side, junior Ben Goetsch’s
leap of 1.88 meters in the high jump gave
him a second place ﬁnish. Junior Billy Bil-
lington had a strong day in the ﬁeld, as
well. Billington ﬁnished ﬁfth in the Ham-
mer Throw after a toss of 45.34 meters.
Then, in the discus, his throw of 39.34 me-
ters was good enough for seventh.

Sophomore Jeff Giordano took second
in the 100 meter dash in a time 11.20, and
fourth in the 200 meter‘ dash after a time
of 27.60. Senior Vance berry once again
had a strong meet as he ﬁnished seventh
in the 1500 meter run with the fast time of
4:02.83.

“I’m really excited about the quality of

training we have been getting from Coach
Tucker” commented Berry. “The distance
squad has a long-range plan that should
keep us on a steady improvement curve
from here to ODACs, and it seems to be
working to perfection.”

With so many teams present, the Gener-
als had strong competition.

“I think that having such a large pool of
people forced us to push ourselves more,”
commented Andrews. 1 know that I looked
at the number of participants and was in-
timidated, but then I realized that amongst
such great competition, I had the chance to
do better then I normally do.”

“I thought the large number of competi-
tors provided us with a good chance to mea-
sure our performances against other solid
division one and division three teams,”
added Goetsch. “If anything, I am sure it
provided additional energy and motivation
that might not be there with a small meet.”

“This meet was our ﬁrst home meet in
2 years. Combiningfacilities with VMI at-
tracted a variety of high quality competi-
tion,” concluded Webb. “I think our team
really rose to the occasion and put out all
sorts of stellar performances.”

Lax defeats Virginia Wesleyan

Team comes out [6-6 with a 5-0 lead early in the game on Saturday

By Megan Dally
STAFF WRITER

The Men’s Lacrosse (9-1, 1-0) team had
a great showing this past Saturday against
Virginia Wesleyan. The General’s won the
contest, 16-6. Washington and Lee jumped
out to a 5-0 lead early in the game and nev-
er slowed down.

Last year the Generals split with Vir-
ginia Wesleyan. Wining 9-6 at home but
then losing 12-13 away. The Marlins also
ended last year’s season in a heartbreaker.
This year however, the Generals used this
opener against ODAC competition to make
a statement. A ten-goal victory means busi-
ness. The Generals are gearing up to make
a run in the ODAC tournament.

In the ﬁrst half, ﬁve different Generals
found Marlin net. The Marlins scored late
in the second half, but then senior attack-
man Seth F ishman scored three straight
to push the score to 8-1. Right before the
1st half ended, Virginia Wesleyan scored
2 goals, however with seven seconds left,
sophomore midﬁelder Drew Koeneman
fed a pass to junior attackman Will Keigler
who upped the score to 9-3.

Women’s tennis on top

By Brooke Sutherland
STAFF WRITER

The number two ranked Washington
and Lee University women’s tennis team
proved it deserved to be among the top
teams in the country this weekend with a
strong showing in the Fab Five Tourna-
ment at Emory University in Emory, Geor-
gia. The Generals, -now 12-3, took a 5-3
win against #13 Middlebury College and a
7-2 win over #12 DePauw University be-
fore falling 5-4 to #1 Williams College.

“The Fab Five was created because
women in Division III tennis did not have
an ITA [Intercollegiate Tennis Association]
indoor championships,” said head coach
Eric Ishida. “The men in Division III have
it and of course the Division I teams. It’s
meant to get highly ranked teams together
to compete. It’s deﬁnitely a way for teams
to prepare themselves for the end of the
year. “

In its ﬁrst match-up against Middlebury
Thursday morning, the Generals com-
pletely swept the doubles. Senior Katie
Tabb and junior Lauren Caire knocked off
Middlebury’s Elizabeth Stone and Chandra
Kurien at 8-3 in the #1 doubles spot, fol-
lowed by a hard-fought win by ﬁrst year
Ellen Yeatman and senior Meg Spalitta
over Middlebury’s Anna Burke and Clare
Burke at 9-8 (12-10) at the #2 doubles
spot. The Generals’ #3 doubles team, ﬁrst
years Trelsie Sadler and Ann Morris held
their own against Middlebury’s Alexandra
Guynn and Victoria Aiello with an 8-3 vic-
tory.

“Going into the Middlebury match, we
knew they were going to be better indoors,”
Ishida said. “We also knew that they were
strong at doubles so we really focused on
doubles and starting the doubles off well.
All of our doubles played well. They deﬁ-
nitely stepped it up.”

The Generals struggled in singles,
however, winning only two of its six
match-ups. Tabb fell to Aiello, 6-4, 6-4,
at the #1 singles spot while Yeatman was
knocked off by Kurien at 6-1, 1-6, 6-4 in
the #2 singles spot. First year Jen Snyder
lost in #4 singles to Stone at 6-3, 6-3. #6

In the 3rd period, Virginia Wesleyan
scored an unassisted goal, but the Generals
not to be outdone ripped 3 past the Mar-
1in’s goalkeeper in the third period. Then
for added measure, the General’s went on
another 3-goal spree to put the game out
of reach.

Overall the General’s displayed domi-
nance in all aspects of the game. W&L
held the advantage in shots taken over the
Marlins 52-32, in ground bails 41-34, and
in faceoffs 17-8. Because of their on-ﬁeld
focus and execution, W&L was able to sail
to a ten-point victory.

Ten different Generals scored on Satur-
day. Fishman and Keigler scored 4 goals.
While Senior attackmen Tim Skeen, senior
midﬁelder Harry St. John, sophomore at-
tackman Spence Daw, sophomore mid-
ﬁelder Mark Wachtmeister, freshman Scott
Meehan, junior midﬁelder Kevin Feeney,
junior midﬁelder Deets Hoffman and soph-
omore midﬁelder Gerard Savarese all net-
ted one goal.

Some great assists catalyzed the Gen-
eral’s offense. Daw and Keigler both con-
tributed three assists. Koeneman and Skeen

singles player Spalitta was unable to ﬁn-
ish her match against Anna Burke due
to restrictions on court time. With those
loses, the match looked like it might fall
to Middlebury’s favor, but two ﬁrst years
stepped up to bring Washington and Lee to
victory. Sadler claimed #3 singles with a
1-6, 6-2, 6-4 win over Clare Burke and ﬁrst
year Laura Patillo contributed a 6-4, 1-6,
6-3 victory over Whitney Hanson at the #5
singles spot.

“We lost four of the ﬁrst sets in our sin-
gles matches,” Ishida said. “You just can’t
do that. But I’m glad we rallied to win
those #3 and #5 matches.”

“Our match against Middlebury was in-
side so it took a lot longer,” Ishida said. “I
think we were on the court for about six
hours. It just wears on you both mentally
and physically and then you have to get up
the next day and play again.”

The Generals showed no sign of fatigue
though as they once again swept the dou-
bles against DePauw. Tabb and Caire de-
feated DePauw’s Greer Mackie and Kayla
Smith 8-6 in the #1 doubles spot and Yeat-
man and Spalitta racked up another vic-
tory with an 8-3 win over Janelle Arita and
Kelly Gerbert in the #2 doubles spot. In #3
doubles, Sadler and Morris held out for an
8-4 victory over Kristine Lewry and Tricia
Wilks.

“We were able to start the doubles
quickly and get a quick lead like we did
against Middlebury,” Ishida said. “We
were ready for them and we were able to
pick apart their doubles teams and frustrate
them. But we didn’t want to see the same
let down in singles. We wanted to get a
more solid victory.”

And the Generals did not disappoint.
Tabb claimed #1 singles with a 6-4, 6-4
win over Arita, followed by an easy 6-1,
6-1 win by Yeatman over Mackie for #2
singles. Sadler and Patillo, the lone singles
winners from the Middlebury match, both
struggled. Sadler lost 6-3, 6-2 to Gerbert
in the #3 singles spot and Patillo fell to
Wilks 6-1, 6-3 in #5 singles. But the Gener-
als quickly recovered their losses. Snyder
claimed #4 singles with a 6-1, 6-0 victory

each added two assists. While sophomore
attackman Drew Mancini, junior defense-
man Garrott McClintock and freshman
midﬁelder Richard Schoenfeld all contrib-
uted an assist.

Senior goalkeeper Connor Locke played
53:41 minutes and had ten saves. Sopho-
more goalkeeper Ned Lundvall played 6: 19
and had 3 saves and did not allow a goal.

Washington and Lee returns to action
on Wednesday, hosting another ODAC op-
ponent, Guilford College. F ishman had this
to say about the upcoming game, “Every
game for us is a chance to show the rest
of the ODAC and the country what we are
about as a lacrosse team. Against Guilford
our focus is to play 60 minutes of sound
lacrosse. We have to take what we did well
against Virginia Wesleyan and use it to
move forward. I don’t think we will have
any problems doing the same things to
Guilford that we did to Virginia Wesleyan.”
Washington and Lee’s Men Lacrosse team
will be facing ﬁve important ODAC games
in a row in preparation for the ODAC tour-
nament.

Team ﬁnishes strong
tournament this weekend

over Smith and Spalitta rounded out the
Generals’ victory with tough 6-1, 7-6 (7-2)
win over Lewry.

“Against DePauw, we played as well as
we’ve played in the tournament,” Ishida
said. “It was much better than the match
against Middlebury. With your second
match, you kind of step up your game a
little bit and work out the bugs.”

And the Generals wanted to make sure
they had worked out all the bugs for their
next match against #1 Williams who had
defeated Washington and Lee last year in
the ﬁnals of the NCAA championships.

“With Williams, you have to make them
play,” Ishida said. “You have to make them
hit a lot of balls. You can’t hurt yourself;
you have to make them create their mis-
takes and capitalize on the opportunity to
ﬁnish points.”

Unfortunately, the Generals fought their
hardest, but just couldn’t pull out a win
against Williams. After sweeping doubles
against its previous two opponents, Wash-
ington and Lee won just one doubles match
when Tabb and Caire defeated Williams’
Cary Gibson and Nicole Reich 8-3 in the
#1 doubles spot. Yeatman and Spalitta fell
to Taylor French and Grace Baljon 8-2 in
the #2 doubles spot and Sadler and Morris
lost 8-2 to Kristin Alotta and Genny Loo-
mis in the #3 doubles spot.

In singles, Tabb defeated Baljon 6-4, 3-
6, 6-4 for #1 singles and Yeatman defeated
Gibson 2-6, 6-3, 6-1 for #2 singles. Spalitta
also contributed a win in #6 singles with a
6-3, 4-6, 6-1 victory over Annie Hancock.
But the Generals struggled in their other
singles matches and ultimately fell just
short of a revenge victory over Williams.
Sadler lost to Reich 6-4, 6-2 in #3 singles
and Alotta defeated Snyder 6-3, 6-3 in #4
singles. Patillo was defeated 6-4, 4-6, 6-0
by Ashley Parsons in the #5 singles spot.

Despite the loss to Williams, the Gen-
erals remain positive. After their strong
performance at the Fab Five Tournament,
the team is already looking ahead towards
the national championships and hoping to
claim another banner to sit alongside their
prize from 2007.

‘)

 

  

  

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

E RING-TUM PHI.

Goodbye, Spring Term as we know it  

Next spring promises new, intensive classes, but will
professors come through? Will we still have tim

tube down the Maury‘E’mN|0Ns/ 3
page _

THURSDAY, APRIL 30,2009

BY THE

 

Long overdue

After over I 50 years, one
book has made its way back
to the Leyburn shelves

By Victoria Taylor
S TA F F W R IT E R

And you think you hold on to your library books
for a long time.

After 52,858 days, the ﬁrst volume of “History of
the War in the Peninsula and in the South of France”
by W.F.P. Napier found its way back to the shelves
of Leyburn Library.

The book was taken by Union solider C.S. Gates
on June 11, 1864, when General David Hunter and
his army of West Virginia looted the area and set ﬁre
to the Virginia Military Institute.

Mike Dau, the head handball coach at Lake For-
rest College in Illinois, returned the book in Febru-
ary.
He inherited it from Myron and Isabel Gates, a
childless Lake Forrest couple and Dau’s long-time
friends. While visiting relatives in the Washington
area, Dau and his wife Paula took the trip to Lexing-
ton to deliver the book in person.

“It was a handshake and here’s your book,” Dau
said. “From that point on, this story has taken on a

“All I did was return a book that
was long overdue. It is really [the
Gates ’] story, not mine. I just hap-
pened to be the [book is] caretaker ”

Mike Dau, head handball coach at Lake Forest
college In Illinois

 
life of its own.”

Although Dau returned the book a few months
ago, the story has recently garnered a lot of media
attention. Major newspapers like The Washington
Post and The Chicago Tribune published articles
about Dau’s story. It was also covered by the British
Broadcasting Company’s radio show, National Pub-
lic Radio’s “All Things Considered” and by CBS, to
name a few.

Dau said that the media attention was a little un-
expected.

“All I did was return a book that was long over-
due,” he said. “It’s really [the Gates’] story, not mine.
I just happened to be the [book’s] caretaker.”

Dau got in touch with Laura Turner, Leybum
Library’s technical services librarian, through W&L
alumnus Harry Goodheart ’66, a North Carolina
book dealer. Turner determined that the book be-
longed to W&L, despite a note inside the book in
which Gates remarks that he stole it from VMI.

In addition to having Washington College written
on the cover page, the book also matches volume
two of the four-volume set of “History of the War
in the Peninsula and in the South of France” in the
library’s vault.

Although the library catalog did not indicate that
the book was missing, Turner noticed that the origi-
nal volumes must have been replaced because vol-
ume two was not a gift to the library like the others
in the vault. Volume two also had a different spine
than the others that matched that of Dau’s book.

Turner said she thinks the story fascinates a lot
of people because of the time period it involves. She
said that the library lost more than half of its vol-
umes during Hunter’s Raid but was able to get over
1000 back right after the Civil War. As far as she
knows, Dau’s book is the ﬁrst one since the years
following the war that has been returned.

_ Dau did not have to pay any ﬁnes and joked about
the fact that he gave back a stolen book.

“I was happy that they weren’t going to press
charges,” Dau said.

 

STUDENTS AND

FOR THE STUDENTS SINCE

Students worry their interests are not protected,
start petition to call student body meeting with EC

By Allison Chopin
MANAGING EDITOR

Students may get the chance make sub-
stantial changes to Washington and Lee’s
honor system policies and make history this
Spring Term, if student leaders and the Ex-
ecutive Committee manage to call a student
body meeting and draw a quorum of 1,000
students.

The March 30 issue of the Ring-tum Phi,
containing opinion pieces that questioned re-
cently elected EC President Eric Hoffman’s
campaign promises, was a factor in prompt-
ing seniors Anthony Ives and Regina Mills to
start a petition to call this meeting. But Ives
said it also came from a “feeling we’ve been
getting all year” that the EC and other bodies
protecting the honor system were failing to
fully represent the student body.

Ives and Mills said they feel that there
is a lack of communication between the EC
and the student body. They acknowledge that
some information cannot be shared publicly,
but they do not believe that the judicial body
charged with protecting W&L’s honor should
be shrouded in mystery.

“Things that could be transparent are be-
ing totally swept under the rug,” Ives said.

Ives admitted that new EC Secretary Bill
Larson has done a better job in keeping and
publishing the minutes of EC meetings, but
he pointed out that no honor investigations
have been made public since February 1.
The White Book states that this informa-
tion should be posted on the ﬁrst day of each
month.

They added that the EC does not publi-
cize that they are willing to be more trans-
parent. “I’m a senior, and I never knew that
EC meetings were open,” Mills said.

Another troubling point for Ives and Mills
is the process of amending the White Book,
which details procedures regarding the hon-
or system. A White Book Review Commit-
tee is appointed by the EC to examine the
honor system and suggest changes every
three years, including this year. The com-
mittee is expected to consider the opinions
of the W&L community in this process. This
could be a valuable chance for any student
to propose a change, but according to Mills,
this year’s committee held few public meet-
ings, and the meetings were not adequately
advertised and were poorly attended.

“They assumed no one would come,"

See “Honor” on page 2

 VOLUME CXII,

Amendmentstothe  

A. Strike out the following language In the Philosophy
section of the introduction:

"The Honor System condemns only acts that the
current student generation views as breachesof the
community is trust, and although dishonorable conduct
cannot be codiﬁed, lying, cheating and stealing have
historically been found to be examples of breaches of
the Honor System. "

Replace with:

“The Honor System condemns acts that the current
student generation views as breaches of the communi-
tyiv trust and cannot be codiﬁed. Although the system
has historically given examples of dishonorable acts
this has given rise to the impression that those ex-

amples represented an exhaustive list of dishonorable '

conduct. This is NOT the case. lnfact, ANY breach of
the communityis trust represents an Honor Violation. ”

3. Add the following line at the conclusion of the first .

paragraph of the conﬁdentiality and Harassment section
of Enforcement Procedure:

“Any Executive Committee member who is removed
from oﬁice shall not be eligible to run for any Execu~
tive Committee position in the first election subsequent
to his or her removal. ”

C. Replace:

“The Executive Committee shall give consideration
to any proposal for amendment to the White Book that
is submitted on proper motion by any member of the ,
Executive Committee, any student with an accompa-
nying petition signed by at least fifty current students,
or the White Book Review Committee. The Executive
Committee may adopt such an amendment to the White
Book by a two-thirds vote of the quorum present in two
consecutive votes, provided that such votes are at least
one week apart. ” '

With:

“The Executive Committee shall VOTE on any pm-
posal for amendment to the White Book that is submit-
ted on proper motion by any member of the Executive
Committee, any student with an accompanying petition
signed by at least one-hundred current students, or the
White Book Review Committee. The vote MUST occur
within two (2) weeks of its proposal, excluding weeks
in which the school is out of session. The Executive
Committee may adopt such an amendment to the Mite
Book by a two-thirds vote of the quorum present in two
consecutive votes, provided that such votes are at least
one week apart. ”

Homegrown, produced and served

Campus Kitchens Project expands by mainting a campus garden beneﬁting the project

3120

NUMBER 19

ByJam|e Kim
smrr wrmrn

Receiving help from its clients, the
Campus Kitchens Project (CKP) has
been working on an on-campus gar-
den that is located behind the Pavil-
ion. The garden was originally used
in biology experiments, but starting
last school year, it has been used to
grow fresh produce for the CKP.

Environment Management Coor-
dinator Chris Wise and Biology pro-
fessor Bill Hamilton are in charge of
running the garden, said CKP Coordi-
nator Jenny Sproul.

“They have a lot of vision with the
garden,” she said. “It’s looking more
like a garden than it was before.”

Before, the CKP was not involved
in the actual garden working but sim-
ply received vegetables that were
produced in the garden. But this year,
it has taken some initiatives and has
been taking a group of students to
work in the garden for about 15-18
hours each week.

“The coolest part of the garden is
that it’s not just students but clients

;.

are also helping out,” said Sproul.
Clients from the Robert E. Lee
low-income apartments join the stu-
dents every Thursday morning and
contribute to the garden working.
James West, a resident of the Rob-
ert E. Lee apartments, has also been

“The more food we have
access to and the more
volunteers we have, the

more people we can

I

serve. ’

Jenny Sproul, Campus Kitchens
Project Coordinator

helping the garden work since Febru-
ary.

“It’s hard work, but it has been
nice,” said West. “I’ve got nothing
else to do. I don’t mind working.”

Sproul said it is a rewarding expe-
rience for the clients to work on the
garden from which they receive the
ingredients that make up their meals.
So far, they have planted tomatoes,

squash, corn, herbs and peppers. The
CKP plans to grow more food such as
blueberries and carrots.

In addition to the garden work-
ing, students are also building a fence
around the garden so that ground
hogs would not rummage through the
garden and ruin it.

“The hope is that we’ll get more
out of it,” said Sproul.

The CKP usually receives prepared
food from dining services, and the
fresh produce from the garden will be
a fun experiment, she said. For agen-
cies that are too far from Washington
and Lee to come to the garden regu-
larly, Sproul said the CKP is planning
to organize ﬁeld trip activities, which
would be a good way to reach out to
the Rockbridge Area community

For the upcoming summer, a time
when there are fewer volunteers,
the CKP is recruiting students in re-
search, Shepherd Poverty interns,
Bonner leaders, cadets from work-
release program, and youth groups of
church.

“I feel like the summer will go re-
ally well,” said Sproul.

Another on-going program of the
CKP is the work-release program in
cooperation with the Natural Bridge
Juvenile Correction Center. A cadet
came to Washington and Lee at the
end of last November, and he has
been working 17 hours a week with
the CKP and 8 hours a week with the
Co-op. He is to be released in June
and will; receive a certiﬁcate from
ServSafe program that provides com-
prehensive food safety training.

Sproul said the work-release pro-
gram intends to teach cadets life-long
skills that they will be able to use af-
ter their release. The CKP will contin-
ue working with cadets one at a time
until they are released.

CKP’s other future plans include
holding nutrition classes for clients
and receiving food from Virginia
Military Institute.

“The more food we have access
to and the more volunteers we have,
the more people we can serve,” said
Sproul.

  

unwrnsnv LIBRARY

WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON. VA 24450
MAY‘ 5? -<7» 

2 0 THE RING-TUM PHI

THURSDAY, APRIL 30, 2009

 

Tying the community together

One senior and C C C work to ease relations between students and residents

By Ted Moore
STAFF WRITER

If Dean Dawn Watkins of
Washington and Lee University
had another child, she said, she
would name him after Garrett
Clark.

Clark, a W&L senior, teamed
up with Watkins and local retired
attorney Fred Massey to lead the
Campus-Community Coalition
(CCC). The CCC, which origi-
nally started in 2004 through a
Virginia ABC grant to promote
alcohol education and prevention
at W&L, now takes on a much
larger mission which many W&L
students are unaware of—bring-
ing the community together.

Local residents, police, and
W&L student and administrative
leaders have monthly meetings
to discuss conflicting interests
in the Lexington community,
including problems arising from
W&L’s social scene.

Watkins, who is W&L’s Dean
of Students and Vice President
of Student Affairs, said Clark
approached her at the end of his
freshman year about joining the
CCC with the positive mindset
of I get it, I see how it can work,
I want in.

At this time, Clark worried
about the future of the W&L so-
cial scene as Rockbridge County
proposed a noise ordinance that
would have made it a county
law to cut off loud music at mid-
night.

“I was surprised by this ex-
treme measure,” Clark said.

The following fall, Clark ac-

companied Watkins and W&L’s
EC president to speak at the
Rockbridge Board of Supervi-
sors meeting when the proposed
ordinance was discussed. Clark
said the noise ordinance did not
get passed with the understand-
ing that W&L students would be
assuming more responsibility to
neighbors through the expansion
and development of the CCC.

“I view it as a balancing act,”
said Watkins.

great goals with enthusiastic
leaders who say they want an
“open forum” for discussion,
many W&L students have never
heard of the coalition that is now
in its ﬁfth year.

Some students even believe
that the relationship between 10-
cal police and W&L students is
worse than ever with recent po-
lice visits to the Windfall Hill
area that have resulted in drink-
ing related tickets and arrests.

“There is always going to be tension with

students and residents and the police. Our

goal is to recognize it, be proactive about it,

and have it be a healthy tension. ”

Dawn Watklns, Dean of Students and Vice Presldent of

Student Affalrs

The balancing act consists of
students’ desire to be leﬂ alone
on the weekends, neighbors’
desires to limit trash, noise and
traffic violations and the police’s
responsibility to safety and en-
forcing the laws.

“There is always going to be
tension with students and resi-
dents and police,” Watkins said.
“Our goal is to recognize it, be
proactive about it, and have it be
a healthy tension.”

Although the CCC has

Although Associate Dean of
Students Brandon Dotson said
the number of drinking viola-
tions among W&L students has
not gone up this year, Clark
agrees with the general student
view that the local police can be
tough on W&L students.

Clarke hopes students living
in off-campus houses will im-
prove relations with their neigh-
bors and reach the point where
there will be no need for anyone
to call the police.

“In general, especially in
[Rockbridge County], the police
do a really good job of targeting
W&L students for drinking vio-
lations,” said Clark. “The point
of the CCC is not to please po-
lice, but to avoid interacting with
police in the ﬁrst place.”

Ted Kingsbury, a W&L se-
nior who also has attended
CCC meetings for several years,
agreed with Clark’s priority of
improving neighbor relations in
the county.

“The biggest problem is the
disconnect between students and
neighbors,” Kingsbury said.

After recruiting neighbors
from student partying areas to
regularly attend CCC meetings,
Clark says the CCC has expand-
ed a lot since his freshman year.

“This is a young organization
that is now on its feet,” Clark
said.

At last Thursday’s CCC
meeting, Clark, Massey and
Kingsbury worked out an agree-
ment with neighbors to compile
a list during the spring term of
all the names, phone numbers,
and housing addresses of stu-
dents living off-campus for next
school year, so neighbors can
contact students directly with
their problems instead of going
to police or a landlord.

In addition, neighbors have
agreed to accompany Clark to
fraternity and sorority houses
this spring around dinner time to
meet students and spread aware-

Throwing a ﬂag on the economy

NFL Commisioner Robert Goodell responds to a panel on the trying times

By Holly Suthers
sun: warren

The troubled economy cre-
ates problems for national sports
leagues, just like any other in-
dustry.

NFL Commissioner Robert
Goodell addressed this and other
questions from Washington and
Lee students in a panel in Lee
Chapel last Tuesday, April 21.

Three student athletes and
onephilosophyprofessorformed
the panel, directing questions to-
wards Goodell. Catherine Reed,
a sophomore tennis player, Josh
Gonzalez, a senior swimmer,
James Parrino, a senior football
player and Professor Bernard
Jackson participated.

Goodell answered a wide va-
riety of questions ranging from
his experience with profes-
sional athletes, the NFL’s ethi-

Honor

contlnued from page 1

said Ives. “But they didn’t
give the opportunity for stu-
dents to get involved.”

Mills said that part of the
problem lies with students who
do not seek out the chance to
voice their opinions, but she
also blames the EC for not en-
couraging discussion. “The EC
has a much bigger platform to
get people involved,” she said.

In addition to transparency
and student input, the two
would like to reexamine the
deﬁnition of honor at W&L.
Honor violations are typically
deﬁned as encompassing “ly—
ing, cheating and stealing,” but
Ives said this “minimal deﬁni-
tion” is “not acceptable.”

“We have lowered our ex-
pectations,” he said.

Other concerns the two have
raised range from voter turnout
in elections to the treatment of
sexual assault within the honor
system.

cal standards and the effects of
the economy on the industry. He
also discussed his career path

It enabled me to learn how to
learn, and to learn how to deal
with people,” said Goodell.

“Having a liberal arts education exposed me

to a variety of ways to think about the world.

It enabled me to learn how to learn, and to

learn how to deal with people. ”

Robert Goodell, NFL Commlssloner

and how graduating from a lib-
eral arts school helped him he
achieve such a respected posi-
tion.

“Having a liberal arts educa-
tion exposed me to a variety of
ways to think about the world.

Ives and Mills collected 109
signatures over three days dur-
ing ﬁnals week, and they start-
ed a Facebook group to gather
support for the meeting they
hope will be called this term.
For any changes to be officially
made, however, 1,000 students

He discussed future changes
of the NFL in order to continue
to produce a solid product for a
smaller expense. The NFL has
felt the pinch of the current eco-
nomic situation and is trying to
not diminish American’s love

call this meeting, and he said it
could happen as early as next
week. He said in an e—mail that
he looks forward to this oppor-
tunity for a “meaningful dia-
logue” between the EC and the
student body.

“As increased transparency

“Things that could be transparent are being

totally swept under the rug... We have low-

ered our expectations.

Anthony Ives, senlor

will have to be present. Logis-
tics are an issue as well. Ives
suggested the Colonnade lawn
as the ideal location, but money
for chairs and a sound system
will be required.

It is now up to Hoffman to

J)

is one of the EC’s priorities
for this term, we are excited to
have this chance to speak with
members of the student body
and to answer questions and
hear suggestions regarding the
Honor System and student life

for professional football because
of budget cuts.

“It is my responsibility to
protect the game. I want to im-
prove the NFL product by cre-
ating a valuable experience for
the fans.”

Goodell’s visit was a unique
experience for Washington and
Lee students and was enjoyed
by all who attended the question
and answer session.

The Johnson Program in
Leadership and Integrity was re-
sponsible for bringing Goodell
to campus.

at W&L,” he said.

He said the EC plans to ad-
dress the topics that Ives, Mills
and others have raised, such
as the recent elections, sexual
assault and EC accountability.
Ives added that Hoffman plans
to give an explanation of his
campaign e-mails that were
cited in the Phi.

Ives anticipates the arduous
task of gathering 1,000 students
for a quorum, but he believes
that students care enough to
make it happen. “It’s difficult
but not impossible,” he said.

ness of the CCC and its mission.

Clark also has responded to
one of the neighbors’ chief con-
cerns of trash in the county by
leading several massive pickups
throughout the year.

Although Clark has encour-
aged neighbors to help out in
these efforts, male W&L stu-
dents alone have outnumbered
local participants this year by a
ratio of 20 or 30 to one.

Neighbors who initially com-
plained in March about the trash
near the Pole Houses were reas-
sured after Clark announced an-
other student pickup was sched-
uled for the following Saturday.

“We have come a long way
but [seeing trash on the ground]
eats away at the good feeling,”
one neighbor said. “We don’t
want to lose goodwill on either
side.”

Massey, who brings a neigh-
bor’s perspective to the CCC
leadership, defended the efforts
of Clark and other students who
have been instrumental in im-
proving community relations.

“When we started getting

student leadership in Garrett and
Ted, things started getting a lot
better,” said Massey.

Clark, who graduates this
spring, said that the CCC is now
established as “the jaws of the
operation” for dealing with com-
munity tension, and he hopes
students involved in the coalition
will speak on it from a student’s
perspective during next year’s
Orientation Week to raise aware-
ness.

Watkins believes that contin-
ued strong student leadership in
the CCC will help W&L students
living off-campus become better
neighbors.

“We will always be teaching
[the principle of] ‘town-gown’
or living together,” Watkins said.
“If there wasn’t room for im-
provement, I would not be em-
ployed.”

gab; la Peatazmozt
PEDAL CAR DINER & Tm Tor Cm’:

Order from our campl.ete menu
Or Join usfisr one ofozrr ALL YOU CA1‘v’EATBuffets.’

Friday Night Seafood Buffet with Crab Legs 5pm-10pm
Saturday Night Prime Rib Dinner 5pm~%0pm
Sunday Baked Chicken, Pork Loin, & Pot Roast Ham-9pm
Friday & Saturday Late Night Breakfast Bar iOpm~2am
Breakfast Bar *2’ Days a Week 6am~1 lam
Dally Hot Country Bar Ham-10pm
Daily Soup, Salad, 8. Fruit Bar t1am—10pm

Order Breakfast 24 Hours a day, 7 days a week!

Home Cooked Meals & Southern Hospitality’
Located at

LII ll IMIII PM

l~§.§§ & E434. Exit $95., 2536 North 1.:-2c §lwy.._ Lexingiori. VA

540463-3478

Great food ti <1 great collection of
Antique Pedal Cars 6; Tin Taysi

 

Profiles
1n
Leadership:
Hila Yashar

She serves as the co—president of Hillel, a
member of Pi Beta Phi sorority, a member
of the Health Professions society, the Brit-
ish studies ambassador on campus, and as a

peer-counselor

What energizes you about
taking on the responsibilities
of Campus leadership?
“Interactions with people energize
me. I love taking part in activities that
involve interpersonal connections,
and this is why I love being a peer
counselor and a leader at Hillel - I get
to talk to people and learn about their
worlds.”

What has been one of the
most rewarding aspects of
leadership at W&L? “It has
been very interesting and valuable to work with people who come
from very different cultures from the one I was raised in; also, W&L
has given us so many opportunities and options for new ideas and

 

innovations. It is wonderful that many people on this campus are will-
ing to get involved in new activities that we create.”

What legacy of leadership do you hope you've left for oth-
ers at W&L? “I really hope that by my interactions with people here I
have left them with a little taste of my culture and world view, and
with the sense that the key to tolerance and understanding is ingrained
in opening one's mind to another's views and ideas.”

Any words of advice for those who follow?

“Open your mind, observe, listen, and share.”

Tuesdays: Lessons In Leadership
“Environmental Strategies”

With Emeritus Professor of Geology Ed Spencer
May 5th 6:30 PM Room 214 Elrod Commons

 

  

./

 

THURSDAY, MAY 30, 2009

THE RING-TUM PHI ° 3

 

pinions

W&L students need to end their apathy towards advocacy

Too many efforts to support minority groups at the school are ignored; it is sad only the controversial grab our attention

By Jean Chapman
COLUMNIST

I recently had a conversation
with a ﬁiend of mine who is a
very active member and organizer
of the MSA. She was frustrated at
one point by what I would describe
as this campus’s homogeneously-
focused attitudes, and during
our conversations she noted that
“everyone has culture.”

It was a valid point, and that
one quick comment stuck with
me for a while.

It’s really easy to think of our
culture as something deﬁned by
the color of our skin or our native
country. To be honest (perhaps
harsh), we also live in a country
that likes to deﬁne things that
way. If you are not a white, male,

native-born American you are
considered different from the
expected norm. A norm, I might
add, that doesn’t really exist.

The past few weeks (and the
past months) have been laden with
reminders of and celebrations of
the “othemess” in culture that can
sometimes get lost in mainstream
American society.

The entire month of February
was dedicated to the remembrance
of Black History and Black heroes;
in March our campus celebrated
Love Your Body Week; National
Holocaust Remembrance Day
was observed on April 21; and
from April 27-May 1 the GSA
will be engaging its annual “Gay?
Fine by me” campaign.

Many of these things were
somewhat ignored by the

campus, or at least it feels that
way to me. I don’t really recall
any awareness of Black History
Month as it occurred, though
perhaps something was occurring
in commemoration. Though
Holocaust Remembrance Day was
celebrated in DC with speeches
and solemn vigils, I didn’t know
it had happened until I Googled
it.

Love Your Body Week, as many
of us know, caused something of
an uproar on campus. What it did
do, however, was galvanize a lot
of previously apathetic people
and get people talking. People
saw post secrets and sympathized,
then shared their own; people saw
real women’s bodies outlined
on campus with important
information, and reacted when

they were taken down. For once
in the two years I’ve been at this
university, we did not sweep issues
under the rug. Sketch comedy
group WNL’s fabulous tour guide
skit (look it up on YouTube if you
didn’t go see it) gave the drama of
the week a humorous twist, but it
also showed the impact that Love
Your Body Week had.

As the “Gay? Fine by me”
campaign comes up, I would
love to see some of the same
impact. Obviously, I don’t want
to see signs taken down or people
disrespected, but I would love
for people to take notice and
actually give a damn about what
the campaign means. I would
love the same thing to have been
true for Black History Month
and Holocaust Remembrance

Day as well. I know as well as
any that we’re busy as students;
we all have a lot of work, a lot of
extracurriculars, and then we’d all
like to unwind and have a bit of
ftm. I get that, but having a busy
schedule is no excuse for apathy.

Though I’m in danger of
sounding a little trite, I want to go
back to what that friend of mine
said: “everybody has culture.”

That is to say, everyone
has their own story, their own
experiences, and their own
background. We have to realize
that every one of us is probably a
minority in some way.

You can tell race and gender
by looking at someone, sure. But
you can’t see their religion, their
political views, their sexuality,
their family’s heritage, or what

they’ve been through in their life.
As our post secrets showed us,
we don’t always know everything
about the people who are closest
to us, either.

So, whenever you see another
poster on campus trying to raise
your awareness, let it.

Read the signs, think about
them, and internalize what it
means when you read about
women on this campus, LGBT
suicide rates, or even historical
events.

Respect different cultures,
different genders, and different
sexualities, but take one step more
by paying attention and really
involving your emotions.

It doesn’t really take any time,
it just takes a little effort.

Farewell, wonderful six week Spring Term, we’ll miss you!

Although we all know the shift to the shorter Spring is for good reasons, we can ’t stop mourning the end of the old term

By Jacob Geiger
c 0 L u M N I s T
Whether you’re a senior

enjoying a last bit of escapism
before facing a job or graduate
school, or a starry-eyed freshman
who’s just discovered that tubes,
beer and the Maury River are
a great trio, Spring Term is a
wonderful time.

After all, when else in your
life can you go tubing at noon on
a Monday?

But when spring rolls
around next year, it looks like
underclassmen will be enjoying a
very different spring experience.

Next year marks the beginning
of new four week spring terms,
and the university is embarking
on an intensive plan to remodel

and revitalize our famous spring
semester.

With the exception of a few
well-established programs like
New York or Washington Terms,
as well as a few overseas trips,
nearly every class offered in the
new spring term will be a new and
improved.

The current option of taking
three or six credits will disappear;
all students will take one intensive
class that meets 8-10 hours a
week and will involve 20-25
hours a week of work outside of
the classroom.

So I guess it falls to all of us
to make the best of our ﬁnal six-
week spring term. Go tubing on
that Monday (I did last week).
Buy a pool at Wal—Mart and
set it up in your front yard for
afternoon hang-out sections.
Move that “Ping Pong” table to
your deck or porch. Take a road

trip in two weeks and watch the
baseball team make their ﬁrst
ever appearance in the NCAA
tournament.

Intellectually and objectively,
I know the change should be a
good one for Washington and
Lee. Let’s face it; if you just
take one three credit class, these
six weeks can often be a bit of
a joke. The new, more intensive
classes should offer students and
professors greater opportunities
for research, ﬁeld trips and other
activities that often get left out
during the longer terms.

But if this going to work,
professors need to embrace the
school’s call to create new courses
rather than taking the current six
week courses and condensing
them into four weeks. Some of
the proposed courses have been

posted on the school’s Quality
Enhancement Plan Web site — qep.
wlu.edu. And while many of them
look interesting, the majority of
the courses up there are currently
offered in our six week term.

I fully understand why
President Ken Ruscio pushed
last fall for the switch to a four
week spring term. Since students
can take two classes under the
current system, the school was
having trouble getting enough
professors and courses to meet
the required spring load. Ruscio,
recognizing that he would either
have to change or abolish Spring
Term, proposed this tighter, more
intense term.

I know the increased class
time and homework load — when
coupled with two fewer weeks
of tubing, camping and strolling

around in seersucker — will make
students unhappy. Heck, if I were
going to be around next year, I
might be unhappy too.

Hopefully students will
manage to keep some perspective
about the change. After all, the
choice was really between a four
week spring term or no spring
term at all.

And, as much as it pains us to
think about this, we really don’t
come to college for tubing on the
Maury. Our parents are paying all
of this money so we can get some
sort of education, and I think the
new term will be a more effective
was of helping students learn.

If professors will put in the
effort needed to design new
courses that take advantage of
our uniquely ﬂexible schedule,
you could see American history

students spending their term at
Thomas Jefferson’s Monticello
and the National Archives in
Washington, D.C., learning about
the Declaration of Independence
on site instead of in a Colonnade
classroom. Language students can
go to D.C. for a foreign language
ﬁlm festival or a play without
having to worry about missing
their other class.

If this new plan works, the
possibilities really might be
endless.

I know all of this. I understand
it. But yeah, deep down in my
heart, I’ll still feel bad for those
students who will miss two weeks
of tubing, grilling and getting
away from reality. Spring term
as we know it is coming to an
end. Don’t let this last one go to
waste.

Dialogue very important in ensuring the Honor System lives

The newly-seated EC I/ice President responds to the recent furor over EC transperancy, welcomes student discussion

By Scott Centorlno
c o L u M N I s T
200. That is how many

students have joined a Facebook
group titled “We the People-
Student Body Meeting.” It is the
equivalent of about 15 fraternity
pledge classes. It is not a number
to be ignored on such a small
campus.

At W&L, if only single a
student stands up and offers
concern or an idea about the
Honor System or student life, the
EC should listen. In this group,
there are 200 concerned students.
The EC should listen.

I have heard the EC described
as “a responsive body.” Well, it’s
time to respond.

I do not agree with every
proposed phrase nor every
statement of concern. However,
I do agree that a student body at
rest is a student body regressing.
This is an opportunity for student
leaders to take account of an
alert student body, one which
genuinely has the capacity to care
and the will to act.

Many have described the

student body or even the EC
as apathetic - willing to push
aside real dialogue about student
governance for fear of looking
‘uncool.’ I disagree. I believe
students have a genuine faith in
their representative trustees on
the EC and have faith that good
people will make good decisions.
Also, as someone who has been
through countless hours of parsing
over the placement of a single
word in the White Book, I can tell
you there is more often too much
dialogue, rather than too little, on
your Executive Committee.

As a member of the Executive
Committee, I see this group
not as an attack, but as a simple
question- “What are you doing
to improve W&L?” That is not a
question any EC should be afraid
to answer.

Of course, such questions
become easier to answer when
an EC can point to tangible
accomplishments. This year, I
believe the EC has an opportunity
to make genuine progress. Some
of that progress, you should see.

For example, the EC should
lookintoconcemsaboutprocedure

regarding the University Board
of Appeals. But more important
than possible technical problems,
the EC should think of the big
picture in terms of student self-
governance.

Similarly, sexual assault has
been a buzzword on this campus
for as long as I’ve been here.
However, nothing ever seems to
change. Obviously, it is a difﬁcult
problem to solve, one which one
person or one plan could certainly
not ﬁx. For the most part, it is a
cultural and social issue. This
EC owes it to students to help
administrators and students
increase the effectiveness of the
Student Faculty Hearing Board.

However, some genuine
progress may be lost in the
meeting minutes outside the
Co-Op. The greatest work for
the Honor System is often lost
to most, either in the sensitive
conﬁdentiality of Honor hearings
or in the technical jargon of
the White Book. However, in
that which is lost, we can ﬁnd
strength. The White Book Review
Committee has offered almost 40
amendments to the White Book,

almost all of which would make it
a healthier document.

During this EC’s tenure, I plan
to propose amendments to the
White Book which I believe will
strengthen not only the document,
but the Honor System. While
I support these amendments,
reasonable minds may differ and
I encourage opposite viewpoints.

One amendment changes the
system by which EC presidents
appoint members to ﬁll positions
on the EC during closed
hearings.

Currently, EC presidents can
appoint anyone to ﬁll a vacant
seat (often due to recusals) during
a closed hearing. While I have
never had any issues with past
appointees, I believe the Honor
System deserves a better method.

My amendment requires
the EC president to nominate a
student to be appointed, and then
approved by a majority of the
remaining members of the EC.
This rejuvenates the democratic
nature of closed hearings and
helps future ECs defend verdicts in
which appointees were involved.
At best, this will only improve

the caliber of appointees and, at
worst, will serve as a comforting
and important formality.

Another amendment I plan to
propose creates a “Community
Outreach Committee” to help
improve student awareness
about the Honor System. I was
impressed when a group of
Honor Advocates offered the idea
originally, and I have altered it
to streamline its purpose so as to
not overlap with the White Book
Review Committee.

While the White Book
Review Committee does address
community outreach, it only
convenes every three years and
already has its hands full sifting
through the White Book. The
Community Outreach Committee
will serve to inform students
every year about all aspects of the
Honor System. It will deliver a
consistent and coherent message
to students and, simultaneously,
better inform the EC of student
opinion and knowledge.

These changes may seem
small, but considering the
enormous historical success of
the Honor System, small changes

are often the only right changes.

Some may call me idealistic
for writing an article in the Phi
about these things, perhaps
believing students do not care or
simply will not understand. We
can understand and we will care
when we realize we should.

If you have an opinion about
any of these ideas, contact
your Executive Committee
representatives and share your
feelings. EC members deserve
your opinion and you deserve
their open minds.

Our student generation has
received the gift of the Honor
System from the students who
came before us.

The system does not survive
by chance, or luck, or because it
perpetuates itself.

It only survives because each
generation collectively sets out to
maintain and improve upon it.

For the thousands of students
who follow us, students we may
never meet, we must continue
that enduring tradition and ﬁrm
commitment to honor.

The gravest threat to the Republican Party is in Arizona

If Chris Simcox can ride a wave of anti-immigrant sentiment to primary victory over McCain, kiss Hispanic votes goodbye

By Abel Delgado
COLUMNIST

If I were a wealthy Democrat
looking to destroy the Republican
Party, there is one senatorial cam-
paign I would donate as much as
possible to: Chris Simcox’s Arizo-
na Republican Primary campaign
against Senator John McCain.

Simcox is the co-founder of
the Minutemen Defense Group,
the anti-immigrant organization
that has volunteered to watch the
U.S.-Mexican border and build
walls that do a better job of keep-
ing Hispanics out of the Repub-
lican Party then they do keeping
illegal immigrants out of country.

My ﬁrst column for the Phi
over two years ago dealt with the
Minutemen and their supporters,

a small but vocal segment of the
party with overtly racist messages
and intentions that made Hispan-
ics across the nation feel unwel-
come.

These thinly disguised bigots
who portrayed themselves as pa-
triots for deciding who had the
right to call themselves Ameri-
can, these people who thought
that having the last name Roberts
made them more deserving of the
American Dream than someone
with the last name Rodriguez,
these people who thought a wall
would solve our problems as if
Jericho’s, China’s, and Berlin’s
did any good - these people made
my blood boil.

I’ve always been teased and
even ridiculed by my liberal
friends for being a Republican but

the only time I ever felt ashamed
to call myself a Republican was
when the anti-immigrant wave
swelled through my party’s
ranks.

Of course, it wasn’t like the
Democrats were exactly “pro-im-
migrant” either and a few Repub-
lican Senators tried their hardest to
come up with a workable solution
to immigration issue. Senators
John McCain, Lindsey Graham,
and Mel Martinez (himself an im-
migrant) were some of the most
inﬂuential supporters of com-
prehensive immigration reform.
McCain especially had plenty to
lose back in 2006 and 2007, when
a pro-immigrant record could
have easily cost him any chance
of winning the Republican Presi-
dential Primary. That didn’t keep

him from standing up for what he
believed in.

No doubt Chris Simcox is now
standing up for what he believes
in. He believes we are in serious
danger because of our lack of
border security. It is hard to ar-
gue with him given recent events
in Mexico. But Simcox misses the
point completely.

If you want to ﬁx the immigra-
tion problem, the drug problem,
the human trafﬁcking problem,
and every other border problem,
the solution starts in Mexico, not
the U.S. And if you want to stop
terrorists, you are paying atten-
tion to the wrong border. Even if
you build a 20 foot wall across the
Mexican border, the only thing
you will get is plenty of twenty-
one-foot ladders.

Republicans should also look
at this practically. Arizona was
blue enough to elect Janet Napol-
itano its governor. Its population
is 30 percent Hispanic. Senator
McCain won reelection in 2004
with 77 percent of the vote, due in
large part to his support within the
Arizonan Hispanic community.
If Simcox somehow manages to
beat McCain he has a snowball’s
chance in hell of winning in the
general election.

Looking at this from a national
perspective, the more attention
Simcox gets the next two years,
the worse Republicans will look
in the eyes of Hispanic voters.
And if President Obama manages
to pass comprehensive immigra-
tion reform without the support of
Republicans, the GOP can forget

about winning the Hispanic vote
for decades. Anyone with a grasp
on US demographics knows that
no party or candidate will suc-
ceed nationally without Hispanic
support. Hispanics should be a
natural constituency for Republi-
cans because of their social val-
ues, strong ties to the military, and
love of the American Dream. But
because of Republican mistakes,
they are not.

It would be an absolute shame
to see such a principled public
servant like Senator McCain go
down in his own party’s primary
for a state he has served honor-
ably.

But beyond being a shame, it
would also be political suicide
for any Republican who actually
wants to win elections.

 

 

4 0 THE RING—TUM PHI

THURSDAY, APRIL 30, 2009

opinions

 

Welcome back alumni, we hope things are as you left them

Although much has changed at W&L, the current students are making sure our honor and traditions are untouched

By Crlghton Allen
cow M NIST

Alums, welcome back. I have
no doubt that you are deﬁnitely
planning on it, but I encourage
you to take a stroll through cam-
pus. See what’s changed since
you last ventured to Lexington,
like the snazzy renovations done
to the main floor of the library
or, if you missed it in the Fall,
the new, the state-of-the-art Wil-
son Field. If you lived in Baker
Dorm and want to show your
kids your old room, you may be
surprised to ﬁnd a Religion or
History professor‘s ofﬁce occu-
pying the space you once called
home while he waits for New-
comb Hall to be renovated.

Things are deﬁnitely chang-
ing around here - or are they?
These days, I frequently seem to
hear students saying that W&L
seems to be moving away from
the old traditions that used to

deﬁne our school. I’ve thought
about W&L, its history, and its
place in the future a lot lately,
and have come to believe that,
as the old adage goes, the more
things change, the more they
stay the same.

True, maybe the fraternity
system in coming under more
ﬁre these days than it used to,
and certain aspects of our school,
such as gender relations, need
serious attention. But I ﬁrmly
believe that our school and the
students that comprise it have
never been better. Take a min-
ute and reflect on the things that
deﬁne our school, the charac-
teristics that make W&L differ-
ent from every other school out
there. The things that make our
school unique, things like the su-
perior education we receive, the
Honor System and student self-
governance, and a general atmo-
sphere of civility and respect are

still here, alive and as prevalent
as ever.

Our school has always been
about the ﬁrst—class education it
gives its students. That has not,
nor ever will ceased to be the
case. Thanks in part to the gen-
erous support of alums like Mr.
Lenfest, the school can provide
its current faculty with excellent
salary compensation and hope-
fully, this will continue to bring
in even more outstanding pro-
fessors to W&L. The nation’s
best and brightest students have
always chosen to attend W&L,
but now with the Johnson Schol-
arship Program, this further en-
sures that the nation’s top high
school seniors will ﬁght for the
privilege of walking along the
Colonnade as a W&L student.
The new academic minor pro-
gram now will give students ﬁn-
ther room to take advantage the
liberal arts education. W&L kids

rack up scholarships and fellow-
ships, great jobs, and admittance
letters into top graduate schools
like the Cincinnati Bengals foot-
ball team racks up police reports.
It was as true now as it was in
1940; W&L gives its students an
education that can take them as
far as they want to go in life.
For years, a diploma from
W&L has signiﬁed that its hold-
er is not only a person of great
learning, but a person of even
greater character. This is due
to the culture of honor that our
school cultivates through the
unique Honor System. Every
day, students take tests unproc-
tored and leave their belongings
out in the open; these actions that
are so commonplace here are
unheard of at almost any other
campus in the nation. The glue
that holds this Honor System to-
gether, the mutual trust we have
in each other, has been cemented

by the decades it has proven
to be true and effective. In the
rare instances where a breach
of this trust occurs, neither the
faculty nor the administration
handle the infractions. This is
left to the students themselves,
via the Executive Committee of
the Student Body. As long as
there is a W&L, there will be a
community of trust. Nothing,
not the passage of time, nor the
changing values of our society at
large will be able to change this.
When the Class of 2009 cel-
ebrates Commencement in a few
short weeks, the diplomas they
receive will reﬂect as strongly as
ever the features of character and
honor that animate every gradu-
ate of our school.

While this community is not
perfect, I place my utmost in
conﬁdence in our students to ad-
dress the issues that merit atten-
tion and to work to solve them in

order to enhance our school.

Alumni young and old, those
present here for the Alumni
Weekend, and those far away,
I write this column mindful of
W&L’s great past and hopeful
for future bright with prom-
ise. If we here now can achieve
great things, it will be because
you have left us strong legacy
on which to build. If I have one
hope for the returning alumni,
other than you closing down
the party at your old fraternity
house, it is that after interacting
with the students here, you will
continue to be as proud of your
school as you were the day you
graduated.

The deﬁning features of our
school that were in born in its
past are still here and the stu-
dents of today are up to the task
of keeping them alive and strong.
We promise so on our Honor as
Washington and Lee students.

Undergrad voter apathy, not rude e-mails, are the problem

Undergrads have little room to be upset over Eric Hoffman is EC election - only 24% of them bothered with voting

By Jacob Geiger
COLUM NIST

It’s been a strange few years
for the Honor System at Wash-
ington and Lee. April 2007 saw
the ﬁrst open hearing in 12 years,
with the accused student win-
ning his case and being allowed
to stay at W&L.

Last year was partially con-
sumed by a discussion about
whether or not the Executive
Committee — rather than the
Student-Faculty Hearing Board
~ should handle sexual assault
cases, and whether sexual as-
sault could be prosecuted as an
honor violation.

And now we ﬁnd ourselves
facing the ﬁrst Student Body
Meeting in at least ﬁve years.
Student body meetings, for

  

he

Frankly, nearly

inconceivable

those of you unfamiliar with the
arcane workings of the White
Book (i.e. almost everyone) can
be called if 100 students sign a
petition requesting a meeting. If
1,000 students show up, then the
meeting can do everything from
chang the White Book to‘im-
peach members of the EC.
Senior has Anthony Ives or-
ganized such a meeting, which
will be held this coming week.
Ives was upset by E-mails
sent by new EC President Eric
Hoffman to several different law
school groups during the March
EC campaign. In the E-mails,
Hoffman and his friends argued
that he should be elected presi-
dent because law students “can
provide a more informed and
mature point of view” in honor

ttolheetilnr

student body must meet

Failure to muster a quorum will be a failure to care about ourselves

group adequate opportunity to reach

hearings.

Now Ives and the other stu-
dents organizing next week’s
meeting have said they won’t
necessarily try to impeach Hoff-
man. And I think it’s a good sign
that Hoffman will appear at the
meeting. He told the Phi that
he will address the campaign
E-mails when he speaks to the
group.

But if undergraduates are
unhappy with the new EC Presi-
dent, they have only themselves
to blame. Only 40 percent of
students voted in the initial elec-
tion, when Hoffman led the ﬁve
candidates with about 272 votes.

Turnout in the runoff between
Hoffman and undergraduate
junior John Twomey was even
more pathetic, with 719 students

ure to communicate (on the part of

— about 33 percent of the total
student body — showing up to
vote.

And those numbers are re-
ally deceiving. Only 24 percent
of undergraduates voted in the
runoff, while turnout among law
students was 74 percent.

How on earth can the under-
graduates explain a turnout gap
of 50 percentage points?

Ives argues that the voting
stations were poorly located on
the Hill, closed early and weren’t
open long enough.

I’m not buying those claims.
Selwyn Turner and Kathleen
Morphis have been running EC
elections for the past three years.
We’ve never had problems in the
past, and I’ve seen no evidence
that this year’s election was con-

ducted in a different fashion past
runoffs.

Ives said he believes far more
than 24 percent of undergradu-
ates wanted to vote on Election
Day. I think he may be engaging
in wishful thinking.

Apathy has clouded our EC
elections for each of my four
years at W&L. Turnout has
rarely been above 50 percent,
especially on the undergraduate
side of campus. In fact, some of
the highest turnout rates usually
come in the freshman EC elec-
tions each fall.

So why do students stop vot-
ing? Why do undergraduates not
care about who will be settling
honor cases and handing out
hundreds of thousands of dollars
in school money twice a year?

When this student body
meeting ﬁnally does occur,
maybe Ives shouldn’t focus on
Hoffman’s E-mails. The new
president’s attitude was rude and
condescending — that’s true. It
appears that many law students
look down on those of us across
the creek as intellectual inferiors
who aren’t as mature or thought-
ful as them — that’s also true.

But rude E-mails — while
disappointing ~ are not nearly
as problematic as terrible voter
apathy. We have an undergradu-
ate student body that apparently
doesn’t care who its leaders are
or how they operate.

Maybe we should ﬁx that
problem before we worry about
impeaching the EC president.

THE

----- -- WASIIINGTONAND LEEUNIVERSITY  

RING—TUM Pm. 

ARTS & LIFE EDITOR

MANAGING EDITOR
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR

SPORTS EDITOR

ALLISON CHOPIN
DIANDRA SPICAK
CODY BEAUCHAMP
STEPHANIE HARDIMAN
WILL DORRANCE

things are happening on this cam-
pus. Indeed, during the most dreaded
part of the worst academic term, 109
of your classmates signed a petition
calling for a Student Body Meeting.

As the name would suggest, the
entire student body is invited to con-
vene in one location and is invested
with certain powers. Speciﬁcally,
upon reaching a quorum of one half
of the total enrollment of Washington
and Lee University (slightly more
than one thousand students) we have
the ﬁill power to rescind non—honor
related decisions of the EC or to re-
move “unsatisfactory” oflicers elect-
ed to the EC. Why would so many
of your fellow students petition for a
meeting equipped with such serious
powers?

You likely know of the ﬁrst reason
because it has been reported exten-
sively here in the Phi. We believe,
and we understand that EC President
Eric Hoffman also agrees, that an as-
semblage of the student body is an
excellent venue for him to explain the
e-mail that was posted in this paper
before Spring Break.

Moreover, and this has not been
reported previously, the actual elec-
toral returns from the EC Presidential
Election were similarly problematic.

Examining the turnout in the elec-
tion it has become apparent that while
only about 24% of undergrads voted
in the election approximately 74% of
law students voted. This led to a his-
torically low (even for W&L) turnout
of around a third. Ultimately, the sum
of all these numbers means that only
6% of the undergraduate student body
voted for current EC President Hoff-
man. The meeting will also present an
excellent venue to ascertain whether
a mere quarter of the undergraduate
student body really sought to vote
or whether electoral regulations will
have to be redeveloped to give each

the polls.

Unfortunately, and similarly in-
conceivable, are the policies, proce-
dures, and general student climate on
the topic of sexual assault. According
to oﬁicial statistics published by the
school and mandated by Federal law
there has been one forcible sexual of-
fense (includes anything from rape
to unwanted sexual touching) on this
campus in the last four years. Dean
Dotson conﬁrms that in the past four
years there has been no sexual assault
case heard by the SF HB.

Given the problem that we know
exists on campus, these numbers are
simply impossible. Whether it be
formally deﬁning sexual assault as an
honor violation or taking some other
action the meeting will enable the
student body to ﬁrmly decide that this
issue will be neither skirted nor swept
under the rug any longer.

Further and perhaps more incon-
ceivably, this school remains com-

the EC AND the student body) and
in so doing begin to solve the previ-
ously addressed problems. The true
aim of the meeting is to re-establish
a dialogue about what it means to be
honorable and what it means to truly
be part of a campus in which student
self-govemance is of critical impor-
tance. If no ofﬁcers are removed and
no decisions are revoked the meeting
will not end in failure. In fact, that
would be the desirable outcome.

However, nothing about this de-
sire for cordiality and discourse in
any way reduces the need for ac-
countability. The framers of our Stu-
dent Body Constitution realized that
sometimes accountability can only
be accomplished through the powers
vested in the Student Body Meeting
no matter how regrettable it might be
to utilize those powers.

This underlies what a true failure
of the meeting might entail. If we
the Student Body fail to convene in

CONTRIBUTING WRITERS

DESIGN EDITOR
STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER
BUSINESS MANAGER
DISTRIBUTION MNGR.

CRIGHTON ALLEN
SCOTT CENTORINO
IEAN CHAPMAN
KEVIN CORN
MEGAN DAILY
ABEL DELGADO
LIZZ DYE

NEVILLE FOGARTY
JACOB GEIGER
KATIE HATFIELD
JAMIE KIM

TED MOORE
BROOKE SUTHERLAND
HOLLY SUTHERS
VICTORIA TAYLOR
RUSS WEEMS

LARA IORDAN
MORGAN HARRIS
STROCK MOORE
ROB GEORGE

pletely in the dark as to the number of
honor investigations undertaken since
February ﬁrst of this year. Though
this is through no fault of current EC
Secretary Bill Larson, who thus far
is producing excellent and detailed
minutes of EC meetings, the current
environment on campus between the
students and their representatives
might hardly be seen to be one of mu-
tual trust and respect.

Truly the problem of transparency
runs deeper than even the previous
EC. It stems from a generalized lack
of communication between the stu-
dent body and our leaders. Despite
the best efforts of many, I still believe
the vast majority of students to be un-
aware that all scheduled EC meetings
are open to the public so long as the
EC does not adjoum into Executive
Session.

Ultimately the Student Body
Meeting is about remedying this fail-

suﬁicient numbers we prove the nay-
sayers right. We miss an opportunity
for redressing past problems and pre-
venting new ones from occurring.
We even defeat the very possibility of
accountability by failing to arrive in
the numbers necessary for a quorum.
On the other hand, success will not
result in the end of sexual assault on
campus or an instantaneous creation
of a responsible EC or student body.
But it will be a start, an inconceivable

Signed, We the People
By Anthony Ives and Regina Mills

For more information see the Face-
book group “We the People -- Stu-
dent Body Meeting” at:

http://www.facebook.com/ group.
php?gid=6743065 3090

WLU.EDU.

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE RING—TUM PHI to
accurately, truthfully, and thoroughly report news affecting the
Washington and Lee community for students, faculty. parents and
alumni. Our goal is to look deeper into news affecting campus life and
hold leaders accountable. Through our reporting. we aspire to spark
discussions that lead to discovering information that prompts change.

THE RING—TUM PHI IS PUBLISHED MONDAYS DURING THE
UNDERGRADUATE SCHOOL YEAR. THE RING—TUM PHI IS A MEMBER OF
THE MEDIA BOARD, BUT IS OTHERWISE INDEPENDENT. QUESTIONS
OR CONCERNS ABOUT THE PHI SHOULD BE ADDRESSED TO THE
EDITORS AT PHI@WLU.EDU OR TO THE MEDIA BOARD AT MEDlABOARD@

THE MEDIA BOARD IS AN INDEPENDENT, STUDENT—RUN
EDITORIAL OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE WORKING WITH ALL MEDIA
OUTLETS ON THE WASHINGTON & LEE CAMPUS. ALL INQUIRIES WILL
REMAIN CONFIDENTIAL. THE RING-TUM PHI WELCOMES ALL LETTERS.
WE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO EDIT SUBMISSIONS FOR CONTENT AND
LENGTH. LETTERS AND ADVERTISING DO NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT
THE OPINION OF THE RING—TUM PHI STAFF. THIS NEWSPAPER OBSERVES
CURRENT COURT DEFINITIONS OF LIBEL AND OBSCENITY.
THE RING—TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
I FAX: (540) 458-4059
EMAIL: PHl@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

 

  

 

  

THURSDAY, APRIL 30, 2009

 

THE RING-TUM PHI ° 5

arts&life

‘ GAB Comedy: a hoot and a half

Top comedians bring their “ha ha is ” from the big leagues to the Colonnade

.)

 

By Katle Hatﬂeld
smrr WRITER

“My mouth tastes like Tris-
cuits, weed and loneliness,” Jas-
per Redd began.

If it sounds edgy, it was.

Known for pushing the enve-
lope in terms of political incor-
rectness, Redd was the most re-
cent performer that the General
Activities Board brought for its
comedy division last Wednes-
day.

A native of Knoxville, Tenn.,
Redd has performed on Comedy
Central, “Last Call with Car-
son Daly,” “Def Comedy Jam,”
and “Late Night with Conan
O’Brien.”

GAB was formed to attract a
wide range of entertainment for
the Washington and Lee commu-
nity by booking concerts, come-
dians and other activities.

GAB Comedy, the brainchild
of senior Morgan Harris, has
only grown in popularity since it
began three years ago.

Part of the program’s suc-
cess can be attributed to its
sizable budget used to attract
well-known or soon-to-be-well-
known talent.

“Sophomore year I was grant-
ed $5,000, and due to the success
of events, I now have $20,000 at
my disposal for a year of quality
comedic entertainment,” Harris
said.

And quality was what the
W&L audience received.

“Jasper was ridiculous!” ﬁrst-
year Ryan Henner said. “You
have to be good to have a whole
show about racism and not make
it uncomfortable, but he pulled it
off.”

Redd discussed with abandon

the not so gracious origins of the
Whopper Jr., the absurdity of the
McDonald’s mascot, Grimace
and receiving pajamas as a 30th
birthday gift.

He even poked fun at W&L’s

mor from things he determines
as forms of “subtle racism.” But
despite the taboo subject matter,
Redd had Stackhouse Theater
cracking up at the prospect that
“white chocolate” was revenge

“You have to be good to have a whole show

about racism and not make it uncomfortable,

but he pulled it off ”

Ryan Henner, ﬂrst-year

beloved mascot, the General.
“The Generals? More like the
Masters,” Redd said, referring
to the fact that both Washington
and Lee owned slaves.
Redd derives much of his hu-

for “chocolate milk.”

W&L senior Matt Harkins
warmed up the crowd for Redd
with some jokes of his own. He
earned many laughs through his
frank discussions of P.E. require-

ments, the people of Lexington
and the W&L population.

Harkins was a pleasure to
listen to because he is a member
of his own target audience, and
therefore everyone could relate
to just about anything he dis-
cussed.

Whether it was having a rough
night and not knowing what kind
of hangover he was dealing with,
meeting “interesting” towns-
people while running errands
or the potential illiteracy of the
student body, Harkins poked fun
at aspects of W&L life that most
people found amusing.

First-year Kelli J arrell, a ﬁrst-
time attendee of a GAB Comedy
event, became a fan of Harkins
almost immediately.

“I really enjoyed it. It was
funny to hear a lot of the ri-
diculous things about Lex and

W&L,” she said.

Despite the laughs and GAB
Comedy’s success, don’t expect
Lexington to host the likes of
Dane Cook anytime soon.

When asked whether or not
GAB Comedy would ever try to
elicit such a top-billed performer,
Harris said he doesn’t think so.

“The comics we bring in
for $3,000 often put on a better
show,” he said.

But GAB does plan on bring-
ing Arj Barker this term.

Barker, one of the “best in
the business,” according to Har-
ris, plays “Dave” on the popular
HBO series “Flight of the Con-
chords.”

GAB Comedy’s future should
be a treat for comedy connois-
seurs and ﬂedgling fans alike.

Hillel honors, remembers Holocaust victims

Annual Holocaust Remembrance Week plans speakers and events to raise awareness for genocide and injustice

By Llzz Dye
STA FF WRITER

Tonight Hillel will present
Holocaust survivor George
Salton as the keynote speaker for
Holocaust Remembrance Week.

The week-long event strives
both to remember the horrifying
murder of six million Jews and
to raise awareness to prevent
future acts of genocide.

Salton lived through 10
different concentration camps
throughout Germany, France and

Poland before he was liberated
by American forces when he
was 17. He was the only one in
his family to survive. Having
only a ﬁfth grade education and
speaking very little English,
Salton emigrated to America
and earned a master’s degree in
engineering.

Salton has been featured
on CNN’s “NewsNight” and
National Public Radio to speak

about his experiences. His
memoir, “The 23rd Pslam,” was
published in 2002.

“If there is one thing you do
all week, please come see Mr.
Salton speak. There is nothing
more eye-opening than hearing
a Holocaust survivor speak,”
sophomore Brian Cherry, a
member of Hillel and one of
the coordinators of Holocaust
Remembrance Week, said.

The lecture will begin at 5
p.m in the Stackhouse Theater.

The week rounds out on
Friday with the Yom Hashoah
service in Elrod Commons Room
345 led by Dean Hank Dobin.

The service includes prayers for
Holocaust survivors and is a way
to honor and remember their
deaths.

The week kicked off on
Monday with the ﬁlm “Deﬁance”
in the Stackhouse Theater. -The
ﬁlm is based on the true story of
a group of 1,200 Jews in Belarus
who successfully hid in the forest
from the Nazis.

Tuesday night included a
vigil to remember the lives lost
during the Holocaust. During the
vigil, students, faculty and staff

took turns reading the names of
victims.

Cherry said that by saying the
names of the victims, especially
children, it made the Holocaust
“more real” in peoples’ minds.

Sophomore Tracy Richardson
organized and planned the events
for the week. She gave the
opening comments at the vigil.

“Let us promise ourselves
and our martyrs that we shall
never forget the horrible tragedy
of the Holocaust; that we may
remain forever vigilant against

those who pursue genocide,
oppression, and hate,” she said.

On Wednesday night, the
AcademyAward-winningﬁlmfor
Best Picture, “Schindler’s List,”
was shown in the Stackhouse
Theater. The ﬁlm chronicles the
life of Oskar Schindler, a German
businessman who saved dozens
of Polish Jews by employing
them in his factories.

Environmental
Studies Luncheon

and Alumni-in-Residence Series

Sarah Tilbor ‘08
Craig Cheney '87

with
Project
Performance

Corporation

Thursday, May 7
for lunch at 12:15

Commons 114
No RSVP required

Questions? Call Career Services at 540 458 8595
‘twt 8 E51? IN GT C) N A. M 3}  $3.133. LE  I Y,€E.R.SIT‘l”

CAREER®SERVlCES

Across

6 Crystal MN

locale

2 bedroom basement
Private entrance
Full bath, living, and kitchen

2 blocks from campus
540.463.6951
for move into.

belt

1 Get a new tenant

10 Go on and on

Letters and number
on a telephone button

15 Diamond Heads

16 15-Across, eg.

17 "I got a  and the
only prescription... is
more cowbell." —

Closed for Renovations by Neville L. Fogarty

Head over to ringtumphicrossword.blogspot.com to check your solution to this week's puzzle!

1 2 3 4 5 (2 3’ it 0 ll) ll l2 i3
14 l3 l6
I? l3 l9

 

 

 

Christopher Walkcii
18 Riyadh native 4;
19 Snowhoarder's need ’ 45
20 It recently got
renovated 4°
23 Team on Olympic 53 54
Scoreboards, brieﬂy
24 School zone sign 6” "l ‘33
25 F lying formations (,3 6,, 65
28 Tittle, for example
1 . ea 13'? as
31 Slate and others
34 Place for a stud
35 Wispy clouds
H '. , . . . .
37 ea“ Pam 66 Hammer part l} Someone familiar 41 Musical piece from
39 1: facet‘? got 67 Goes on mm a mm}; with 6-Across the French for
’‘’‘“’V“ e . dog 12 CUtlllCl1€8.(l off "study"
42 on the mam“ 68 Show ofcoritempt 13 Part of HRH, in 46 A Speech 350"‘
43 LOOKS 0U! {OR Illa)/bi? gmam yourself you’ll never
44 The second of April‘? Down 21 Pic cuts essentially hear
45 {grgn 1 Cousin Qf LMAO 22 Book {mgr Acts 48 Don the John Gotti
47 Bird in pictures at 2 Fencing option 25 Alexa Qf "Sm, Kids" was .
Outback Steakhouse 3 Eugene of nmnerican 26 Numb“ mtg“ Of. 50 l‘ mlemlly 19"“
43 11311152 WM pie" eight 52 Face-to~tacc exams
Excellent Adventure" 4 S0,, Ofchaos 2,7 Pmpam ‘O redo Q 53 Gaels tongue
49 mg” 5 l\«’lathematical bagel lioiiiework exercise 54 S“b°t‘"'“'
51 3“‘3k'5 Partner 6 Emulate Myrtle from 29 Shamu, notably‘ 55 H3lf‘m"°“ lid“
53 It recently got "Harry Potter" 30 (me Ofm-Give in 56 Place value word
rmovatcd 7 Title NBC‘ comedy Israel 57 Frostbite treater
60 TW“l“‘S ‘W3 a “lie 32 Bone to pick 58 It may be upper or
Celebramd Jump“ 8 T§iey‘re all over 33 In Pia“. lower
61 S«shaped molding Bangkok 35 Role for Sm“ Ba“) 59 ()bSen_.m.
62 Put to rest, as fears 9 lt’ll be replaced by 36 Fmtmm word 6-0 Percy Blakency’ who
63 Christiania, now the-lam“ W95: m ,, ‘ ' ‘ . ,, was secretly the
2013 38 The  have It . « . .
64 :39] agent I ‘ Sc-azlet Pimperncl,
. . , . I 10 Power plant unit 40 Okra 5 “Q55” for one
65 Like pants needing a “mom; Shape

 

 

6 ° THE RING-TUM PHI

THURSDAY,APRll. 30,2009

sports

 

Both tennis teams compete at ODACs '

Women win title for 19th straight year, men lose in championship for ﬁrst time in 13 seasons

By Brooke Sutherland
STA FF W RITE R

Schools from all over the region
traveled to Lexington last weekend to
compete in the men’s and women’s tennis
ODAC tournament. The Washington
and Lee women took first place while the
men lost in the championship game.

The women’s team made a clean
sweep of its conference opponents,
dropping only three games total in
their three matches. The Generals
defeated Hollins 5-0 in the quarterﬁnals,
Randolph-Macon 6-0 in the semiﬁnals
and Virginia Wesleyan 5-0 in the ﬁnals
for their 19th consecutive ODAC
championship and an automatic bid to
the NCAA tournament.

“This weekend, we really had a solid
team effort,” said head coach Eric Ishida.
“It’s easy for us to take the ODAC
teams for granted since we have been
so successful against them, but I think
our girls knew that we had to show up
with the best team and play like the best
team.”

Facing off against eighth-seeded
Hollins, the Generals quickly set the
tone for their tournament performance.
Senior Katie Tabb and junior Lauren
Caire defeated Katie Dotson and Maggie
Bai 8-1 in the number-one doubles
spot. First-years Ann Morris and Trelsie
Sadler also added a victory (8-0) over
Shawnte Woodson and Lydia Coyne in
the number-two doubles spot. F irst-year
Lauren Lukas and senior Meg Spalitta
rounded out the doubles with an 8-2
win over Peyton Brogan and Caitlyn
Cooper.

In singles, the
equally unstoppable.

Generals
Junior

were
Blair

Brzeski dominated Coyne in a 6-0, 6-0
‘i

 

The men’s and
women's tennis
teams competed in
the ODAC tourna-
ment this weekend,
as the Lady Gener-
als are seen from
this aerial view from
Cadaver Bridge. The
women beat Virginia
Wesleyan 5-0 in

the championship
while the men fell to
Hampden-Sydney 5-3 .
In the conference
finals.

Track competes at ODACs

Men ’s team places third, Lady Generals take second

victory on the ﬁfth line, and Morris
stunned Cooper at 6-0, 6-0 in number-
six singles.

“We all went into each match with
something to work on to keep us
focused,” Morris said. “Whether it was
working on being aggressive at the net or
poaching or for singles, just focusing on
coming into the court more often. I think
that really helped us.”

The Generals next faced off against
ﬁfth-seeded Randolph Macon in the
semiﬁnals. W&L simply demolished the
Yellow Jackets, winning every match in
straight sets. Tabb and Caire defeated
Windsor Tyler and Martha Vlahakis 8-0
in number-one doubles, followed by an
8-0 victory by Morris and Sadler over
Leslie Hainley and Margaret Giffen for
number-two doubles. Lukas and Spalitta
also walked away with an 8-0 victory
over Jade Thompson and Blair Kersh for
number-three doubles.

In singles, it was the same story of
W&L domination. Tabb defeated Taylor
6-0, 6-0 on the ﬁrst line, and Brzeski
added to her win from the previous
day with a 6-0, 6-0 win over Giffen in
number-three singles. First-year Jen
Snyder also contributed a 6-0, 6-0 win
over Hainley for number-two singles.

With two strong victories behind
them, W&L headed to the ﬁnals to
face off with second-seeded Virginia
Wesleyan. The Generals had already
defeated the Marlins 9-0 early on in the
season, and this match-up would prove
to be no different. Virginia Wesleyan was
held without a win and without a game
as the Generals charged forward with
a 5-0 win. In singles, Snyder defeated
Meredith Willett 6-0, 6-0 in the number-

three singles s ot while Brzeski capped

off her strong tournament showing with
a 6-0, 6-0 victory over Shannon Shabo
at number-four singles. Spalitta defeated
Morgan Franklin 6-0, 6-0 for number-
ﬁve singles and Morris won at number-
six singles by default when Virginia
Wesleyan failed to provide a player. The
nurnber—three doubles match was also
decided by default.

Finishing with a 19-4 record, the
Generals also took home several
individual honors. For the second year in
a row, Ishida was named ODAC Coach
of the Year and Tabb was tapped as
ODAC Player of the Year.

“Katie has just been a terriﬁc leader
both this year and last year,” Ishida
said. “She played. well all season. Of
course she had a couple losses, but she
responded well and turned things around
quickly. She is a great person to have in
the number-one spot. All the younger
girls look up to her for how she ﬁghts
through matches.”

Additionally, ﬁrst-year Ellen Yeatrnan
was named ODAC Rookie of the Year
for her efforts this season. Yeatrnan
compiled an impressive ll-2 doubles
and 9-4 singles record during her ﬁrst
spring season.

“It’s a great honor, especially since my
coach took the effort to nominate me,”
Yeatrnan said. “I feel like I’ve improved
a lot. The team has really pushed me, and
I’ve learned a lot from them.”

“We knew Ellen was a very talented
player as a [high school] junior,” Ishida
added. “We’re excited to have her come
in and develop under our program. She
hasn’t been 100 percent this season
because of injuries, but she continues
to win matches and compete at a high
level.”

MORGAN HARRIS / Staff Photographer

With the ODAC trophy ﬁrmly in hand,
the Generals are now turning their sights
to the upcoming NCAA championships.

“Really what ODACs are all about
is getting that automatic bid to the
NCAAS,” Ishida said. “That’s what
we’re playing for.”

The team will ﬁnd out its ﬁrst
opponent and location May 2 and begin
NCAA play May 8. W&L will face a
much harder regional than it has seen in
recent years with four top 10 teams vying
for a spot in the next round. But after the
Generals’ stunning performance in the
ODAC championships this weekend,

Ishida has every right to be optimistic

about his team’s chances.

“Our regional is a lot tougher this year
and I don’t want to look too far ahead,”
he said. “But I think we’re one of the
best teams in the country. If everyone
plays well at the same time on the same
day, I think we’ve got a great shot to do
really well.”

On the men’s side, the nationally 25th
ranked W&L team defeated Guilford
9-0 in the quarterﬁnals and Roanoke
College 8-1 in the semiﬁnals, but fell
to Hampden-Sydney 5-3 in the ﬁnals,
breaking a string of 13 consecutive titles
and marking the Generals’ ﬁrst loss to an
ODAC opponent since 2000.

The top-seeded Generals started out
strong against eighth-seeded Guilford
on Friday, sweeping both the doubles
and singles. At number-one doubles,
sophomores Will Hall and Tim Watson
took a 9-7 victory over Will Mason-
Deese and Alec Chase. Junior Alex
Brooke and senior McCardell followed
with an 8-6 win over Ben Lewis and
Patrick Childs at number-two doubles
and ﬁrst-years Jonathan Gaﬂhey and
Mac Davis captured an easy 8-1 win
over Garrett Tanner and Billy Dennis in
number-three doubles

In singles, McCardell dominated
Mason-Deese 6-1, 6-3 on the ﬁrst line.
First-year Ben Fass echoed his victory
with a 6-1, 6-3 win of his own over
Chase in number-two singles. Watson
contributed a 6-1, 6-0 win over Childs at
number-three singles while Brooke took
a 6-1, 6-2 victory over Lewis at number-
four singles. Hall knocked oﬁ" Dennis 6-
0, 6-0 at number-ﬁve singles, and Davis
completed the Generals’ sweep with a 6-
0, 6-0 win over Tanner at number six.

A semiﬁnal match-up against the
fourth-seeded Roanoke Maroons posed
a greater challenge for Washington and
Lee, but the Generals held up under the
pressure and delivered another solid
victory. Hall and Watson defeated Jon
Roy and Sam Sherill 8-4 in number-one
doubles while Brooke and McCardell
defeated DeWitt and Sam Jordan 8-1 in
the number-two spot. Gaffney and ﬁrst-
year Jeremy Becht took the number-three

doubles match at 8-2 over Alex Lyons
and Drew Rogers.

Although McCardell fell to Roy 4-6,
6-4, 12-10 in number-one singles, the
other Generals held on to sweep the rest
of the singles matches. Becht defeated
Sherrill 7-5, 6-0 in the number-two spot,
and junior Brent Meyers contributed a 7-
5, 6-3 win over Rogers for number-three
singles. Fass won easily at number-four
singles, knocking off Jordan 6-0, 6-0,
and ﬁrst-year Michael Freeman earned a
6-0, 6-2 victory over DeWitt at number-
ﬁve singles. Watson closed out the match
with a 6-3, 6-4 rout of Lyons at number-
six singles.

Heading into the ﬁnals against
Hampden-Sydney, W&L seemed to be
in control and poised to take their 14th
straight ODAC title. The last time the
Generals played the Tigers, they coasted
to an easy 7-2 victory. But this time
around things would not be so easy

The Generals got off to a poor start,
dropping two of the three doubles
matches. Hall and Watson fell 8-3 to
William Moss and Rick Pugh in number-
one doubles and Brooke and McCardell
suffered a tough 8-6 loss to Shad Harrell
and Kevin Calhoun at number-two
doubles. Gaffney and Becht gave the
Generals their only win in doubles with
an 8-4 victory over Tal Covington and
Phillip Parrish in the number-three spot.

In singles, the Generals continued to
struggle. McCardell fell to Moss 7-5,
6-2 in number-one singles, and Meyers
struggled against Harrell in number-
three singles, losing 6-3, 6-3. The
Generals stepped up to deliver victories
in numbers-four, ﬁve and six singles
matches. Fass defeated Calhoun 6-4,
6-4 at number four, followed by a 6-2,
6-1 victory by Freeman over Zack Pack
at number ﬁve and a hard-fought 6-4,
1-6, 6-4 win by Watson over Parrish at
number six.

When asked what the difference was
between the championship and W&L’s
regular-season Hampden-Sydney match,
Becht said, “I don’t know, we just didn’t
come out ﬁred up, and they wanted it
more.”

For the ﬁrst time in the last 13 years,
the Generals will not receive the ODAC
automatic bid to the NCAA tournament.
So now the men’s team must play the
waiting game to ﬁnd out whether it will
receive an at-large bid to compete in the
NCAA tournament.

Becht, who was named co-ODAC
men’s tennis Rookie of the Year, thinks
that his team has a “very slim” chance
to make the NCAAs, and summed up
his ﬁrst year, “It was a tough season.
 It was a rebuilding year, and I think
we really showed that we have a lot of
young talent and that we will be really
dangerous in the next few years.”

Environmental
Studies Luncheon

By Kevin Corn
STAFF warren

During the last weekend of
Spring Break, the Washington
and Lee men’s and women’s
track teams competed at the 2009
ODAC championship, held here
at Wilson Field. The women ﬁn-
ished second after earning 139
points while the men captured
third with 103 points. Together,
the teams gathered 26 All-ODAC
citations, six ODAC individual
champions, three school re-
cords and two NCAA—qualifying
marks.

“The whole meet was a real
nail-biter.  We kept on bopping
around from ﬁrst to fourth to sec-
ond, etc. Every event mattered,”
said senior Becca Taylor.

The women were led by se-
nior Elizabeth Webb, who was
also named the Co-Athlete of
the Meet and the ODAC/Farrn
Bureau Scholar-Athlete of the
Year. Webb ﬁnished ﬁrst in three
different events: the 1500 with a
time of 4:46.77, the 800 with a
time of2:2l .17 and then the 5000
with a time of 18:58.30.

Senior Stacy Doombos’s time
of 14.89 in the 100 meter hurdles
helped her to ﬁnish second, set a
school record, and qualify for the
NCAA in that event. Doombos
earned a second qualifying mark
in the long jump after a third
place ﬁnish with a leap of 5.48
meters. Then in the high jump,
Doombos ﬁnished third with a
jump of 1.53 meters.

“It was great that W&L hosted
this year’s ODAC meet because
it was an awesome way to cap off
my W&L track experience,” com-
mented Doornbos. “I was really
happy with how the meet went.
I was able to have some personal
best performances which were
really exciting and helped make
the meet a memorable one.”

Taylor captured the gold in the
3000-meter steeplechase, setting
both school and ODAC records
with a time of 11:22.19. She then
took second in the 5000 meters
with a time of 19:26.20.

“Every time I run the steeple-
chase, I love it even more,” com-
mented Taylor. “The support of
teammates, both on the sides and

in the race with me, made all the
difference. And now, my new
time has really motivated me to
keep on trying for that qualifying
mark.”

Top ﬁnishes in the steeple-
chase also included senior Jess
Shaw who ﬁnished second with
a time of 11:34.64. In the high
jump, junior Maggie Sutherland
jumped 1.53 meters for a second-
place ﬁnish. Junior Sallie Arm-
strong ﬁnished third in the shot
put after a toss of 10.89 meters.
Senior Grace Andrews ﬁnished
third in the discus after a toss of
33.99 meters. In the 400-meter
hurdles, ﬁrst-year Natalie Stier
ran a time of 1:06.92 for a third-
place ﬁnish.

The men also had several
strong performances. Senior
Vance Berry ﬁnished second
in the 1500 meters in a time of
4:02.49. His classmate Chip Mc-
Coy also captured the silver in the
400 meters with a time of 57.49.
Junior Ben Goetsch also ﬁnished
second aﬁer leaping 1.93 meters
in the high jump.

Junior Thomas Brandlein cap-

tured third in the 400-meter race
after running a time of 57.89. Se-
nior Michael Welsh ﬁnished third
in both the 1500 meters and 5000
meters. His times were 4:02.54
and 15:58.00, respectively. Soph-
omore Jeff Giordano also earned
two third-place ﬁnishes with a
11.08 in the 100 meters, and a
22.29 in the 200 meters.

Junior Billy Billington was
named the men’s ODAC/Farm
Bureau Scholar-Athlete of the
Year. He also won the hammer
throw with a toss of 49.82 me-
ters for a school record. He also
captured the gold in the shot put
with a toss of 13.70 meters and
then took silver in the discus with
a throw of 42. 15 meters.

After the meet, Sutherland
concluded, “The senior girls led
the team to a great ODAC ﬁnish.”
She added, “They pulled the rest
of the team through, and we are
going to sorely miss them. The
class, as a whole, embodies awe-
some athleticism, talent and lead-
ership.”

and Alumni-in-Residence Series

Sarah Tilbor ‘08
Craig Cheney '87

Project
Performance

Corporation

Thursday, May 7
for lunch at 12:15

Commons 1 14
No RSVP required

Questions? Call Career Services at 540 458 8595
WA8HINGT{)N am: "LEE. LiNIV.I:’..R$I"I‘Y

CAREER®SERVICES

with

 

  

   

. . .-_._-.«~.— ‘>4 ...-._..\ .....—. ....r ..-.... .\..-/ _.. ,. _

i
1
I
i
I
-3

 
 
 

 

 

THURSDAY, APRIL 30, 2009

THE RING-TUM PHI 0 7

 

sports

Men’s lacrosse advances to ﬁnals

Generals beat Guilford 25-3 Saturday in quarters, Lynchburg I2-II Wednesday in semis

MORGAN HARRIS / Staff Photographer

By Megan Daily
STAFF WRITER

The nationally 1 0th—ranked
Washington and Lee men’s lacrosse
team advanced to the ODAC
championship game with a 12-11
win over second-seeded Lynchburg
Wednesday night. More information
on the game was not available as of
press time.

On Saturday, the third-seeded
Generals defeated Guilford 25-3 to
advance to the ODAC semiﬁnals. This
is second-highest scoring lacrosse
game in W&L history.

Since moving to Division III in
1987, W&L has won eight ODAC
championships and advanced to
the NCAA tournament eight times,
ﬁnishing as a semiﬁnalist in 1987,
2000 and 2002.

Even though they had easily
defeated Guilford this season, 18-2,
W&L came out with energy early in
the ODAC tournament.

W&L showed great offensive
tenacity, outshooting their opponent
71-14. Fifteen different Generals were
able to ﬁnd the net. The Generals got
a solid 9-2 lead going into the half and
never looked back. They scored 10
more goals in the third quarter and in
the last quarter put six more scores on
the board.

Senior attackman Harry St. John
commented on his ﬁnal ODAC
tournament, “Playing in the tournament
is more urgent than ever now that we
are seniors. If we don’t get a bid to
NCAAs, I would consider this season
a failure.”

Junior attackman Will Keigler had
four goals and three assists to lead
the offensive charge. Sophomore
midﬁelder Drew Koeneman also netted
four goals, and sophomore attackman
Spence Daw tallied two goals and two

assists. Senior midﬁelder Tim Skeen
contributed two goals and an assist
while junior midﬁelder Kevin Feeney
and ﬁrst-year midﬁelder Luke Walter
added two goals each.

To balance out the Generals’
attack, sophomore attackman Dan
Sullivan, senior attackman Seth
Fishman, sophomore midﬁelder Mark
Wachtmeister, sophomore attackman
Tom Hagner, sunior attackman Max
Mancuso, senior midﬁelder Seldon
Clarke, ﬁrst-year midﬁelder Mike Ott,
junior midﬁelder Chris Washington
and senior midﬁelder Kevin Fuge all
had one goal apiece.

F irst-year attackman Scott Meehan
had two assists. Sophomore midﬁelder
Justin Donati, sophomore attackman
Drew Mancini, ﬁrst-year defenseman
Alex Sturges, Sullivan and Washington
each had one assist.

The Generals also used four

different goalkeepers during the game.
Senior Connor Locke allowed 2 goals
and had two saves in his 39:13 minutes
of play. Junior Matt Mason was solid
between the pipes for his 6:12 minutes.

Sophomore Ned Lundvall had one
save, and sophomore Jason Lumpkin
allowed one but saved another. Overall
the goalkeepers combined for four
saves and only allowed three scores.

With the quarterﬁnal win Saturday
and the semiﬁnal win Wednesday,
W&L plays the winner of the
Hampden—Sydney and Roanoke game
in the ODAC championship Sunday at
1:00 p.m.

Looking ahead to the rest of the
playoffs, St. John remarked, “I would
love our senior class to be remembered
as the class that brought W&L lacrosse
back to the national stage.”

LEFT: The Generals’ bench
watches as their teammates
control Saturday's quarterﬂnal
game against the Quakers.

BELOW: Senior attackman
Seth Fishman shoots on soph-
omore Guilford goalkeeper
Mark Guillen.

 

Women’s lacrosse falls in ODAC finals

Team does not win conference crown for ﬁrst time since 2002 after 9-1] loss to Roanoke

By Russ Weems
surr warren

The Washington and Lee
women’s lacrosse team competed
in the ODAC tournament last
weekend. The Generals beat
third-seeded Randolph-Macon
14-3 in the semiﬁnals on Saturday
and fell to top-seeded Roanoke
9-11 in the ﬁnals on Sunday.

The second-seeded Generals
came into the weekend ranked
sixteenth in the nation with an
11-4 overall record and a 7-1
mark in the conference.

W&L’s ﬁrst test came against
the Randolph-Macon Yellow
Jackets. The Generals won the
previous contest between the two
by a score of 22-5. The Generals
continued the dominance in
the ﬁrst half of last weekend’s
contest. W&L played tough
defense, only allowing one
Yellow Jacket goal in the ﬁrst
30 minutes. In one stretch in the
ﬁrst half, the Generals scored
seven unanswered goals. The

half ended with an 8-1 W&L
advantage. Senior midﬁelder
Colleen Evans and sophomore
midﬁelder Emmy Mathews
tallied two goals apiece before
halftime.

The second half was not much
closer. W&L scored three of the
ﬁrst four goals, pushing the lead
to 11-2. Junior attacker Meredith
Freeman added two goals in this
stretch. When it was all over,
W&L had increased the ﬁnal
margin to 11 with a 14-3 victory.
This win secured the Generals a
spot in the ODAC ﬁnals for the
eighth consecutive year.

W&L’s impressive effort
was led by a balanced offensive
attack. Six Lady Generals scored
multiple goals. F irst-year attacker
Maddie McKaig led the way with
three goals. Emmy Mathews.
Evans, Freeman, sophomore
attacker Britten Mathews and
sophomore attacker Kate Speare
all scored twice for the Generals.
Senior midﬁelder Kelsi Robinson

added a goal and an assist while
senior attacker Katie Flippen
had two assists. Sophomore
Katharine Farrar played 42:38
in goal saving eight shots while

ODAC championships coming
into this season. The Generals
also had a six-gamle win streak
coming into the contest.

W&L started out strong.

“I think this past weekend was very chal-

lenging for the whole team. The combination

of expectations and good competition really

tested us. ”

Maddie McKaig, first-year attacker
 

allowing three goals. First-year
Jennifer Linder played 17:22 in
goal and allowed no goals.

This win moved W&L to the
ﬁnal game against the top-seeded
Roanoke Maroons. Roanoke
won the regular-season contest
12-8 on March 28. W&L had
won the previous six straight

Led by two goals from Kelsi
Robinson, the Generals got out
to a 5-0 lead. However, Roanoke
battled back by going on a 3-1
run to close the half. This left the
halftime score at 6-3.

Roanoke continued the
momentum into the second half,
scoring the ﬁrst three goals to

tie the contest at 6-6. The teams
then exchanged goals to knot
the score up at seven. The tie
was broken with 16:16 to play
by a goal from Emmy Mathews
assisted by Britten Mathews.

After this point, Roanoke
went on a run that would seal
the contest. The Maroons scored
four unanswered capped of by
a goal from senior attacker Ella
Wade with 6:27 left that gave
Roanoke a 11-8 lead. Meredith
Freeman would add a ﬁnal goal
for W&L, but it would not be
enough as Roanoke walked away
with an 11-9 win and the ODAC
championship.

However, W&L is still eligible
for an at-large bid to the NCAA
tournament, which is set to begin
May 6.

Robinson led the Generals
with three goals and an assist.
Freeman added two goals. Evans,
sophomore attacker Wilton
Megargel, Emmy Mathews
and ﬁrst-year attacker Maddie

McKaig also tallied goals for the
Generals. Sophomore attacker
Kate Donnelly and Britten
Mathews each chipped in an
assist. Sophomore Katharine
Farrar played 55:13 in goal and
made four saves.

“I think this past weekend
was very challenging for the
‘whole team. The combination
of expectations and good
competition really tested us.
Even though Sunday’s outcome
wasn’t what we wanted, we stay
together,” said McKaig.

The Generals return to action
on Saturday when they travel to
Christopher Newport for a 1:00
p.m. contest.

Despite the loss, W&L looks
forward to the rest of its season,
with hopes for an at-large bid to
the NCAA tournament. “I am
so ready to get back out there
on Saturday and show everyone
that we belong in the NCAA
tournament,” said McKaig.

Golf team wins ODAC championship again

Generals prepare for NCAA tournament for second straight year, look to improve on 16th-place 2008 ﬁnish

By Will Dorrance
sronrs EDITOR

On April 20, the Washington
and Lee golf team came back
from six shots down in the ﬁnal
round to win the ODAC champi-
onships for the second consecu-
tive year. The three-day tourna-
ment was held at the Bay Creek
Golf Club in Cape Charles, Va.

The Generals started off the
tournament on April 18 in second
place with a team score of 329,
eleven strokes behind the leader
Guilford. In the second round,
W&L twiddled the Quakers’ lead
down to six, by shooting 311.

Junior Robert Womble, who
tied for fourth overall individual-

ly (82-77-78—237), commented
on the team’s conﬁdence heading
into the last round. “Going into
the ﬁnal day six back, we knew
we were right there. Six shots is
not hard to make up in team play,
especially on a course as difﬁcult
as Bay Creek.

“The courses were set up very
difﬁcult all three days, making
low scores extremely difﬁcult.
We knew that if we could just
pay ﬁve solid rounds, we would
have an excellent chance to win,”
said Womble.

Junior Brad Watts, who was
also in the three-way tie for
fourth place (82-75-80—~237),
focused on the start of his ﬁnal

round. “Being down six, we re-
ally wanted to get off to a good
start and put pressure on the rest
of the ﬁeld from the beginning.
[Senior] Andrew Green did a tre-
mendous job of this by posting
a great score (75) early that re-
ally set the tone for the rest of the
team,” he said.

In rainy and windy weather,
the Generals shot their best score
of the tournament, an aggregate
309, on the ﬁnal day to win the
championship by ﬁve strokes
over Guilford.

Speaking of the course condi-
tions, Womble said, “The team
concentrated on not trying to
force a good round, instead play-

ing steadily and patiently, letting
good opportunities come to you.
Avoiding a big number was espe-

“Going into the ﬁnal
day six back, we
knew we were right

I

there. ’

Robert Womble, junior

cially important in playing Bay
Creek well.”

Watts echoed his teammate’s
comments, “Because of the

weather conditions, the course
played two or three shots harder
than normal, so it was very im-
portant to be patient out there,
especially on the ﬁnal day.”
Watts and Womble paced the
Generals, earning all-toumament
honors with fourth-place ﬁn-
ishes. Junior Joe Gibson tied for
seventh place (81-81-76~238),
Green tied for 18th (91-80-75—
246), and junior Matt Langan
ﬁlled out the W&L line-up in
23rd place (84-79-86-249).
While in Cape Charles,
Womble was named ﬁrst-team
All-ODAC. In addition, Gib-
son earned second—team honors
while Watts earned an honorable

mention for his season.

With the conference crown,
the Generals advance to the
NCAA tournament for the sec-
ond consecutive year. Last year,
the team placed 16th with an
individual third-place ﬁnish for
Nathaniel James, a current as-
sistant coach of the team. This
year’s tournament will take place
May 13-16 at the PGA Golf Club
in Port St. Lucie, Fla.

Looking ahead to nationals,
Watts said, “In any tournament,
your goal is to win, but with a
16th-place ﬁnish last year, we are
looking to improve on that and
hopefully ﬁnish in the top 10.”

 

THURSDAY, APRIL 30, 2009

8 ' THE RING-TUM PHI

sports

 

deck

 

Tnuns FRI SAI SUN MoN Tues WED
Baseball
Golf
ODAC
M°“'° Finals
Lacrosse
1 p.m.
at NCAA 1st
W°"'°"’9 GNU Round?
Lacrosse
1 p.m. TBA
Men's
Tennis
Women's
Tennis
at at
Generals Combined
M°"’5 Liberty Event challenge Duke
Track Twilight 3 Twilight
.m.
3 p.m. P 5 p.m.
at Generals Combined at
w°m°"’s “hefty Event challenge Duke
7'3“ Twilight Twilight
3 p.m.
3 p.m. 5 p.m.

 

numbers
7

The number of consecutive conference championships by the W&L
women’s tennis team after it beat Hollins 5-0, Randolph-Macon 6-0
and Virginia Wesleyan 5-0 in the ODAC playoffs this weekend. The

program has 19 overall ODAC championships.

0

The number of ODAC championships by the W&L baseball team before
Sunday's 10-6 win over Virginia Wesleyan. It was the team’s first con-
ference championship since 1972 (when the team was in the College
Athletic Conference) and only the second overall in the programs 102

years in existence.

13

The number of consecutive ODAC championships by the W&L men’s
tennis team before it lost to Hampden-Sydney 5-3 Sunday in the con-

ference championship.

5-0

The blown lead by the W&L women’s lacrosse team in the ODAC cham-
pionship game Sunday. The team ended up losing 11-9 to Roanoke,
who outscored the Generals 8-3 in the second half. The program

ended its streak of six consecutive conference titles.

121-63

The ﬁnal score in the Denver Nuggets’ win over the New Orleans Hor-
nets in Game 4 of their NBA playoff series. New Orleans’ previous
worst playoff loss was by 32 points to the Atlanta Hawks in 1998. The
Nuggets’ previous largest playoff victory was by 30 points over the
San Antonio Spurs in 1985. Game 4 gave the Nuggets the 3-1 series
lead, but the teams played again Wednesday night; results were not

available as of press time.

box

“I think the race was an exceptional milestone to
bring rowing back to W&L.”

 

Junior rowing co-captain Denis O’Leary on his club's race at the
University of lchmond this past Saturday, W&L’s ﬂrst Intercollegiate
race In over 50 years. The men’s A and B teams both placed second
while the women’s boat came In third In its race. W&L rowing
reestablished itself In the 2006-2007 school year, but It had only held
practices and lntra-squad races until Saturday. The program will host
the annual Albert Sydney-Harry Lee Regatta this Saturday at 2:30
p.m. on the Maury River.

 
   

MORGANH s/ aff Photographer

 

The Washington and Lee baseball team celebrates its 10-6 win over Virginia Wesleyan in the ODAC
Championship Sunday. The team advances to the NCAA tournament, which begins on May 13.

W&L baseball wins its see0nd—ever conference title

By Will Dorrance
SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee baseball
team won its ﬁrst-ever ODAC champi-
onship Sunday with a 10-6 win over Vir-
ginia Wesleyan. It is only the second con-
ference championships in the 102-year
existence of the program. The Generals
won the College Athletic Conference
championships back in 1972.

W&L ﬁnished the 2009 regular season
with an 18-12 overall record and a 9-9
conference mark, earning them the sixth
and last seed in the four-day ODAC tour-
nament.

W&L’s post-season began last Thurs-
day at the Lynchburg City Stadium

contest proved to be much different than
W&L’s game the day before as both teams
combined for 24 runs, but the Generals
fell short in the slugfest, 10-14.

First-year righthander Roger Strong
was credited with the loss as he gave up
seven runs in just four innings of work.
Senior lefthander Casey Hartman surren-
dered nine runs in 8.1 innings and earned
the win for the Eagles.

To remain in the double-elimination
tournament, the Generals had to beat
third-seeded Randolph-Macon, the 2008
ODAC champions, on Saturday. The
game was tied in the top of the ninth in-
ning when senior second baseman Byron
Pester hit a two-run home run to left cen-

“It was the best feeling in the world after that last out.
The pile-up in the middle of the ﬁeld was like a dream

—- unlike anything else I ’ve ever experienced in sports. ”

Jim Plantholt unior third baseman

against top-seeded Lynchburg. Head
coach Jeff Stickley spoke of his reaction
to the Generals’ ﬁrst-round match-up.
“We knew they were a good team, but we
were conﬁdent going into it, and we split
with them in the regular season, so we
knew we could beat them. I didn’t think
they were playing that great the last week
or two of the season, and I knew we were
playing pretty good, so I thought it was a
pretty good-match-up.”

In Thursday’s game, junior righthand-
er Chuck Davidson battled it out with
Lynchburg’s junior righthander Bryan
Breedlove in a pitching duel. The Hor-
nets got on the board ﬁrst with a run on a
passed ball in the fourth, but the Generals
bounced back scoring two runs in the sev-
enth and ninth innings for the 4-1 upset.

Davidson threw seven frames of one-
run baseball to earn the win while Breed-
love lost the game giving up two runs in
6.2 innings. Closer Brendan Clark re-
corded a two—inning save for the Gener-
als.

Of the win, Davidson said, “It is very
important to win the ﬁrst game. It is even
more important to win the ﬁrst game over
the number one-seeded team. We were
all conﬁdent that we could win the whole
thing, and the win was just one step closer
to our preseason goal.”

On Friday, W&L faced off with fourth-
seeded Bridgewater, who had beaten
Randolph-Macon on Thursday. Friday’s

ter to give the Generals the eventual 8-6
victory.

Clark earned the win in 4.2 innings
of two-hit, scoreless relief. Sophomore
pitcher Brian Jordan lost the game for the
Yellow Jackets alter giving up the two-
run homer to Pester.

Just ﬁve hours after W&L’s win over
Randolph-Macon, the team had to play
the second game of its doubleheader—
this one against ﬁfth-seeded Ha1npden-
Sydney, who was 2-0 in the tournament
at the time. The Tigers would not stay
undefeated for much longer as the Gener-
als handed them the 6-1 loss.

Davidson started again on Saturday on
two days’ rest and went eight innings, giv-
ing up just one unearned run. Sophomore
righthander Mike Blanchard received the
loss for Hampden-Sydney, giving up ﬁve
runs in 5.1 innings.

With the win, the Generals advanced
to the ODAC championship Sunday for
the third time in seven seasons, still look-
ing for its ﬁrst conference crown since
1972. They played Virginia Wesleyan,
who had beaten Hampden-Sydney earlier
in the day in an elimination game.

The Marlins swept W&L in the
schools’ regular-season double-header
on March 7. Senior righthander Andrew
Henderson got the starting ball for the
Generals; sophomore righthander Gary
Bulman, who earned the win in one of the

' games over W&L on March 7, started for

Virginia Wesleyan.

It did not take long, however, for the
Generals’ offense to get to Bulman on
Sunday. He was pulled from the game
after surrendering four runs in the ﬁrst in-
ning while only recording one out on a
sacriﬁce bunt.

Junior third baseman Jim Plantholt
spoke of Bulman’s struggles. “We knew
[Virginia Wesleyan] was down on pitch-
ing, and we were pretty sure Bulman was
going to get the start. He’s usually pretty
good but sometimes a little wild.

“He was going on short rest, so our
game plan was to be very patient and wait
for a good strike to hit — not being over-
aggressive and anxious, and it paid off.
He had trouble throwing his curveball
for a strike, and we jumped on his fast-
ball, which was up in the zone,” Plantholt
said.

The pitching change did not slow
down W&L’s hitters as the team scored
ten runs overall in the ﬁrst four innings,
all before Virginia Wesleyan could get on
the scoreboard. The Marlins did begin to
claw their way back into the contest, but
time ran out as the Generals won 10-6.

Plantholt recalled the moment the last
Marlins’ batter grounded out to junior
shortstop John Ditore to win the Gener-
als’ ﬁrst ODAC championship. “It was
the best feeling in the world after that last
out. The pile-up in the middle of the ﬁeld
was like a dream — unlike anything else
l’ve ever experienced in sports,” he said.

With the conference trophy, W&L ad-
vances to the NCAA tournament, which
begins at the regional level on May 13.

Speaking of his team’s plans for the
days after the ODAC championship,
Stickley said, “Well, number one, we are
enjoying the championship for a couple
of days. Number two, then, I’ll try to get
them back down to Earth and get them
back in the mindset of getting ready for
another tournament.”

Davidson, Peyster, Plantholt, senior
centerﬁelder Terrence McKelvey and
sophomore rightﬁelder Anthony Cardona
were all honored as members of the all-
tournament team; in addition, Davidson
was awarded the Most Outstanding Play-
er with a 0.00 post-season ERA in 15 in-
nings on the mound.

Stickley thought that his team’s conﬁ-
dence throughout the tournament helped
them win the championship. “We were
not shocked by winning it. We kind of
knew we could, and I think once we won
a game or two, the guys kind of expected
it. And it was a lot of fun,” he chuckled.

 

 

 

  

 

ARTS 8: LIFE / page 3

  WASHINGTON ND LEE UNIVERSITY

E RING-TUM PHI.

MONDAY, MAY 11, 2009

BY THE sruneurs AND FOR THE sruneurs SINCE 1397 votumscxmwumaenzo

Taking a
snap at the

outdoors

Outing Club hosts W&L
alum Harrison Shull,
nature photographer

By Eleanor Kennedy
STAFF WRITER

The Outing Club hosted Washington and Lee
class of 1993 alum Harrison Shull last Wednes-
day. Shull is one of the premier outdoor adven-
ture photographers in the southeast United States.
Shull presented a slideshow of approximately 150
images, telling stories of where and why he took
the various pictures and how some of the images
were created.

Shull attended Washington and Lee from 1989
to 1993. While a student, Shull escaped the con-
ﬁnes of Lexington to ﬁnd climbing, hiking, raft-

“I absolutely abhor standing on
the ground and taking normal
pictures. I am always looking for
ways to change the perspective. ”

Harrison Shull, W&L ‘93 alum
 

ing and other outdoor activities throughout the
neighboring areas.

Upon graduation, Shull thought he would take
a year or two off to be a climbing guide before at-
tending grad school. But his grandmother bought
him his ﬁrst real camera for graduation and he
“never made it to grad school.” He spent six years
as a climbing guide before moving into the world
of photography full-time. There are now over
175,000 images in Shull’s ﬁles.

Shull now runs his own photography com-
pany, Shull Photo. He spends most of his time
traveling around the southeastern United States,
trying to capture exciting images that advertisers
and magazine writers might want to use in the fu-
ture. Most of Shull’s work is stock images that
a few different agencies distribute for him. For
example, when a sporting magazine wanted to do
a feature on camping on the Appalachian Trail,
the producers simply looked through the hundred
or so images that Shull has in stock of campers on
the trail and chose one for their cover.

Shull will sometimes do assignments for mag-
azines but spends most of his time carrying his
camera around while outside, looking for some-
thing that might be useful.

“I take my camera everywhere. You never
know what you’re going to ﬁnd,” Shull said.

The shots in Shull’s slideshow ranged from
pictures of Shull and his buddies rock climbing to
two extremely talented mountain unicyclers, but
they also captured the beauty of nature, such as
in a shot of the sun’s beams beginning to peak
through the clouds over North Carolina. When it
comes to shots like those, Shull admits that some-
times “it’s better to be lucky than good.”

Shull’s show also had a great number of shots
with his Labrador, since “nothing sells a picture
like a dog.”

Very few of the pictures in Shull’s show could
be classiﬁed as “standard” or “boring” by any
means. Shull is fascinated by capturing motion
and often uses specialized zooms or attaches a
camera to a moving bike or motorcycle in order
to convey motion. In addition, it is not unusual to
look at one of Shull’s photos and realize that the
image was taken while hanging of a tree or a cliff
or with the camera buried or hidden under water.

“I absolutely abhor standing on the ground and
taking normal pictures,” he said. “I am always
looking for ways to change the perspective.”

/

By Allison Chopin
MANAGING EDITOR

Sexual assault, student govern-
ment transparency and the deﬁnition
of honor were among the primary
issues discussed at probably the
ﬁrst-ever student body meeting last
Monday, but students also brought
up everything from voting proce-
dures to Traveller and the speaking
tradition.

The meeting was called by EC
president Eric Hoffman after over
100 students signed a petition last
term. Seniors Anthony Ives and Re-
gina Mills decided to start the peti-
tion when they read about e-mails
Hoffman had sent during his cam-

\

paign for president.

The meeting was held in the War-
ner Center and lasted for two and a
half hours.

Not nearly enough people attend-
ed the meeting to be able to make
amendments to the White Book, but
students still had the chance to ask
questions to the EC. Suggestions
were made for future elections to po-
tentially change the White Book and
Student Body Constitution.

Hoffman gave an opening state-
ment in which he offered an expla-
nation of the e-mails that appeared
in the Ring-tum Phi on March 30. He
sent these e-mails shortly before the
run-off election for EC president. He
admitted he was careless and should

have used different words.

In defending his statement that
the Student Bar Association (SBA)
should receive more money from

“No breach of the
community s trust is
too small to be ignored.
That is our stand ”

Erlc Hoffman, EC presldent
 

the EC, Hoffman explained that the
SBA is the student government or-
ganization for the law school and is
responsible for providing services to

\

Students and EC examine concerns over sexual assualt,
student government transparency, Traveller and honor

law students as well as the rest of the
university.

As for his e-mail message stat-
ing the EC should be ﬁlled with
more law students, he said he never
intended to suggest that undergradu-
ates are not qualiﬁed, though he
did say that law students are better
schooled in procedure and looking at
all sides of an issue.

“Older age can bring more ma-
turity,” he said. But he added, “I’ve
always found the undergraduate
members of the EC to be particularly
thoughtful and mature.”

He said he realizes that some
students may not share these same

See “Student Body" on page 2

O /

Expanding to Roanoke

W&L Law students gain experience in their career ﬁeld

By Anne Vesoulls
STA F F W R IT E R

It seems as though Oliver Hill’s
legacy is already having an impact
on how Washington and Lee law stu-
dents and Roanoke area lawyers are
helping the community.

May 1 marked the official launch
of the Washington and Lee Com-
munity Law Center in Roanoke. The
Law Center is located at the newly
renovated childhood home of civil
rights lawyer Oliver Hill.

The open house brought in over
100 people to tour the facility, learn
about its mission and hear a number
of speakers. Among those present
were Esther Vassar, president of the
Oliver Hill Foundation; Roanoke
Mayor David Bowers and W&L
Law Dean Rodney Smolla.

The home was made available to
the Law Center by the Oliver Hill
Foundation, an organization dedi-
cated to carrying on Hill’s work in
the ﬁeld of civil rights.

The Oliver Hill Foundation not
only assists the community, but also

strives to assist young lawyers to ob-
tain public service experience and
provides ﬁnancial incentives and aid
to young lawyers who would oth-
erwise not be able to achieve their
goals.

The Community Center focuses

“We have had lots of
success...we are just
seeing the beginning of

the bubble. ”

Mary Natkin, W&L Law asst.
dean of cllnlcal education

on helping the Roanoke community
by providing legal assistance to its
citizens. It has been providing pro
bono—free—legal services to those
in need in an attempt to assist the im-
poverished.

The center has been assisting the
elderly since last fall with ﬁnal docu-
ments and other paperwork.

“We are currently helping the
elderly population of Roanoke with
advanced medical directives, living
wills and naming powers of attorney.
We are also helping them to create
wills,” said Howard Highland, W&L
Law graduate and live-in center per-
sonnel.

Since January, two new types of
assistance have become available:
an ex-offender program and an im-
migration program.

There are currently two immigra-
tion cases with which the center is
assisting.

The ex-offender program helps
ex-felons to reinstate their voting
rights.

“There is a clause in Virginia law
that disenfranchises convicted felons
of the right to vote. In order to gain
that right back, attorney assistance is
helpful,” said Highland.

Highland also said that this ex-
offender program directly applies to
Hill’s mission: civil rights.

Oliver Hill was an attorney during
the Civil Rights movement. He was

one of the ﬁve lawyers to argue in
the 1954 Brown v. Board of Educa-
tion decision which declared school
segregation illegal. A graduate of
Howard University and Howard
Law School, Hill received an honor-
ary law degree from Washington and
Lee in 2000.

“Hill is truly an inspiration,” said
Highland.

As news of the center spreads,
more and more people are seeking
the assistance of the law students.

“We have taken a few referrals
and have six or seven clients al-
ready,” said Mary Natkin, assistant
dean for clinical education and pub-
lic service at W&L Law. “We have
had lots of success. . .we are just see-
ing the beginning of the bubble.”

Washington and Lee Law stu-
dents will be working in conjunction
with Roanoke lawyers to provide
services to those in need.

“It is the dream of the center to
have lawyers and law students to
work together to help the community
in the Hill House,” said Highland.

 

  

" _'1S.'f[‘r’ LIBRARY

‘ ~ :: f 1:14.’ & LEE UMVERSITY
I Ls.~;§{lGION.VA 2445”

MAY 1 2 2008

2 - THE RING-TUM PHI

 

MONDAY, MAY 11,2009

  

Answering the local tummy growls ‘

RARA, Campus Kitchens and W&L collaborate to ﬁght against local hunger

By Jessica Stralt
STAFF WRITER

Cheez—it boxes, cereal, canned

food, oatmeal cream pies, maca- .

roni and cheese, snacks, cookies,
Past-A-Roni and seemingly nev-
er—ending bags of potatoes ﬁll the
rooms of the Rockbridge Area
Relief Association food pantry,
overﬂowing into the halls.

RARA is on the brink of run-
ning out of space. And if the
number of food-needy families
and individuals in the area con-
tinues to climb as the economy
spirals downward, it’s only a
matter of time.

RARA, which opened in
1972, provides non-perishable
food to local people in need.
The food pantry is a tiny build-
ing, and if you aren’t looking for
RARA, you’ll probably drive
right by without noticing.

To create more storage space,
a collaboration is underway bring
together Washington and Lee
University, RARA and Campus
Kitchens, according to visiting
education professor Don Dailey,
who is involved with the project
and W&L’s Shepherd Poverty
Program.

The project will include stu-
dents and faculty predicting fu-
ture needs and researching pos-
sible ways to coordinate with

food services in other commu-
nities. The project also hopes to
convene local leaders in a series
of forums to raise awareness of
the hunger issue. Volunteer Lynn
McCoy mentioned the possibil-
ity of a retired architect coming
on board with the project to see
if the interior of the building,
which used to be the site of the
Free Clinic, can be somehow re-
designed to better suit RARA’s
needs.

The project is still in begin-
ning stages, and right now the
focus is on bringing different
voices into the discussion. Dai-
ley also mentioned the possibil-
ity of integrating food services or
setting up satellite food pantries
in different locations as ways to
alleviate the problem. The proj-
ect presents an opportunity for
collective problem solving in the
community.

Although RARA currently
operates out of a small building,
the pantry still manages to do big
things. From 2005 to 2007, the
number of food packages served
remained stable, around 7,500
packages.

In 2008, RARA experienced
a 30 percent hike in demand,
serving 10,956 food packages.
RARA workers try to always
have a one-month supply of food

in their pantry, where they also
store the food that volunteers de-
liver monthly.

“In a survey we conducted
two years ago, hunger and food
security were not seen as critical
in the community,” said Dailey.
“Since the economic downturn,

tions that bring the local poverty
issue to light. According to Mc-
Coy, many people see Lexing-
ton as an aﬂluent area and never
know that these people are in this
community.

“It really opened my eyes,”
said McCoy. “Stuff you see on

“It really opened my eyes. Stuff you see on TV

is hapenning right here, right now. ’

I

 

hunger has emerged as a critical
issue that is expanding beyond
local capacity.”

Professor Harlan Beckley,
Director of W&L’s Shepherd
Poverty Program, also attributes
the problem to the economy,
which has similarly affected the
demand for other service needs
in the area, such as Rockbridge
Area Transportation Services
programs and the Free Clinic.

Lynn McCoy, a 56-year-old
retired Lexington man, first vol-
unteered at RARA when some
friends from his church invited
him to join their team. That was
almost a year ago, and in that
time McCoy has witnessed situa-

TV is happening right here, right
now.”

He described one particular
instance about a month ago. A
man who couldn’t afford a car
rode his bike seven miles from
his home just to pick up a few
bags of food. When he was hav-
ing trouble balancing his bags on
his bike, McCoy offered to drive
him to his home.

He recalled how the man,
who had recently been laid off
from his job as a truck driver,
kept insisting that the situation
was temporary, and that he felt
guilty for needing the food.

“That’s what we’re here for:
to help until people get back on

their feet,” said McCoy, with a
kind, crinkly smile.

The problem is all too com-
mon, especially recently. Most
people who come in to RARA
are unemployed, but some have
low-paying jobs, and others are
simply unable to work. Accord-
ing to McCoy, there have been
many layoffs lately at local
plants.

However, among the eco-
nomic struggles, there may be a
silver lining. It seems that people
are more generous in these tough
times~$veryone keeps giving
and helping.

“The community is so sup-
portive,” said McCoy. “If funds
run low, people help.”

Some also donate their time——
ﬁve to six volunteers come in
every Monday, Wednesday, and
Friday from 3 to 4 p.m. to help
hand out food, which comes from
the Blue Ridge Area Food Bank,
local food drives, churches, and
individuals.

RARA checks visitors every
January and July to make sure
they qualify to receive food, but
according to McCoy, “most eas-
ily qualify.” The amount of food
they receive depends on the size
of the family in need, and ev-
eryone is allotted one visit per
month.

For now, there seems to be
no end in sight for the recession.
Beckley suggested several local
and federal initiatives that would
alleviate the increased need in
Rockbridge county: public trans-
portation in the area, increased
money available for food stamps
and universal health insurance.

Yet, despite the state of the
economy, McCoy, said there is
always going to be a need in the
area.

And whether or not RARA
relocates, renovates, or stays ex-
actly the same, rest assured that
enough people will always be
there to lend a hand.

“We serve a lot of people,”
said McCoy. “The volunteers
make it go.”

Oil billionaire calls for alternatives

T Boone Pickens speaks out for newer, cleaner energy resources for the nation

By Dlandra Splcak
NEWS EDITOR

Oil billionaire and philanthro-
pist T. Boone Pickens, an out-
spoken advocate for alternative
energy, spoke at Lee Chapel on
Thursday, April 28.

Washington and Lee’s Con-
tact Committee sponsored his
visit.

As the founder and chairman
of BP Capital Management, one
of the nation’s most success-
ful energy-oriented investment
funds, the 80-year-old Pickens
has garnered the reputation of the
“Oracle of Oil” for his accurate
predictions of oil and gas prices.

His speech detailed how
Americans can wean themselves
from foreign oil and reign in
abundant natural resources like
natural gas. Armed with a white
board and dry erase marker, Pick-
ens drew pie charts accompanied
by ﬁgures showing Americans’
use of foreign oil and other en-
ergy resources.

Drawing on his status as one

Student Body

continued from page 1

opinions. “If other EC members
disagree with me, there are l0
other votes to do so,” he said.

Hoffman also responded to
the claim that he ran two dif-
ferent campaigns in gaining the
votes of undergraduates and law
students, saying the EC has obli-
gations to both sides of campus.
“It’s not an ‘us versus them’ situ-
ation,” he said. “I care about the
university as a whole.”

He then spoke about sexual
assault in relation to the honor
system, asserting that it is an act
that goes against the communi-
ty’s trust. But he emphasized that
it is a sensitive issue that must be
treated with care. He explained
that the Student-Faculty Hearing
Board (SF HB) was created by
the EC for this purpose.

Much of the subsequent dis-

of the most inﬂuential business-
men in history, Pickens compared
American dependency on foreign
oil to international dependency,
citing a story of how the Chinese
tried to tap into their natural gas
reserves, only to ﬁnd they had no
lines from their ﬁelds. America,
on the other hand, has many nat-
ural gas fields which run from
Appalachia to Texas, and even
into Colorado, Wyoming and
Alaska.

In July 2008, Pickens put
into action an ambitious and
completely self-funded grass-
roots campaign aimed at reduc-
ing America’s dependence on
imported oil. He has launched
a national television ad cam-
paign, and with personal appear-
ances and his Web site, he argues
that the nation’s dependence on
foreign oil poses threats to the
economy, the environment and
national security.

“I had the opportunity to talk
to both of the presidential candi-
dates before the election,” Picken

cussion focused on sexual as-
sault and the SFHB. Several stu-
dents expressed concern that the
function of the SFHB is confus-
ing, or that sexual assault should
be considered an honor violation
and fall under the jurisdiction of
the EC.

Former EC president Rich
Cleary said that the EC ’s proce-
dure for honor investigations is
not designed for the sensitive na-
ture of sexual assault, while the
SFHB can better dedicate itself
to protecting these cases.

Hoffman added that the
SFHB allows faculty members
to be involved in these cases,
and it avoids the possibility of
having a sexual assault case go
to an open hearing, which could
happen if the EC handled these
cases. Also, the SFHB does not
have a single-sanction policy for
non-rape cases.

Allison Gionta and Patrick
Rowe, students on the SFHB,

said. “Neither of the senators had
any idea or clue about energy
— if they had been given an en-
ergy test, they both would have
failed...But once I brought up
my plan to them and spoke about
reducing our dependency on for-
eign oil, they both seemed very

had become the new generation’s
responsibility to join his “army.”
He went on to explain to the au-
dience members that by joining
the Pickens plan, each and every
one of the members had a duty to
advocate alternative resources.
Pickens focused mainly on

“I see the need to cut down on foreign depen-

dency. We need that now, and [natural gas] is

the fastest way to get there. ’

J

T. Boone Pickens, oll billionaire and philanthropist
 

interested.”

The Pickens Plan, which has
more than a million supporters,
calls for wind generation facili-
ties to produce 20 percent of the
nation’s electricity and for natu-
ral gas to fuel vehicles.

Throughout his speech, Pick-
ens pushed home the idea that it

stressed that protecting the ac-
cusers and the accused in these
cases is extremely important and
that not every case can be han-
dled in the same way. Gionta did
admit, however, that not enough
dialogue exists between the
SFHB and other groups on cam-
pus. The board is in the process
of re-evaluating some of their
procedures, she said.

Several students who stood
up to ask a question still asserted
that they do not understand what
the SFHB actually does.

Some asked why sexual as-
sault is not mentioned in the
White Book, which details the
honor system. Cleary said the
White Book must be kept open-
ended since the honor system can
be redeﬁned by later generations
of students. He also said it is im-
portant to distinguish between
the White Book and the Student
Handbook, which includes more
far-reaching aspects of student

reigning in the uses of natural
gas, although he has become
well known for advocating wind
energy. When confronted about
why he pushed natural gas so
much, Pickens responded that
“while wind energy is mainly my
focus, I see the need to cut down
on foreign dependency. We need

life.

Senior Chris Martin asked if
the single-sanction policy should
perhaps be reconsidered for the
entire honor system.

Hofﬁnan said he is commit-
ted to this policy, believing it
makes the university’s system
one of the most successful honor
systems in the country.

“No breach of the commu-
nity’s trust is too small to be
ignored,” he said. “That’s our
stand.”

Jordan Wilson, Class of 2011
EC representative, said he is not
opposed to a student body vote
on the single-sanction policy, but
the other EC members expressed
their support for keeping the
policy.

As for why the SFHB does
not have the same policy, Dean
Dawn Watkins came forward
to say that fewer cases would
be reported or would receive a
guilty sentence if expulsion were

that now, and [natural gas] is the
fastest way to get there. We still
haven’t ﬁgured out how to con-
vert wind energy into powering
vehicles.”

In his 2008 book, “The First
Billion is the Hardest,” which
was available at the reception in
the Science Center’s Great Hall
after his speech, Pickens outlines
what the country must do to win
back its energy independence.
Pickens also pursues a wide range
of other business interests, rang-
ing from water marketing, wind
power and ranch development
initiatives to his company, Clean
Energy. Clean Energy, which
went public in 2007, works to
advance the use of natural gas as
a cleaner-burning and more cost-
effective transportation fuel al-
ternative to gasoline and diesel.

Pickens graduated with a de-
gree in geology from Oklahoma
A&M (now Oklahoma State Uni-
versity) in 1951. He has always
been a generous philanthropist,
donating more than $600 million

the only possible penalty. “The
chance of conviction diminishes
greatly with single-sanction,”
she said.

Students also posed sugges-
tions to improve voter turnout
and awareness of elections, such
as implementing online voting.

EC Vice President Scott Cen-
torino also emphasized personal
responsibility in seeking infor-
mation about EC candidates and
elections and making informed
decisions.

“If we don’t tell you our plat-
form, don’t vote for us,” he said.

Concerned with transparency
and the overall effectiveness of
the EC, Ives suggested the addi-
tion of two non-voting members
of the EC. These would include
a chair, separate from the presi-
dent, who would run meetings
and a historian to keep track of
the votes of each member.

Changes to Traveller were
also discussed, such as whether

through his lifetime.

The T. Boone Pickens Foun-
dation is focused on improving
lives through grants support-
ing things such as educational
programs, medical research and
conservation and wildlife initia-
tives.

The recipient of dozens of
major awards, Pickens receieved
the 2006 Horatio Alger Award
from The Horatio Alger Associa-
tion of Distinguished Americans
Inc. The award honors those who
overcome adversity and humble
beginnings to achieve success.

Although offered an hono-
rarium by the Contact Commit-
tee, Pickens donated the money
to charity. As a sprightly, elderly
man, he still plans to continue
his self-funded plan and push for
America’s self-contained energy
use.

the ﬁve-mile radius rule for Trav-
eller Dispatch should continue.
Kenneth Hopkins, Class of 2010
EC representative and Traveller
Dispatch Coordinator, pointed
out that the EC and Traveller are
separate, though he is open to
having a conversation involving
the entire school community.
Many still long for a clearer
deﬁnition of the honor system,
especially in regard to sexual as-
sault cases, but students in atten-
dance at the meeting welcomed
the opportunity to speak openly
before the EC about their ideas.

 

«r

 

 

 

 

MONDAY, MAY 11, 2009

THE RING-TUM PHI ' 3

 

opinions

 WASHINGTON AND LEE Uf\‘-'[VERs[’f‘Y ................................................................. ..

 RING-TUM PI-I1.

ALLISON CHOPIN
DIANDRA SPICAK
CODY BEAUCHAMP
STEPHANIE HARDIMAN
WILL DORRANCE
KATHERINE ROBERTS

MANAGING EDITOR
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR
COPY EDITOR

MEGAN DAILY
NEVILLE FOGARTY
ELEANOR KENNEDY
JESSICA STRAIT
ANNE VESOULIS
ALDEN WICKER

CONTRIBUTING WRITERS

LARA JORDAN
RYAN ELSEY
MORGAN HARRIS
STROCK MOORE
ROB GEORGE

DESIGN EDITOR
STAFF PHOTOGRAPHERS

BUSINESS MANAGER
DISTRIBUTION MNGR.

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE
RING—TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community for students, faculty,
parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire
to spark discussions that lead to discovering
information that prompts change.

THE RING—TUM PHI IS PUBLISHED MONDAYS
DURING THE UNDERGRADUATE SCHOOL YEAR.
THE RING—TUM PHI IS A MEMBER OF THE MEDIA
BOARD, BUT IS OTHERWISE INDEPENDENT.
QUESTIONS OR CONCERNS ABOUT THE PHI
SHOULD BE ADDRESSED TO THE EDITORS AT
PHI@WLU.EDU OR TO THE MEDIA BOARD AT
MEDIABOARD@WLU.EDU. THE MEDIA BOARD
IS AN INDEPENDENT, STUDENT—RUN EDITORIAL
OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE WORKING WITH ALL
MEDIA OUTLETS ON THE WASHINGTON &
LEE CAMPUS. ALL INQUIRIES WILL REMAIN
CONFIDENTIAL. THE RING-TUM PHI WELCOMES
ALL LETTERS. WE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO EDIT
SUBMISSIONS FOR CONTENT AND LENGTH.
LETTERS AND ADVERTISING DO NOT NECESSARILY
REFLECT THE OPINION OF THE RING—TUM PHI
STAFF. THIS NEWSPAPER OBSERVES CURRENT
COURT DEFINITIONS OF LIBEL AND OBSCENITY.
THE RING—TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540) 458-4059
EMAIL: PHI@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

2 bedroom basement
Private entrance
Full bath, living, and kitchen

2 blocks from campus
540.463.6951
for move into.

"S UR VI VAL KIT”

Everything you always
wanted to know about
getting and keeping a

]0B or INTERNSHIP

Choose one time, one day
that works for you:

Tuesday, May 12 — 12:20 PM
Tuesday, May 19 — 1:25 PM
Wednesday, May 20 — 11:15 AM

Location: Career Services
Commons Third Floor
Contact us for details

W.:’t5§I"I'Il‘\§{3'I‘(7.I?'~’ A?~iiI} I,.IiIl;§ 'I.INIlVFZR.S‘IT"Y

C1A_REER;@SERVICES

Stop the Boy Scouts

Boy Scouts of America wants to move a 40—k person
campout to the area around Goshen. Bad idea.

By Cody Beauchamp
OPINIONS EDITOR

Before I write anything else, I should say
that I am now and always will be a proud
Boy Scout.

My father is an Eagle Scout, the highest
rank any Boy Scout can achieve. I am also a
proud Eagle Scout, as is my little brother.

Between the three of us, we have spent
literally thousands of nights camping, hiked
hundreds of miles and spent years being ac-
tive in the Scouts.

Between the three of us, we have also
attended six Boy Scout National Jamborees
— my father in 1973, 2001, and 2005. I went
with him in 2001, and my brother joined
both of us in 2005.

So, to put it simply, Scouting and attend-
ing the quadrennial Scout Jamborees run
deep in my family.

The two J amborees I attended were, with-
out doubt, highlights of my time as a Scout,
surpassed only by those last few months
when I ﬁnally earned my Eagle Scout rank.

Why am I saying all this? Because I feel
the need to establish some credibility before
I write the following — the Boy Scouts of
America (BSA) is about to make a horrible
decision concerning their Jamborees.

In case you have no idea what a J ambe-
ree is, other than a funny, dorky sounding
word, allow me to ﬁll you in.

Every four years since 1937, the Boy
Scouts of America have held a giant gath-
ering and campout for thousands of Scouts.
And when I say giant, I mean giant.

The last Jamboree was held in 2005 on
the grounds of Ft. A.P. Hill, near Bowling
Green, Va.

The oﬁicial attendance count from the
BSA is 37,500 Scouts and Scouters (mean-
ing, usually, fathers who are adult leaders).

But I suspect that number does not in-
clude the thousands of staffers for that Jam-
boree, who did everything from teach merit
badges to run what was essentially a tem-
porary city.

Imagine if you will a tent city that springs
up basically overnight — roughly 40,000
people, all camping on the same few hun-
dred acres, all staying there for about two
weeks.

The Jamboree is essentially a fully devel-
oped city. Each one has a hospital and clinic
system which can treat everything from a 14
year-old with a hiking blister to a 50 year-
old adult leader going in cardiac arrest.

Each one has a police force. No kidding.

There is also a public transportation
system, a network of buses that transports
thousands of Scouts over hundreds of miles
of routes from one end of the camp to the
other, every day.

What’s amazing is that, in my experi-
ence, the buses were more reliable than, say,
the London Tube or the DC Metro ever have
been.

There are ﬁre stations with fully op-
erational engines — not just Scouts forming
bucket chains.

There are sanitation systems that run
dozens of garbage trucks that have to deal
with tons of waste everyday.

There are temporary telephone networks.
There are temporary radio stations and
newspapers. There is a catering staff that
has to feed thousands of staffers, in dozens
of mess halls.

There is an opening and a closing arena
show for the entire Jamboree that employs
dozens of professional bands and acts, and
the closing show’s ﬁreworks display is one
of the best I’ve ever seen.

It is a huge deal, and here’s what’s trou-
bling — for its 2013 Jamboree, the BSA wants
to move the event to their Goshen Scout
Reservation here in Rockbridge County.

Right now, this is the single most ludi-
crous idea I’ve ever heard. The Boy Scouts
want to hold a massive multi-week camp
that requires extremely complex logistics at
a camp in the Goshen area.

Have you been to Goshen lately? That
area cannot support the National Jamboree

. as it is.

Most of the roads in that area of Rock-

: bridge County are one-lane each way. They
 are poor quality on top of that, with tons
3 of blind corners and almost no shoulders.
‘I There are steep cliffs next to most of the
roads, falling off into the Maury.

Are you telling me that the thousands of

shuttles that will transport roughly 40,000
Scouts to the Jamboree site can safely use
those roads? What about the hundreds of
delivery trucks that will have to make daily
trips to transport tons of food? What about
the other hundreds of trucks hauling off
40,000 people’s tons of waste?

Or think about the electric aspect of
things. Even though Scouts camp without
electricity in their sites, there are hundreds
of apsetcs of a Jamboree that require an
electric grid.

The tons of food distributed on a daily
basis have to be refrigerated. The multiple
fully functioning hospitals and clinics have
to have power, as do the computers in the
command tents that coordinate the buses,
sanitation crews, security, etc.

And those are just the few things I can
think of off the top of my head. There are

environment. Take it from me, someone
who has spent hundreds of nights camping
in all kinds of terrain and conditions.

It is impossible to truly camp without
leaving some kind of trace, some kind of
footprint. It is just as impossible for 40,000
people to camp without signiﬁcantly chang-
ing that area.

Right now that’s not a problem the Jam-
boree has — it’s located on a military base.

The military exercises and training ac-
tivities that makes up Fort A.P. Hill’s non-
Jamboree schedule impact the environment
far more than the Jamboree does.

But it’s different for Goshen. Drop
40,000 people down there for a week, and
the area will never look the same after-
wards.

If this happens, the last W&L students
who will be able to enjoy beautiful, unique

Most W&L students are only passing through Rockbridge

[Co.]. But...we enjoy Goshen and the Maury as much as any

native. We, like the permanent residents of this county, love

and beneﬁt from this wonderful area of the river... We have a

duty to make sure this beautiful little area isn ’t destroyed.

doubtless hundreds of other areas that re-
quire electricity ~ are you telling me the
utilities network in the Rockbridge County
countryside can handle that kind of demand
as is? Not a chance.

And then there’s the massive overhaul
for the water networks in the area — 40,000
people showering, cooking and cleaning ev-
ery day requires a lot of water.

My point is this — right now, the area and
towns around Goshen do not have the infra-
structure to handle the National Jamboree.

Unlike its current location — the Army
base at Fort A.P. Hill — the logistical de-
mands of getting 40,000 people in the
same are cannot be met by our neck of the
woods.

This is precisely why this is a bad idea,
both for the Scouts and more importantly
for anyone who cares about the Goshen area
or Rockbridge County.

A group protesting the Boy Scouts’ deci-
sion — the Friends of the Maury — has pointed
out, quite correctly, that most of the costs for
overhauling the Goshen area will be shoul-
dered by Virginians and more speciﬁcally
the good people of Rockbridge County.

We as W&L students don’t really have to
worry about that aspect of this whole ordeal.
Except for the few of us who are Rockbridge
born-and-bred (which I’m not), our tax dol-
lars won’t be going to pay for anything.

But just because we aren’t going to feel
the effects of the Jamboree in our taxes
doesn’t mean we won’t be affected.

Most W&L students are only passing
through Rockbridge. But for the four years
we’re here, we enjoy Goshen and the Maury
as much as any native. We, like the penna-
nent residents of this county, love and ben-
eﬁt from this wonderful area of the river.

If we fail to voice our displeasure with
the BSA’s decision, we might be the last
generation of students that are truly able to
enjoy Goshen.

The reason is because the type of extreme
overhaul the Jamboree will require will al-
most certainly destroy Goshen as we know
it. This part of the Maury will be irreparably
changed. I’d bet my Eagle badge on it.

There is no way on God’s green earth that
you can infuse 40,000 people into the Rock-
bridge County countryside without millions
of dollars worth of new and improved roads.
These roads will take up more space, and I
don’t see any way they can be constructed
without severely damaging the fragile eco-
system around here.

There’s also no way you can convince me
that having 40,000 teenagers suddenly liv-
ing so close to the Maury won’t ruin it. Boy
Scouts aim to be environmentally friendly,
yes, but the thing about being a Scout is that
it’s a learning process.

Even the best Boy Scouts don’t camp
without leaving some kind of trace, without
in some small way placing stress upon the

Goshen will be the students here spring
2013. After that, it will never be the same.

So what can we do? How in the heck do
you attack the Boy Scouts without looking
completely ridiculous? They’re Boy Scouts
for crying out loud!

The problem isn’t the Scouts — like I’ve
said, it’s a phenomenal experience, and an
organization I’m proud to have been in.

The problem is, rather, the location. The
BSA simply didn’t pick a good one.

Luckily, there is still time for all of us
and all of the residents of Rockbridge Coun-
ty to let them know that.

I’m willing to bet that if the considerable
braid power W&L has housed in its ecolo-
gy, environmental studies, and other science
classes turned their attention towards ex-
plaining to the public and the Scouts what is
negative about this decision, it would have
an impact.

I’m willing to bet that if those brilliant
law students interested in helping the local
communities through free clinics lent their
talents toward helping the seemingly inevi-
table lawsuit against the Scouts, it would
have an impact.

I’m willing to bet that if the many law-
makers and politicians to whom we as a stu-
dent body are connected suddenly noticed
that this issue needs further public debate, it
would have an impact.

I’m especially willing to bet that if
enough students joined the Friends of the
Maury, we could do a lot to help them save
and protect this beautiful area from a well-
intentioned but sure-to-be-bad decision.

So check it out. Give wvvw.savegosh-
enpass.com a look. Go to the public infor-
mation meetings they’re having. If you’re
a Boy Scout, or an Eagle Scout, join me in
letting the Scouts know Goshen is a horrible
site for the Jamboree.

I’m sure I’m not the only person at W&L
who went to a Jamboree and realizes what
kind of strain that would put on Goshen.

I’m sure I’m not the only person who
thinks that before they start signiﬁcantly
changing our beloved countryside, the
Scouts needs to defend its decisions.

Unless my personal plans radically
change, I won’t even be living in Virginia in
2013. My Goshen days will be long gone.

Doesn’t matter, for me or for any of us.
We have a duty to make sure this beautiful
little area isn’t destroyed. We have to be-
come interested in this debate.

We have to help our neighbors protect
the Maury and Goshen before we graduate,
because we love it and beneﬁt from it as
much as they do.

We have to be interested in protecting
Goshen now, or it may not be there when
we come back as alumni.

Now that would be a tragedy.

 

 

4 ° THE RING-TUM PHI

MONDAY,

arts&life

 

Rocking out for Spring Term

and the winner of the the 2008 and 2009 Battle of the Bands, played the opening act.

Art and Wine

aren’t ch

eesy

Wine, cheese and a touch of class made
Cheese Louise the event of the week

By Alden Wicker
STAFF WRITER

No boxed wines or Kraft singles
here. It was all class at Cheese Louise.

The Reeves Center showed itself
off to students, faculty and other Wash-
ington and Lee notables on Wednes-
day night, at the ﬁfth annual wine and
cheese tasting known as Cheese Lou-
ise.

The event is meant to showcase the
too-often empty Reeves Center, in an
effort to encourage students to stop in
more often. It’s tucked on the far side
of the Colonnade, right by Admissions,
and boasts two rooms full of Chinese
export porcelainvthe fourth largest

better?”

Senior Micaela Coffey agreed. “It’s
a trifecta of good!” she said, before
wandering off to sample some more
Swiss cheese and crackers.

Katie Gardner, the center’s curato-
rial assistant, hopes students will bring
their parents to this quiet corner of
campus more often, or just take a mo-
ment on their own to see the valuable
pieces.

“It’s supposed to be a nice tasting
and introduction into social society,”
she said hinting at the value of the event
as practice for the real world.

She was pleased with the variety of
attendees. “It was an excellent time,”

MORGAN HARRlS/ Staff Photographer

Two bands, Dead Meadow and The Muggs, played on the Davidson Park basketball court on Friday
night at a concert event sponsored by the General Activities Board. Dead Meadow is alternative band
from Los Angeles, and The Muggs are a blues-rock group from Detroit. The Lalai Damas, a W&L band

 

Dead Meadow and The Muggs play in the GAB is outdor spring concer

 

“Its a really great crowd. It lets people look at beauti-

ful art and drink fabulous wine and eat great cheese.

What could be better?

Mallory Ruyman, senior and former Reeves Center employee

collection in the nation. Across the
walking path is the Watson Pavilion
which houses the Japanese Tearoom.

The porcelain pieces were donated
by Euchlin Reeves ’27L. But the eve-
ning’s star was Reeve’s wife, Louise
Hereshoff, whose oil paintings line the
walls. Some of the more traditional
pieces have been shown in the Paris
salon.

But her later work, in bright ﬂowery
tones and impressionistic splashes of
color dominates the main room.

Students in sundresses and sport
coats nibbled on Virginia goat cheese
and crackers while President Ken
Ruscio’s wife and Provost June Aprille
sipped Virginia wine.

“It’s a really great crowd,” said se-
nior Mallory Ruymann, who used to
work at the center. “It lets people look
at beautiful art and drink fabulous wine
and eat great cheese. What could be

she said.

Free tickets for the event were
snatched up weeks in advance, but an-
other Cheese Louise event will be held
in the fall.

Chris Rucker is one previously
oblivious students who plans to stop
by again. “My friends told me about
it, said it was a wonderful experience,”
he said. “I’ve never been to the Reeves
Center before. The ﬁrst I heard of it was
this year."

Hopefully he won’t be the only
student to take advantage of this little-
known jewel box in the future.

The Reeves Center is open Monday
through Friday from 9 am. to 4 p.m.

Crossword of the week

Missing Links by Neville L. Fogarty
Head over to ringtumphicrossword.blogspot.com to check your solution to this week's puzzle!

Across

1

5
9

14

15

16

17

18

20

22

23

24

25

26
27

28
31
32
34

35

39
40

42
45
46
47
48

49
51

52
53

55

Liqueur since 1874,
familiarly

Ottoman title

2008 film "Speed
Company with
creams

Garrison Keillor
character Guy _
It's a 7 on the Mohs
scale

SI preﬁx for 10 times
"Men in Black" co-
star, with a little bit
missing?

Lorraine Hansberry's
was in the sun
Princess‘ nighttime
nemesis

"We _ the
Champions"

West African capital
Fix one's ﬂy

What hot dogs do?
What 2 may mean
online

It may be dominant
Units of force

It's got bonds
Picture of
slipperiness
"Today" co—host,
with a little bit
missing?

Lady octopus

The Catholic Church
has six for public
recitation

Spur on

Religion of many
Founding Fathers
Supportive group on
campus: abbr.

Not far

Rock outcrop

Pass into law
"Jeopardy!" host
Fleming

It follows Nov.
Crust and mantle, for
two

"Great Balls of Fire"

1 2 3 4

5 6 7 8

 

9 10 ll l2 l3

 

15

  

16

38

41

59

singer, with a little

bit missing?
58 Restaurant freebie
60 "Home _"
61 One ofthree in 1492
62 Joint for predicting
rain
63 Talkative birds
64 Info on a ticket
65 Option at KFC
Down
1 Feeling blue
2 Make mushy risotto,
say
3 "I'd Like to Teach the
World to Sing" drink
4 Studio sign
5 Thesis introduction?
6 Hired gun
7 Red "Powerpuff
Girls" villain
8 Axe's target?
9 Indian title

10

12

13

19
21
24

25

26
29
30
31
33
34
36
37
38

Word in the ﬁrst line
of "American Pie"
Area west of the
Jordan River

For all time,
poetically

Cheats at a video
game, maybe

"Oh, surel"

"Get Fuzzy" pooch
It's useful after a
bank closes
Nixon's Press
Secretary

Traffic cone

Spoil

Pub serving

He's big on libel
Early anesthetic
Newts

"Richard __"

It may be stuffed

Started cleaning a
ﬁsh

41

42
43
44
45
48
50
52
53

54
56
57

59

College : GRE :: high
school : _

Up a creek

Just

Symphony supporter
Museum guide

_ Aviv

British stoolpigeons
Turns blue, maybe
Function in a trig
class

Russian ruler

It's got uracil

Big name in gaming
since 2006

Name that should be
inserted in the middle
of this puzzle's
longest entries

 

  

MAY 11, 2009

  

MONDAY, MAY 11, 2009

THE RING-TUM PHI ' 5

 

sports

 

Q Rowing makes comeback

Courtesy of Maggie Fiskow

The rowing club’s women’s boat races against the University of Richmond on April 25, Its first intercollegiate race in over
50 years. The program also held the Albert Sidney-Harry Lee Regatta during Alumni Weekend for the second consecutive

yean

W&L rowing hosts Albert Sidney-Harry Lee Regatta for second straight year

By Megan Dally
snxrr warren

At Washington and Lee ’s Alumni
Weekend out at the pole houses, stu-
dents and alumni were treated to the
Albert Sidney-Harry Lee Regatta
for the second consecutive year. The
Harry Lee boat won this year’s race
on May 2.

After a more than ﬁfty-year hia-
tus, Generals’ crew is back. Rowing
is W&L’s oldest sport; it was the
foundation of the athletic program
until the 1950s.

The Albert Sidney-Harry Lee
Race took place along the same
stretch of the Maury River that the
club practices and races these days.
Back in the day, the race consisted of
two six oared barges with coxswains.
As they rowed down the river, canal
boats would be ﬁlled with spectators
with the University’s colors.

The rowing team continued to
function into the 20th century and
competed aggressively with many of
the nation’s top teams. As the rowing
program grew in prestige, the Albert
Sidney-Harry Lee Race became one
of W&L’s most anticipated spring
athletic events.

However, with the start of the
Second World War, the rowing team
and the race were discontinued. Af-

ter the conclusion of the war, with
the help of rowing alumni, the club
was resurrected and reached its ze-
nith. W&L beat some of the best
teams in the country including Rut-
gers, Dartmouth and the University
of Pennsylvania. The team, though,
was suspended in the wake of the
great football cheating scandal of

During the 2006-2007 school
year, Parker Sheppard from the
Class of 2008 reestablished W&L’s
rowing club. The program now has
three four-man boats as well as other
top-notch equipment.

On April 25, 2009, W&L raced
the University of Richmond along
the James River, thereby ending its

4'!

t is so great being part of the rowing program.

People say that it is W&L is oldest and newest sport

as it was just brought back into action a few years

ago.  We ’re gathering a fan base, but we hope to

see more fans in the future. ’

Maggie Fiskow, Junior coxswaln

1953.

Junior Maggie Fiskow spoke of
her excitement for the club’s revival.
“It is so great being part of the row-
ing program. People say that it is
W&L’s oldest and newest sport as it
was just brought back into action a
few years ago. We had two regattas
this season. We’re gathering a fan
base, but we hope to see more fans
in the future.”

’ .
saw, 4 zeatectmet
l.’Ef)A_l.. CAR DINER & TIN Tor Cm‘:

Order from our complete menu
(It Join asjbr one ofmzr ALL YOU CAN L14 TBajfe1s.'

Friday Night Seafood Buffet with Crab Legs 5pm-10pm
Saturday Night Prime Rib {Dinner 5pm~1{)pm
Sunday Baked Chicken, Pork Loin, & PotRoast1’!am~9pm
‘Friday & Saturday Late Night Breakfast Bar 10pm—2am
Breakfast Bar 3*“ Says a Week Sam-1 lam
Daily Hot Country Bar t'§am—10pm
Daily Soup, Salad, & Fruit Bar 1tam~tOpm

Order Breakfast 24 ‘Hours 21 day, ?’ days a week?

.Hame Cooked Meals & Soutlzern Hospitality!
.,ocate<;l at

ill El [mm HM

I-Si 8: L64, Exit 195. 25% North Lee l"i‘&’§$<A Lcrtington, W\

540-463-3478

Great food & 2: great collection of
Antique Pedal Cars 5. ‘fit: Toys!

 

2

ﬁfty plus-year absence from inter-
collegiate rowing. The men’s A and
B teams both placed second while
the women’s boat came in third in its
race. W&L and Richmond have been
rowing rivals since the 18905.
Junior co-captain Denis O’Leary
reacted to the club’s Richmond race.
“It’s hard when you are racing ﬁill
Varsity programs. . .. [But] I think the
race was an exceptional milestone to

bring rowing back to W&L.”

In the 2009-2010 season the club
plans to arrange races against Wil-
liam and Mary, Washington College
and Richmond once again while
adding more rowers to the program.

The present-day lineup for the
champion Harry Lee boat included
junior co-captain Grant Russell, ju-
niors F iskow and James Sunderland,
ﬁrst-year Joey Brown, Joanie Hudak,
Matt Simpson and Mihaela Petrova.
The Albert Sidney boat consisted
of O’Leary, junior Samuel Shore,
sophomores Jarrett Brotzman and
Michele Farquharson, and ﬁrst-years
Nathan Naughton, Laura O’Neil and
Lev Raslin.

Farquharson commented on the
current state of the program, “While
we did not do that great in our ﬁrst
competition [against Richmond], the
only way to go from here is up. We
are making strides; we have the ﬁrst
all-female boat in our program’s his-
tory.”

The future for the rowing club
seems to be promising. It hopes to
evolve into a full-ﬂedged Varsity
rowing program. W&L has a strong
rowing heritage, and Lexington’s
waterways are a great home for a
rowing club.

Profiles

Leadership:
Aisha Davis

my life.

traditions.

President, Multicultural Student Associa-
tion; President, Order of Omega; Chap-
In lain, Tau Omega Chapter of Delta Sigma
Theta Sorority, Inc.; Residential Life Staff

What energizes you about taking on
the responsibilities of campus leader-
ship? Taking on the responsibilities of
campus leadership gives me the opportunity
to help advance the missions of each of the
organizations I work with, as well as teach
me skills for the future. I tend to stay ener-
gized because each group brings a different
outlook and appeals to a different aspect of

What has been one of the most re-
warding aspects of leadership at W&L? Seeing the enjoyment of
others when participating in a well—planned event or continuing a
conversation based on a topic brought up through one of the organiza-
tions is always rewarding because those are times when we as a W&L
community express ourselves beyond the walls of a classroom.

What legacy of leadership do you hope you've left for oth-
ers at W&L? I hope that my participation has helped promote diver-
sity of thought and culture in the W&L community. There are a lot
million-dollar ideas ﬂoating around our campus, and I hope that peo-
ple are willing to share them, even if they seem to go against the W&L

Any words of advice for those who follow? Nothing is ever a
failure if it inspires conversation or encourages thought. Remember
that when you may only have three people come to an event, because
they may become some of the most powerful people you know.

Member (Spanish House)

    

Tomorrow’s Leadership Seminar:
“The Thrill of Political Leadership”
Chris Saxman ‘87
Mr. Saxman, a Republican, has been a member of the Virginia
House of Delegates since 2002
6:30 PM ~ Room 214 ~ Elrod Commons

Women’s
tennis falls

in NCAAS

W&L loses to Emory, fails
to make NCAA quarters for
ﬁrst time in 10 seasons

By Will Dorrance
spoms EDITOR

After beating Meredith 5-0 in the second round
of the NCAA tournament Saturday, the nationally
ﬁfth-ranked Washington and Lee women’s tennis
team fell to third-ranked Emory 5-2 Sunday in
the third round.

The Generals end their season at 20-4. It is the
ﬁrst time in 10 years that the team will not ad-
vance at least to the NCAA quarterﬁnals.

In the regular season, Emory had beaten W&L
6-3 on April 17 in Spartanburg, S.C. Entering
Sunday though, assistant coach Elliot Datlow
said the Generals liked their chances.

“We had a bunch of three-set matches last
time we played Emory. We came in [Sunday]
pretty conﬁdent because we have grown a lot
since then.”

Senior captain Katie Tabb spoke of the team’s
preparations for the NCAA tournament. “We
had been training really hard with very intense,
focused practices the week leading up to this
weekend. We also had some individualized work
during practice according to what each person
needed, and lot of girls on the team did additional
sessions with our coaches or each other to help
them prepare.”

W&L did start off strong yesterday winning
two of three doubles matches.
doubles, Tabb and junior Lauren Caire edged
Emory’s Sabra Rogers and Tshema Nash in a tie-
breaker to win 9-8 (7-5). At number two, ﬁrst-
years Ann Moris and Trelsie Sadler lost to Zahra
Dawson and Lorne McManigle. In the ﬁnal dou-
bles spot, senior captain Meg Spalitta and ﬁrst-
year Ellen Yeatman topped the Eagles’ team of
Lindsay Reidenbach and Daniela Schechter 8-2.

The Generals would not have the same success
in their singles matches. Yeatman lost to Dawson
7-5, 0-6, 6-1 in number two singles; Sadler fell
to Nash 6-2, 6-2 at number three; Snyder had a
rough time with Reidenbach in number four sin-
gles, losing 6-1, 6-1; and Spalitta was defeated by
Schechter 6-3, 6-2 on the ﬁfth line.

The four singles wins handed Emory the 5-2
victory. Tabb and Caire did not ﬁnish their ﬁrst
and sixth singles matches, respectively, because
Emory was already declared the winner.

Tabb reacted to the team’s loss. “It’s obvi-
ously very disappointing to lose; who enjoys be-
ing beaten? But I do think that we should also be
very proud.”

Although Datlow was also disappointed with
the result, he commended his players’ efforts.
“The coaches were very pleased with the way
we fought, but the close matches didn’t go our

In number one

95

way.

Against Meredith on Saturday, the Generals
did not face too many problems. At number one
doubles, Tabb and Caire beat Meredith’s Morgan
Martin and Kathryn Maples 8-5 in the closest
match-up of the day. The rest of the Generals’
day proved to be even easier as Morris and Sadler
defeated Brooke Baird and Ashley Pearsall 8-1
while ﬁrst-year Ellen Yeatman and senior captain
Meg Spalitta topped Molly Parks and Caitlin Dil-
lon 8-3 in second and third doubles, respectively.

In singles action, Sadler rolled to a 6-1, 6-1
win over Maples in the three spot, and Spalitta had
little trouble with Dillon at number ﬁve, winning
6-0, 6-1 for the team victory. Numbers one, two,
four and six singles did not ﬁnish their matches
because the Generals had already reached the
necessary ﬁve points to claim the win.

While the team’s season is over, Tabb and
Yeatman qualiﬁed for singles and Tabb and Caire
will play doubles at the NCAA individual cham-
pionships May 22-24 in Lawrenceville, Ga.

Datlow looked back on his ﬁrst year with
W&L. “I loved it. I thought it was a great year.
Every single member grew as a player and an in-
dividual. It was a lot of fun.”

 

  

MONDAY, MAY 11,2009

  

6 ° THE RING-TUM PHI

sports

 

 

Tues WED Tuuns FRI SAT
gasebau Reglonals
TBA
at
Go|f NCAA championships
TBA
Women's
Tennis
at
Mays BC Last
track chance
12 p.m.
at
Women's Bc Last
hack Chance
12 p.m.

 

 

 

numbers
34

The age of recently named Arizona Diamonbacks manager A.J. Hinch.
The youngest current MLB manager, Hinch was hired Friday after the
Diamondbacks fired Bob Melvin, who led the team to a 12-17 start.
The previous youngest manager was the Nationals’ 40-year-old Manny

Acta.

17

The number of strikeouts by San Diego State junior pitcher Stephen
Strasburg in his no-hitter Friday over Air Force in what will probably be
his last collegiate home start. He is expected to be drafted number
one overall by the Washington Nationals in June’s First-Year Player
Draft. The Nationals acting general manager Mike Rizzo and scouting

director Dana Brown were in attendance.

box

“Brett would have to be mentally’ ready to go play,
physically ready to go play and want to go play,
and I'm not sure all three of those things are
there right now.”

Quarterback Brett Favre’s agent Bus Cook In response to reports that
Favre was considering signing with the Minnesota Vikings. Early last
week reports surfaced that Vikings head coach Brad Childress planned
to meet with Favre at his home. Yahoo! Sports reported Thursday that
Favre Informed childress of his plans to remain retired. But then on
Friday, ESPN’s Jeremy Schaap reported that X-rays of Favre’s throwing
shoulder had been sent to the Vikings for an evaluation. Courtesy of
espn.com.

“Recently, Isaw a physician for a personal health
issue. He gave me a medication, not a steroid,
which he thought was OK to give me. Unfortu-
nately, the medication was banned under our
drug policy. Under the policy that mistake is now
my responsibility. I have been advised not to say
anything more for now. I do want to say one other
thing: I’ve taken and passed about 15 drug tests
over the past ﬁve seasons.”

Manny Ramirez in his statement issued by the players’ union after he
was suspended 50 games for violating MLB’s drug policy. Courtesy
of espn.com.

“It was a extremely negligent hit, and if anyone
else in this league does the same, we all know
they will face serious discipline. Part of being
great means playing with respect.”

Pittsburgh Penguins’ defenseman Sergei Gonchar’s agent J.P Barry
expressing his frustration that the NHL did not suspend Alexander
Ovechkln for his hit to Gonchar’s knee in Game 4 of the Capitals-
Pengulns playoff series. Gonchar will miss several weeks with the
injury. Courtesy of sports.yahoo.com.

ousted from N CAAS

RYAN ELSEY / Staff Photographer

Will Keigier scored the game-winning goal with nine seconds left in the first overtime Wednesday as
the men’s lacrosse team beat Farleigh Dickinson-Fiorham. The Generals then lost to Gettysburg 10-15
Saturday in the second round of the NCAA tournament.

Men is lacrosse beats FD U—Florham, falls to Gettysburg

By Will Dorrance
SPORTS EDITOR

The nationally sixth-ranked
Washington and Lee men’s lacrosse team
fell to ﬁfth-ranked Gettysburg 15-10 in the
second round of the NCAA tournament
Saturday in Gettysburg, Pa.

The Generals end their season at 16-4,
tying a program record set in 2000 (16-2)
for wins in a season. The Bullets, 14-3,
move onto the NCAA quarterﬁnals, where
they will play Denison on Wednesday.

“I ’m going to miss this
team, but it was a good

ride. ”

Seth Flshman, senior attackman
 

Just four minutes into the game, W&L
was tied with Gettysburg 2-2, but then
the Bullets went on a 5-0 run, including
three goals from junior attackman Josh
Reichert. At intermission, the Generals
were down 9-4.

W&L came out of the break strong,
scoring ﬁve of the third quarter’s ﬁrst six
goals to cut the Bullets’ lead to one. But
Gettysburg scored with just four seconds
left in the third period to go up by two.
The Bullets dominated the ﬁnal frame,
outscoring the Generals 4-1 to preserve
the 15-10 victory.

Senior attackman Seth Fishman
scored three times in his ﬁnal collegiate
game while classmate Tim Skeen tallied
two goals and two assists. In his ﬁrst
game back from injury, senior midﬁelder
Harry St. John notched two goals while
sophomore attackman Spence Daw
scored once and assisted two other goals.
Junior attackman Will Keigier added
a goal and an assist, and sophomore
midﬁelder Drew Koeneman rounded out
the Generals’ scoring team with a goal.
Senior goalkeeper Connor Locke stopped
nine shots in goal for W&L.

Reichert led the Bullets with a career
day, scoring ﬁve times and helping on
three others. Junior midﬁelder Kyle
McGrath also reached the back of the
net three times. Senior goalkeeper Zach
Furshman made six saves on the day.

Fishman gave credit to his team’s
opponent. “Gettysburg was a very good
team. Their offense played smart and had
long sustained possessions and got out on
us early in the game. I thought we made
a great comeback in the third quarter and
our defense really buckled down, but we
could not keep the momentum going into
the fourth.

“We were banged up and just could not
get it done [Saturday]. I really believe we
left it all on the ﬁeld.”

To advance to the second round, W&L
ﬁrst beat, Farleigh Davidson-Florham
(FDU) 6-5 in overtime on Wednesday at

- a rainy Wilson Field.

The Dukes boast a very impressive
defense, not having surrendered double-
digit goals since March 5. Coming into
the contest, they were 13-4 on the year.
Before Wednesday, FDU’s only loss
in the last two months was in double
overtime to Manhattanville on April 22.
The Dukes Won their ﬁrst Middle Athletic
Conference title since 1981 by beating
Widener.

The Generals entered Wednesday’s
game just four days off their 15-14
overtime win over nationally ﬁrst-ranked
Roanoke in the ODAC championship. It
was the team‘s ﬁrst conference title since
2004 and ninth overall.

On Wednesday, the FDU defense was
in full force as the Generals tied their
lowest scoring output of the season at six
goals. Despite the lack of offense, W&L
did lead most of the way until the Dukes
tied the game at four at the start of the
fourth quarter.

The away team then took the lead with
just ﬁve minutes to go but then granted
the Generals a two-man advantage on a
double penalty call just twenty seconds
later. W&L did not waste the opportunity
as Skeen scored with 4:22 to go in
regulation. Neither team scored in the
last few minutes of the fourth quarter
with the score knotted at ﬁve.

In the extra frame, F DU had the ball
with just forty seconds to go but turned
it over to the Generals when head coach
Gene McCabe called a timeout. Coming
out of the huddle, Skeen passed the ball
behind the goal to Keigier, who wrapped
around the FDU goalkeeper’s right side.
Keigier scored on the shot with just
nine seconds to play in the sudden death
overtime period.

The Generals distributed the offensive
workload as Keigier, Skeen, Daw,
Koeneman, junior midﬁelder Chris
Washington and junior attackman Max
Mancuso each scored a goal. Keigler
recorded two assists while Daw, Skeen
and Washington each pitched in one a
piece.

St. John, a 2008 honorable mention
All-American, did not play Wednesday
because of an illness and a knee injury.

In addition to tying a school record for
wins in a season, W&L ends 2009 with
the most goals in the program’s history
(271).

Summing up the season and his career,
Fishman said, “Sure, we would have
liked to have gone a little bit further, but
I could not be more pleased with what
we accomplished. I’m going to miss this
team, but it was a great ride.”

RYAN ELSEY / Staff Photographer

Junior attackman Will Keigier carries the bail behind the goal
Wednesday in the Generals’ 6-5 overtime win over Farleigh
Dickinson-Florham at a rainy Wilson Field. Keigier recorded
a goal and two assists Wednesday and a goal and an assist
Saturday in the team's 10-15 loss to Gettysburg.

 

 

f\TCl-\

*.-.va.'r«:.~u
IQ gag.-is
 Hf-

 

  Growing a musical

 

 

   

ﬁg?

 

 

e eeret arden,” 

is irteeltend     
ARTS 8. LIFE / page

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING-TUM PHI.

MONDAY, MAY 18,2009

BY THE

STUDENTS AND

FOR THE

STUDENTS SINCE

1397

VOLUME CXII,

Securing the

nation

F ormer head of CIA and
FBI speaks at Lee Chapel

By Diandra Spicak
NEWS EDITOR

Sponsored by the Contact Committee, Judge
William H. Webster, chairman of the Homeland
Security Advisory Council and the only American
to serve as director of both the Central Intelligence
Agency (CIA) and Federal Bureau of Investigation
(FBI), spoke at Lee Chapel last Tuesday.

Webster’s untitled speech focused on many
topics, but the overall theme of security rang
throughout.

“I didn’t want to provide a title for the speech,”
he said. “I wanted to keep the atmosphere lighter,
rather than giving it a serious tone right off the
bat.”

“I said this once before, and it
still holds true. Order protects
liberty, and liberty protects or-

der. ”
Judge William H. Webster, chairman of

Homeland Security Advisory Council

Divided into three sections, Webster hit many
a controversial topic stemming from national
security. His speech detailed his career as a
judge, director of the FBI and director of the
CIA, along with providing slight histories of both
organizations.

His illustrious career in public service began
with his appointment as a judge of the United
States of District Court for the Eastern District of
Missouri. In 1973, he found himself elevated to
the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth
Circuit.

In 1978, President Jimmy Carter appointed
Webster as the director of the FBI, where he served
until 1987 when President Ronald Regan chose
him as director of the CIA due to his successful
coups against the New York maﬁa. He led the CIA
until retiring from public ofﬁce in 1991.

Due to his status, Webster took opportunities
throughout his speech to talk about national
security issues ranging from the Patriot Act to
Homeland Security. His devotion to security
shone through his answers, as he responded to
the hotly contested issues: Webster repeated
throughout that security is essential to the
populace, citing Lincoln’s suspension of the writ
of habeas corpus.

“I said this once before, and it still holds true,”
Webster said. “Order protects liberty and liberty
protects order. It is up to local, state and national
headquarters to keep our citizens safe and secure.

Webster practiced law at the Washington ofﬁce
of Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy. Although
he retired in 2005, Webster remains active in
the practice of law. Judge Webster was named
in 2006 as the chair of the Homeland Security
Advisory Council which provides advice and
recommendations to the Secretary on matters
related to homeland security.

In 1991, Webster was presented the
Distinguished Intelligence Medal, the Presidential
Medal of Freedom and the National Security
Medal. He is the recipient of the 2001 Justice
Award of the American Judicature Society and the
2002 ABA Medal, its highest honor. He is listed
in “The Best Lawyers in America” and has also
received NASA’s Distinguished Public Service
Medal.

Webster earned bachelor’s degrees in history
and political science, as well as an honorary
Doctor of Laws degree, from Amherst College.
He received his law degree from Washington
University. He served as a lieutenant in the United
States Navy in World War II and again in the
Korean War.

But for Webster, security cannot come from
the national organizations alone. He advised all
of the undergraduates in the audience to “set aside
time for service for your country -- for duty, for
honor, for security.”

EC aﬂirms sexual violence breaches community ’s trust

By Allison Chopin
MANAGING eonon

Following ongoing concerns from
students that the Executive Commit-
tee holds and ambiguous position on
sexual assault cases, the EC released
a statement condemning sexual vio-
lence as an act that undermines the
trust of the entire community.

According to a press release sent
to campus publications on May 6,
the EC voted unanimously to pass
the following statement on Tuesday,
May 5:

“Sexual violence is unacceptable
in society and is especially discor-
dant with Washington and Lee’s cul-
ture of honor and civility.”

At the student body meeting on
May 4, several students who spoke
before the EC said they did not un-
derstand why sexual violence is not
explicitly called an “honor viola-
tion” and why a separate judicial
body, the Student-Faculty Hear-
ing Board (SFHB), exists to handle

these cases. ‘

“The Executive Committee re-
tains jurisdiction over all activities
that the Student Body deems dishon-
orable,” the statement reads.

The statement also says that the

The SFHB can impose various pun-
ishments, including dismissal. Dis-
missal from the university is the only
sanction when forced sexual inter-
course is found to have happened.
EC Secretary Bill Larson said in

{K

t was clear..that students are interested in gain-

ing a better understanding of the SFHB and work-

ing to reduce incidents of sexual violence. I hope

our statement will be a step forward in meeting

1

those goals. ’

Bill Larson, EC Secretary

SFHB is “a specially trained forum
with speciﬁcally designed proce-
dures to adjudicate such matters.”
Moreover, the statement explains
that when alleged sexual violence
cases are brought before the EC, the
EC can choose to either hear these
cases or refer them to the SFHB.

an e-mail that the EC decided to pass
this statement because ﬁghting sexu-
al violence is a priority of the EC.

He said that the EC has been
working on this statement for at
least four weeks, so the student body
meeting was not the only reason for
its release.

The statement was passed the day
after the student body meeting, but
this was a coincidence, according to
Larson.

However, he added that the EC
was happy to ﬁnd support in some of
the students who attended the meet-
ing.

“It was clear from the student
body meeting that students are inter-
ested in gaining a better understand-
ing of the SFHB and working to
reduce incidents of sexual violence
on our campus,” he said. “I hope our
statement will be a step forward in
meeting those goals.”

This statement will be posted on
the EC bulletin boards and Web site,
and ﬁrst-year students will receive a
copy during orientation.

Learning how to live well

W&L hosts ﬁrst annual national Women is Health Week

By Eleanor Kennedy
STAFF WRITER

This past week, Washington
and Lee played host to the national
Women’s Health Week. The Tau
Omega Chapter of Delta Sigma The-
ta Sorority, Inc., which is comprised
of women from W&L, Ronaoke Col-
lege and Hollins University, spon-
sored the week.

The theme was “It’s Your Time.”
Events throughout the week focused
on promoting healthy living through
physical ﬁtness and mental well-
ness.

Junior Beri Ndifon, one of the co-
ordinators of Women’s Health Week,
has been a member of Delta Sigma
Theta Sorority Incorporated for six
months. According to Ndifon, this
was the ﬁrst time Washington and
Lee hosted a week like this one. Ndi-
fon said that she and the other mem-
bers of Delta Sigma Theta “hope to

continue to celebrate the week every
year.”

Ndifon said that since the week’s
events were taking place on a col-
lege campus, the events “focused on
issues that were most pertinent to the
female college demographic.” In or-

Jane Horton MD, the director of Stu-
dent Health and Counseling Servic-
es, gave a talk entitled “Your Body,
Your Life, Your Choice: Exploring
the Correlation Between Drug and
Alcohol Use and Sexual Health.” On
Tuesday, students wishing to partici-

“[ T he week] focused on issues that were most per-

tinentto the female college demographic. ’

I

Beri Ndifon, Iunlor

der to celebrate the week, Delta Sig-
ma Theta coordinated both speakers
on important issues and fun physical
activities to bring a needed focus to
women’s health issues.

The week kicked off with a
speaker in Stackhouse Theater. Dr.

pate in this celebration of women’s
health attended “Zumba With the
Divas: ‘Ditch the Workout, Join the
Party!” in the Warner Center.

Dr. Jennifer Sayre, clincial psy-
chologist and university counselor
spoke in Stackhouse on Wednes-

day night. Her speech, “Mind Over
Matter: Surmounting The Pressures
of An Academically Competitive
Atmosphere,” dealt with the stress
students may face in their academic
lives and how they might overcome
it. The dance studio in Doremus
Gym hosted “Chillaxation Time” on
Thursday, a time for female Gener-
als to take a break to relax without
being disturbed by the pressures of
collegiate life.

The week concluded with a char-
ity cookout hosted by Delta Sigma
Theta on Canaan Green. Donations
were collected at the event for the
Rockbridge Area Free Clinic. The
clinic is a non-proﬁt healthcare pro-
vider for uninsured and underinsured
residents of Rockbridge County.

 

NUMBER 21

umvrasrrv Llaailﬁli
WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VA 24460

JLITAY '5 ‘:3 “mi?

 

2 - THE RING-"I"IJM PHI

MONDAY, MAY 18, 2009

 

Responsibility is key

SJC leadership calls for new responsibility system

We talk a lot about honor at Washington
and Lee.

We advertise it to prospective students.
We discuss it amongst ourselves, in semi-
nars and in journals such as this one. More
importantly, the student body elects stu-
dents, and students alone, to guard it. It is
the “moral cornerstone” of our University.

Our commitment to this cornerstone
guarantees the primacy of ordinary morality
in the conduct of our affairs ~ in our school-
work, our extracurricular commitments and
our personal lives.

Despite our emphasis on honor, we do
not always live up to its demands. We have
little lying, cheating or stealing (despite the
dramatic increase in the Executive Commit-
tee’s caseload this year), but there are many
incidents of drunk driving, sexual harass-
ment and other dishonorable behaviors.

Unfortunately, they appear to be on the
rise. The number of conduct incidents re-
ported to Dean Brandon Dotson by local
law enforcement, Residential Life staff and
Public Safety has risen this year. Addition-
ally, incidents brought to the Student Judi-
cial Council have in increased in number
and seriousness, most notably drunk driv-
ing. The prevalence of these behaviors is
incompatible with the essence of honor and
its signiﬁcance to our community.

Honor, normally deﬁned, is similar to
integrity; it is a commitment to ordinary
morality. According this deﬁnition, lying is
dishonorable. The same goes for cheating
and stealing — traditional dishonorable be-
haviors within our system. As noted above,
drunk driving, sexual harassment and phys-
ical assault also easily qualify as dishonor-
able under this deﬁnition.

However, within our System, we do not
consider such behaviors technically dis-
honorable. The reason is one of deﬁnition.
According to the White Book, we deﬁne a
dishonorable behavior as a “breach of the
Community’s trust.” Traditionally, the Stu-
dent Body has not considered such behav-
iors breaches of trust. Thus, conduct policy,
rather than the Honor System, adjudicates
such cases.

Of course, almost all conceptions of
ordinary morality acknowledge that drunk
driving, sexual harassment and physical as-
sault are just as immoral (or dishonorable,
per the normal deﬁnition) as lying, cheating
or stealing. In fact, they are probably worse
in many instances. Drunk driving endangers
lives, whereas academic cheating does not.
Yet they are not accorded the same stigma
in our community because they are not in-
terpreted as breaches of the community’s
trust. Why do we have this dichotomy?

The stigma surrounding traditional hon-
ot violations is a principal reason why there
is relatively little lying, cheating and steal-

Don't miss this last week !
Choose the day that works for you.

"S UR VI VAL KIT"

Everything you always
wanted to know about
getting and keeping a

ing. The stigma supplements our ordinary
moral aversion to these behaviors and de-
ters members of our community who may
otherwise feel tempted to engage in them.

This isn’t merely wordplay: institu-
tions can reafﬁrm, even change, values. We
hold each other accountable in this regard.
Furthermore, the promotion of the Honor
System attracts prospective students who
appreciate our commitment to honor. The
heavy emphasis placed upon the Honor
System during First-Year Orientation fur-
ther entrenches our commitment.

Because drunk driving, sexual assault
and physical assault are just as destruc-
tive to our community, we should accord
them the same stigma. If the values of our

ity would include most behaviors that are
prohibited by current conduct policy and
which are inconsistent with our common
values. The SJC would hear these Personal
Responsibility violations and the EC would
continue to hear traditional HVs.

In fact, the SJC often charges accused
students with “Conduct Unbecoming of
a Washington and Lee Student.” The SJC
would retain its option of multiple sanctions
(rather than the single sanction) to properly
adjudicate its diverse caseload. Addition-
ally, it would gradually gain more indepen-
dence from the faculty and administration
as students acclimated to the maintenance
of the Personal Responsibility System.

To the naysayers of student self-gover-

By establishing a System of Personal Responsibility, we can

signiﬁcantly discourage behaviors such as drunk driving and

sexual harassment that unfortunately ﬁgure so prominently

0l’l OLII” campus.

 

namesakes George Washington and Robert
E. Lee offer any guidance, such behaviors
should be as discouraged as much as tradi-
tional HVs.

Some have proposed that the EC should
hear such behaviors as HVs, but this is
both problematic and insufﬁcient for sev-
eral reasons. F irst, it would be difﬁcult (and
unpopular) to interpret many dishonorable
behaviors as technical breaches of the com-
munity’s trust (e.g. vandalism and physical
assault). Second, the single sanction is not
adept at adjudicating certain cases. It seems
unjustiﬁable for a student to be dismissed
for a .10 BAC DUI, despite the egregious-
ness of such behavior. Third, the EC is al-
ready very busy.

Therefore, to avoid said difﬁculties, re-
solve the false dichotomy and truly safe-
guard honor at our University, I recommend
the establishment of a System of Personal
Responsibility parallel to the Honor Sys-
tern.

Along with honor, personal responsi-
bility (although encompassed within the
aforementioned normal deﬁnition of honor)
should be raised to a moral cornerstone of
the University. This is not a radical idea, as
personal responsibility is already coupled
with honor throughout documents such as
The White Book or the Student Handbook.
We must further incorporate this value into
the ethos of our university.

Under the proposed System, honor
would continue to bear its narrow deﬁni-
tion, and violations of personal responsibil-

nance, the century-long administration of
the Honor System has incontrovertibly dem-
onstrated our competence. Furthermore,
our advertisements to prospective students,
the language in our documents, and the
structure of Freshman Orientation would
incorporate the dual Systems of Honor and
Personal Responsibility. Importantly, the
Executive Committee would continue to
serves as the Student Government.

This proposal is not merely an attempt to
semantically reconcile the language of val-
ues at our University, nor is it a challenge to
the authority of the Executive Committee or
the primacy of the Honor System. By estab-
lishing a System of Personal Responsibility,
we can signiﬁcantly discourage behaviors
such as drunk driving and sexual harass-
ment that unfortunately ﬁgure so promi-
nently on our campus. The incorporation
of personal responsibility as a cornerstone
of our community is paramount. A policy
change is insufﬁcient to radically affect be-
havior. However, it’s a start.

By Chris Tutor ‘09 (fmr. SJC Secretary)
Signed,

Chris Tutor ‘09
Crighton Allen ‘ll (SJC Chair)
Caitlin Cottingham ‘ 10L

(SJC Secretary)
Riley Barnes ‘09 (frnr. SJC Chair)

Prcfiles in Leadership:

A sincere and special thanks to these seniors for their
many leadership contributions to our community:
Garrett Clark for his work with Campus/ Community Coalition
jennifer Lysenlzo for serving as president of ODK; jenna Walls and
Hunter Branstetter for their unsung kindness; Regina Mills for her
work with KEWL and women’s issues; Grace Andrews for her
abundant energy and wit; Hammond McEver, Chris Tutor, David
Vaught andjulie Petersen for their witness of faith; Melissa Caron
and jacob Geiger for their journalistic excellence; Morgan Harris
and Dana Statton for their photographic eye; Riley Barnes for his
work on the Student Judicial Council; Alex Utsey, Ellie Hanson,
Rich Cleary and jack Stanton for their service on the Executive
Committee; Allison Gionta andjenniferjanes for their service on
the Student Faculty Hearing Board; Helen Coupe for her dra-

—— ———————————— ——~ WASHINGTON up Lu: Umvsxsm 

THE RING -TUM 

MANAGING EDITOR
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR
COPY EDITOR

ALLISON CHOPIN
DIANDRA SPICAK
CODY BEAUCHAMP
STEPHANIE HARDIMAN
WILL DORRANCE
KATHERINE ROBERTS
CONTRIBUTING WRITERS ANTHONY BALLOR
MEGAN DAILY
RACHEL DENNISTON
LIZZ DYE

NEVILLE FOGARTY
ELEANOR KENNEDY

DESIGN EDITOR
BUSINESS MANAGER
DISTRIBUTION MNGR.

LARA JORDAN
STROCK MOORE
ROB GEORGE

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE
RING-TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community for students, faculty,
parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire
to spark discussions that lead to discovering
information that prompts change.

THE RING-TUM PHI IS PUBLISHED MONDAYS
DURING THE UNDERGRADUATE SCHOOL YEAR.
THE RING-TUM PHI IS A MEMBER OF THE MEDIA
BOARD, BUT IS OTHERWISE INDEPENDENT.
QUESTIONS OR CONCERNS ABOUT THE PHI
SHOULD BE ADDRESSED TO THE EDITORS AT
PHI@WLU.EDU OR TO THE MEDIA BOARD AT
MEDIABOARD@WLU.EDU. THE MEDIA BOARD
IS AN INDEPENDENT, STUDENT-RUN EDITORIAL
OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE WORKING WITH ALL
MEDIA OUTLETS ON THE WASHINGTON &
LEE CAMPUS. ALL INQUIRIES WILL REMAIN
CONFIDENTIAL. THE RING-TUM PHI WELCOMES
ALL LETTERS. WE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO EDIT
SUBMISSIONS FOR CONTENT AND LENGTH.
LETTERS AND ADVERTISING DO NOT NECESSARILY
REFLECT THE OPINION OF THE RING-TUM PHI
STAFF. THIS NEWSPAPER OBSERVES CURRENT
COURT DEFINITIONS OF LIBEL AND OBSCENITY.
THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540)458-4059
EMAIL: PHI@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

 

 *
éierzég e  
I’i~:n..«.L {Lian X}H'~Z‘f<‘,R & ‘tars: ”i"m's' (if.-s.:'»‘té:

{"}r'de.r frtlill usrr ::r>n1g".x§ei'e rnssrtnu
(Jr .1’0it.v iorsjfor cane ofozar A LL 1131.! (..‘..-2N if/sﬁ St‘ Bs.g,rj,'f&3r.s.’

Friﬁzay Night Seafood 5.i3u'f'fe'; with t’3r'&l.\. ixaggs .‘f>;3m-"lﬁgam
Saturday Nigtzt. Prérne Ritz IT)irmr.=;-5' 23pm-10pm
Sunday Baked (3h';L*.§<en. F”r.>rI«.‘ l,,r.7in, 3, Prat R::;asS'. “E ‘I.arn-:~3pm
Friday & Saturday i..ate: Night Breakfast Bar ‘trilpm--2am
Earezakfasszt Bar T Says a Xﬁleek tiéam-»t “Earn
Daily Mot Country Bar Mam--‘ii3g:im
Daily Soup, Salad, & Fruit B;-39“ ‘E ”I2;2rri-1€.};'>rx'a

{”)2°clz-.‘,r Bre:a.l-;t”:15~:r 24 ‘l~{<>t.u':-.; rs cizsy. 7 dz};/;< at x\=acel«'.§

1'Imme <I:'.‘mr.u?::ed .»M’er:ur/s A’: »S°:‘}IN.*}':z2*rII i:‘1r.v;zir(zii;f;,.~,’

l..ru:zx§es'l at
§—1~{I .1:-_ I—t'»~3, }>:','~.it 39:3, 7.51%.» N:'<z'§.§‘s ﬂue Iiwj, . I. <*'>~.im.<.1<m. \//\
546)--/§{§3w3«§°?’t55i

Great “food 6‘: :2 gran? z::t:aI3a:£:‘Hon of
Antique Peeler! (Bars «Si Tin Toys?

 

 

103 or INTERNSHIP

Tuesday, May 19 — 1:25 PM
Wednesday, May 20 — 11:15 AM

Location: Career Services
Commons Third Floor
Contact us for details

‘W.é’liSPII?‘€{3’l‘{)?~5 ANI) IQEZF. I.3NI"v"IiR.:iiT‘:”'

CAREEReSERViCES

matic work with Pieces of the Puzzle;]ess Shaw for her purity of
heart and optimistic spirit; Rebecca Koval and jule Miata for their
service to Traveler; Harryjohnson for his service to the Interfrat—
ernity Council; Allie Boyat for serving as Key Staff in the Outing
Club; Chris Ruclzer for his service to MSA and The Gentlemen’s
Club; Isaiah Goodman for his work initiating SAAC at W&L and
serving as chair of SAAC for the NCAA, Division III; Liza
Njuguna andjamila Seaton for their smiles and kindness to oth-
ers; Anna Pendley and Wes O’DeIl for their service on behalf of
Residential Life; Tabi King for her work with Caribbean Society
~ and a very special thanks to Micaela Coffey for her service as
21 Peer Counselor and for her invaluable assistance as a leader-
ship development intern for these past four years.

Best wishes to all of you in your future endeavors!!!

Tomorrow’s Leadership Seminar:
“Ministry Amidst Genocide”
Rev. Lauren Stanley
Rev. Stanley, Episcopal priest, is a missionary, lecturer and

chaplain at Renk Theological College, in Sudan
6:30 PM ~ Room 214 ~ Elrod Commons

W&t Theater & Music Departments present
A Robert 0. and Elizabeth II. Bentley Musical IEYIBIII

 DY IIOISIIO NOIIIIOII
LIIIZY SIIIIOII
FIOIICOS IIIIIIQSOII BIIIIIIBII

"II MISII ’76
IIOIIIIOII

WIISIIINGTIIN ANII LEE IINIVEIIS

TSP’

 

   

Q”

G,

 

MONDAY, MAY 18, 2009

THE RING-TUM PHI - 3

 

arts&life

Corey Smith performs for fans on Friday

at Lime Kiln Theater.

LIZZ DYE / Staff Writer

Fun and tunes for charity

F irst-ever Kappa Alpha charity concert ﬁghts muscular dystrophy with Carey Smith

By Llzz Dye
STAFF wnmzn

Corey Smith on a Friday night?
Helping a worthy cause? Sounds like
a good time! And it was.

Smith performed on Friday at
the Kappa Alpha Charity Concert
at Lime Kiln Theater. All proceeds
from the concert went to the Mus-
cular Dystrophy Association which
aims to conquer neuromuscular dis-
eases that affect more than a million
Americans.

Smith is a Georgia native whose
music is part Jimmy Buffet, part Ja-
son Mraz. He has gained most of his
popularity through the Internet and
avid touring.

Shane Hines and the Trance
warmed up the crowd. But when

Smith took the stage, the crowd went
wild. It was truly what everyone had
been waiting for. While enjoying
a beer, Smith played favorites such
as “Drinkin’ Again” (to which he
yelled, “This is the most sober crowd
I’ve ever sung this to!”) along with
“F*ck the Po-Po.”

A colorful character to say the
least, Smith got the crowd dancing,
singing, and screaming for more.
Just when it was over, the shout for
“encore!” sounded and Smith hap-
pily gave the people more.

The opening act was composed
of two main members, Shane Hines
and Mr. Thumbs. The alternative
rock band, summing up its style as
“blending aggressive arrangements
with hook-ﬁlled melodies,” played

songs from its new CD, “The Glory
Journal.” Most of the band’s funding
comes directly from its fans’ pockets;
in fact, the last CD, “Team Trance,”
was totally fan-funded. Shane Hines
and the Trance played a variety of
music, from true rock songs to seem-
ingly-country-inﬂuenced ballads.
When asked how they came to
tour with Smith, Hines said that it
“just kinda happened...we got‘ to-
gether and it was good and fun.”
The two acts will continue their tour
to South Carolina next weekend.
The concert was quite good as
a whole. A merchandise table sold
Corey Smith paraphernalia, includ-
ing signed posters, t-shirts and CD5.
There was barbecue galore and a va-
riety of drinks. However, one down-

side for those twenty-one and up was
that alcohol was not allowed on the
premises nor sold on-site.

Melissa Powell ‘ 12 had not seen
Smith before in concert before, even
though he often plays in her home-
town.

“I was so happy that I ﬁnally got
to see him, and when he walked off
stage and gave me his guitar pick,
it was the happiest moment of my
life,” Powell said.

Many people would agree with
her sentiment that the Corey Smith
concert was a success.

“The Secret Garden” blooms this weekend at Lenfest

By Anthony Ballor
STAFF WRITER

The house lights are on for
this year’s Robert O. and Eliza-
beth M. Bentley Musical, Tony
Award—winner “The Secret Gar-
den.”

As author Frances Hodgson
Burnett said, “As long as one has
a garden, one has a future; and
as long as one has a future one
is alive.” This is the lesson that
Mary Lennox, played by Hannah
Kate Mitchell ’l0, learns in the
musical.

Based on the novel by Bur-
nett and with a powerful score
by Lucy Simon, it follows Mary,

Dreamers include several of

Cast is set, ready and waiting to take the stage, a ﬁrst for many and a ﬁnal W&L performance for Matt Amling

awesome.”

India after her parents and ev-
eryone she knows die of cholera.
Mary must live in Yorkshire,
England with her reclusive uncle
Archibald, played by senior Matt
Amling ’09, and his invalid son
Colin, played by Erika Rest ’09.

She soon learns from the
friendly, humorous gardener,
portrayed by Markheavens Tshu-
ma ’ 10, that the estate contains a
mysterious locked garden. Mary
gradually realizes that opening
the garden and unlocking the
magic within is the key to saving
her new-found family.

The cast is completed by
people from Mary’s past, known
as the Dreamers, who have died
from the cholera outbreak. The

an 11-year old girl orphaned in

Last Lectures

What to say zfiz‘ were the last?

By Rachel Denniston
smrr wrmen

University photographer and former professor Pat
Hinely urged the Washington and Lee community to be
open to different ideas and perspectives because they just
may hold some truth.

He encouraged students to live with, what he called,
the “and, also” approach to life~one that recognizes the
possibility of more than one right answer to life’s many
unanswered questions.

Given how little we know in the universe, we just can’t
be sure of anything, Hinely said.

A 1973 graduate of W&L, Hinely is well-known for
his photos from the University calendar and Web site. He
is also one of two photographers for “Seen on Campus,”
W&L’s online slideshow photo gallery.

Hinely spoke Thursday as the second of four lectur-
ers in the Last Lecture Series, a project created by senior
Eddie Rodriguez. Every Thursday in May a professor
presents a speech as if it was his last one ever. The topic
and format of each lecture is not revealed until the lecture
itself.

The series was based on the famous September 2007
last lecture of Randy Pausch, a professor diagnosed with
pancreatic cancer at Carnegie Mellon University

Pausch’s lecture focused on achieving one’s childhood
dreams and has been viewed by nearly ten million people
online.

Rodriguez said he was inspired by Pausch’s story and,
as a graduating senior, was curious to hear the hypotheti-
cal last words of several of his favorite professors.

Hinely showed the many ways that photography and
life parallel each other. He said that in both, one must
learn from mistakes.

Photography is an “all or nothing package,” he said.

“There is no way to not take bad pictures. As you prog-
ress, you may get more good ones, but you will also get
bad ones... [and these] bad ones must be studied,” Hinely
said.

He also reflected upon the nature of time.

“If there’s a certain thing you wanna do, start sooner
rather than later,” he said. “The light will be different to-
morrow.”

Rodriguez anticipates a good student response to the
lectures. He said that students already seem to be re-
sponding well; the event even has its own Facebook page,
where many students have RSVP-ed to attend.

According to Rodriguez, a video of each lecture will
be posted on YouTube for those unable to attend.

This Thursday, Dick Kuettner, professor of Romance
Languages and director of the Tucker Multimedia Center
will give his lecture. Thursday, May 28, Professor of Eco-
nomics James Casey will give his.

The lectures begin at 7 p.m. in Huntley Hall 221. They
are free and open to the public.

Mary’s servants from India, such
as including Fakir, played by
Tim Kirby ’ 10, and Ayah, played
by Blanton Cohen ’12 . Though
they exist only in Mary’s mind,
they are crucial to the plot, re-
vealing the living characters’
motivations. .

The cast comprises a wide
range of vocal talent and expe-
rience. Archibald’s long—dead
wife, Lily, is played by Stepha-
nie Shaner, a community mem-
ber with a great talent and expe-
rience in many singing roles. But
for much of the cast, “The Secret
Garden” is their debut on the col-
lege stage.

The cast is directed by Rob

Mish ’76 and coached by Josh
Harvey ’00, vocal coaches Larry
Evans and Christine Schadeberg,
Sarah Warsco ’ ll and Jenna
Worsham ’ 10. They have been
helping the students understand
the true meaning of the script
and songs, Harvey said. During
winter term, the cast was strong-
ly encouraged to keep a journal
of observations about the weath-
er for that day, in order to attune
themselves to nature.

Both Amling and Harvey
spoke of the challenge of putting
on this show. For Amling, the dif-
ﬁculty lies both in his character’s
songs and the emotional style of
acting required for his role.

“There are several instanc-

es where l...must portray the
character’s thoughts and feel-
ings without words and song and
using very little movement,” he
said.

Harvey commented on some
of the difficulties of coaching the
singers.

“The mutual challenge comes
in trying to bring everyone to the
same understanding. . investing
energy and presence fully during
all aspects of rehearsal,” Harvey
said.

Both men are optimistic
about the show’s future.

“Despite these challenges, the
show is coming along well, and
things are really beginning to
click,” Amling said. “It will be

The Theater and Music De-
partments at W&L have an
impressive track record with
musical productions, from the
Student Showcase in the fall to
last year’s musical “Little Shop
of Horrors,” and this year’s mu-
sical will prove to be no excep-
tion.

The production runs Thurs-
day through Sunday this week.
Tickets are available at the Box
Ofﬁce, campus phone extension
8000, Monday through Friday
from 9 to 11 a.m. and 2 to 4 p.m.,
or online at http://lenfest.wlu.
edu.

Across
1 Shark with a Maori
name

5 Cleans the poop

10 Roswell sightings

14 Mimicker

I5 Wine-niaking grape

I6 Hephaestus’ mother

'27 George and Bob
with sitcoms

20 Some ice chests

2! Inheritor, often

22 "Goilyl"

23 Chi Psi follower

26 Turn like a dervish

28 Dork with glasses

30 Request at the
barbershop

32 A&E spinoff, brieﬂy

33 Muscat native

36 Denver, for one

39 George and Bob
with universities

42 Not blabbing

43 Judd or Caznpbeli

44 Santa WW,
California

45 TV‘s Barbara

47 Bro

51 Religion with the
Horned God

54 Spud 

57 C heck for accuracy

58 Unliealthy looking

60 Say with certainty

62 George and Bob
with Inu.lti»plati.m.2:n
albums

65 Language mm

66 intestine section

67 Bounce, in slang

68 Makes a 605 shirt
69 Wait with

indifference
70 Tennis scoring units

George and Bob by Neville L. Fog-arty

Head over to ringtumphicrossword.blogspot.com to check your solution to this weeks puzzle?

 

E 2 3 4 5 (5 7 3 n in ll :2 13
:4 is in
E7 ix W
I
2e 27
3: 22
34 37 3x
4? as 49 so
55 56 57
{iii at
(:3 ()3 at
(:5 66 0?
68 {+9 7:;
Down 24 Sicilian mount 48 Punching bags, in
1 Defame 25 Betrayed satisfaction C3”°°“5
2 Orbital point 27 His wife became salt ‘*9 T"lCi"~9*3"

3 Studier of 2»Down, 29
among other things 3;

1

4 Cookie in cookies ‘in

cream 34
5 Involuntary fit
6 Ta.k.e the pennant 35
7 Common 37
conjunction
8 Tree in an office 38
9 Dance with African
roots 39
19 "Yeah"
11 Fitting the ‘
parameters 40

12 Some planetariums 41
13 Took a load off 42
18 Bronx attraction

19 "omoz" 46

Two tablets, perhaps 50
"Powerpuff Girls“

"llead of the Wm

—C2H5 funct ional
groups

«I

U

( "Aladdin" song)
"Moons  my
,,,,,,,,,, N" (_i)e:rny‘s dish’)
Female gametes
1989 film "The
Adxrentnres of Milo

Ii

Marbles and such

Lcpidopterisfs need
l{erecord audio

villian 52

"Hey WW?" (What 53 upmlcc
they say in Jamaica)

Beilum lead~in 55

Jamie L nn "' 

now y Sp“ C 56

199?. Barenakeci 59

Ladies single

MW of Magic A and rm
(“Harry Potter” 51
’m1reat:.cracy) 62 Dttawn
Way to order 63

SNIJS Carvey 64

2004 film with

cassette tapes
A fesitvat oflights

  

MONDAY, MAY 18, 2009

  

4 ° THE RING-TUM PHI

sports

 

  
     
 

            

Tuss WED Tuuns FRI SAT
at
Wome_n’s NCAA Indlvldual
Tenms championships
Men's 3*
hack NCAA Championships
Women's at
Track NCAA championships

 

numbers
33

The number of consecutive matches Rafael Nadal won on clay courts
before Roger Federer beat him (6-4, 6-4) in the championships of the

Madrid Open Sunday.

2

The number of pitches thrown by Angels starting pitcher John Lackey
in his season debut Saturday, after he was ejected for hitting Rangers

second baseman lan Kinsler. The Angels lost the game 3-5.

.333

Tampa Bay Rays starting pitcher Andy Sonnanstine’s batting average
after a pregame lineup mistake forced him to bat in the Rays‘ 7-5 win
over the Indians Sunday. Manager Joe Maddon submitted a lineup
card that listed Evan Longoria and Ben Zobrist as thirdbasemen and

excluded a designated hitter.

 

box

“I think he was comfortable with the people he

was around. But I think the circumstances made
him uncomfortable.  There was a little uneasi-
ness on both sides.”

Los Angeles Dodgers manager Joe Torre on Manny Ramirez’s visit to
the team’s hotel to apologize for his 50-game suspension for violating
MLB’s drug policy. Courtesy of espn.com.

“We feel great about that. l’ve been on those
Knicks teams where he had some predictions. 
But the Patrick prediction makes me feel better.”

Boston Celtics coach Doc Rivers after Orlando Magic assistant

coach Patrick Ewing guaranteed a win for the Magic in game seven

gt the teams’ NBA playoff series Sunday. Courtesy of the Orlando
entinel.

“The hiring of A.J., I thought, was a poor decision.
 He doesn.’t have any credibility between the
lines as a manager. That, for me, just wasn’t go-
ing to work.”

Former Arizona Diamondbacks pitching coach Bryan Price, who
resigned after the Diamondbacks fired manager Bob Melvin, on the
hiring of 35-year-old A.J. Hinch two weeks ago. Courtesy of the Marin
independent Journal.

“Who wants to be playing baseball when there
are streamers everywhere? It wasn’t funny. It
wasn’t fun. It was brutal. When was the last time
you’ve seen that at a baseball game? I under-
stand having a pompom giveaway, but you need
to get the right kind of pompoms that don’t fall
apart.”

Florida Marlins second baseman Dan Uggla after a game Saturday in
which strands from a pompom promotional giveaway covered Land
Shark Stadium. The Marlins broke a five-game losing streak, beating
the Dodgers 6-3. Courtesy of yahoo.sports.com.

W&L falls in NCAAS

Baseball loses to Salisbury, Washington & Jeﬂerson to end season

By Megan Dally
STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee baseball
team fell to Salisbury 2-3 on Wednesday
and Washington & Jefferson (W&J) 3-8
to Thursday in the double-elimination
NCAA Division III tournament.

Coming off the baseball team’s ﬁrst-
ever ODAC championship, the Generals
were hoping to keep their momentum
rolling. F irst-year outﬁelder Brian Sellier
said the team was not nervous to start the
tournament. “It’s a special opportunity
for the team since we have never been
this far before. As soon as we got here,
we have all been really loose because we
know that we belong,” he said.

On the opening day of South Region
play on Wednesday at Arthur W. Perdue
Stadium, the eighth-seeded Generals
were matched up with the top-seeded and
nationally third-ranked Salisbury.

W&L grabbed a 2-0 lead in the third
inning on a two-run single by junior
catcher Will Lewis. This drove in junior
third baseman Jim Plantholt and senior
centerﬁelder Terrence McKelvey.

In the bottom half of the third, the Sea
Gulls loaded the bases with no outs. They
amassed two runs tying the game at 2.
And then in the fourth inning on an RBI
double, Salisbury took the 3-2 lead.

“We just didn’t pull it together,” Plan-
thold said. “We didn’t just have a chance;
we should have won. It was so close, 3
to 2. We played well, but there was still
some left in the tank.”

W&L outhit the Sea Gulls 7-2 and re-
ceived a great showing from junior right-
hander Chuck Davidson, who held the
nation’s most productive offense to just
two hits and three runs. Salisbury went
into the tournament having scored an av-
erage of 10.8 runs per game.

McKelvey led W&L, going 3-for-4
at the plate with two doubles and a run
scored. Lewis was 1-for-3 with a pair of
RBI, and Plantholt was 1-for-3 with a run
scored. Davidson gave up just one un-
earned run and two walks in eight innings

but took the loss.

The Generals returned to South Re-
gional action on Thursday taking on ﬁfth-
seeded W&J.

W&J bats were hot in the ﬁrst inning
as they took a quick 5-0 lead. They piled
up three singles, a pair of walks, a hit bat-
ter and one General error to amass their
runs. The Presidents extended their lead
to 7-0 in the fourth inning on an RBI
single.

runs batted in (28) and Peyster ﬁnished
second with 27.

The loss ends the Generals’ season
at 22-15, the seventh time in the last ten
seasons that W&L has posted at least
20 wins. As four senior baseball players
graduate this spring, they have set a new
expectation and standard for the future of
Generals’ baseball.

Senior pitcher and ﬁrst baseman An-
drew Henderson gave his ﬁnal thoughts

“Everyone truly loved playing on that ﬁeld with one an-

other It was a season players and fans will remember for

years to come. It was the best team I ’ve ever been a part

Of!)

Andrew Henderson, senior pitcher/first baseman
 

In the eighth inning, W&L ﬁnally re-
corded a run. McKelvey singled Plantholt
home to make it 7-1. After W&J scored in
the top of the ninth to make it 8-1, W&L
scored a pair of runs in the bottom half
of the inning on an RBI single by se-
nior second baseman Byron Peyster and
a sacriﬁce ﬂy by sophomore rightﬁelder
Anthony Cardona to account for the ﬁnal
score of 8-3.

Senior righthander Brendan Clark
started and took the loss (4-3) for the Gen-
erals. He allowed seven runs (3 earned)
on seven hits and four walks in ﬁve in-
nings of work. He struck out ﬁve.

At the plate, McKelvey once again
paced the Generals, going 1-for-4, with an
RBI. McKelvey also ﬁnished the season
leading the Generals in batting average
(.421) and slugging percentage (.643).
First-year outﬁelder Mike Decembrino
added a pinch-hit single, and junior ﬁrst
baseman Hunter Serenbetz had a double
in his four at bats. Peyster and Cardona
both ﬁnished 1-for-3 with an RBI. Car-
dona ﬁnished the season with the most

on the 2009 season. “It was great to see
the team come together throughout the
entire season. Of course no one really
considered us a contender coming into
the season, but we worked extremely hard
up until the last day of the tournament to
become a cohesive team.

“Everyone truly loved playing on that
ﬁeld with one another. It was a season
players and fans will remember for years
to come. It was the best team I’ve ever
been a part of.”

Wednesday's Score ‘
W&L 2»
Salisbury 3

Th ursday’s Score
wan. , 3
war 8

Golf places 17th at NCAAs

Gibson, Watts leaa’ Generals with 5 1 st place ﬁnish

By Will Dorrance
SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee golf team
ended its 2009 season with a 17th place
ﬁnish at the NCAA tournament this past
Wednesday through Saturday. Thirty-six
teams participated in the four-day nation-
al tournament at the PGA Village in Port
St. Lucie, Fla.

The Generals qualiﬁed for the NCAA
tournament by winning the ODAC tour-
nament April 18-20.

Oglethorpe earned ﬁrst place by
shooting a +12 overall (301-284-290-
289-1164). Oglethorpe’s sophomore
Olafur Loftsson won the individual title
(75-73-68-69—285) after beating La
Veme’s junior Mitchell F edorka in a one-
hole playoff.

Juniors Joe Gibson (73-70-83—79—
305) and Brad Watts (77-75-75-78—-305)
led the Generals, tying for 51st overall at
+17. Junior Robert Womble was next in

line for W&L, ﬁnishing in a tie for 76th
place at +22 (75-83-75-77~3 10). Junior
Matt Langan was +33 on the four-day
tournament, tying for 108th (84-77-78-
82v321). In his last collegiate tourna-
ment, senior Andrew Green carded a
+35 for a 114th place tie (78-80-83-82—
323).

After the ﬁrst day of the tournament,
the Generals were tied for 19th place with
a team score of 303. On Thursday and
Friday, W&L fought ‘its way up to 15th
place with scores of 302 and 311, respec-
tively. On Saturday, the ﬁnal day, the
team dropped to 17th place after shooting
its worst collective round, 316.

The team ﬁnished this year’s NCAA
tournament one spot behind its 16th
place ﬁnish last season. And the Gener-
als distributed the workload more evenly
this year as they lost their star Nathaniel
James to graduation; James, a current as-
sistant coach for the team, tied for third at
last year’s national tournament.

Watts, Gibson and Langan, the three

players who played in both the 2008 and
2009 NCAA tournaments, all improved
on their individual ﬁnishes. Watts tied
for 70th last year (51st in 2009); Gibson
tied for 87th last year (5lst in 2009); and
Langan tied for 110th last year (108th in
2009).

Before NCAAs, Watts spoke of the
team’s goals against the stiff competition.
“In any tournament your goal is to win,
but with a 16th place ﬁnish last year, we
are looking to improve on that and hope-
fully ﬁnish in the top 10."

Although the team did not meet
Watts’s goal, W&L ends its season with
a top-20 ﬁnish in the NCAA tournament
for the second consecutive year. The
Generals have also now won the confer-
ence crown two years in a row.

W&L will only lose two seniors from
this year’s team, Green and Beau Allen.
With a roster full of underclassmen talent
to return for next year, the team seems to
have a bright future ahead of itself.

  
 

 

9'

  

 

NEWS / page 2

WASHINGN LEE UNIVERSITY

HE RING-TUM PHI.

TUESDAY, MAY 26, 2009

BY THE

STUDENTS AND

FOR THE STUDENTS SINCE

1897

VOLUME CXII,

NUMBER 22

Q;

’ Rockbridge Rapids to open season

Brand new baseball team, including W&Lfs Chuck Davidson, starts on June 5; will play home games at W&L

‘I

By Will Dorrance
SPORTS EDITOR

After many months of plan-
ning, the Rockbridge Rapids, a
new team in the Valley Baseball
League, are set to begin their in-
augural season on June 5. The
Rapids will play all their home
games at Washington and Lee’s
Captain Dick Smith Field.

Founded in 1923, the Valley
Baseball League (VBL) is de-
signed to give top-level college
baseball players ‘ an opportunity
to play competitive baseball dur-
ing the summer.

The Rapids will play in the

South Division, along with the
Covington Lumberjacks, Har-
risonburg Turks, New Market
Rebels, Staunton Braves and
Waynesboro Generals. The teams
comprising the North Division
include the Fauquier Gators,
Front Royal Cardinals, Haymar-
ket Senators, Luray Wranglers,
Winchester Royals and Wood-

stock River Bandits.

Jim Crothers, a 1966 W&L
graduate, serves as the team’s
president. He explained why the
team joined the league. “The Val-
ley League is very prestigious, is
well-established, and has good
credibility and history,” he said.

Known as the “Gateway to the
Majors,” the league has devel-
oped far more than l,000 profes-
sionals in its extended history.

In January, the team an-
nounced the hiring of Mark
Mace as the head coach. Mace,
currently the head coach at East-
ern Mennonite, is a Rockbridge
County native. He said he is
excited for the season to begin.
“It’s just a wonderful opportunity
for me on the coaching end and
having an extra bonus of being
home,” he said.

Mace, Crothers and general
manager Ken Newman jointly re-
cruited all 32 players on the ros-
ter. Mace shared his strategies
throughout the recruiting process.

“My goal was to recruit a young
team and a team that was fast,”
he said. “That’s what the Rapids
are going to look like.”

A 1971 W&L graduate, New-
man said they considered more
than baseball talent when search-
ing for players. “We were looking

summer, he said, “It was an op-
portunity I couldn’t pass up. It
allows me to keep playing com-
petitively over the summer, play
with some of the top players
around the nation and contribute
to a top-level organization.”
Each Rapids player will be

“It allows me to keep playing competitively

over the summer, play with some of the top

players around the nation. ”

chuck Davldsoni W&L Iunlor rlﬁht-hander and Rapids player

for good ballplayers, individuals
who represent themselves. We
feel very strongly that we want to
have the right type of players on
and off the field.”

W&L’s junior right-hander
Chuck Davidson is the only Rap-
ids player from a Division III
school. Looking forward to the

paired with a host family for their
two-month stay in Lexington.
According to Newman, in addi-
tion to nullifying lodging costs,
the housing program serves other
beneﬁts for the players and the
organizations. ‘

“It’s an important part of the
program because with having our

players stay with families, they
learn a lot about our community,”
he said.

On the ﬁeld, the team expects
to be vying for a top spot in the
VBL standings. Mace said his
goal for the season is to be one
of the eight teams to make the
playoffs. “Once you get into the
playoffs, then you have a second
season. You can worry about that
then,” he said.

Crothers agreed with this
comment. “We were at a team
meeting on Thursday, and...
everyone talked about wanting
to ‘kick each others’ butts,’ and
that’s what we want to do.”

He continued, “We plan to be
competitive, and we think we’ve
got some really good players. We
recognize, on the other hand, that
we don’t have the long-term con-
nections with the big boys in col-
lege baseball, such as Miami and
LSU.”

Mace is excited to start the
team’s ﬁrst season. “The Rapids’

being an expansion team is an
advantage for us because the tone
we set this year will kind of be
echoed for years to come. I think
the kids are going to buy into the
responsibility of the Rockbridge
Rapids. Hey, the way we play is
going to be the way the Rapids
are,” Mace said.

Crothers and the rest of the
Rockbridge Rapids are ready
to ﬁnally get the season under
way. ‘‘I anticipate it’s going to be
fantastic. The buzz on the street
and the word from community
groups, from sports fans, families
throughout the community has
been outstanding. We’Ve had ter-
riﬁc support from our sponsors,”
he said.

“I’ve said this many times:
[baseball] belongs in places like
Lexington.”

 

UNIVERSIW LIBRARY
WASHINGTON & LEE umveasnv
LEXINGTON. VA 24450

   

2 - THE RING-TUM PHI

TUESDAY, MAY 26,2009

MAY 2 8 Zillﬂ

 

Goshen

continued from page 1

the economy of the selected location” because
of the number of visitors it attracts.

The Lexington City Council voted in April to
support the BSA’s efforts to move to Goshen be-
cause of the potential for positive economic im-
pact.

To confront some of these issues, the Rock-
bridge Area Conservation Council (RACC) held
an informational meeting and community forum at
Rockbridge County High School on May 13. The
meeting allowed representatives ﬁom the BSA to
speak and community members to voice their opin-
ions.

The meeting brought up the major concerns of

Rockbridge County residents and the BSA: the
safety of the dam, availability of water, water qual-
ity, sewage, trafﬁc and emergency evacuation.

The development will also require the construc-
tion of several roads and a system for trash remov-
al, among other necessary facilities.

One community member at the meeting was
especially concerned with the problem of dealing
with an emergency during the Jamboree. He does
not think the area will be properly prepared. “My
fear is that Scouts are going to die as a result,” he
said.

But Kary Smout, an English professor at W&L
who helped organize the forum with RACC, em-

phasized there are lots of mixed opinions on both
sides of the issue and that no decision has been
made yet. The BSA will spend time studying the
area before deciding how to act, and if the prob-
lems cannot be solved, the Jamboree will not be
held at the chosen location.

Goshen may be the BSA’s top choice, but Sm-
out said the decision is “absolutely not a done deal”
and “very much still in process.” He acknowledged
that Rockbridge County residents have reason to
be concerned, but he said there is nothing to panic
about yet.

The Jamboree has previously been held at Fort
A.P. Hill in Caroline County, near Richmond.

The next Jamboree after the location change is
scheduled for 2013, but the BSA said the date will
probably be pushed back because of the criticisms
being raised.

Recognizing outstanding Generals

Five seniors win the Ring-tum Phi award for their leadership and contributions to the Washington and Lee community

By Findley Merritt and Jessica Strait
STAFF wrursns

An involved recruiter

Dima Slavin displays W&L pride through several
activities; read an interview with this devoted and well-
rounded tour guide and fraternity brother

What do you think you have contributed to W&L?

My contributions are varied. I don’t think I have done a single thing that the school couldn’t have
found someone else to do. However, it would have taken a lot of different people to do all that I’ve
done, since I have been involved in so many different things. Someone from my fraternity would
have had to take up the massive work, stress and time commitment of being president. Someone
from the SRC would have to take on the work commitment of being a co-chair, along with com-
mitments in various other organizations. I am sure that those people could be found, but by being
around, I managed to ﬁll all those roles and keep many diﬂerent wheels at this University turning.

What are your plans after graduation? Where else were you accepted?

I am going to Yale Law School next year where hopefully I can continue a lot of
what I have been doing at W&L (especially theater). My acceptance list is long (14 law
schools) but I chose Yale most immediately over Harvard and Columbia Law Schools.

What have you learned at W&L?

It would take pages to describe everything I’ve learned in my four years. To sum it up in one word:
service. I have been amazed by the willingness of W&L students to help each other, the school, the com-
munity and the world. In every class I have taken and activity I participated in, there have been people
willing to step up to leadership positions because they felt like working for others. A lot of these people
- whether they are recruitment chairs or house managers of fraternities or secondary leaders of our many
charitable organizations - never get any kind of recognition around campus. I have never been around so
many such people, and I think I picked up a lot from my fellow students and professors of this mindset.

What else are you involved in on campus?
I have gotten involved in W&L Theater this year after being amazed with the work that our actors
and actresses and crew do. I love being around them, and I hope my performances are as enjoyable

“I think the most important quality for a leader to have is selﬂess-

ness. I have always taken as role models people who prefer to stay

1

out of the limelight but manage to change lives. ’

as theirs have always been for me. As for being president of my fraternity, I did it because someone
had to, and I was willing to take on the responsibilities. I have also been involved with both Hillel
and Reformed University Fellowship, embracing both my parents’ religion. Being a tour guide, and a
leader in the SRC, is, like theater, a way for me to combine my love of talking with my love for W&L.

What do you think makes a leader? Who do you look up to, on campus or off?

As I said earlier, I think the most important quality for a leader to have is selﬂessness. I have
always taken as role models people who prefer to stay out of the limelight but manage to change
lives. Any professor who, rather than writing a letter to the editor, encourages a student to take
action falls under this category. So do stage managers of shows and chiefs of staff of politicians.

You’re involved with Student Recruitment Committee. What do you do for that, and why did you
decide to become involved?

I was, until a month ago, Co-Chair for Attendance and Special Tours. As such, I had to make sure
that our tour guides showed up for their tour times, or found substitutes if they could not. I would also
schedule tour guides for special tours such as school visits, Johnson Scholar week, Admitted Students
Day, etc. Before that, I served for a year as Co-Chair for Special Projects. In both of those positions, I
had the honor of being part of the team that chose new tour guides, and I am very proud of the guides we
have chosen so far. Of course, I have also been a tour guide the entire time and that is the part of the job
I have enjoyed most. Being such a small school, it is rare to meet new people at W&L, but being a tour
guide, you always get to meet people new to Lexington and show them everything is wonderful at W&L.

How has W&L changed you?

Surprisingly, after four years of studying hard and doing the most concentrated learning of my career
as a double major, my biggest changes is that I am more well rounded. I came in to W&L as a bit of a nerd,
my only hobbies outside school were hockey and debate. Now I head to law school worrying that I will not
be able to set aside enough time for academics with everything else I hope to do. My friends freshman year
did a great job pushing me out of my shell, and not even Yale Law is going to be able to put me back in it.

Becoming more aware

Regina Mills seeks to shine light on sexual assault and
women is health issues on campus

You’re part of KEWL on campus. What do you think Love Your Body week helped to accom-
plish?

I have been a member of the executive board of KEWL since sophomore year. I have been a member
since I ﬁrst arrived.. Love Your Body Week has helped increase increase awareness and anger people
about the things students, especially women, feel they must hide, namely the ubiquitous experiences of
sexual assault, body image problems, etc. Students on this campus didn’t start asking about sexual ha-
rassment - I’ve seen a couple of opinion pieces recently which have used that term and that is incorrect.
they asked about the real problem of sexual assault. [Over 20 percent] of women on this campus have
experienced “unwanted sexual touching,” which is not harassment. It is assault. I think we made people
aware of the issues of reporting and made students think about where victims have to turn.

“Those who make change care very greatly about the endeavors
they undertake and I think they cause others to care about them
and look for change as well. They are not aﬁraid to have their

voices heard. ”

What made you decide to become involved with KEWL?

I received a letter in the mail over the summer from the KEWL leadership. Even though at the time I
did not do anything or know anything about the status of women’s rights on this campus or in society in
general, I was pulled to the idea of being surrounded by strong women who wanted to change things.

Do you think the issues raised led to campus issues involving the EC and sexual harrassment?
Does KEWL plan to do this again next year?

A lot more questions have been asked about SFHB, CAIR, and other means by which the school
deals with sexual assault. Thus, when the student body meeting was held, these issues dominated the
discussion because they had been on people’s minds for a long time. I think some very important things
were revealed, some uplifting, but many disheartening. I hope that the combination of LYBW and the
student body meeting spurred some students to act. I know that I often feel like I got started on these
issues too late because I didn’t know enough and didn’t know where to look until senior year. KEWL
and the student body meeting helped some leaders on this campus by making sure they can skip these
inforrnation-gathering steps and get to ﬁxing the problems. LYBW is deﬁnitley planned for next year
and I hope to hear about it - even when I’m in Phoenix.

Do you hold any other leadership positions on campus?

I’ve been on the Ladies’ Club Board as Health and Fitness Chair, served as the ﬁnancial and corre-
sponding secretary of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc., served as vice president and president of KEWL
, been the Culture and Education Director of WLUR 91.5 as well as a host of She Speaks radio show
since spring term freshman year and volunteered at Project Horizon.

What have you learned at W&L, and how has it changed you?

I found my passion at W&L, which is dealing with issues of gender equity in every area of society.
I never thought I’d ﬁnd that passion here, since being a feminist or being an activist for pretty much
any cause seems to raise eyebrows here. I didn’t come here either of those things, but I’m glad to be
both now. I have learned that if you wait for someone to change something, you can’t expect anything
to change. Also, very rarely can you get something done solely on your own. You need to build support
systems and make people see how these issues affect themselves and those they care for.

What did you major in, and what are your plans after graduation?
English, Sociology and Anthropology, concentration in Women’s Studies. I will be leaving for Phoe-
nix shortly after graduation to teach in underresourced schools through Teach for America.

What do you think makes a leader?

Passion and an activist spirit. Those who make change care very greatly about the endeavors they
undertake and I think they cause others, though certainly not everybody, to care about them and look for
change as well. They are not afraid to have their voices heard.

Who do you look up to, on campus or off.’

I look up to so many people, especially on this campus: the professors in the English department,
Professor Mayock in the Spanish department, the leaders (and ﬁiture leaders) of KEWL. Our campus
has many admirable people.

What changes do you hope for in future years at W&L?

I hope that we create a campus climate more conducive towards reducing and reporting sexual as-
sault. I hope we have a better system to deal with them, since right now the systems we have in place
seem woefully inadequate. I hope that more women run for and are elected to the EC and that alcohol
offenses, especially DUI’s, are taken more seriously and punished more justly than they currently seem
to be. Of course, these are big changes -- but they are not impossible.

 

TUESDAY, MAY 26, 2009

3 ' THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Bringing and sharing laughter across the campus

Morgan Harris ’s work with GAB, Wednesday Night Live and other organizations helps cheer W&L, community

The trademark curly ‘fro is gone, but Morgan
Harris still remains a household name around the
Washington and Lee Community.

The Ring-Tum Phi has decided to honor him
with a “Phi Award” for his work starting GAB
Comedy and Sig Ep, improving gender relations,
and his involvement with Wednesday Night Live.

A native of Maine and politics/sociology double
major, Harris began his unwavering involvement
with student life at the beginning of his freshmen
year.

With the promise of re-established Sigma Phi
Epsilon, Harris decided to make the fraternity a
“creative hub on campus.”

“My friends and I had this wonderful opportuni-
ty to bring something fresh to Greek life,” he said.

Fresh and creative it is. The fraternity had the
ﬁrst student band night and continues to have mul-
tiple members play in and form bands.

Harris also took the initiative to bring other

forms of entertainment to W&L.

He single-handedly began GAB Comedy, which
is responsible for bringing comedians, recently Bo
Burnham, to W&L.

“When I ﬁrst arrived at school, I was confused
as to why there were no comedy acts and only con-

“My friends and I had this
wonderful opportunity to bring
something fresh to Greek life. ”

Morgan Harrls, Phl Award wlnner

certs for entertainment,” Harris said.

He relentlessly petitioned for money, and by his
sophomore year, he was able to get three to ﬁve
comedians, all of which have now become big-time

comedic writers.

But Harris has also been involved in correcting
structural issues throughout campus, most notably
working to improve gender relations by starting
plans for the ﬁrst co—ed ﬂoor as an option for ﬁrst-
year students.

“We are one of the few schools that still have
segregated ﬂoors,” Harris said.

He developed the idea of a co-ed ﬂoor after rec-
ognizing that gender relations could not be com-
pletely ﬁxed by simply organizing events.

“We’re putting Band Aids on something instead
of going to the source,” he said.

The source, Harris thinks, is the living system.

Therefore, he met with President Ruscio, Dean
Watkins, Dean Leonard, among others in a series
of meetings in which he lobbied for a “pilot” co-ed
ﬂoor.

Next fall, he will get his wish.

But Harris is not without theatrical attributes.

He’s been involved with the Theater Depart-
ment, most recently Wednesday Night Live.

“I’ve wanted to do theater,” said Harris, “but up
until now, I haven’t had the time or opportunity. So,
I made a resolution to perform this year.”

As for next year?

“I am 90% sure that I will be working in the
Washington and Lee Communications Office for a
student voice website, with the plan of developing a
communication structure between the student body
and various student organizations’ events.”

It is just another way Harris is starting impor-
tant dialogues, ﬁxing problems, and bringing out
W&L’s creative side.

Building a sense of community from the dorms onward

 

F our—year Gilliam resident Wesley 0 ’Dell ensures that freshmen and upperclassmen have a good stay

You’re the head of the Resident Adviser (RA) program. What
were your responsibilities?

I’m responsible for overseeing staff operations for all 50 RAs
in the ﬁrst-year and upperclassmen residence halls. In that capacity,
I’m a resource for RAs who need assistance or advice in carrying
out their roles as counselors and university ofﬁcers. One of my most
important duties is planning and executing an intense, two-week
training program in mid—August that combines classroom instruc-
tion, ﬁeld exercises, and leadership and team building training for
the Residence Life Staff.

Why did you choose to be an RA?

I chose to be an RA, then called a DC, because it seemed the most
direct path I could take to help build and protect the sense of com-
munity that makes W&L a wonderful place to go to school. One of
the things I got involved with very early on campus was the Student
Recruitment Committee; it occurred to me one day when I was giv-
ing a tour that I was making a lot of promises -- promises about a
welcoming, open campus that was united by a common respect and
decency that cut across secondary distinctions like Greek aﬁiliation
or class year. I ﬁgured the best way to keep those promises was to
work with freshmen to ensure that respect was built early on the hall
level.

What’s the best thing about being an RA?

The best thing about the job is the people -- you get to be of
some beneﬁt to a new batch of fresh faces every year while working
with a collection of some of the best and brightest our campus has
to offer. The worst thing is seeing, year after year, new members of
our community make the same mistakes that negatively impact their
time here.

Do you have any funny stories or experiences you’ll always re-
member from your time spent as an RA?

Funny stories? Well, there was the resident who got it into his
head that his end-of-year goal was to take a picture with me while
he was butt naked. I spent quite a few weeks dodging a large, nude

freshman on my hall. All in good fun. Mostly. Of course, there are
a bunch more that I can’t talk about. Hot pursuit of Health Center
escapees is always a hoot.

Move-in days are always interesting. Once I was carrying a
young woman’s luggage up to her room and it slipped, spilling
her bras out onto the floor and holding up the line of movers. I
bent down to pick them up but I found that I couldn’t force them
back into their drawer. So I started pushing down on them to cre-
ate space. It was at this point that I heard a voice from behind me
in the line: “Having trouble?” It was Dean Watkins. Watching me
squeeze some girl’s bras. If I remember correctly, I stood and walked
back downstairs in shame. The very next thing I randomly pull out
of the car’s trunk in the quad: tampons. A giant box of tampons.

Were you involved in any other leadership positions on campus?
What do you think makes a leader?

I served as Chairman of the Student Recruitment Committee
for about a year and a half. As for what makes a leader, I’d say
empathy and loyalty. You have to be able to put yourself in the

“I ’ve learned that the greatest education

‘ you ’ll get in life is from the people around

you and that the greatest privilege in life is

1

that of being around them. ’

 
shoes of those you’re leading. You also have to learn to be loyal
to them, to those that lead you, and to earn their loyalty in return.

What do you think makes you a leader? Who do you look up to,
on campus or off?

My ﬁrst answer is the kind respect and patience of those who
work with me! Their trust is absolutely vital.

Changing student life through an
array of positive inﬂuences

Extremely involved in Traveller, residential life and theater, Rebecca
Koval commits to improving student life through leadership

You may know her as the girl who can
really scream.

But despite the YouTube links and Face-
book groups dedicated to her booming vocal
cords as displayed at Mock Convention last
year, the Washington and Lee student body
recognizes Rebecca Koval for her inﬂuen-
tial impact on the quality of student life.

Koval gets a Ring-tum Phi Award for her

knew it was the place for me when I visited
and saw how this university was so unique
and charming,” Koval said.

Indeed, her love for the W&L community
has been reﬂected through all of her lasting
impacts on campus.

Koval became an RA her junior year be-
cause she wanted to connect more with un-
derclassmen. She had the “perfect freshmen

“When I read about it, I was so skeptical of the Honor

system. However: I knew it was the place for me when I

visited and saw how this university was so unique and

' 1)
charming.

Rebecca Koval Phl Award wlnner
 

work serving ﬁrst-year students as a Resi-
dent Adviser (RA) and Rho Gamma, lead-
ing Traveller and being active in the W&L
Theater Department.

Now a graduating senior, Koval is an
English major from Buffalo.

She chose W&L because it was too
“freakish” to be real.

“It’s true. When I read about it, I was so
skeptical of the Honor System. However, I

year” and wanted to guide students through
that transition so that they could have a sim-
ilar experience.

Closely linked to her work as an RA,
Koval also became a peer counselor because
she wanted to become more committed to
student life. And by her senior year, she had
been promoted to head peer counselor.

The Rho Gamma position enticed Koval
because it gave her the opportunity to have

an even more open relationship with under-
classmen on her hall.

“Rush can be both terrifying and excit-
ing. When I was completely disafﬁliated, it
was much easier for girls to communicate
with me and not feel awkward,” she said.

She began working with Traveller at the
end of her freshman year, and she was pro-
moted to a leadership position this year.

“This program is such an incredible asset
to our school. It just helps shed light on our
campus’ uniqueness,” she said.

Koval has also either been in or worked
with a theater production every year. She’s
performed in numerous “One Acts” as well
as “Play it Again, Sam” and most recently,
Wednesday Night Live.

Clearly, her versatility and commitment
to student life has made her worthy of this
award.

Her plans for next year?

Koval will be volunteering with Ameri-
Corps for one year living as a surrogate par-
ent and residential life advisor for l2 other
girls in a safe house.

Something tells us she’s pretty qualiﬁed
for that position.

Who do you look up to, on campus or off.’

I look up to President Ruscio here on campus; he was the Head
DC while he was here, and he’s always spoken to me about the job
with the kind of understanding that you can only get from having
done it yourself.

What are your plans after graduating W&L?
I’ll be spending next year at the University of Cambridge com-
pleting a master’s degree in Modern European History.

What have you learned from attending W&L?

l’ve learned that the greatest education you’ll get in life is from
the people around you and that the greatest privilege in life is that of
being around them.

Any RA habits you’ll carry along with you after graduating?
An unshakable hatred of move-in days.

What dorm that you lived in was your favorite?
I have only lived in Gilliam, so...Yes, that’s all four years. Never
been done before. I take a sick pride in that.

             

Celebmﬁng “:1 pin are like no o.tFser""

  

 

tulates the  lass of      

 

  longrv

    

 ccalaureitte iewice
Wednesday, June 3

10:00 am.
Colonnade in front of the Lee Chapel

 

    duation
Thursday, June 4

10:00 am.
Colonnade in front of the Lee Chapel

 

celebrate this aoeoniplisllltlent
with
 special remembrance giftl

    
   

                         
Satur ay,1vlay 30, 10:00 am. — 5:00 pm.
Sunday, 1vlay31, 10:00 a.n1—5:00p.n1
Monday, June 1 through Thursday, June 4, 8:00 ELl'I'1. — 71:00 pm.

 

Thank you for helping the University
hwy using your UNIVERSITY STORE!

All revenues go directly lLOWEI.t'[1S University scholarships, salaries and
e  W'asl1in,crton and Lee on eratina budget

 

  

‘ Senior farewell: behave yourself

TUESDAY, MAY 26, 2009

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

opinions

In his ﬁnal Phi article, Jacob Geiger talks W&L—Lex Po relations and frat fears

By Jacob Geiger
COLU M NIST

I’ve spilled a lot of ink
in these pages over the last
four years, and I’m proud the
work and coverage the Phi has
provided to the school in the last
four years.

I’ve hit every section at least
once: front page news, sports, a
bushel of editorials and even a
theater review. Yeah, I still don’t
know if that theater review was
any good or not.

We’ve covered changes in
fraternity life, the Pi Phi ﬁre,
dam safety at J ordan’s Point, the
ﬁrst open hearing in 12 years,
the Bracket controversy and
now the effort by W&L students
to ﬁnally push the Executive
Committee down the path to
more open government.

These are all key issues, and
they’ve all been talked to death
at one time or another.

As I head towards graduation
and—gulp—the real world, there
are two pressing issues that our
student body needs to address
next year.

The ﬁrst issue is student
relationships with the local
police. Frankly, there is no
relationship right now except
one of mutual disdain and
dislike.

Both sides are to blame
here. Too many of the younger
ofﬁcers are jerks who are rude
and arrogant around students.
Ofﬁcer Condry, I’m looking at
you speciﬁcally. And it seems
like the Lexington Police
Department has been on some
sort of no—tolerance kick,
breaking up partiers earlier
and clearing out houses more
aggressively.

The real shame of this
behavior is that it obscures the
wonderful work of ofﬁcers like
Lt. Bucky Smith, who has been
going out of his way to be a
friend to W&L students since
most of us were in elementary
school.

The students share half the
blame, of course. We’re too often
loud, rude and disrespectful. We
yell at the oﬂicers when they
break up parties and some bozos
even enjoy throwing beers at

their squad cars.

I’m not entirely sure how
the student—police relationship
went so sour in Lexington. I
just know that if anyone wants
to see things improve, it’s up
to ordinary students to start
building relationships with the

relationships will hurt us far
more than they hurt the police.
The other issue that students-
and note that I didn’t say
“students and administrators”-
must address is the rash of
fraternity suspensions we’ve
seen in the past two years: Kappa

Here is the potential problem. If fraternities

are afraid that any parties in their house

could land them in hot water, things will

move out to the country increasing the risk

of drunk driving.

police. Groups like the Campus
Community Coalition have
certainly made a big impact
around Windfall and the Pole
Houses, but in town a one-
group approach isn’t going to
work. If things don’t change,
relationships are only going
to get worse, not better. And
since the cops are the ones
with the handcuffs, worsening

Sig in summer 2007, SAE last
spring and now Phi Psi this
winter. During that same span
both KA and FIJI came right to
the brink of being thrown off
campus.

There is no misunderstanding
the school’s message. If you get
caught hazing, you’re probably
on your way out. If you can’t
keep a close reign on parties,

you’re going to get busted.

Here’s the potential problem.
If fraternities are afraid that any
parties in their houses could land
them in hot water, things will
move out to the country. That
means putting more strain on
Traveller and increasing the risk
of drunk driving. After working
so hard in the past decade to
dramatically cut down on drunk
driving, we cannot afford to see
those trends reverse themselves.

And it would also be a
shame to see some of the nicest
fraternity houses in the nation
wasted or kept empty. W&L
didn’t spend millions of dollars
on renovations to have two or
three houses empty all the time.

This year the university
scrapped the much-despised
Student Affairs Committee and
allowed appeals of IF C decisions
to be heard by the University
Board of Appeals, which is
made up of an equal number of
students and faculty.

That was a small step in the
right direction, but it was still
disheartening to see the school
appeal the reasonable IFC

decision in the Phi Psi ease up
to the UBA, which voted for
suspension. I wasn’t in either
the IFC or UBA hearings, but
it is clear that the school does
not ﬁllly trust the IFC to police
the fraternity system, hence the
appeal.

These are important issues,
ones worth debating about and
caring about. And the Student
Body meeting this spring showed
that you can actually get results
if you get students to overcome
their apathy. But whether or
not these problems solved in
the next year, it’s important to
realize that W&L isn’t perfect.
Never has been, never will be.

Despite the inevitable ﬂaws
and imperfections, however, this
is still a wonderful school and
one I’m proud to be graduating
from. I ’m glad that I’ve had the
chance to write about the key
issues facing this school, both
as a reporter and as a columnist.
Mostly, though, I’m glad you’ve
taken the time to read my work.
Thanks for reading.

Senior farewell: challenge yourself

In her ﬁnal Phi article, Grace Andrews shares what she wishes she knew earlier

By Grace Andrews
COLUM NIST

When I was asked to write
an article for the senior farewell
of the Phi, I wanted to write
something articulate, deep, and
moving. I wanted to enlighten
readers while bidding them
adieu for the ﬁnal time in the
appropriate amount of hilarity.

That was an unsuccessful
mission. I decided to abandon
that completely and just offer
some advice that I wish I would
have gotten along the way.

So, for starters, respect the
speaking tradition. Just say hi;
it really is not that diﬂicult.
When you do say hello, it makes
someone’s day. It makes mine,
and then I’m a happier person.

Second, do not take seats that
are not yours. When you are in
a class and you know that little
Gracie Lou Freebush sits in the
second desk left of the professor
every Tuesday and Thursday, DO
NOT take her seat. That is rude
and should violate some sort of

unspoken classroom regulation.
1 don’t know how many times
this has happened either to me,
or to someone in a class of mine,
and the result is always the
same—~unhappiness!

Next, clean up after yourself.
No matter where you are, if you
make a mess, clean it up. Do
not leave it around for others to
clean because, once again, that is
rude. This extends for the dining
hall and into real life as well. If
I see another plate or cup in the
Marketplace for the workers
to clean up, I may have to start
ﬁnding those responsible myself.
Leaving your trash behind is not
sexy, nor is it the latest new fad.
CLEAN UP!

Following cleaning up for
yourself, do not break in line. It is
one of my biggest pet peeves and
makes me extraordinarily upset.
When I see people breaking, it
makes me want to turn big and
green like the Hulk and throwing
things around.

Also, be sure to volunteer.

Helping others helps you feel
good about yourself. Sometimes,
this is extremely beneﬁcial,
especially after midterm or ﬁnal
grade time. Instead of deﬁning
ourselves by our GPA, maybe
we should deﬁne ourselves by

in a book and paint something
extraordinary for myself. Some
may say you don’t have time; I
say make the time.

‘ Next, uphold the honor
tradition and become young
activists. Honor and civility are

Instead of deﬁning ourselves by our GPA,

maybe we should deﬁne ourselves by the

service work that we do and the people that

we help.

the service work that we do and
people that we help.

Get a hobby. My four years
here have consisted of minimal
leisure reading and painting,
which are my hobbies. My
life IS NOT better for it. I
should have made the time to
let my imagination run wild

vital in daily life, but kindness
and humility also go just as
far. As we attempt to remain
honorable, may we shake off the
bonds of apathy and really begin
to care about our fellow students
and humans. If you care about a
topic, let people know (in a polite
way) and discuss it accordingly;

that is the only way to learn

Speaking of caring, read the
news every day. The world is a
big place, and small important
things happen to people halfway
across the world daily. You
should know about it. Also,
learn something new every
day. Whether it’s through
Wikipedia or some random
local encyclopedia, look up
everything that comes to mind,
and remember as much of it as
you can.

My last piece of advice is to
enjoy life at W&L. Whether you
are miserable or happy, try new

activities and make new friends.

I played volleyball in high school
and was extremely involved in
my high school theater. When
I got to W&L, I decided that I
would take a different path to
graduation. I joined the track
team and started doing volunteer
work. I decided to tweak high
school Grace and make her new
and improved for college. I
maintained my personality while

doing something I’d never had
the opportunity to do before.
This is exactly what I would
recommend for those reading
this article. Every day that you
are alive is precious, so treat it
so. Live outside of your comfort
zone and don’t be afraid to do
something that you may be bad
at. The worst that could happen
is that you’re no good at it—and
who cares about that, as long
as you try? Track and Field
has been stressful, difﬁcult and
downright challenging for me.
BUT, it’s been such a reward.
The things I learn about myself
are invaluable, and now, I can
call myself a “thrower.”

Put a pep in your step and
challenge the opinions you
don’t believe in (respectfully,
of course), make friends with
students you do not know, and
don’t be afraid to fail.

Failure only happens when
you stop trying to succeed!

Keep your friends close, your enemies closer

Obama shows ruthlessness,

By Abel Delgado
corummsr

If there are people out there
who still do not recognize
President Obama’s political
genius, then they obviously
have not been paying attention.
Regardless of who you voted for,
you should give the man his fair
share of credit—not for turning
the country around, but for doing
his best to dismantle any and all
opposition.

When he saw a leadership
vacuum in his opposing party,
he made sure it was ﬁlled by
someone who would keep
independent voters away. Thus,
he crowned Rush Limbaugh
the Republican leader. When
he saw an increasing divide
between center-right pragmatists
and conservative idealists, he
recruited moderate Republicans

to his cause. He also made sure
his own party offered viable
moderate alternatives such as
Kristen Gillibrand. When he
is confronted with a polarizing
issue like abortion, he tries to
“tone down the rhetoric” in a
way that is condescending to
both sides and still makes him
look like a peacekeeper. And,
ﬁnally, when he realized there
was a young, likable centrist who
could actually have a chance of
putting up a ﬁght in 2012, he
exiled him to China.

Okay, so appointing Utah
Governor Jon Huntsman, Jr.,
as U.S. Ambassador to China
is not exactly the same thing
as exiling him~but for political
purposes it might as well be. As
Ambassador, Hunstman will do
an exceptional job of solving
crucial issues involving trade, to
the environment, and concerns

over North Korea and Taiwan...
while receiving absolutely no
limelight or credit.

The fact Huntsman accepted
the job speaks to his character.

aisle can agree that Hunstman is
the most qualiﬁed person for the
job.Alongwithbeingasuccessful
two-terrn governor, Hunstman
has served as Deputy Commerce

We would be naive to think President Obama
picked [Republican Utah Gov. Jon Hunts-

man] just because of his qualiﬁcations.

Since when has President Obama cared much

about experience?

He is a faithful American public
servant before he is a faithful
Republican. In this situation
where those two roles contradict,
he chooses the former.

Those on both sides of the

Secretary, U.S. Ambassador to
Singapore and Deputy US. Trade
Representative. He speaks ﬂuent
Mandarin Chinese and served as
a missionary in Taiwan.
Hunstman’s sense of duty

would not allow him to turn down
the job. “When the president of
the United States asks you step
up and serve in a capacity like
this,” he said, “that to me is the
end of the conversation and the
beginning of the obligation to
rise to the challenge.”

But we would be naive to think
President Obama picked him just
because of his qualiﬁcations.
Since when have President
Obama and his entourage cared
much about experience?

The Obama team recognized
that the Utah governor was
quickly becoming the popular
leader of the moderate wing
of the Republican Party. The
Obama team does not want there
to be a moderate wing of the
Republican Party. This is why
they worked to convince Senator
Specter to switch sides. This is
why they planned a photo op

savvy in recruiting moderate Republicans to help him

with Florida Governor Charlie
Crist to infuriate conservative
Floridians. This is why they
did not want the hugely popular
and chieﬂy pragmatic Governor
Huntsman to present a viable
Republican alternative to
Obama’s policies.

The Obama teams knows
it will have a much easier time
defeating the far-right than it will
defeating the center—right, and an
even easier time defeating both
by driving a wedge between the
two.

If only our president was
as good at uniting our country
in order to actually solve our
problems and restore our nation’s
economy as he is dividing and
dismantling the Republican
Party. Then one party rule would
not seem as frightening as it
does now.

 

    

- 5

 

 

 

8 ' THE RING-TUM PHI

TUESDAY, MAY 26, 2009

opinions

 

............................................................ .. WAsHLqG*j0N AND LEE Umvgpsuy 

THE RING -T UM 

MANAGING EDITOR
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR
COPY EDITOR

ALLISON CHOPIN
DIANDRA SPICAK
CODY BEAUCHAMP
WILL DORRANCE
STEPHANIE HARDIMAN
KATHERINE ROBERTS
CONTRIBUTING WRITERS GRACE ANDREWS
PATRICK CONLEY
KEVIN CORN

ABEL DELGADO
JACOB GEIGER
NEVILLE FOGARTY
KATIE HATFIELD
FINDLEY MERRITT
JESSICA STRAIT
LEVI THROCKMORTON
ALDEN WICKER

DESIGN EDITOR

STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER

BUSINESS MANAGER STROCK MOORE
DISTRIBUTION MNGR. ROB GEORGE

MISSION STATEMENT: it is the mission of THE
RING-TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community for students, faculty,
parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire
to spark discussions that lead to discovering
information that prompts change.

LARA JORDAN
MORGAN HARRIS

THE RING-TUM PHI Is PUBLISHED MONDAYS
DURING THE UNDERGRADUATE SCHOOL YEAR.
THE RING-TUM PHI Is A MEMBER or THE MEDIA
BOARD, BUT IS OTHERWISE INDEPENDENT.
QUESTIONS OR coNcERNs ABOUT THE PHI
SHOULD BE ADDREssED TO THE EDITORS AT
PHI@WLU.EDU OR TO THE MEDIA BOARD AT
MEDIAIaoARD@wLu.EDU. THE MEDIA BOARD
Is AN INDEPENDENT, STUDENT—RUN EDITORIAL
OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE WORKING WITH ALL
MEDIA OUTLETS oN THE wAsHINGToN &
LEE CAMPUS. ALL INQUIRIES WILL REMAIN
CONFIDENTIAL. THE RING-TUM PHI wELcoMEs
ALL LETTERS. WE REsERvE THE RIGHT TO EDIT
sUBMIssIoNs FOR CONTENT AND LENGTH.
LETTERS AND ADvERTIsING Do NOT NECESSARILY
REFLECT THE OPINION or THE RING-TUM PHI
STAFF. THIS NEWSPAPER oBsERvEs CURRENT
COURT DEFINITIONS OF LIBEL AND OBSCENITY.
THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540) 458-4059
EMAIL: PHl@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

Don’t bash Bo Burnham

Although some take offense at Burnham, he is still funny

By Levl Throckmorton
c o LU M N I sr

Last Monday night, one of the hottest
young comedians in the world today gave a
memorable performance at W&L.

Bo Burnham, whose upcoming Comedy
Central special will make him the youngest
comedian to have one, performed to a packed
Marketplace——he’s too big to put in Stack-
house.

The root of the problem, however, does not
lie in Bo’s irreverence, for Bo does not re-
strict his impudence to any one group.

His “racist” jokes hit “rich white people”
as well as black people; his “sexist” jokes are
directed towards both men and women with
equal bite and satire.

The problem arises when people refuse to
understand that comedy is just that—-com-
edy. Bo Burnham’s jokes are not meant to be

Bo Burnham is jokes are not meant to be taken as expressions

of his own belieﬁs, but rather as pure, unadulterated entertain-

ment: satire at its best. ...Bo is simply very good at ﬁnding

ridiculous situations in life and exaggerating the insanity.

For most of the audience, Bo could do
no wrong. Every joke was delivered with
aplomb, every wink and sideways glance
perfectly timed; in short, Bo Burnham was at
his peak.

For some crowd members, however, Bo’s
performance was memorable for the wrong
reasons.

Bo Burnham’s comedy is extremely ir-
reverent. From poking fun at Christianity in
general and Catholics speciﬁcally to making
light of the fact that his “whole family thinks
[he’s] gay,” Bo Burnham knows no taboo
subject. Any topic can be turned into a song
full of intricate puns and witty banter.

Some people have problems with that. The
level of irreverence cuts too close to home.

taken as expressions of his own beliefs, but
rather as pure, unadulterated entertainment:
satire at its best.

If I may use myself as an example, the
song “I’m Gay For Jesus” should prob-
ably cause me (someone who believes in the
Christian doctrine of Jesus) to explode with
rage. “How dare he suggest that he have
homosexual feelings for the Savior of the
world?”

When I realize, however, that the point
of B0 Burnham’s comedy is to exploit the
ridiculous in order to make ﬁm of it, I can
at least enjoy Bo’s lyrical cleverness if not
laugh along with it.

The question that the offended audience
member raises is then: “Why do we laugh

at the racism jokes? Why do we laugh at the
sexual assault jokes? After all, racism is not
ﬁmny, nor is sexual assault.”

This is the message that our school has
pounded into our brains since we arrived on
campus, and they’re completely right. The
point is, we know this. We don’t think racism
is funny; we don’t think sexual assault is fun-
ny. We laugh at the idea of someone actually
being that racist, the idea of someone actually
justifying sexual assault.

As previously explained, it is absurd to
suggest that Bo Burnham is either a racist or
a sexist.

(By the by, if we want to argue that we
shouldn’t hire racist comedians, then Jasper
Redd, whose routine was laced with racist
jokes, should never have been on this cam-
pus.)

B0 is simply very good at ﬁnding ridicu-
lous situations in life and exaggerating the
insanity.

In a sentence, my point is simply this:
when it comes to comedy, lighten up.

Stop taking every joke that you don’t like
as a personal attack, and don’t assign attri-
butes to a comedian who doesn’t possess
them.

Great comedy is meant to be entertaining,
not inciting.

Bo Burnham is a great comedian.

What’s so funny about rape, the Klan, homophobia and B0?

The GAB shouldn ’t have used E C-allocated funds to bring a comedian who mocks issues W&L struggles with yearly

 

By Stephanie Hardlman
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR

Everyone likes a good joke.
“Good” being the key word in
that statement.

After all, that’s why I went
out to B0 Burnham last Monday.
I didn’t know anything about
him—I just went on the sugges-
tion of a friend—and I dragged
my roommate along. She hap-
pens to be black.

I apologized to her about
three minutes into Bo’s act be-
cause of how embarrassed I was

that her race and people ’s history
were mocked.

The song about the “Klan
Cookout” was awkward to say
the least. Jokes about Holocaust
victims made me cringe. And
laughing about sexual assault
didn’t seem right either.

We all know there’s a line
when it comes to comedy, and
I think most of us know when it
has been crossed. I, and I’m sure
countless others besides the peo-
ple that actually had the nerve to
walk out, am pretty sure that line
was crossed.

I couldn’t help but look
around at the people laughing
at the joke about how the adage
“Do unto others as you would
have done unto you” was really
about rape. And I couldn’t help
but think that there were a lot
more people there to laugh about
rape than there were to question
the operations of the Student
Faculty Hearing Board at the
student body meeting just a few
weeks ago.

Sexual assault and rape are
two issues that our campus deals
with daily. I didn’t think it was

very funny to laugh about it, and
I’m sure the one in four women
who are harassed on our campus
didn’t think it was ﬁmny either.

There were some witty quips
that I did enjoy—-smart ones that
made me think and didn’t neces-
sarily make anyone uncomfort-
able. I think Bo’s lyrical prow-
ess is commendable.

But I didn’t understand why
high school sex humor and ver-
bally bashing Christians, Jews,
blacks and everyone in between
to a bloody pulp had to take cen-
ter stage.

Maybe it’s because he uses
shock value to make up for the
fact that he’s not really that fun-
ny?

So who made Bo’s visit pos-
sible? It was the General Activi-
ties Board—-an Executive Com-
mittee-funded club on campus.
So essentially school funds paid
to have someone mock the is-
sues that our campus struggles
with and causes pain to many of
your friends, sorority sisters and
classmates.

As incoming chair of the
Contact Committee, another club

(or another Phi columnist) isn’t
going to tell me how to spend
my group’s EC-allocated ﬁmds.
And that’s not what I’m trying to
trying to do to GAB.

However, if Contact brought
a speaker to campus that nega-
tively affected and perhaps exac-
erbated the pain and tribulations
of fellow students ——-and perhaps
of the University community as
a whole,- then I hope someone
would take me aside and set me
straight.

 

I agree wholeheartedly with
Chris Tutor that enacting policy
changes would only be a start to
ﬁxing the dishonorable conduct
of many W&L students.

It’s of course striking that
our statistics for alcohol abuse
and sexual assault are signiﬁ-
cantly higher than the national
average.

This leaves us with two op-
tions——either the students came
into W&L already exhibiting
such behavior, or it was learned
since being at W&L. I’d like to
assume that our students aren’t
naturally more inclined to em-
ploy this unhealthy and dishon-
orable deportment than students
at other schools of our caliber,
so that leaves us with the sec-
ond premise—that this behav-
ior is created. If our school’s
infrastructure is such that when
left to reign free, it produces
these kinds of problems, then
we need to make fundamental
changes to the institution as a
whole.

It is obvious that the two
most pressing infrastructural

problems facing W&L are lack
of adequate on-campus housing,
and overabundance of fraterni-
ties. It’s a potent combination
that signiﬁcantly detracts from
the overall college experience
of many students.

Much of our gender relations
issues come from the fact that
men and women are completely
separated after freshman year.
Without the organic daily in-
teraction provided by a residen-
tial community, men are much
more inclined to treat women
as objects. Also note that W&L
has roughly the same number
of fraternities as it did when
we were an all—male institution.
Now we have half the amount
of men due to co-education,
which has artiﬁcially doubled
the supply of fraternities rela-
tive to the number of males.

This, combined with the
changing student demograph-
ics, leads to a situation that
causes many students to join a
system they never would have
been part of otherwise. I’d es-
timate that only about half of

totheetitor The Greek life is suffocating us

Senior Morgan Harris suggests scaling back the number of fra/ts is needed

each class’s ﬁrst-year males
are 100 percent sure they want
to join a fraternity. The rest of
those who join do so “just be-
cause [they] have to.” It’s a
self-fulﬁlling cycle that ensures
an almost complete void of al-
ternative life on campus.

As a liberal arts university,
Washington and Lee says in
its very mission statement that
it seeks to develop “engaged
citizenship in a global and di-
verse society.” The potential for
diverse cultural and intellec-
tual cross-pollenization exists
within the student body, but our
ﬂowers are trapped in conﬁne-
ment due to the stratification
caused by an overabundant
Greek system, single-sex on-
campus housing, and isolating
off-campus housing.

Building up—to-date co-ed
dorms that students actually
wouldn’t mind living in (unlike
the ancient pieces of junk cur-
rently available) and requiring
students to live_ on campus for
three years would allow much
greater interaction between stu-

dents of varying cultural and in-
tellectual persuasions, and cre-
ate a refreshingly vibrant and
exciting campus community.
Isn’t that the goal of a liberal
arts university?

Let me be clear—I am not in
favor of weakening the Greek
system or restraining the party
scene. The changes I propose,
in fact, would only strengthen
the Greek system and make
partying easier. Having every-
thing in closer proximity would
ensure more time spent actually
partying and less time spent
waiting for and riding Traveller
or, worse, driving drunk. (But
don’t fret; staples like the Pole
Houses and Windfall would
still of course be available).

And by lowering the amount
of fraternities to under ten, only
those students who truly want
to be part of Greek life would
participate. Each fraternity
would have a signiﬁcantly larg-
er and more committed and ac-
tive membership, and the Greek
community as a whole would
be more cohesive. At the same

time, an equally active and com-
mitted non-Greek population
freed from the time constraints
of fraternal life would bring
fresh air to a previously suf-
focating campus. And the few
houses that used to be fratemi-
ties could be turned into co-ed
social houses. This would help
both Greek and non-Greek stu-
dents interact together in cam-
pus-centric and fraternity-cen-
tric events, enabling everyone
to enjoy the greater diversity
and strength of extracurricular
pursuits available to them.

The tough part is actually en-
acting these changes. There are
many potential ways of going
about it, but before it happens
the students must be aware and
supportive of the rationale-
which, as outlined above, is
simply to make the university
a better place for a wider vari-
ety of its bright and passionate
students.I don’t claim to have
any guaranteed tactics, and in-
deed there won’t be a pain-free
solution.

I understand why many in

the /W&L community are so
fervent about not letting W&L
change. Change is always a
scary proposition, as venturing
into the unknown means leav-
ing the familiar comfort of the
status quo.

But when we speak of tradi-
tion, we must bear in mind the
true ideals of George Washing-
ton and Robert E. Lee. Both of
these men were leaders of mon-
umental change, and ultimately
did what was in the best interest
of the people and institutions
they served. In the spirit of our
founders, it’s time to ﬁx the
widely acknowledged problems
plaguing our beloved school.

Sincerely,
Morgan G. Harris, ‘09

 

TUESDAY, MAY 26,2009

THE RING-TUM PHI - 9

 

sports

' Crowning of King James

Conley argues that Lebron James is the King of the NBA

By Patrlck Conley
c o L u M N zsr

This NBA postseason has given
us numerous storylines: how the
Houston Rockets managed to push
the Lakers to seven without two All-
Stars and without a player above
6’9”; how the Celtics and Bulls
turned in what may be the greatest
ﬁrst round series we have ever seen,
with Derrick Rose and Raj on Rondo
battling for the status of “next great
point guard”; even the unfortunate
feud between Kenyon Martin and
Mark Cuban, ﬁlled with enough
“blogged” apologies and racial slurs
for everyone.

The major story so far, however,
has been the play of LeBron James
and his Cleveland Cavaliers. Play-
ing with Magic’s vision (averaging
over 6 dimes a game through 10
games in the playoffs), Pippen’s
defensive intensity (guarding the
other team’s best player and reject-
ing Dwight Howard’s Game 1 dunk
in such a nasty fashion that Super-
man asked for his cape back), and
Jordan’s ability to will the outcome
of each game (34 ppg, as well as a
few backbreaking dunks and maybe
even a game-winning shot), James
makes it appear as if it is only a mat-
ter of time until we ﬁnally crown our
new King and his dynasty begins.

This is not to say that he has had
no challengers. While the Cava-
liers made the Detroit Pistons and
Atlanta Hawks look like a bunch
of lost AAU teams (sweeping each

series in four games while winning
each game by at least 10 points), the
Magic have been giving James a run
for his money. They took Game 1
of the series (at the Q, where Cleve-
land was previously 43-2 this sea-
son), and took everything the Cavs
threw at them; James may have had
the most complete game of his post-
season career, dropping 49 points (a
career best and on 60 percent shoot-
ing no less) on the league’s best
defense. The Magic drew James
away from the team concept that has
made Cleveland so successful, and
the Cavs paid the price when they
could barely get a shot off at the end
of regulation.

With one second left in Game 2,
the Cavs looked about//done. Hedu
Turkoglu had just hit what should
have been a game-winner, and
Cleveland could only hope to ad-
vance the ball and put up a prayer.
This, however, is where James
showed that Jordan-esque tendency
we’ve all been waiting for, his refus-
al to lose a game. James ran to the
top of the key and launched a high,
arcing shot that splashed into the net
long after the buzzer sounded, giv-
ing his team the victory.

“The Shot”? What Shot? The
only “Shot” Clevelanders are going
to remember from now on is LeB-
ron putting his team on his back and
bringing them right back into the
mix. Whether or not the Cavs lost
home court, they have sent the se-
ries back to Orlando with the Magic

shaking their heads. It’s the kind
of psychological warfare that we
expect from the best player in the
game.

Assuming that the James gang
wins 3 of the next 5 games against
Orlando, they’l1 face competition
from either the Nuggets or the Lak-
ers, two teams battling it out in their
own heavyweight series. Neither
team is going to roll over and die in
the Finals, either.

On the one hand, you have the
Lakers. You have Kobe trying to
prove himself to still be the best
player in the world, trying to prove
that he doesn’t need Shaq to win the
Larry O’Brien trophy (although Ga-
sol and Odom aren’t exactly chopped
liver). You have the Zen Master Phil
Jackson trying to get one for his oth-
er thumb, the elusive 10th ring that
even Red doesn’t have. And both
of these men, along with the rest of
the Lakers, are playing with a sense
of urgency that cannot be underesti-
mated. Kobe, now in his 30’s, has
weathered the storm of D-Wade,
LeBron, Carmelo, CP3 and all the
other young guns for a while, but he
doesn’t have much time left in his
prime, and these young players are
about to enter theirs. Phil’s mind is
the same as it ever was, but his hips
and back have become so bad that
he has to sit in special chairs on the
bench to keep pain from affecting
his judgment.

The Nuggets are a different story,
less glamorous but no less interest-

ing. It took the addition of Mr. Big
Shot Himself to get these Nuggets
out of the ﬁrst round, but so far it
has worked wonders; you have
Nene cleaning up the glass and not
missing shots, the Birdman swatting
shots into the ﬁfth row, and K-Mart
providing the swagger. And, of
course, you have Carmelo. Some-
one who has gotten into a ﬁght on
the court (at MSG no less), who
has told Baltimore youth to “stop
snitchin’.” This often overlooked
anti-hero of the class of 2003 has
been brilliant thus far in the play-
offs. Melo has scored at will during
the ﬁrst 10 games, garnering praise
for his tough defense and growing
up in front of basketball fans every-
where.

Either team would present a
tough and exciting matchup for the
Cavaliers. However, when it comes
down to it, you just cannot over-
look what James has done this sea-
son. Playing in fewer minutes per
game, he has upped all of his per-
40-minute averages while shooting
at a better percentage in all three cat-
egories; now in the playoffs, James
has turned his speakers to “eleven.”
He plays with the kind of two-way
intensity that makes teams want to
roll over and die. His help is better
than it has ever been. To top it all
off, James is hungry. When a 6’9”,
275 pound man is hungry, you don’t
get between him and his meal. The
rest of the league will ﬁgure that out
sure enough.

W&L plays
in NCAAS

Tabb, Caire fall to
Denison in quarterﬁnals

NCAA Division III Women’s Tennis
Individual Championships

Collins Hill Athletic Club
Lawrenceville, Ga.

Friday, May 22

Doubles:

Senior Katie Tabb and Junior Lauren Caire
(W&L) def. Junior Brittany Berckes and
Sophomore Natasha Brown (Amherst)

6-4, 6-2

Singles:

Senior Katie Tabb (W&L) def. Junior Brittany
Berckes (Amherst) -

6-0, 6-1

F irst-year Amanda Wu (Carnegie Mellon) def.
Senior Katie Tabb (W&L)
6-3, 0-6, 0-6

Ploy Suhijindawong (St. Scholastica) def.
First-Year Ellen Yeatman (W&L)
3-6, 2-6

Saturday, May 23

Doubles:

Sophomore Kristin Cobb and Junior Marta
Drane (Denison) Senior Katie Tabb and Junior
Lauren Caire (W&L)

2-6, 6-3, 4-6

WASHINGTON AND LEE

Q’ University Store Q’

Celebrating “ct place like no other”

U ndergraduute Students

DO YOU WANT
CASH FOR SUMMER?

Finished Exams? Before leaving campus,

bring your books to the UNIVERSITY STORE!

. . . Get cash (up to 50% of value of book)!
. . . Help your store have more used and cheaper books for future semesters!

6 Dzws in the Coimnons’ Atrium
Thursday F1*i(la};?, M:1y28 & 29, 9 ani. — 6 pm.
Saturday & Sunday, Nliljy’ 30 & l\»tIay 31, 1021.m. -5 pm.
Monday & Tuesday, June 1 & 2,] 9 am. — 6 pm.

Textbook Buyback!

 

  

TUESDAY, MAY 26, 2009

10

  

- THE RING-TUM PHI

sports

 

 

‘ numbers
108

The number of career doubles wins for senior tennis player Katie
Tabb. She tied the school record on Saturday when she and junior
Lauren Caire beat an Amherst team to advance to the NCAA quarterfi-

nal round. Tabb and Caire lost to Denison Sunday.

0

The number of times before the Orlando Magic and Cleveland Cava-
liers match-up in the Eastern Conference finals that the first two

games of a NBA playoff series have both been decided by one point.

4th

Senior Stacy Doornbos's finish at the NCAA track and field champion-

ships in the women's heptathlon, naming her an All—American.

.195

Boston Red Sox designated hitter David Ortiz's batting average enter-
ing Monday. While Ortiz hit his ﬁrst home run Wednesday since Sep-
tember 2008, he has gone O-for-12 since then. Manager Terry Fran-

cona benched Ortiz May 15-17 against the Seattle Mariners.

sbox

 

“If I could handpick a replacement of a football
guy, I would cast a net and drag in Jon Gruden.
He is the two things you most want — smart and
funny -- and has the two things I don’t — good hair
and a tan.”
Former Monday Night Football commentator Tony Kornheiser on
ESPN’s decision to hire former Tampa Bay Buccaneers coach Jon
Gruden as his replacement. Kornheiser resigned after three years,
citing his fear of ﬂying in planes. Gruden was ﬂred by the Bucs after

going 9-7 and missing the playoffs In 2009. Courtesy of cbssports.
com.

“That was the biggest shot l’ve made in my ca-
reer.”

Cleveland Cavaliers forward Lebron James after he hit a game-winning
three-pointer at the buzzer Friday to beat the Orlando Magic 96-95
in game two of the teams’ NBA Eastern Conference finals. Courtesy
of espn.com.

“If he plays well, he’ll have more time.”

Los Angeles Lakers coach Phil Jackson on center Andrew Bynum’s
criticism of the team’s defensive schemes. Bynum was pulled at the
start of the second half of game two of the Western Conference finals
for a play where he lacked intensity. Courtesy of nba.com.

“I don ’t feel the need to go, actually. I don't feel
like it’s that big a deal to me.”

Pittsburgh Steeiers linebacker James Harrison on the team’s visit
Thursday to the White House for winning the Super Bowl. Harrison
also skipped the Steelers’ 2006 visit to Washington when they won
Super Bowl XL. Courtesy of cbssports.com.

“I'm done. I’m retiring. I miss being with my fam-
ily every day. I knew when the season ended, but I
wanted to leave and get home first, and not make
a big deal of it. A player is what I was. Now I'm a
husband and a father.”

New Jersey Devils center Bobby Hoilk on his plans to retire after an
18-year NHL career. Courtesy of nhl.com.

582 P1 IL’ 3l]],E

W&L’s year in review '

Dorrance counts down the year is top 10 W&L sporting events

By Will Dorrance
sporzrs EDITOR

With the conclusion of the
track and tennis seasons this
past weekend at the individual
NCAA championships, the
year in Washington and Lee
sports has come to a close.

And with that, my time as
sports editor of the Ring-Tum
Phi also ends. I have wit-
nessed and reported on some
unforgettable moments in an-
other exciting year of Gener-
als’ athletics. With so many
games to remember, I count
down the top 10 best W&L
sporting events of the school
year:

1 Sept. 27, 2008: The
° women’s soccer team
fell to then nationally
ﬁrst-ranked Messiah 4-3 on a
goal with just eight seconds
left in overtime. The Gener-
als led for much of the game.
Afterwards, head coach Neil
Cunningham said, “The game
was by far the best game I’ve
been involved with coaching
wise  you can’t get any one
as good as this game for the

spectacle of soccer.”
9' the ﬁrst-ever night
game at W&L, the
football team topped neigh-
boring Southern Virginia
35-28. Senior running back
Stuart Sitterson tallied two
touchdowns in the ﬁnal 5:57
to give the Generals the lead.
The Knights then put together
a nice drive in the games ﬁnal
minute, but junior defensive
back Donavon Sawyer ended
the game with an interception
in the endzone. Sawyer re-
called catching the ball, “For
some reason I was zoned out,
and it was somewhat of a sur-
real experience. I seriously
didn’t realize what happened
until I reached the sideline.”

Sept. 20, 2008: In

8 Feb. 15, 2009:
' Amassing 1,010

points, the women’s
swimming team crushed its
ODAC competition, winning
its 19th conference title. See-
ond-place Randolph-Macon
ﬁnished with 303 less points
than the Generals. Senior
Lindsey Strachan was named
the ODAC Swimmer of the
Year for the second straight
season. Senior Jule Miata
spoke of the team’s accom-
plishments. “Winning the
19th ODAC championship my
senior year was a great way to
ﬁnish, and only added to the
bittersweetness of a college
athletic career ending. The
girls all swam fantastic, and
we proved to everyone once
again, that one champion-
ship taken away 2 years ago,
will not leave us sour for too

long.”
7' women’s cross coun-
try team came in ﬁrst
place in the ODAC champi-
onship for the ﬁfth consecu-
tive year. The team outscored
Roanoke, the second place
team, by 25. Senior Jess
Shaw won the race and was
named ODAC Runner of the
Year. Referencing the team’s
national ambitions, senior
Elizabeth Webb commented
on the conference race, “We
made sure not to lose sight of
the fact that we needed to de-
fend our ODAC title ﬁrst. Ev-
eryone truly came through and

contributed in a big way.”
beating Bridgewa-

6.

ter earlier in the day,
the volleyball team defeated
Lynchburg 3-0 in the ODAC
championship for its eighth
straight title. The Generals
did not lose a game in the
three-match conference tour-
nament. Senior right-side hit-

Nov. 1, 2008: The

Nov. 8, ‘2008: After

ter Jess Ulrich said she was
conﬁdent throughout the tour-
nament. “There was no doubt
in my mind that we’d win the

championship again.”
women’s track and

5.

ﬁeld team won the
ODAC indoor championship
with 120 points, just four
points ahead of Roanoke. It
was the program’s ﬁrst-ever
indoor ODAC title. On the
day, the team garnered seven
conference champions and
three championship meet re-
cords. Senior Stacy Doombos
recounted the race’s ﬁnal mo-
ments. “We were in third go-
ing into the last three events.
We did well in the shot put,
rocked the 5,000 and brought
home the 4x400 relay to win.
I run the last leg of the 4x400
relay, and it was an incredible
race. Everyone was crowded
around the track screaming
and yelling.”

Feb. 27, 2009: The

4 April 20, 2009:
' Coming into the last
day down six strokes,

the golf team stormed back
to shoot its best round of the
ODAC tournament in rainy
conditions to beat Guilford
by ﬁve strokes. It was the
Generals’ second consecu-
tive conference crown. Junior
Brad Watts later commented
on the team’s strategy heading
into the ﬁnal round. “Being
down six, we really wanted to
get off to a good start and put
pressure on the rest of the ﬁeld
from the beginning. [Senior]
Andrew Green did a tremen-
dous job of this by posting a
great score (75) early that re-
ally set the tone for the rest of

the team.”

3 ° men’s basketball
team advanced to the

ODAC ﬁnals for the ﬁrst time

Feb. 28, 2009: The

since 1989 when the Generals
beat Bridgewater 77-67 in the
conference semiﬁnals. Senior
guard Chris McHugh compli-
mented his team’s response to
adversity all season long, in-
cluding the playoffs. “If I’ve
learned anything about our
team over the last four years,
it is that we will never quit.”

May 3, 2009: The men’s la-
2 crosse team beat Ro-
0 anoke 15-14 in over-
time of the ODAC
championship. After blowing
a three-goal lead with three
minutes to go, W&L scored
just 38 seconds into the extra
frame when senior midﬁelder
Harry St. John found the back
of the net. St. John later said,
“I’ve always dreamed of scor-
ing a goal like the one against
Roanoke. I’m so happy our
senior class can graduate with
an ODAC title. Hopefully, it

is just one of many in the next
several years.”

April 26, 2009: The baseball
team won its ﬁrst-ever ODAC

1 championship by
C

beating Virginia

Wesleyan 10-6. The
Generals came into the touma-
ment as the lowest seed. Ju-
nior pitcher Chuck Davidson
was named the tournament
Most Outstanding Player after
giving up no earned runs in 15
innings. Third baseman Jim
Plantholt recalled the moment
W&L won it all. “It was the
best feeling in the world after
that last out. The pile-up in
the middle of the ﬁeld was like
a dream — unlike anything
else I’ve ever experienced in
sports.”

Doornbos places at NCAAs

Doornbos ﬁnishes fourth in heptathlon, namea’All-American

By Kevin Corn
STAFF warren

While in Marietta, Ohio,
over the weekend, Washington
and Lee senior Stacy Doom-
bos managed an impressive
fourth place ﬁnish at the 2009
NCAA Division III track and
ﬁeld championships in the
women’s heptathlon.

With 4,764 points, Doom-
bos earned All-America hon-
ors, as well as a new school
record. Added to her ﬁnishes
at the 2008 outdoor champi-
onships in the same event and
the 2009 indoor champion-
ships in the pentathlon, Door-
nbos completed her career
with earning these accolades
for a third time.

“It was great to ﬁnish my
track career as an All-Ameri-
can,” commented Doombos.
“The NCAA meet is always
an exciting atmosphere to
compete in and so to have it
be my last meet was a great
experience.”

This great experience be-
gan with strong ﬁnishes dur-
ing the ﬁrst day of the hep-
tathlon, when the competitors
completed four events. In the
100 meter hurdles, Doombos
set another school record with

éiiﬁroup

I0/13/08 18393 "

a time of 14.82. Then in the
high jump, her leap cleared
1.55 meters. In the shot put,
Doombos tossed 10.38 meters
and then crossed the ﬁnish
line in the 200 meter dash in a
time of 26.22.

With so many events in-
cluded in the heptathlon,

order to do my best I need to
concentrate on each event one
at a time.”

Doombos maintained this
concentration and her mo-
mentum during the second day
with equally strong ﬁnishes in
the remaining three events. In
the long jump, she leapt 5.24

“The time I spent practicing and compet-

ing during my four years here at W&L

has been a huge blessing in my life.  It

is so sad to see it coming to an end, but]

have so many awesome memories ﬁom my

W&L track years. ”

Stacy Doombos, senior

combined with the fact that
it is stretched over two days,
Doombos was able to show
true athleticism not only with
her results but also with her
mental preparation.

“Staying focused and
motivated during the seven
events and two days is part of
the multi-event,” commented
Doombos. “I know that in

meters. Then in the javelin,
Doombos tossed 30.23 me-
ters. Lastly, in the 800 meter
run, Doombos ﬁnished the
race in a time of2:23.15.
Always a gracious athlete,
Doombos wanted to recognize
those who came out and sup-
ported her through the meet.
Apparently, her team made
sure to express their support

by any means possible over
the course of the meet.

“I would also love
to say thank you to all my
coaches and teammates,” re-
marked Doombos. “It was so
great to have teammates call-
ing me, e-mailing me, and
some even driving up to Ohio
to watch me compete. It was
motivating to have everyone
cheering me on.”

Looking back on her career,
Doombos expressed gratitude
and nostalgia for her experi-
ences on the track team.

“The time I spent practic-
ing and competing during my
four years here at W&L has
been a huge blessing in my
life,” commented Doombos.
“I have made life-long friends
and learned so much through
my experiences on the track
team. It is sad to see it coming
to an end, but I have so many
awesome memories from my
W&L track years.”

 

 

