  
 

VOLUME 101, NUMBER 1

Washington and Lee University

U112 iiting-tum Iﬂlii

Bulk Rate
US I‘osugc
I’/\ll)
Pcrmii No. 7
lxxingion. V:i.

Monday
SEPTEMBER 14, 1998

Osama bin Ladin beware . . .
Mission Embassy of Kazakhstan," General Anthony C.

Harvard drinking survey
reconfirms ’93 results

BY POLLY Doro
——-——-— STAFF WRIIER

More than half of all college stu-
dents are binge drinkers, according to
a recent study conducted by Harvard
University.

The Harvard School of Public
Health College Alcohol Survey, which
in 1993 addressed and raised national
awareness concerning college binge
drinking, released updated» information
last Thursday. The study found a slight
decrease in the percentage of binge
drinkers (42.7 percent), and a slight in-
crease in the percentage of students
who abstain from drinking (19.0 per-
cent). However, the study found that
four out of ﬁve residents of fraternities
and sororities (81.1 percent) could be
classiﬁed as binge drinkers, virtually
the same as those numbers of ﬁve years
ago.

“I think fraternities are so mired in
alcohol, they’re so into it that they can’t

give it up,” said Henry Wechsler, who
headed both studies, in an interview
with The Associated Press.

The 1993 Harvard College Alcohol
Study propelled the issue of binge
drinking into the national spotlight.
However, the more recent study results
demonstrate that in spite of height-

V ened awareness, numbers remain dis-

appointingly high.

Several high proﬁle alcohol-related
deaths have forced both college ad-
ministrators and Greek organizations
alike to take a hard look at this issue.
Instances at Louisiana State Univer-
sity and the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology have made national
headlines. The MIT incident, which
involved the alcohol-related death of
a Phi Gamma Delta (Fiji) pledge, has
played a factor in the national
chapter’s decision to go “dry,” or al-

.cohol-free, in 2000. Because of sky-

rocketing insurance costs, other na-

 
 

I STUDENT-FACULTY

THE HONOR SYSTEM

tional chapters are also instituting (or
contemplating) similar policies.

In Lexington, where the survey re-
sults could not be called shocking, the
penalties associated with drinking are
becoming more costly. Charges of
drinking/drunk in public in the Com-
monwealth of Virginia now carry with
them ﬁnes ofup to $250, while under-
age possession is penalized with a
mandatory $500 ﬁne and a possible 12
month loss of one’sdrivers license.
DUI is punishable by a $2,500 ﬁne, the
immediate impounding of the vehicle,
and a 12 month loss of one’sdrivers
license.

In spite of increased awareness and
stiffer penalties, the survey results
point to continued pursuance of what
can be a dangerous activity.

“It’s discouraging . . . that univer-
sities have been unable to convince
college students to choose a healthier
lifestyle,” said Dean Anne Schroer-
Lamont of the survey results.

  

World leaders and dignitaries gathered at the Sev-
enth Annual United States Mideast Policymakers C on-
)/erence at the Virginia Military Institute this weekend.
The National Council on U.S.-Arab Relations-spon-
sored conference hopes to encourage a better rela-
tionship between US and Arab nations.
Pictured here are Khairat Umarov, Deputy Chief of

Convocation opens

HEARING BOARD

Two cases of sexual miscon-
duct were referred to the SF HB.
In the first case, a male student
was found guilty of inappro-
priate sexual behavior. Restric-
tions on housing arrangements
and counseling were required.
In the second case, a male stu-
dent was found guilty of en-
gaging in sexual activity with a
woman who was incapacitated.
The student was suspended.

The Executive Committee con-
ducted 14 investigations, held
3 closed hearings and found 1
student guilty of an Honor Vio-
lation. Three students withdrew
prior to a closed hearing.
Students 94-95 <I><I><I><I>
found guilty 95-96 (Dd)
of an Honor 96-97 <jD<I)cD
Violation 97-98 CD

UNIVERSITY BOARD OF APPEALS
The University Board of Ap-
peals heard four appeals, one

Zinni, C ommander-in-chief United States Central
Command; and Sir Cyril Townsend, Director of the
Council for the Advancement of Arab-British Under-
standing. A celebration in honor of the delegates will
take place on the VMI parade ground at 4:30 today.
1’H()7‘() BY /‘[()[.I.l.S‘TER H()VI£Y/EXE(.'(/IIVE EDITOR

\
e\,

K
: *5

STUDENT JUDICIAL
REPORT 1997-98

   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
   

and Lee University kicked off the
new academic year and the 250"‘
Anniversary Celebration with an
elaborate bicenquenquagenary con-
vocation. The ceremony took place
in frbnt of the recently-renovated
Lee Chapel and included speeches
and performances by various mem-
bers of the Washington and Lee
community. Noteworthy alumnus,
William E. Brock ’53 gave the con-
vocation address.
The ceremony began with a pro-
cession of academic representatives
, from over 50 universities and colleges
around the country, including a repre-
sentative from Trinity College in
Dublin, Ireland. Members of academic
societies such as Omicron Delta and
\ Phi Beta Kappa followed. Members of
the faculty and the senior class also
took part in the opening procession.
A prayer by Chaplain Thomas V.
Litzenburg, Jr. opened the ceremony,
followed by remarks by President John
' ' Elrod. Various members of the Wash-
ington and Lee community, including
a myriad of campus leaders, presented
their ideas about the history of this
institution and the values it has come
to embody. They stressed most impor-
tant of these values to be “leaming,
leadership and honor,” which has be-
come the new bicenquenquagenary
slogan.
In addition to the numerous speak-
ers, the opening convocation was en-
livened by a number of artistic presen-
tations specially commissioned by the
university for the event. This series of
performances began with a poem by
W&L English Professor and Pulitzer
Prize Nominee Dabney Stewart entitled
“Generals.” Next, a brass quintet per-
formed a work of modern music en-
titled “Celebration,” Magaret Brouwer,
‘ a former W&L music professor and
well-known musican composed this
piece especially for the convocation
ceéebration.
As the music faded, the much-

' l (D Peeved at
Parking?
CD Woods Creek
. lacks lighting
PAGE 2  

 

 

dress. Over the course of his speech,
Brock emphasized his love of and
gratitude to Washington and Lee. He
stressed the idea that values learned
at W&L profoundly effect not only the
indivdual contributions a graduate
makes to society, but the impact those
values have on our rapidly changing

promotes the enhancement of liv-
ing and learning in inner-city
schools. He also served as a Sena-
tor and National Chairman of the
Republican party.

The University Chamber Singers
closed the evening’s festivities with
a performance of W&L music pro-
fessor Terry Vosbein song, entitled
“An Anthem for all Time.” After
President Elrod’s closing thoughts
they also sang the “Washington
and Lee Hymn.”

As the sun set, members of the uni-
versity comunity shared dinner on the
Lee House lawn. —John Stewart con-
tributed to this article

struction. I

PRESIDENTIAL ACTIONS

was suspended indeﬁnitely.

STUDENT AFFAIRS COMMITTEE
The SAC reviewed two cases in 1997-
98. Pi Kappa Alpha and Sigma Nu were
placed on Critical Probation for violations
of the IFC alcohol rules and property de-

The President of the University deter-
mined that the actions of members of the
Kappa Alpha fraternity violated the Uni-
versity Policy on Hazing and represented
a severe threat to the well-being of the
University community. Ten students were
suspended for one year and Kappa Alpha

t h I ll I Dean David Howison released the an- from the SAC, one from the SJC
nual student judicial report on Sept. 1. In and two from the SFHB. Number of 94'95 ‘Dam’

1997-98, the Executive Committee con- 94-95 cpqxp cases SFHB 95'96 ‘D
ducted fewer investigations and the Stu- Number 95-95 qp reviewed 95'97 ‘D

1 BY ABIGAIL  Y W awaited speaker wiiiiam E_ Brock iii’ wo,id_ Brock is cuiremiy Chairman dent Judicial Council held fewer hearings ofdppeals 96_97 qxpcpq) 97-98 (Dd)

TAFF RHER W&L graduate and former Secretary of the Board at I ntellectual Devel- than in 1996‘97- 97-98 (134303)
On September 9th, Washington of Labor, gave the convocation ad— opment Systems, a Compani’ Which '"ewSb0x by Tamh Oran’ MEDIATION

Dean David Howison and Associate Dean Anece McC1oud reviewed
3 cases of alleged uncivil behavior. One was racial in content, one
involved e-mail harassment and one case involved physical assault.
The three cases were resolved in mediation.

Numbe, 94-95 <I><I><I><I>cD
Ofcases 95-96 <I><D<D<I><1><I><I><I><I>
,e,,-awed 96-97 d><I>CD(I>

97-98 <1><1><I>

pended from the University.

Number
of cases
reviewed

Saturday morning debauchery begins again

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON brother Marshall Schreeder serves up a drink at this year ’s first football tailgate
Saturday at the ruins. I’H()'l'() Ii)’ ]‘[()l.I,lS'l'l;'R HoV/Jr/EX1;(.'i/11V/zjE1)/mu

W&LIFE

(I3 Lost in Lex?
Let us guide you.
(1) Clinton came in ’88,
but did you knoW...?

PAGE 3.9

SPORTS

 

STUDENT JUDICIAL COUNCIL
Of the 17 cases heard, 14 involved men and 4 cases involved women.
Fifteen of the cases involved alcohol. Three students were sus-

94-95 <I><I><I><I><I><I><I><I>(I>(I><D(D

95-96  ¢¢¢¢®

96-97 (I><I><I><I>(I><l>(I>(I><I><D(D(I>d>(I>(I><D<D(I><I><I><I>Cl>(I><l><I><D
97-98 <D<D<I>d><D<D<I>(I><I><I><D<D(I>(I><I>(I><D

Washington and

Lee’s rank falls

BY ESZIER PADos
""‘—"""—"‘—""STAFF ‘X/RIIER

Washington and Lee University
has been ranked among the country’s
top liberal arts colleges for the 12th
consecutive year in U.S. News &
World Report magazine’s annual sur-
vey.

W&L is now ranked 1 lth among
national liberal arts colleges, the
school’s second best ranking ever next
to last year.

The annual survey by U.S. News
& World Report utilizes categories
such as academic reputation, student
retention, faculty resources, student
selectivity, ﬁnancial resources and
alumni contributions to evaluate
school standards in these areas.

Also recently released, the
Princeton Review’s annually pub-
lished guidebook “The Best 31 1 Col-
leges” summarizes the personal opin-
ions of 56,000 students attending col-
leges ranked among the best in the
nation. Students rate their colleges in

areas ranging from academics to cam-
pus life, including parties, food and
dorms. The guide features everything
from “best academics” to “Jock
School” (Wabash College), “Best
Dorms” (Randolph-Macon Women’s
College) and “Best Campus Food”
(College of the Atlantic). The survey
reveals that W&L has the happiest
students in the nation, as well as the
most beautiful campus. W&L was also
ranked #1 for major fraternity and so-
rority scene, as well as hard liquor con-
sumption and #10 for best overall aca-
demic experience for undergraduates.

In spite ofa three point drop in
overall ranking, (W&L ranked
eighth last year), the university
maintained its national reputation of
excellence. Director ofCommunica-
tions and Public Relations Brian D.
Shaw said that these surveys use a
“complex system ofevaluation. We
are only three points below last
years’ ranking. We’re more than
happy to be ranked #11.”

(1) Johns Hopkins spoils
football home opener

CD Big weekend for soccer,
volleyball

PAGE 4

 

 

“Well sonny, that ’s nuthin ’. . . I
walked 90 miles to class every day
when I was young! ”

“How young dackzy?

“Almost 21. ”

Well it’s time to feel like school children
once again. Not because we’re back in the
saddle of educational fun, but because we get
to walk to school like 6th graders.

“Hey y’all, wait up,” we get to yell every
moming as we see our off-campus ﬁiends at
every comer taking the same half-mile trek up-
hill to campus. Too bad for us, we can’t take
the bus or have our moms bring us because
school buses don’t exist forus and Banerwould
probably tow our moms’ cars away if they tried

It’s ﬁne now, but just wait until winter when
we get to leave our sport utility Vehicles be-
hind and strap on the old snow shoes. Can’t

wait

Seriously though, the new parking rules are
ridiculous. How hard is it to make a parking
lot? Is a tlnee month summer not enough to
lay some stones? Things might be done a bit
more slowly in the South than other places,
but get real. Let’s put the pedal to the metal
before lot rage begins.

It is not our problem thatthere are not enough
spots in which to park. Administrators may say
we lost that right by moving off campus. Nice
scapegoat. Where else are we going to live?
It’s not as if there is ample dorm space.

Yeah, we’re probably lazy. Spoiled brats,
perhaps, but you can’t let us regress in parking

 lotmatulityii fVi~taiie<li;f9jfit11<l>S¢i°l0S6.'—l.<'3l~°é
and now we’ve   out to  we
were as freshmen. I
Onlytwo goodthingscanbe said aboutthis
situation. First, we’ll really be able to tell those
cliched exaggerations ofwalking-to-school hell
to our children someday. Second, we might
‘ get tighter buns from the eternal up-hill climb.

Have an opinion?
Let us know.

e—mail us at phi@wlu.edu or
Call at (540)462-4060

Ellie ﬁling-tum iﬁlri

Executive Editors Tarah Grant
Hollister Hovey
Copy Editor Sarah Meldrum
Meredith Mlynar
News Editors Polly Doig
John Stewart
w&Iife Editors Ginger Phillips
Erica Prosser
Opinion & Editorial Editor Stephen Pesce
spans Editors Frances Groberg

Brendan Harrington
Kevin McManemin
Mike Crittenden
Christie Phillips
Tom Wadlow
Stephanie Bianco

Last Word Editor
Photo Editor

Online Editor
Layout Assistant

Jill Jamieson
Jason Williams

Business Manager
Managing Editor

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee ‘
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor and Business Manager, but
The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in
the Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University Center, by
noon on Saturday to appear in that week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for
content and length. Letters, columns and “Talkback” do
not reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial
Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu
http://wlu.edu/~phi

need some laughs

At 4 this morning after I played the last of the 32,000
Free Cell games available on my computer, I cruised the
web for a while and happened upon the Comedy Central

web site. My blood-
shot eyes brightened   .
as I read something  H15 
that truly struck my 3.  7
fancy: “What?! Your  Stephen Pesce 01
neighborhood

doesn’t get Comedy Central? Are you forced to entertain
yourself with ‘Baywatch Nights,’ endless games of com-
puter solitaire and the Ziggy comic strip in your daily
newspaper?”

After crying at the realization that my life is pathetic, I
seriously questioned why our local cable service deprives
a fun-loving college community of one of the most popu-

lar television stations among college-aged
viewers.

Before settling back down at

Washington and Lee, I visited a
friend at Duke University. This
friend had started classes already;
since I knew no one else, Comedy
Central proved a truly reliable friend
and gracious host. Ben Stein chal-
lenged and stimulated my sun-dried gray matter. Craig
Kilbom and the “Daily Show” team kept me current on
events around the world. And those wacky Europeans with
“Viva Variety” made me proud to be an American.

Watching television at
Duke proved extremely infor-
mative and entertaining.
W&L and the city of Lexing-
ton provide students with a
college experience in the
classroom, in the community
and in the social arena equal 
to few others. Why should stu-. .
dents not demand the same dedication to excellence out of

 

 

   

 

 

 

their cable television service?
Maybe if enough students voiced disappointment to the
local cable company about this terrible oversight in chan-
nel lineup, Comedy Central might ﬁnally reach a commu-
nity that suffers from its absence.
On a different note, Duke also gets CBC (Canadian
Broadcasting Com-
‘C pany). Though I do
not think that students
Are you forced to "should necessarily
entertain yourself with ' fight for this station,I
did discover that
. . . endless games of Sprintcanadaoffersa
computer solitaire? get $20 per month
long distance rate for
9’ calls anywhere in
Canada — what a
tasty treat that would be if offered in the U.S. (We would
not, however, welcome the satirized Evita-style commer-
cials starring Candice Bergen.) So maybe after calling
the cable company, a call to the
telephone company might satisfy
the activist in everyone.

=-4-‘,--*Spn‘tit

  
  
  
  
   
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
      
 
  

 
 

Woods Crk keeps
students in the dark

As I marveled at the freshman day move-in last Saturday, I
had to smile. This year, there were no stairs to climb, no
cinderblocks to struggle with, and no unfamiliar faces to meet.
No, this year I’m a sophomore, living on the entry ﬂoor of the
Woods Creek apartments. I have a common room, a kitchen to
cook in, and a sink in which to dump my dirty dishes.

But the beneﬁts of living in Woods Creek as a sophomore
girl may not be worth the risks. Being on the entry ﬂoor on the
front side, our balcony is easy to climb, thus providing entry to
anyone not posessing a university card. This is wonderful if for
some reason you simply forget your card. But what about all of
those crazy people this

 

    

verypaperreportedon last .,  '  My View
year? Peeping Toms,  C  ,
ﬂashers and all sorts of  mnoes Gfoberg 02

 

oﬂier hi gh-soc iety persons
tend to hang out in the paths leading from campus to the com-
plex. Just the other day, while walking on the gravel path from
behind the gym, I spotteda man crouched arnongslt the trees, as
if he were trying to hide. I<Ie:certainly didn’t participate in the
speaking tradition, and I didn’t stop to ask him why.

Part of the reason Woods Creek is prone to these types of
ﬁgures is the severe lack of sufficient lighting lining the paths.
This school is willing to spend enonnous amounts of money for
grand newientrances and blue banners with uplifting messages,
but not to effectively provide for the safety of its students.

The Woods Creek apanments are a wonderful place to live.
They are removed from campus, yet close enough to walk to
class in under 10 minutes. Once the sun goes down, however, it
becomes a place that isn’t too safe to walk to and from alone. So
all of you freshmen who are complaining just as I did last year
about the noise and the limited space of the donns, realize that
what you may give up in comfort you gain in safety.

 ask: What is worst pick—up line you’veheard?

Ii

ote of the week:
Why did Clinton pull out?

— Student wondering why Clinton did
not speak at Fall Convocation

J}
Media breaches

honor system

As a freshman, I have been hearing a great deal about
the importance of honor during my ﬁrst week here. Honor
is one of the most important virtues for human beings in a
civilized society. But while honor is so revered here on
campus, our national discourse as a whole is sorely lack-
ing,in. this vital quality. .

The collective na-
tional attention has
been focused on Presi-
dent C|inton’s affair
with Monica Lewinsky
for the past seven-and-a-half months. This issue raises se-
rious questions about the standing of honor in our soci-
ety. Perhaps the question should be asked: What is the
most egregious breach of honor — President Clinton’s
proclivities, or our incessant appetite for every grisly de-
tail?

There is absolutely no question as to whether or not
the actions of the President were dishonorable. He caused
great harm to his family, and he demonstrated severe lack
of judgment in engaging in this affair. The truly disgrace-
ful aspect of the situation is, however, the absolute fervor
that the news media have shown for disclosing every inti-
mate detail. Even though he is the President, he is a hu-

man being entitled
C C to the privacy nec-

 

Whatis the I‘I1OSt essary to heal
- wounds in his mar-
egreglous breefch of riage and his family.
h0I101""P1'eS1deI1t The media have not
C]int0n’S proclivities, granted him this ba-
. sic human right to
or our mcessant carry on a family
appetite for every life independent of

- - the public eye.
gnsly dew] The national dis-

 

course over the past
seven months has
been anything but honorable. In such a voyeuristic soci-
ety, the private lives of our public ﬁgures are subject to
total scrutiny from all angles. Even when our leaders make
mistakes, they still deserve the opportunity to make repa-
rations and amends.

So the ultimate question remains: Which is the greater
transgression — the deed itself, or the way society re-
ceived the deed? One only needs to watch the news or
read any newspaper, and the answer reveals itself. Per-
haps before we judge the actions of our leader as a soci-
ety, we shouldjudge ourselves by the same standard.

   
   

 
  
  
 
  
 
  

   
  
  
 

  

 

   
 
  
  

 
   
 

  
 
 

  
 

   
 

 

   

 

 
  
  
  

  
 
 

  
  

 
  
  
 
  

   
 
  
   
  
 
 

  

 

 

 

   

    

A;

“I lost my phone number. Can I have yours?”

—Christa Hemmings ’02

f
“Do you have any Italian in you?”
“No.”
“D_o.you want some?”

JAMES G. Lgygum,  —Summers Kimbrough. ’02

WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY

ILEXWGTON. VA 24450

SEP 151998

“Hello, my name is Neil. You’ll
remember it: it’s a verb.”

—Deidra MacLeod ’02

 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
        

  
 
 
  
 

 
 

I

    
 

v

SEPTEMBER 14, 1998

W&life  

Lexington, VA: getting from poin

PAGE 3

o point B

 

  

To RT M, 1-94,
J:-$\, wu.-MAKV.
Au»:-r snuws, MMLE

HALL, $owL\v~IG,

DRNF.-lN, Lee-at

ﬂﬁkl KY

MAP 0 F
€.Xi1(tGToI\I,

V\RGlN\A

MAP ART BY
Ew.\c.A P505557‘

   

Oi
@
© . "°@¢gl$or1 ©

KANDO L"!

69

To NATURAL. emcee,
jugs) ROAl\lOIge)

J, RT\\

( Esrn.
GD
'@

A
j:— I

To  )
l-lARRlS TEEFER
(cap MON,
l"\c.D°"'A'-D'5,
weNW’5,
sueways Taco

3514-: ETC. .

1

".fl 3

neous newcomers: Is this 'you‘i"frrst year’ in the
thriving metropolis of Lexington, Va.? Are you just a
tad confused about where everything is and how to get
to the important spots? Worry no more. Just use this
handy map and key to get yourself around Big Lex with
ease. Before long, you’ll be so comfortable with the
Jarea that people might mistake you for a townie.

A. Beta Theta Pi (Beta)

B. Lambda Chi Alpha (Lambda Chi)
C. Kappa Alpha (KA)

D. Kappa Sigma (Kappa Sig)
E. Pi Kappa Alpha (Pika)

F. Pi Kappa Phi (Pi Phi)

G. Sigma Alpha Epsilon (SAE)
H. Sigma Nu

I. Sigma Phi Epsilon (Sig Ep)

1. Sigma Chi

K. Phi Gamma Delta (Fiji)

L. Phi Delta Theta (Phi Delt)

- » »- ~Freshmen,Atransfer students‘-and other'inTscella- .3

.M. Phi‘Kappa Sigma (Phi Kap)
N. Phi Kappa Psi (Phi Psi),
0. Chi Psi

P. The Palms

Q. Spanky’s

R. Sheridan Livery lnn

S. Willson Walker House
T. ll Palazzo

U. Domino’s Pizza

V. Harb’s

W. Salemo’s

X. Southern lnn

Y. University Cleaners

Z. Troubador Theatre

1. State Theater

2. Pappagallo

3. Night Owl

4. Crossroads

5. Hallmark

6. Alvin-Dennis

7. University Sportswear

8. US._ Post Office

9. First Union Bank

10. Crestar Bank

1 1. Lexington Coﬂ°ee Roasting Co.

12. Sunday’s Child

13. Bradshaw’s Studio — l-hour Photo
14. Stonewall Jackson Cemetery

15. Munster

16. The Bestseller bookstore

If your destination is slightly off the map, check out
these directions. -

Directions to Goshen: Take Main Street toward Wal-
Mart®, but turn left on Route 39 (the stoplight right be-
fore Wal-Mart®). Stay on 39, and the popular Goshen
picnic spot along the river will eventually appear on the
right.
Directions to Zollman’s: Take Route 11 south to
Route 251 (Thomhill Road). Turn right on 251 and go
south, keeping on 251 past Union Run Road. Past the
country club and the Moose Lodge, turn leﬁ on Zollman’s

Nelson (Route 60) toward Harris Teeter and stay on
Nelson until it crosses Interstate 8]. Go south on 81 for
about an hour until the Roanoke exit appears (it is a left
exit onto Interstate 581). Follow the signs to the airport.

on I-581 to the second Hershberger Road exit and fol-

terstate 81 northeast for about I 10 miles until it inter-
sects Interstate 66. Take I-66 cast for about 73 miles
right into Washington, D.C. More maps for the D.C.
area can be found online at www.mindspring.com/
~chadallen/dc/layers/.

Mill Road and stay on  untilyou reachllollmanfs (look
for"all'the other ‘cars full offéllow'studer'its having fun).
Directions to Charlottesville: Take Interstate 64
cast for 63 miles until it crosses U.S. 29. Go east on US.
29 almost 3 miles until it crosses U.S. 250. Take U.S. 250
cast for a mile straight into Charlottesville.
Directions to the Roanoke Airport and Mall: Take

For those interested in visiting Valley View Mall, stay

low the signs.
General directions to Washington, D.C.: Take in-

—compiled from staﬁ" research

C€aEa%,.arm@alfmaa,.

September 9 Fall Convocation
“Come Cheer: W&L at
250 Years” photo exhibit,
duPont Gallery
October 1-3 Homecoming Weekend
October 3 Lee Chapel Rededication
October 10 Law School 150"‘ Gala

°it513e4'i)
Oc "  .

  
 

on &

lobby
N =' .  IC

n erence
November 10 Order of the Coif Lecture
November 14 Bicenquinquagenary Ball
January 19 Founder’s Day
February 11 250"‘ Postal Ca rd
Ceremony
February 13 Jack Warner ’40 exhibit,
Lenfest lobby

March 3 Fancy Dress Ball
April 29 Alumni Reunion Weekend

—compiled from staﬂ reports

‘iguana

 The niversityatiswo Years", . /
Num us'individuals;‘all of whom, were committedt

ts t, iconceivedjtheidea for this boo A , _ g
“This 250"‘ Observance is surely atime to look  yd
, . K »\ ,  ..  ,‘ fr ‘ V g * it ‘A } 7 /

Moot”: . Coirieicheerfcir W i ‘

piece of W&L’s  to thoseiwh will etermme,

Didyou know?

(D Wilson Field was once used as a military train-
ing site for students during World War I.

(D The original Tucker Hall was a stone structure
that looked much different from the other brick build-
ings along the Colonnade. Tucker Hall, which was once
home toithe Law School, burned in December of I934.
The new Tucker Hall was built in 1936 as a companion
to Newcomb Hall. A

<1) W&L has attracted such celebrities as Presi-
dent Jimmy Carter, Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich,
author William Faulkner, actress Elizabeth Taylor and
musician Winton Marsalis to the campus.

(I) Scenes from the I992 ﬁlm “Sommersby,” star-
ring Richard Gere and Jodie Foster, were ﬁlmed in Lex-
ington. Cast members had dressing rooms located in
Red Square fraternity houses. ‘

(I) University librarian Annie Jo White hosted
the first ofﬁcial Fancy Dress Ball in 1907. The event has
since become known as the collegiate social event of
the South.

(D From I931 until 1969, freshmen were ﬁrst sent
to Freshmen Camp in Natural Bridge before moving onto
campus.

<l> Soldiers used Phi Kappa Sigma and other fra-
ternity houses in Red Square were used as military bar-
racks during WWI.

(D Newcomb Hall once lacked the University's
trademark white columns, and the C-School formerly
maintained a large dome when it was known as the
Carnegie Library.

—compiled from staff reports

 

 

Generals lose 14th straig

Johns Hopkins
scores 29
points in
second quarter
offensive

explosion

BY BRENDAN HARRINGTON »
SPORTS FDITOR

The Washington and Lee foot-
ball squad kicked off their 1998 cam-
paign exactly like they started their
past 13 - with a loss. Saturday af-
ternoon marked the 14th consecu-
tive year that the Generals dropped
the season opener, as Johns
Hopkins scored 29 second quarter
points en route to an impressive 43-
23 win Saturday aftemoon at Wil-
son Field. The Blue Jays also beat
the Generals on opening day of last
season, 34-28 in Baltimore.

The Generals knew they would
have to stop the run to be success-
ful against the Blue Jays, but they
just could not contain the Hopkins
running attack. The Blue Jays
rushed for 192 yards on 43 carries,
an average of 4.5 yards per carry.

Six different Hopkins players
rushed for 20 or more yards, led by
Donald Davis. The Blue Jays’ pass-
ing attack also succeeded as quar-

 

- terbacks Wayne Roccia and Jamie

Monica were a combined 19-26 for

I 262 yards, two touchdowns, and no
L interceptions.

“I think the team had a great ef-

I fort, but we just had some break-
 downs,” defensive lineman Ben
I Middendorf commented following
 the game. “I think we can correct
_ those mistakes and come back to
I have a good season.”

Turnovers were the downfall of

 the W&L offense, as the Generals
I committed three turnovers in the
1 ﬁrst half, including two crucial in-

Chase becomes all-time  
scorer for men’s soccer

Record-
breaking day
helps Generals

; to 1-0 start in
, season opener

 BY FRANcEs GROBERG

Spoms EDITOR

The season could not have

 started off better for the men’s soc-
. cer team. On Saturday, senior Sam

.....-.,..,-v.... ..,...«....~. »- - .-.   . .
. .'.'. . . Y‘. .'. J. . .. F ‘.'.V. -.'H:'-'‘ 9‘. ,->- 1,4,4 ._»_,:‘. .,-,,-‘-_.v..a..~,-,-t_.-x. ..,,-.-.. . . r\ s s s . rs 5;. 9'. . .r_.

 

 

Chase became the program’s all-
time leading scorer, and the Gener-
als posted a4-l victory over Catho-
lic University.

‘‘It was a really good start for
us,” senior co-captain and 1996
All-American Mikel Parker said.
“We were also so excited for Sam.
It was a great day.”

Last year, Chase broke the record
for most career points in the men’s
soccer program with 90.

Chase’s goal gave the team an
early 1-0 lead. Chase also added a
second half goal, bringing his all-
time total to 42.

‘‘I should have done it last year,
but it was really cool to have been
able to do it with my parents on the
sidelines,” Chase said.

Junior midﬁelder Jamie Parker
' and freshman defender Rick
Schnatz added second half goals.
This year’s squad has high
hopes. The Generals are anchored
by 17 returning players, including
1 l starters, as well as nine promis-
. ing freshmen.
The defense will be led by se-

ée

 

 

sports

htopener

SEPTEMBER 14, 1998

  
   

A JOHN HOPKINS PLAYER tackles sophomore running back Marc Watson, causing him to ﬁxmble the ball. The Generals
turned the ball over three times in the ﬁrst half of the 43-23 loss to the Blue Jays. H()l.Ll.S'IL'R /‘I()VI;‘Y/EXl:‘(.'l/'I7Vl:‘ EDITOR

terceptions by junior quarterback
Christian Batcheller. Other than the
two interceptions, Batcheller had a
solid performance as he went 19-28
for 230 yards and two touchdowns.

“There were a few bad reads on
my part,” Batcheller admitted. “Other
than that we moved the ball pretty
well. A few bad mental decisions were
basically the difference in the game.”

Junior wide receiver J .T. Malatesta
was one of the few bright sports for
the Generals as he caught eight
passes for 124 yards and made a diffi-
cult diving touchdown catch in the
fourth quarter.

The Generals led 3-0 after the
first quarter, butjust seven seconds
into the second quarter Roccia
threw a six yard touchdown pass to

nior co-captain and 1996 All-American
Mikel Parker. Sophomore Yacek
Mucha returns to team with Parker on
a defense that allowed only 1.34 goals
per game last season.

The big key to this team, as is to
any soccer team, will be the goalkeeper.
Senior co-captain E.J. Murphy will rep-
resent the Generals in that role for the
second consecutive season.

Last year, Murphy saved 100 of 123

stellar 1.41 goals

Justin Bellochio to give the Blue
Jays a 6-3 lead. Immediately follow-
ing the kickoff, Craig Reinert inter-
cepted an underthrown pass from
Christian Batcheller and ran it all the
way back to the one yard line.

Sophomore running back Scott
Martorana punched it in a play later
to give the Blue Jays their second
touchdown in the first 37 seconds
ofthe quarter.

Hopkins struck again with 5:35
left in the second quarter when
Roccia connected with wide re-
ceiver Sam Skinner for a 40-yard
touchdown pass to give Johns
Hopkins a commanding 21-3 lead.

Senior wide out Chas Chastain
scampered 30 yards for a touch-
down offa reverse with 2:58 left in

this year, which will really help late in
the season.”

Competition will not only be
fierce on the field, but between
players for starting positions.

Other top returnees to the team
include Sophomore Jon Wilson,
who started all 17 games last sea-
son, and also figures to be a key
in the offensive attack.

Wilson moves to the forward

position after
playing midfield

shots and had a
C C

against average.
He also became
the first General
since 1992 to start

We ’ve got great depth this year;
which will really help late in

last seasoh. Jun-
ior Ben Thomp-
son is expected
to start along-

every game in theseason side Parker in

goal duringafull Mk [P k the midﬁeld.

season. '— le 07' 37 The team’s
Murphy will  season contin-

be backed up by
sophomore Jor-
dan Ginsberg and newcomer sopho-
more Evan Crainer.

“lt’s the best team I’ve played on
yet,” Chase said.

Mikel Parker agreed, saying “It
looks like Coach Piranian got a great
recruiting class. We’ve got great depth

ues on Saturday
at noon, when
they will take on rival Virginia
Wesleyan at the Liberty Hall
Fields. The game promises to‘ be
a tough one, as the Generals try
to avenge their semifinal loss in
last year’s ODAC tournament
against the Marlins.

JUNIOR MICHAEL KACZKAﬁghts oﬂ a defender in the Generals’4-1
victory over Catholic University. HOLLISTER HOVERY/EXECUTIVE EDITOR

the first half, but Hopkins drove 80
yards and took a 29-10 lead into the
locker room following a Davis three-
yard run and successful two point
conversion.

The Blue Jays continued to run
the ball well in the second half as
Donald Davis added two more
touchdowns. Batcheller threw two
touchdown passes in the fourth
quarter, a 20 yarder to Malatesta and
a seven yarder to sophomore
Hanley Sayers, but it was too little
too late.

“You hate to write it offto being
the first game ofthe season because
obviously you want to win your first
game,” Batcheller said. “ But we just
have to come out next week and do
better.”

' ith

   

7,

I Bout ‘any m.ai'6r~‘1n’utiés= Ia’ l<1;th‘i¢

 /-liteairn  about wheregIjw.oul‘d ex,

 

37

     

"’T!1.¢»l<3°ﬁ¢ralslj1avé ‘léftdhse

‘ :"P1°. this yela = ¥4a§t éaS‘i9’n§3h9

Volleyball digs

- » ilillau-I

up

first win

athome tournament

   

Youth,

1 experience
‘ the perfect
combination in
W&L invitational
tournament I

 STm Warm

The 1998 Generals volleyball team
started the season off with an impres-
sive win in this year’s Washington and
Lee Invitational Volleyball Touma-
ment. On Friday, the Generals
trounced Southern Virginia 3-0, but
dropped a tough match to Sewanee 2-
3. On Saturday, W&L dropped only
two games the entire day in wins over
Catholic (3-2), and two over North
Carolina Wesleyan (3-0, 3-0).

Assistant coach Ana Litton attrib-
uted this weekend’s success to “a good
mix of experienced retumers and a good
talented group of freshmen.”

Digs from senior co-captain Megan
Snodgrass, setting from senior co-cap-
tain Lee Ann Gschwind, and smart hit-
ting from junior power hitter Nancy
Reinhart completed the pass-set-hit
combo.

Reinhart heads the returnees and

brings with her the banner of being
named the ODAC Player of the Year
last year. The ﬁery competitor set a
school record with 381 kills last sea-
sons and also led the team with 327
digs. Reinhart has been a starter her
.ﬁrst two seasons and is an explosive
hitter despite standing just 5-foot-6.
Sophomore Tori Hayes came off of
the bench on Saturday and provided
a much needed spark for W&L after
their Friday night loss to Sewanee.
Gschwind was impressed with the
weekend’s efforts, but was still re-
served about making any predictions

(6

We proved a lot by pulling
through some tough games,
but we still have a lot of work
to do.
-- Lee Ann Gschwind

77

about this year’s success. “We proved
a lot by pulling through some tough
games, but we still have a lot of work
to do. The potential is definitely
there.” .

This season, the Generals face the
hard task of replacing last year’s tal-

ented senior class. Over the last\
four seasons W&L has compiled a
record of 96-27, capturing Old Do-
minion Athletic Conferencc cham-
pionships in 1995 and 1997, while
achieving the program's first re-
gional ranking in 1996. However,
the Generals have lost career kill
leader Hilary Martin, career assist
leader Alison Beard and career
serve leader Holly Thomsen.

Several of the ever-changing
starting positions this weekend be-
longed to freshmen that have
brought talent and height to the
team this year.

“The majority ofthe freshman
are 5’ll" or taller,” said Erin
Gwara, freshman middle blocker
from Farmington, NY.

Solid team play wrapped up the
win on Saturday for the Gen’erals.
This experience for the freshmen
coupled with the experience of be-
ing the defending ODAC champi-
ons promises to lead to a winning
season for W&L volleyball in 1998.

W&L faces Guilford on Tues-
day Night at 6:30 p.m. in the
Warner Center. Between the sec-
ond and third games the team will
hold a serving contest for the
fans. Prizes from Lexington area
merchants will be given away to
the winners.

 

  
 
 
 

 

 

  

: . Volleyball  ,i..i¥.:,«§otij?ll.y ”
W&L:  3  items =
-«-$°~.Virsieia j 0. I I opkins -
lW&Lw   ivii-;ips1’s2.c¢er
Sewanee 93  . ~

3 V. f;w&L I _ 4
was  13 F — i:°““*:"'.‘°i. I 
-C-‘”h.°el‘.° f 1:   ;Women’S Solccer
‘W&L  93V. A if-with 5
 Wesleyan 0  ,0 »

  
 

  

Fmisuunz      

 

n&nS1u.~x.n.-u.s;.r“-ssh:-.9. .a.__.........__...'

gc

Y4

 

©1993 TIAA-CREE Til] Tbirrl Aumiir, New York, NY

SEPTEMBER 14, 1998

RESPONSIBILITY LECTURE SERIES STARTS

University of Chicago Professor Ralph Lerner will inaugurate a lecture se-
ries on civil responsibility with his talk “The American Founders and Respon-
sibility” on Thursday. The responsibility lecture series is the academic center-
piece of the 250"‘ celebration and a total of 15 distinguished speakers from
varying disciplines will come to campus during the school year to take part in
the forum.

Princeton University Professor Amy Gutmann will give a talk titled “Re-
ligious Liberty and Civil Responsibility” next Thursday. All ofthe respon-
sibility lectures will take place in the Science Center Addition, Room A214
at 7:30 p.m.

WRITE FOR THE RING-TUM PHI

The Ring-tum Phi invites freshmen and other students interested in work-
ing on the newspaper to attend our weekly meetings 7:30 p.m. Tuesday nights.
You can control the time commitment: Write one article a month to have writing
samples for job interviews or talk to one of our editors about an assistant
editor position and spend every weekend in the ofﬁce.

FILM SOCIETY SEASON OPENS WITH A STORM

The ﬁlm society will open its 1998-99 season this weekend with “The Ice
Storm” (USA, 1997). Directed by Ang Lee, “The Ice Storm” takes place as an
early winter storm descends on Connecticut. In a wooded suburb, afﬂuent
adults and teenagers stir restlessly in their homes, depressed not only by their
lives, but by their entertainments.

Film society screenings are at 7:30 p.m. on Friday and Saturday inthe Trou-
badour Cinema. There is no charge for admission.

FACULTY PERFORM IN LENFEST

The department of music will present a faculty recital, “From Germany to
A-itnerica,” 8 p.m. Saturday in the Lenfest Center. The performance is free and
open to the public. A

Pianist Timothy Gaylard, professor of music, will perform Beethoven’s So-
nata in C-sharp minor, Op. 27, No. 2, a Waltz on Yankee Doodle and two
excerpts from Aaron Copeland’s Rodeo. Tenor Scott Williamson, director of
the University Chorus, will sing Pierrot ’s Dance Song by Komgold, three
songs by Kurt Weill, two songs from Des Knaben W underhorn by Mahler and
two song cycles, Bestiary of Dreams by Convery and A Winter Comes by
Morten Laiiridsen.

NEW TREES TAKE ROOT ON FRONT CAMPUS

Over the summer, W&L replaced approximately 25 trees on the
front campus and in front of the faculty housing area. A consultant
said that the old trees were diseased, damaged and dangerous.

DINING SERVICES WINS NATIONAL AWARD
W&L’s Dining Services department was recently honored by the National

Association of College & University liood Services. W&L placed second in a 1

national dontest in the category of “Residence Hall Dining Special Event Theme
Dinner” for its “Nutcracker” theme holiday dinner last December. The award
marked the fourth time since 1991 and the second year in a row that W&L has
been honored by NACUFS.

GAIN ADVERTISING EXPERIENCE

Students interested in advertising or public relations careers are needed to
join The Ring-tum Phi advertising team. If you are interested, e-mail
phi@wlu.edu. It will look great on your resume.

MOYERS SPEAKS ON DRUGS, ALCOHOL

William Cope Moyers, director of public policy for the ,

Hazelden Foundation, will be speaking about drug and alcohol addiction,
treatment and education 7:30 p.m. in Room 327 in the C-School.

The title of his lecture is “The Great Awakening,” an overview and analysis
of the last 200 years of U.S. public policyand drug addiction. Moyers, who
graduated from W&L in 1981, has appeared on “Larry King Live,” “The Oprah
Winfrey Show” and “The Today Show.” His work has also been featured in The
New York Times and Newsweek.

LENFEST TICKETS GO ON SALE

Tickets for Opera Roanoke’s “La Boheme, " Kiev Camerata and “Rosencrantz
and Guildenstem are Dead” go on sale today. Call the Lenfest Box Ofﬁce for
ﬁ.lI‘thet' infonnation at 463-8000.

THEATER DEPARTMENT HOLDS AUDITIONS

The theater department is pleased to announce open auditions for its up-
coming play “Rosencrantz and Guildenstem are Dead” by Tom Stoppard and
directed by Al Gordon. Auditions will be held Thursday and
Friday at 4 p.m. and 7:30 p.m. in the Lenfest Center’s'
Johnson Theatre.

Auditioners should prepare a reading of any 10-line
speech from Hamlet. Scripts are available from the the-
ater department secretary. Fifteen roles are available.

Rehearsals will run Sept. 21 to Oct. 22. Perfonnance
dates are Oct. 23 through Oct. 26.

NOMINATE SENIORS FOR WHO'S WHO

Anyone who wishes to nominate a member of the current undergraduate
senior class for selection to “Who’s Who Among Students in American Uni-
versities and Colleges” may do so by submitting the name and qualiﬁcations of
that student to Dean David Howison in Payne Hall 9 by October 1, 1998.

Criteria for selection to “Who’s Who” include scholarship, participation
and leadership in academic and extracurricular activities, citizenship and ser-
vice to W&L and potential for future achievement.

WINTER SPEAKS IN LEE CHAPEL

William Winter, J .D., former governor of Mississippi and a member of the
United States Committee on Race Relations, will speak in Lee Chapel 8 p.m.
Tuesday. His lecture is sponsored by PRIDE, Programming for the Respect of

' Individuals in Diversity in Education.

LEARN TO SWING FOR THE 250"‘ BALL

Students can sign up for beginner level swing classes at the Lexington
School of Dance to prepare for the 250"‘ ball. For more information, call 463-4466
or463-7662.

ATTEND STUDY ABROAD FAIR

The Study Abroad Fair willbe held 1 1 a.m. to 4 p.m.
Wednesday on Stemmons Plaza. Representatives from
more than 20 different programs will explain opportu-
nities for academic year,‘ term or summer study. Faculty
are enco aged to attend to learn about opportunities for
their stu ents and advisees as well.

—e-mail General Notes to phi@wlu.edu

  Top P
7 C x . count.
8 I j*(:i§EF otvtaliiliccount‘

_.s&P‘atzd  its
rating for TlAA**

MORNINGSTAR,

“...AJneﬁ¢a§ ‘
ensioit Fund.”

“Money Magazine. January 1998

—~—- illiam Ravdiri,TlAA-CREE Participant

HIGH MARKS FROM ,
8&1’, MOODY’S,
MONEY MAGAZINE AND BILL.

coming
soon".

Get ready for the Phi
classiﬁeds

- Be a U.S. citizen

Teach English in junior and senior high schools in Japan
Learn about Japanese culture and people
Gain international experience 

~ Have an excellent command of the English language
- Obtain a bachelor's degree by June 30, 1999

- Be willing to relocate to Japan for one year

A JET Program Representative will he at Washington & Lee University on Wednesday,
September 16 lot a Study Abroad Fair lrom 11:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M. outdoors. Contact
the Ollice of International Education or call the JET ollice at (212) 238-6772.

PARENTS JAILED FOR CAGING DAUGHTER

Parents convicted of locking their 7-year-old daughter in" a dog cage
stained with urine and feces were sentenced to a year in jail by a judge in
Wisconsin who said they deserved compassion despite their despicable
conduct. Court-appointed psychiatrist Darold Treffert said the girl was
“a very difﬁcult child.” -

THREE TO BE FIRED FOR RACIST FLOAT

Two ﬁreﬁghters and a policeman will be ﬁred for participating in a
New York City Labor Day Parade ﬂoat that mocked the dragging death of
a black man in Texas, city ofﬁcials said. The “Black to the Future” float
featured nine. white men, wearing black make-up and dreadlock wigs,
who threw waterrnelons and fried chicken and carried boom boxes.

MARS’ MOON HAS HIP-DEEP DUST

Phobos, the larger of Mars’ two small moons, is covered in 3-feet-
deep dust fortned by meteoroid impacts over millions of years, according
to images captured by the orbiting Mars Global Surveyor. The images
were released Friday by NASA.

JAPANESE-AMERICAN COMPENSATION ENDS

The Justice Department has ended its 10-year effort to ﬁnd and com-
pensate Japanese-Americans forced by the United States into internment
camps during World War II. More than 81,000 Japanese-Americans re- -
ceived payments——an estimated 98 percent of those eligible under the
1988 law that set up the $1.6 billion reparations program

DRUG APPEARS TO FIGHT DEPRESSION

Scientists may have stumbled onto an entirely new way to treat de-
pression: Merck & Co.’s new drug, the subject of an account published
Friday in the journal Science, works on a chemical pathway that differs
from every antidepressant sold today and offers hope to patients who get
no help from standard therapies.

AUTHORS BACK AFFIRMATIVE‘ ACTION

Racial preferences at elite colleges and universities have opened the
door to success for black Americans, according to a new book by two
former presidents of Ivy League institutions. The book from the Princeton
University Press is being released in the midst of challenges to affirmative
action in higher education.

—compiled from AP

 Do you feel old? The majority of this year's
t I . I freshmen class was born in the 1980s.
0 (D They have no meaningful recollection of the

Reagan era and did not know he had ever been shot.
(D They were 1 1 when the Soviet Union broke apart
‘ and do not remember the Cold War. CCCP is just a '
 _. bunch of letters.

(D They are too young to remember the Challenger
explosion.

(D Their lifetime has always included AIDS.

(D Atari pre-dates them, as do vinyl albums. The
expression "you sound like a broken record" means
nothing to them.

CD They do not know who Mork was or where he
was from.

(I) They never heard the temis “I'd Walk a mile for
Camel,” “Where's the beef?” or “de plane, de plane!”
(D Michael Jackson has always been white.

send thought-provoking comments to phi@wlu.edu

/

WANT TO MAKE SURE
BANER DOESN'T TOW
YOU AGAIN?

Raffle tickets for President Elrod’s
parking space* will be on sale from
Tuesday until Friday at the Co-op.
Proceeds beneﬁt W&L Habitat for

Humanity.
’ M-F 8-5; ﬁrst half of fall term

V N d e talce a lot of pride in gaining high marlcs
from the major rating services. But the fact
is, we're equally proud of the ratings we get every
day from our participants. Because at TIAA-CREF,
ensuring the financial futures of the education and
research community is something that goes beyond So does Bill.
stars and numbers.
We became the world's largest retirement orga-

nizationl by offering people a wide range of sound

investments, a commitment to superior service, and

B Ensuring the future
for those who shape it?‘

four stars. M()lI|Ing.iI3f proprietary mung; ct historical risk-cidjustcd pcrﬁir
CXCC.“ tif9U-day Trcasiirybill returns with zppropnatc I'cc " . ..:iid a ti.
ratings, which an: Wclghlcd Averages ofits thrcc-, tivc-. and [C|\'\‘L'Jr rating for pc-n't>d.« ctidiiIgl||l)' 31.

operating expenses that are among the lowest in the
insurance and mutual fund industries.""

\Vith TIAA-CREF, you'll get the right ohoices—
and the dedication ——to help you achieve a lifetime
of financial goals. The leading experts agree.

Find out how TIAA-CREF can helpyou build a
comfortable, financially secure tomorrow.

Visit our Web site at www.tiaa-cref.org or call
us at 1800 842-2776.

‘ Source: Momingstar, Inc_, July 3], I998. Momingstar is In indcpciidcnt service [It]! t.\tc.\ tnutlul funds ind variilslc innuitics '1 lie mp 10% (1lIlIll(I\lll.1ll lllV’t“IlT1L§|I(k'.lIL';',(l|'\’NLCIVC live .\I.1r.\ .ind the next 22.5% rL'L'<lVL'

rcllc cc and are .\Itl3jt:CK to change L’\CT\'lllUllll1.TllE\ .irc c.i|ciil.itcd trout the .iccniint'.\ th
factor that rcllccn pCl'Il)lI'll.1I|LL' lvclou 9l)’(lJy T-hill l'L'[lIl’Il\. ‘I lit: overall star titiiigs r
I998 I lie scpntatc ttiiipiililislit I) tntuigx tor C.|L'll iiftlic pctiodx .irc:

GETA $40

.z|lltl tun-yc-.ir .wcragc annual returns in
clcrrcd to nhovc .iti: Mornnigxtar‘s published

just to name a few.

CHEF Stock Account
Star Rating/
Numbct urnomcmc Equity
Accounts Rated
4/2,120
4/1 ,363
4/(>74

CIR!’ Global Equities Kncount
Sur IL-iting/
Numhcr oflntcmationil I-Zqiiity
Accounts Rated
4/459
5/235
N/A

our Bq-ulty lmla Antoni-it
Stat R.Iting/
Nuinbct ()fl3()1l1l.'\IlL' I-Equity
Accuuntx Kttcd
S/2,121)

CHEF Growth Account
St.ir R.itiiig/
Nuinbcr t)fl)UIIlL'\ll( i:qi.u_\
Arrtiiiiitx Ratcd
5/2,120
.\',/.\

N/:\

Period
3-Year
5-Yuar
ll)-Ycnr

.\‘/A
.\'/A

CREE‘ Bond Market Account
Sm I(.iting/
Niiiiibcr oi’ l:|KL‘kl'lll(IlI1IL’
AC\'nllllI.\ Rm-d
4/719
4/487
N/A

CHEF Sodnl Choice Account
Star R.iting/
Niiiubcr of Domestic Equity
Accounts Katcd
4/2,120‘

4/1,363
N/A

\ you ll“/CSI or scnd money

"These mp ratings are {used on 'l‘lAA‘si.-xccptional ﬁnancial sltcitgtli, claims-paying ability and in-cmll upcrallng pt-rfumuiicc 'B:v;tl on :mct.\ under lllulldgcllicltl. "'Stmidnrri’ -31’:-yr’: Inmranrr Rﬂflilﬂ Arii:l_v.u‘:,
I998; Lippcr Analytical Services, lrIc., Lipprr-I)i'r:tIor’r Armlyriml Data, 1998 (Qiiancrlyl. (IREF certiﬁcates and llllk‘K‘\!S Ill IlIt.' TIAA RL'.Il Iistatc Acctiuiit arc dl.\|’l'll9|JICd by TIAA-(ZRI—lI-' lIidi\'idu.\| and
lnstitutitmal Scrviccs. For more ctimplctcint1>rnntion,incliiding charges and cxpcny:.\, call H100 842-2733, L-xtcnxitiit 550‘), for the CREIE and 'l‘l.»\A Real F.xt.itc Acmiiiit priispcctiism. Rudd ll1L'Il| c.'itcI'ii|l_v bcfurc

it/9»

THE ARMY CAN HELP YOU
' ooo soc:
on coI.i.eae.

The Army can help you get an edge on life and earn up to
$40,000 for college through the Montgomery GI Bill plus the Army

1 : ~ better every day. If you
qualify, you could train in one of over 200 challenging and reward-
ing high-tech skills in ﬁelds like avionics and electronics, satellites
and microwave communications, computer and radar operations-

It makes sense to earn while you learn. For more information
about getting money for college, call your Army Recruiter today.

Call: 540-886-2651
ARMY. BE ALL YOU CAN BE?

WWW. Q08 rmy.com

‘V.
“iii"a7'§r3""

SAVE $6.00

at

College Fund.

Here’s how it works. Enlist
for four years. You then con-
tribute $100 a month for the
ﬁrst year from your $11,100
ﬁrst year salary. The Army
then contributes the remain-
der. Enlist for three years and

'1’ you earn $33,000 or enlist for
1 two years and earn $26,500.
Army opportunities get

WILLIAMSBUIW. VA
-Iuldi Then: Puts.

Present this coupon when purdiasing your tidtet at
any Busch Gardens Wlliaiiisbtirg or Water Country
IISA general admission window to receive your
discount on the regular one day admission price.
Children two and under are free. Admission price
indudes all regularly sdieduled slim and
attractions. This coupon has no cash value and
annc: be used in conjunction with any other
discount Prices and sdiedules are subject to diange
without notice. Busdi Gardens Vﬁlliatnsbuig and
Water Country USA have a "no solicitation” policy.
limit six tidtet: pet coupon. Olier expires
Ilmniber I, I998 at Busdi Gardens Williamsburg
and September 20, I999 at Water Country USA‘
PLU #2206I7.207

For General Park Information,
Group Rates (I5 or more)
And Catering information

call 757-253-3350

 

PAGE 6

abitoi Humor, Opinion and Reviews

PHOTO ILLUSTRATION BY JASON WILLIAMS/MANAGING EDITOR

Independent Counsel report sez
Prez has really blown ii

BY KENNEIH STARR

BrrINDEPrNDi-NT CCJUNSH.

The following quotes are all excerpted directly from

Kenneth Starr 's Independent Counsel Report, as taken

from http://CNN.com/starr. report. Comments are from
The Looney Bin.

The President suggested that she bring him some
slices of pizza.
From that moment on it was true love.

During many of their sexual encounters, the Presi-
dent stood leaning against the doorway of the bath-
room across from the study which, he told Ms.
Lewinsky, eased his sore back.

I guess it wasn ’t an illicit sexual aﬂair. . . she
was just administering therapeutic massage.

She testified: “I never expected to fall in love with
the President. I was surprised that I did.”
Hey, what girl hasn’t had a crush on a big
tubby redneck twice her age?

“I was always giving him my stupid ideas about what
I thought should be done in the administration or dif-
ferent views on things.”
Wait a minute. . . was this Monica Lewinsky ’s
testimony or Hillary ’s?

After phone sex late one night, the President fell
asleep mid—conversation.
The President fell asleep in the middle of
phone sex? Did we elect Bill Clinton or Bob Dole?

“The President said that . . . he spent more time with
me than anyone else in the world, aside from his family,
friends and staf .”

Who does that leave? Really.

If Ms. Lewinsky performed oral sex on the President,
then —- under this interpretation — she engaged in
sexual relations but he did not.

Sounds logical to me.

In the windowless hallway adjacent to the study, they
kissed. Before returning to her desk, Ms. Lewinsky wrote
down her name and telephone number for the President.

What, the most powerful man in the world
can ’t use the Yellow Pages?

While the President continued talking on the phone
(Ms. Lewinsky understood the caller was a member of
Congress or a Senator), she performed oral sex on him.

Having oral sex while talking on the phone!
How rude! ( Unless he was calling Ted Kenneafv) . . .

“And then I think he made a joke . . . thathe hadn’t
had that in a long time.”
And now that Hillary ’s read this report he 71
never have that again.

She performed oral sex. Once again, he stopped her
before ejaculation because, Ms. Lewinsky testiﬁed, “he
didn’t know me well enough or he didn’t trust e yet.”

So he knew her well enough to put his pri—
vates in her mouth but not to let her finish the job?
There 's Arkansas logic for you.

“I asked him why he doesn’t ask me any questions
about myself and . . . is this just about sex . . . or do you
have some interest in trying to get to know me as a
person?” The President laughed . . .

That is pretty funny.

He also indicated that she could have any job she
wanted after the election.
Ambassador Lewinsky?
Lewinsky’?

Vice President

last Word

 

SEPTEMBER 14, 1998

MAN OH MAN. AM I EVER
PSYCHED ABOUT THIS
RESPONSIBILITY SYMPOSIUM

BYKEVINMCMAMMN

RAVING AND DRoouNo

ike most people on this campus, I had only one
thing in mind when I returned to Lexington last

week: when will the Responsibility Symposium’

begin’? All summer long I could barely contain my excite-
ment. When I arrived in Lexington it was all my friends
and I talked about.

We were all thrilled when we heard that, for the 250*‘
anniversary, W&L would sponsor a series of lectures on
religion, law and responsibility. What a great idea! I think
I speak for all college students everywhere when I say that
responsibility is a topic we find fascinating.

Young people have always been deeply concerned with
being responsible, and my friends and I are no exception.
We often sit around the frat house and discuss responsi-
bility and how it relates to various academic disciplines.
Are we being responsible? What is responsibilty? How
do Iudeo-Christian ethics inﬂuence conceptions of
responsibilty in modern American politics? These are all
questions we discuss regularly, and now we’ll get to hear
a bunch of professors from other colleges talk about them!
What could be better?

You know, the other day the social chair of my fraternity
suggested that we throw a party on Tuesday the 24"‘. “Next
Tuesday night!” I cried, “the same night that Amy Gutmarm,
the Laurence S. Rockefeller Professor at Princeton Univer-
sity and co-author of the book “Color Conscious: The P0-
litical Morality of Race” (winner of the American Political
Science Association’s Ralph J. Bunche award for the best
scholarly work in political science which explores the phe-
nomenon of ethnic and cultural pluralism) is delivering her
lecture ‘Religious Liberty and Civil Responsibility’ for the
Responsibility Symposium!”

All of my brothers burst into laughter and the social

chair felt pretty stupid. Imagine, throwing a party when
the entire student body will be packed into Room A214
of the Science Addition! Ha! .

Seriously, though, I just hope I’ll be able to find a
seat. I mean I know how intellectually curious every-
one on this campus is and I remember that even last
year these school-sponsored lectures tended to get
pretty packed. If ‘I don’t manage to get there early
enough to find a seat, I guess I’ll just have to wait until
the book Prof. Davis is compiling from the speeches
goes to press.

I just hope I can get to the bookstores before it sells
out! If there’s one thing more exciting than hearing
aboutresponsibility, it’s reading about responsibility.
I’ll bet Prof. Davis got a big fat advance from the pub-
lishing company for that book. Talk about your sureﬁre
New York Times best sellers!

I’ll'tell you one thing: The Responsibility Sympo-
sium has already deeply affected my life. I haven’t been
able to sleep in weeks! I just lie there in bed at night
thinking about how great the lectures are going to be
and the adrenaline starts pumping through my veins
and before I know it it’s morning. My eyes are so red
traffic stops when I blink. My life is a living hell!

Man, I love symposiums, I just love them, and this
one is easily the most thrilling, awesome, downright
orgasmic symposium I’ve ever heard about. It’s going
to be better than sex! I’m so glad they decided to com-
memorate the 250"‘ anniversary of our school by holdﬁ
ing a symposium that really speaks to my generation.

So, my friends, I’ll see you Tl1ursday_in room A214
of the Science Addition when Ralph Lerner delivers his
lecture “The American Founders and Responsibility”
to open the Responsibility Symposium. Start camping
out Wednsday night for the good seats! I know I will.
It’s not like I’ll be able to sleep anyway.

 

Monday

7:30 p.m. Charles Johnson, author of “Middle
Passage.” Lee Chapel.

Tuesday

12 p.m. W&L Employees’ Christian Fellowship
Brown Bag Lunch. Room 113, University
Center.

6:30 p.m. Volleyball: W&L vs. Guilford College. :
Warner Center A

7:30 p.m. Contact Lecture: “The Great Awaken-
ing,” William Cope Moyers ’81. Room 32,
Williams School.

8 p.m. P.R.I.D.E. Lecture: William F. Winter,
former governor of Mississippi. Lee Chapel.

Wednesday

11 a.m.-4 p.m. Study Abroad Fair. Stemmons
Plaza.

Thursday

8:45 a.m. Golf: W&L Fall Classic. Lexington
Golf & Country Club.

4_ p.m. Women’s Soccer: W&L vs. Hollins.
Liberty Hall Field.

6:30 p.m. Volleyball: W&L vs. Hollins College.
Warner Center.

7:30 p.m. Responsibility Symposium Lecture:
Ralph Lerner. Room A214, Science Addition.
Friday

7:30 p.m. Film Society: “The Ice Storm.”
Troubadour Cinema.

Saturday

12 p.m. Men’s Soccer: W&L vs. Virginia
Wesleyan College. Liberty Hall Field.

1:30 p.m. Football: W&L vs. Guilford. (A)

7:30 p.m. Film Society: “The Ice Storm" (USA,
1997), directed by Ang Lee. Troubadour Cinema.
8 p.m. Faculty Recital: Timothy Gaylard, piano,
and Scott Williamson, tenor. Lenfest Center. '
Sunday.

1 p.m. Volleyball: W&L vs. Greensboro College.

AND ‘ii-IE V‘/II\|I\lER~3 t-\RE. . .

In case you
studied through
the 50th Annual

Primetime
EmmyAwards
last night, here

Outstanding comedy series: “Frasier” (NBC)

Outstanding actor in a comedy series: Kelsey Grammer, “Frasier” (NBC) ‘
Outstanding actress in a comedy series: Helen Hunt, “Mad About You” (NBC)
Outstanding supporting actor in a comedy series: David Hyde Pierce, “Frasier” (NBC)
Outstanding supporting actress in a comedy series: Lisa Kudrow, “Friends” (NBC)

Award-winning author Charles Johnson speaks in Lee Chapel

Charles Johnson, win-
ner of the National Book
Award, will speak in Lee
Chapel 7:30 p.m. tonight.
Johnson’s book, “Middle
Passage,” was the fresh-
men reading program se-
lection this summer.

“[Johnson] is one of the
five most signiﬁcant Ameri-
can authors today,” Mark
Conner, Professor of En-
glish, said.

ROCKBRIDGE
B LO 5 l i

.: 

Unlimited Internet

Features:

E-mail

Full, unlimited access

2 MB webspace

latest technology
Personalized local service

call RGV 463-4451

second novel, becoming the
first African-American male
to capture the prestigious
literary honor since Ralph
Ellison in 1953.

In 1990, Johnson won Set in early 19th century lock chairinhumanitiesatthe
the National Book Award New Orleans, “Middle Pas- University of Washington.
for “Middle Passage,” his sage” is the adventurous —from Phi staﬂreports

THE COLONNADE CAM

 

YES, BIG BROTHER IS WATCHING . . . and now
you can watch too/ Link up to the camera on top of Lee
Chapel at http://camerauc.wlu.edu for a constantly
updated shot of the Colonnade. This may not sound very
exciting now, but check it out after rush when the so-

rority pledges start streaking the colonnade.

yet philosophical story of a
freed black man who stows
away aboard a ship that is a
slaver bound for Africa.
Johnson holds the P01-

are the big
winners.

 

Outstanding drama series: “The Practice” (ABC)

Outstanding actor in a drama series: Andre Braugher, “Homicide: Life On the Street” (NBC)
Outstanding actress in a drama series: Christine Lahti, “Chicago Hope” (CBS)
Outstanding supporting actor in a drama series: Gordon Clapp, “NYPD Blue” (ABC)
Outstanding supporting actress in a drama series: Camryn Manheirn, “The Practice” (ABC)

Outstanding miniseries: “From The Earth To The Moon” (HBO)
Outstanding made—for-television movie: “Don King: Only In America” (HBO)

News off the Wire

Doman boasts “mad skillz”

~ Orange County, Ca—— “I gots mad skillz, '

what mo’ can I say?" said former Senator
Bob Doman in a press conference held ear-
lier today. Doman, known for his outspo-
ken conservative views, called the press
conference to announce his intentions to
play professional basketball now that his
political career is over. When asked how
he hopes to compete against professional
athletes half his age and several feet taller,
Doman claimed that he would “dunk over
their sorry asses” and reiterated that his
“crazy phat skillz would pay da bills” on
the basketball court. “B-1” Bob guranteed
that he would “drop bombs” all over his
competitors. “I be like ‘boom biggidy
boom’ scoring all up in that piece, you
know what I’m saying?” said Doman. Pun-
dits are charging that Doman’s foray into
professional basketball is either a “bad

’ publicity stunt” or a “seriously misguided

mid-life crisis.” No NBA team has signed
Doman as of press time, though the Toronto
Raptors have expressed interest.

Beatles sue Oasis

London -—— Apple Corps sued members
of the pop group Oasis today, charging that
Oasis’ upcoming album Revolver is exactly
the same as the 1966 Beatles album of the
same name. “The albums have the same
lyrics, music, cover art . . . the only differ-
ence I can see is that on the back the words
‘Lennon and McCartney’ have been
crossed out after each song and the words
‘Liam and Noel Gallagher’ pencilled in,” said
Ringo Strair. Apple lawyers are also inves-
tigating possible copyright infringements
on the Oasis albums Abbey Road, Meet the
Beatles, With the Beatles and The Beatles
(called “the Blank Album” for its plain white
cover). A spokesman for Oasis said that the
band hopes to move beyond Beatles imita-
tion and will soon -be releasing classic al-

-tude Test contains a bias against the

.study is stirring up waves of protest

bums like Dark Side of the Moon and
Led Zeppelin III.

SAT’s biased against idiots, study says

Princeton, NJ—— A landmark study
conducted by Princeton University
concluded that the Scholastic Apti-

terminally stupid. “Our study shows
that very smart people typically score r
in the 1300- I 500 range, while the very
stupid rarely break the 500 mark,” as-
serts researcher Dr. Stan Lamont. The

among professional wrestling fans and
other people of limited intelligence.
“It’s not fair that I should be kept out
of the college of my choice based solely
on my gross mental incompetence,”
said avowed moron Nomi McNuIty.
ldiotsare also pointing to related stud-
ies that show that intelligence is not
as good a determinant of success in
college as alcohol tolerance.

|s|

 

Washington and Lee University
VOLUME 101, NUMBER 2

Ultra ‘tiling-tum lﬁlii

Bulk Rate
US Postage
PAID
Permit No. 7
Lexington. Va.

Monday
SEPTEMBER 21, 1998

Sorority houses
set for fall 2000  

Hill unveils new
housing plans

BY POLLY DOIG
News EDITOR

It took Washington and Lee Uni-
versity 237 years to decide that co-
education was the way to go.

Thirteen years later, with females
now making up 45 percent of the stu-
dent body, the decision to build so-
rority houses has been made, and the
plans unveiled. The drawings have
been presented to the Lexington Plan-
ning Commission, who will take action
at its next meeting on Sept. 24.

When W&L’s master plan was
given approval last spring, it was with
the understanding that the sorority
houses would be constructed simul-
taneously with the planned parking
deck and pedestrian bridge.

However, both the parking deck»

and the pedestrian bridge are be-
hind schedule, so W&L decided to
go ahead with the sorority houses.
W&L officials hope to have the
houses open by the fall of 2000.
Designed in the style of the Colon-
nade, the ﬁve houses will be located
on the backside of campus, to the west
of Woods Creek. There is space for an

additional house, should the need arise.

Each house has space for 20 girls,
therefore increasing overall university
housing by 100 beds. According to
Dean of Students David Howison, this
will expand the campus housing avail-
able to upperclassmen, as most sorori-
ties mandate that their officers live in
the houses. .

“Though we’ve been fortunate in
that everyone who wanted housing
has gotten it, this will certainly increase
accessibility,” Howison said.

Reaction from the sorority commu-
nity to the house plans is extremely
positive.

“I’m just very, very excited. I think
its going to be a great opportunity for
members of our sorority. It’s a going
to be a great place for girls to meet and
gather, and Ithink it will be a very beau-
tiful addition to university hous-
ing,” Pi Beta Phi sophomore Allison
Harvey said.

“We’re just really excited about it
because it’s going to mean a while new
level of sorority involvement. The
houses are absolutely beautiful;
they’re uniform, yet still different
enough to keep separate identities.
I’m sojealous that I’m not going to be
here to enjoy them,” Kappa Alpha
Theta president Mandy Stallard said.

Lex police create
new task force

BY ESZTER PADOS
STAFF WRITER

Increased incidents of violent beat-
ings, thefts, robberies and V’MI riots
are serving as signs of the times for
the Lexington Police Department.

Lexington residents and students
alike are losing the luxury of leaving
their doors unlocked and taking mid-
night strolls around town.

The LPD is responding with a pro-
fessionally trained special response
team to deal with unexpected emergency
situations within the city limits.

The infamous VMI “mini-riot” last
fall, which deteriorated into extreme
destruction of property and vandal-
ism, prompted the idea for the special
unit. VMI Post Police and LPD recog-
nized their limited authority and lack
of readiness for such extreme cases.
The team, which will consist of eight
trained professionals, will cooperate
with the drug task force to handle cri-
sis situations in Lexington.

Lexington has long enjoyed the
luxury of safety within its borders,
and the majority of students and lo-
cals don’t realize the rising nation-
wide trend toward violence and
crime.Lt. Steve Crowder, special
team commander, recognizes that
the presence ofa group resembling
a military unit is unusual in a small
town like Lexington. Yet he points

Stay off the
brown grass!

BY POLIY DOIG

to increasing small town violence
and crime across the country, which
contradict the “nothing will ever hap-
pen here” attitude common to the
area.

Although the unit is geared toward
the rare emergencies and dangerous
situations in Lexington, the commu-
nity as a whole, including students,
will benefit from the team’s expertise.
Students themselves are often the vic_-
tims of violence. Campus-wide prac-
tices such as university cards and
honor codes do not insulate students
from victimization. There are more than
7,000 residents of Lexington who are
not bound by an Honor Code. Ac-
cording to Sgt. Torben H. Pedersen of
the LPD, last year Washington and
Lee students were the victims of “two
random beatings, as well as various
break-ins and thefts by outsiders.”

Mike Young, Director of Washing-
ton and Lee Security, added that the
special unit “wouldn’t necessarily in-
volve students. They will primarily
deal with drugs, people who are armed,
lost children and other such cases.”

Despite the fact the Lexington has
not experienced the same magnitude
of problems common in other towns,
Commander Crowder believes that the
unit’s response time and qualiﬁcations
will guarantee efficient, fast and up-
to-date safety measures.

BEARING A DISTINCT FIESEMBLANCE TO the University ’s main colonnade, the ﬁve sorority houses pictured here will be completed by/iugust of 2000.
PICTURE PRO VIDEI) BY PAYETl'I;' AssoC1A TES

F

ljl chapter at MIT charged with

alcohol-related death of pledge

State brings
manslaughter
charges against
organization rather
than its members

BY HOLLISTER HOVEY
T-——-— EXECUTIVE EDITOR

With manslaughter and hazing
charges handed down Thursday, Phi
Gamma Delta became the first national
fraternity ever charged with homocide.

No individuals were charged in last
year’s drinking death of Massachu-
setts Institute of Technology freshman
and Fiji pledge, Scott Krueger, so the
organization will most likely face a fine.

According to The Boston Globe,
Krueger drank beer and Jack
Daniels whiskey until he became
nauseated. Two brothe,rs..br.ought

him to his room, put him on his stom-
ach, gave him a trash can and left.
Ten minutes later, he was uncon-
scious and covered in vomit.

After emergency medical techni-
cians came, Krueger was blue in the
face and had a blood-alcohol level of
.401. He died 40 hours later. _

MIT took action after the death by
kicking the Fiji chapter offcampus and
attempting to curb on-campus drinking.

“The student body has had to deal
with radical changes imposed by the
university as a result ofthe incident,
including new rules that impose cam-
pus policelofficers at dormitory and
Greek parties as well as changes in
the resident selection process,” MIT
junior Murthy Mathiprakasam said.
Freshmen will be requited to live on-
campus by 2001. Currently, they are
required to decide their Greek affilia-
tion and/or living plans the first week

of school. The universtiy has also
made efforts to increase alcohol aware-
ness.

But like with Washington and Lee’s
BYOB policy, MIT students have
found loopholes in the system. “Lets
be honest, if a student wants to drink,

‘ he or she can almost always find some-

one willing to buy them alcohol,” MIT
senior Mike Parkins said. “So now in-
stead of drinking at parties, there are
more people drinking before the par-
ties and just showing up drunk.”

Many students and Krueger’s
parents are not satisfied with the
charges and the university sanc-
tions. According to the Kruegers’
lawyer, they are considering law-
suits against the university, the fra-
ternity, and individual fraternity
members.

“There have been many
allogations from those who do not

know the facts of the situation that
the brothers in the house in effect
murdered Scott Krueger,” Parkins said.
“I know a lot of the guys from Fiji and
I knew Scott, and I firmly believe that
no one forced him to drink that night.
Fiji is guilty of providing an atmo-
sphere where drinking was encour-
aged, of not telling Scott he had had
enough and I would go so far as to
say they are guilty of letting him die.

“But I cannot stomach the accu-
sations I have heard that they killed
him. They are not evil men. While it
most likely should have, the result
ofthat night probably never entered
their mind as a possibility,” Parkins
added.

“They liked Scott, or else they
would not have pledged him. He was
their friend, and they will have to live
with his death and their inaction for
the rest of their lives.”

Senior encounters Amityville horror

BY HOLLISTBR HOVBY
-—j——— EXECUTIVE EDITOR

Beta Theta Pi senior Brian Elliott
passed Amityville on North Randolph

- Street early Thursday morning when

a stranger came out of nowhere and
punched him in the eye.

According to Lexington Police Of-
ficer Mike Hess, Francis Johnson, 19,
of Lexington, was having an argument
with another party and walked away
angry. He needed to hit sorrieone, and

Elliot happened to be there. Amityville
resident, Maggie Maher, who was
walking in front of Elliot, heard the blow
and called the paramedics.

Elliot’s cut warranted six stitches.

“I don’t know why it happened. I
was wearing neutral gang colors,” said
Elliot. “Thank God for my good friend
Denny Collins and the girls at
Amityville for helping me.”

A neighbor identified Johnson, and
police arrested him at his home later

NEWS EDITOR

It’s tradition: lazy, late summer days topped off with
Frisbee games or quiet study beneath a tree with the sce-

nic backdrop of the Colonnade.
Forget about it.

The Front Lawn is currently suffering from a bad case
ofthirst and feeling the side effects of Fall Convocation-
related trampling. This, combined with a hot, dry summer
and the breakdown of the irrigation system in July, has
resulted in the closing of the Front Lawn to all through.
traffic. Pedestrians are asked to stay off the grass for the

duration of Fall Term.

“This unfortunate combination of bad circumstances
has caused us to take immediate action to preserve and
protect our historic Front Lawn,” said Scott Beebe, direc-
wt of the physical plant at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity. “We have put a system in place that we are confident
will result in a deep, lush, bluegrass carpet come spring.”

The physical plant will use a combination ofirrigation,

reseeding, herbicides and fertilizer in order to rejuvenate
the lawn, and in addition, will attend a special meeting on

turf management at Virginia Tech.

“We understand the inconvenience and unhappiness
that these steps -will create,” Beebe said. “But after we
have this program in place and the lawn has had time to
heal and to grow we don’t foresee having to limit access to

the Front Lawn.”

(D Sophomore housing frenzy

in full swing: What’s the rush?

CD TALKBACK: If you were
president and had an intern 

PAGE 2

U.

LAST WEDNESDAY AMITYVILLE ( pictured here) was the scene of the unprovoked and cow-
ardly attack against Beta senior Ryan Elliott. PHOTO BY CHRISTIE PHlI.I.Il’S/PHOTO EDITOR

Lu  Boys vs. Girls: how some

BY IVIICHAEL CRITTENDON

freshmen decorate their rooms

: (13 Remodeling ideas from
w students who live off-campus

E PAGE 3

that morning on a charge of malicious
wounding.

Johnson’s bond hearing is sched-
uled for today.

This is not the first incident involv-
ing Amityville.

Besides the attack, Amityville resi-
dents have seen some strange incidents
with some people in the neighborhood.

“One night a man came to our door
and asked for $5,” junior Childs Cantey
said.

This was not their only encounter
with an odd solicitor.

“Another time a little girl came to the
door and said, ‘Mam, do you got any
stamps?” junior Lane Cates said.
“When I said, ‘no,’ shejust stood there
for awhile and then went home. She
didn’t go to any other houses.”

Townies also loiter on the Amityville
wall and others like to use their back-
yard as a shortcut to Stop-In on beer-
runs.

Fiji misses cook

PHOTO EDITOR

When the brothers of Phi Gamma
Delta returned to Lexington this fall,
they were saddened by news of the
death of their cook, Gary L. West.

West died Aug. 7 of complica-
tions stemming from surgery to re-
pair a collapsed lung caused by lung
cancer. Upon learning of West’s death,
brothers expressed deep regret at the
loss of such a beloved member of the
Fijifamily.

Gary West was a member of a band
called the Rarely Herd, a crowd favor-
ite around Lexington in the past few
years. West was also an avid collector
ofNative American artifacts, specifi-
cally arrowheads.

Before working at the Fiji house
Gary was the cook at the Kappa Al-
pha house for two years. Following

the closing of the KA house last
March, West filled the open posi-
tion at the Fiji house. Upon starting
as new cook, West quickly became
a beloved member ofthe house, not
simply as a cook, but as a friend to
many of the brothers.

“He was a great guy and really cool
to hang out with after hours at the
house,” said Fijijunior Rich Isolde.

“Even though he was he was one
ofthe employees, it was almost like
he was one of us,” Fijijunior Greg
Nouza said. “You could go and talk
to him anytime and hang out. He was
a lot of fun.”

In response to West’s death, the
Fiji brothers donated $500 to his
family to help with the cost of his
burial. For those whom West fed
and befriended, he will be well re-
membered and missed.

 Women’s soccer anihilates
Hollins, beats VA Wesleyan

CD Football (0-2), men’s soccer
(1-1) both fall to 0-1 in ODAC

PAGE 4

 

 ii -- -""'~r‘

pinion
ditorial

PAGE 2 SEPTEMBER 21, 1998

1749 1999

     
 

change W&L
community

Once upon a time, about 250 years ago, a
few guys gathered in Augusta County to take

classes at a small school, with nary a white col-A
} umn in sight. The school changed its name a
3; few times, and eventually its location, to a town
2‘, called Lexington. It was on the verge of ﬁnan-
. E cial ruin when a President of some newly United

States put a check in the mail (so that they could
get themselves a Colonnade, and thus, have a
place to streak). Even though what became
known as Mock Con wasn’t yet around to pre-
dict his ascendence, they nevertheless, in his
honor, put a “Dubyuh” in their name and took a
week off to celebrate his birthday.

Some years later, a defeated general rode into
town on a gray horse, built a church and a house,
and, sensin g the future need for more mass quan-
tities of lawyers, added a law school. Used to
giving orders, the general dictated that students

~ would greet each other, as well as refrain from

, things such as lying, cheating and stealing.

9 Grateful, they added to the “Dubyuh” a “nell,”

A and interred him in his church. They made the
horse stay outside.

Following a Greek invasion, Dubyuhnell de-

. cided tobanish them to places like Red Square

and Davidson Park, so that they could conduct
their odd chugging rituals at somewhat of a dis-
tance. Later, sensing the need for a little play

» with their work, students decided that a modest

soirée would be good. They called it “Fancy
Dress,” and it stuck around.
Dubyuhnell never was a place to change with

—g the times; it usually lagged at least a few de-
E cades behind. Certain that things like minori-

ties and coeducation would never last, it waited
a good century or so to be sure that they weren’t
simply passing fads (like those freshmen bean-
ies). Even the automobile never really caught

t on until the addition of the tailgate.

So, on this, the 250"‘ anniversary of our

, Dubyulmell, we can all smile fondly at our ﬁne
~ traditions, and rest safe in the knowledge that
~ after another 250, they’ll still be wearin’ those
' damn khakis.

flip: iiiing-tum Iﬂhi

Executive Editors Tarah Grant
Hollister Hovey
Copy Editors Sarah Meldrum
Meredith Mlynar
News Editors Polly Doig
John Stewart
w&Iife Editors Ginger Phillips

Erica Prosser
Stephen Pesce
Frances Groberg
Brendan llarrington
Kevin Mcl\'lancmin

Opinion & Editorial Editor
Sports Editors

Last ward Editor

Photo Editor Mike Crittcnden
Christie Phillips
Online Editor Tom W adlow

Layout Assistant Stephanie Bianco

Jill Jarnicson
Jason Williams

Business Manager
Managing Editor

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor and Business Manager, but
The Ring—tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in
the Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by
noon on Saturday to appear in that week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for
content and length. Letters, columns and “Talkback" do
not reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial
Board. Advertising does not reflect the opinions of The
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-Iunr P/ii
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540)462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu
/1lIp.'//ll’/ll.(fdll/~[)/1/

After two weeks at Washington and Lee, it is clear
to me that honor and civility are very sacred to both the

the entire W&L community does a ﬁne job of uphold-
ing these sacred traditions. Some extremely shaky ar-
eas in the university’s behavior, however,.do not re-
flect honor as they should. .

Honor seems to disappear, or at least fade into the
background, upon entering W&L’s
rather aggressive party scene. True, I

Webster’s Dictionary defines

sonal reputation; integrity.” What then can be said for
those who drink illegally and solicit sex knowing it will

thisjust “partyin’ hard” or should the university take a
hard look at what the word “honor” pertains to?"

for parties. -

Honor should extend to social life

student body and the administration. For the most part,’

 

have yet to see any overt lying, cheat- Poison  catalysts. the university should take
ing or stealing; but is that all that ‘P  , » an eniphatic stance and implore stu-
counts’? M1ke:Agnd1°. 02 dentstorefrain from such activities.

 

honor as “high regard or respect; per- 7  2

q ' ingly breaking the law not dishonorable? The univer-
be easier because the other person is intoxicated? ls,
gabadoney ‘ . , . V.
 , _What-l leavefthereader to ponder is this: Is the gen-
 eral debauchery that pervades campus social life dis-
 honorable?,0nejonly has to go to any fraternity party
to seethe answer. Until both students and administra- ,
etors decideto amend the situation, we are left with the

, iuncfertainty of whether or notour honor system is as

1 extensive as we thought... ] :'

During the Executive Committee’s honor system ori~ E
entation, Elizabeth Formadoni said honor wasvin no,
way exclusive to lying, cheating or stealing. Last tithe-; '_
I checked, the honor system did not include adisclaiimer ,

(The students are not the only ones -at fault for-the

duplicity of the honor system. During the freshmen
meeting with the IFC, an administer blatantly told stu-
kients that, though he preferred that they do not drink
gunderage, they should exercise discretion and good
judgmentiif they choose to drink. It seemed as if he
were giving up on telling the studentsnot to drink al-
together. Is this the message a knowledgeable admin-
ister should 'be sending to youthful college students?
With binge drinking incidents on
this campus and others acting as

T 0 steal a candy bar at the Co-op is
a serious honor violation. To be ar-
rested for intoxication or sexual assault is not? Is know-

sity loathes, changing tradion; even if that tradition is

Sophomores in uproar over housing

Everyone is talking about it - at least, everyone in the
sophomore class is talking about it. No, unfortunately I
am not referring to the upcoming Responsibility Sympo-
sium, but to the housing situation for
next year’s junior class. Housing
paranoia has invaded the Class of
2001, and my fellow sophomores
are literally rushing out in throngs
to grab up all the available houses
and apartments in the Lexington
area.

Now, ifthere is a specific house that you have a burn-
ing desire to live in, it makes perfect sense to want to be
first in line for the lease signing.

Perhaps there is a particular place that generations of
your family’s W&L graduates have called home. Or
maybe there is an apartment that is so fabulous that no
other apartment could possibly compare (even those in
the same complex with the same architectural design).

lfthis is the case, then I say go for it, and fast. Many
people are so afraid of being homeless for the duration of
their junior year at W&L, however, ‘
that they are rushing out and signing
leases for whatever places are imme- C C
diately available. Maybe
this is the appropriate time to interject
the old adage “Fools rush in.” A lot of
things can and will change before next
year, and what may seem like the right
action now could turn into regret next
September.

Deciding where to live next year is
an important decision that requires
more thought than “This one’s available. Let’s snatch it
up before someone else does!”

It takes time to find the right place and to ask all of
those necessary questions. Some houses and apartments
will not even be available until the first part of next year,
so binding yourselfinto a contract now may mean missed
opportunities in the future. ., .. .

Sometimes you might find out more information about
what it’s actually like to live somewhere from the current
residents rather than from the landlord. Unfortunately, most
juniors have only been living in their present homes for about
one month and cannot passjudgment on their living condi-
tions in such a short amount oftime. They may not be able
to tell you about those annoying leaky faucets or the bad
insulation because they don’t know about them yet.

{{

uote of the week:

I squeezed that sperm until
a strange sort of insanity came

OVCI‘ me.
—— Herman Melville

}}

    
 

Havel  i.opiniori?I,
Let us: ~.Jc1fiow’.”,;
email us at phii.@wlu,éd
call at (540)-162-49060

A Few Loose Marbles
Ginger Phillips ’01

The madness has
already begun, and
there may be no way
to stop it now.

Due to the inﬂux of sophomore house hunters, many
juniors are being forced by their landlords either to re-
sign leases now or to start making other housing arrange-
ments for next year.

Most other upperclassmen are
amazed at the insanity that is grip-
ping our class. They never under-
stood why we camped out in
droves for classes last year, and
they do not understand why we are
so concerned about our living arrangements now. Most
of them didn’t make housing decisions until at least
halfway through their sophomore year, and unless l’m
mistaken, the local shelter is not filled with members
of the junior class.

As many sophomores are now discovering, friendships
also change over time. A once ideal roommate situation
currently might be forcing you into hibernation in Leybum
Library or camping among the Ruins.

Many sophomores chose to share their new abodes with
different people than they lived with last year as fresh-
men. It only makes sense, therefore, that
roommate preferences might also alter in
the lengthy amount oftime between now
and the beginning of ourjunior year.

Donn counselors and RAs are not cho-
sen until December, which poses a prob-
lem for sophomore applicamsrwvho fear
committing to anything before they know
the outcome of this competition. Study
abroad plans are often not finalized until
7) Spring Tenn. Situations such as these

can cause future problems for people
whose changing plans could interfere with their hasty
housing decisions.

While my advice would normally be to calm down, wait
a while, and avoid making the wrong housing arrangements,
I feel that my appeal is too late. The madness has already
begun, and there may be no way to stop it now.

 

Wa||ace’s death

sparks interest
in racegrelations

This week, another story besides the late unpleasant-
ness in our nation’s capital has been recognized by the
media: the death of former Alabama governor and noto-
rious segregationist, George Wallace.

Hearing about ‘
t\}i\1/.alll(ac:’s lileaihﬂgot me Blows 
in mg a ou e cur- .
rent state of race in the db EIDPHE
national mindset. How

Ta1aMcCookO2‘

far have we as a nation
come towards true tol-
erance of cultural and ethnic diversity?

Needless to say, the 19905 are a much more enlight-
ened time than the l950s. We no longer condone legal
segregation, and a scene such as then-Governor Wallace
standing in the door ofthe University ofAlabama block-
ing the admission of African—American students simply

would not happen

‘ C today.

But while racism

Are we really a in the eyes ofthe law
SOCl€ty that accepts has long since been
people for who they eliminated, has it re-
ally been deleted

area or do We have from the mentality
more ground to cover of the general pub-

lic?

before we truly be- Come, West
come tolerant of wrote in 1993, in his
Others‘) book Race Matter,

ofa time in Manhat-
9) tan when he was re-

fused rides repeat-
edly by cab drivers when attempting to catch a taxi. One
of the cabbies even stopped to pick up a white woman
standing next to him, but denied him.

incidents such as this, when even an educated, obvi-
ously upper-clags black man is denied a cab in favor ofa
white woman, make me wonder ifracism is really all that
removed from American society.

In school, we are taught that segregation by race is
wrong, and that our society does not condone racism in
any way, shape, or form. But in this day and age, I have
to wonder about the accuracy ofthat statement. .

Are we really a society that accepts people for who
they are, or do we have more ground to cover before we
truly become tolerant ofothers? In my opinion, we have
miles to go before we can soundly sleep on this issue.

“ 1»
. *3‘

   

r .

    

iv//'
\

 

I 
l 
at!

._ i;1
g

fix

 

anintem...

“l’d make sure she was good
looking.”

—Mike Hodge ’02
JAMES G. LEYBURN LIBRARY

W/\SHlNGTON & LEE umvgn
LEXINGTON, VA 24450 Sm’

SEP 2 91998

‘‘I’d work her ass offto make my life “l’d buy her a box of Cuban ‘‘I’d buy her a gift certiﬁcate
easier.” ’ cigars.” to the cleaners.”
__’[‘jffany Frieda] ’()7_ —Jeff Bahl ‘O2 —Car|ing Dinkler ‘O2

*1’

.,.

 

 

 You want tips? We got tips

I.

w‘«

 

SEPTEMBER 21, 1998

‘home away from home’

In the dorms, freshmen
decorating splits down

lines of gender
BYELIANNAMARZJANI

STAFF Wnnnz

The inevitable has happened: The class of 2002 has
arrived and settled into the luxurious freshman dorms of
Washington and Lee University. For many, this is under-
standably a huge adjustment.

How do freshmen set up house in rooms that are prob-
ably teeny compared to their cosy bedrooms at home? Do
all of the newest future W&L alumni handle their new,
cramped situations in the same way? Of course not. In
fact, there are very clear style divisions, and they run along
gender lines.

Freshmen women seem to employ three main devices
in their room-expanding endeavors: minis, space savers,
and room makers. All ofthese are available at stores like
Wal-Mart® or K—Mart®, and are relatively inexpensive for
the services they provide.

Minis are compact versions of usually—larger items.
Examples include mini irons and ironing boards, blow dry-
ers, alarm clocks, fans, refrigerators and almost anything
else imaginable. The idea behind minis is this: the smaller
the toys, the more toys one can have.

In their room-ﬁlling philosophy, W&L women seem
«to advocate that more, rather than bigger, is better.

Space savers bend the laws of physics by allowing
several items to occupy nearly the same space, leaving
more room open to create the illusion of roominess in a
small room. Some popular, space-saving examples are plas-
tic containers with several sections and clothes hangers
that can hold multiple items.

Room makers were by far the most popular means of
coping used by the freshmen women. These are devices
that create room by often employing that most concise of
philosophies, “Build up.”

“We used wall hooks, shelves, shoe racks, and rolling
drawers to create more room,” freshman Megan Lott said.

“Our room is small, but I think we arranged it really well.”

Some of the most common room maker methods in-
clude stacking bunk beds, putting beds on cinder blocks,
installing plastic shelves and hooks’ on walls and putting
vertical shoe racks in closets.

Some women installed shelves, put crates on the shelves,
and then put books and frames on top of the crates, thereby
tripling or quadrupling the amount of “stuff” that could be
crammed into the room. Hanging hooks and towel racks are
used to make sure that not even those three inches of space
between the closet door and the clothes inside go to waste.

Room savers operate on the same principle as sky-
scrapers: a lot ofstuffin what is reallyjust one square foot
offloorspace.

Judging by the decorating differences among W&L
freshmen, one could easily believe that men are indeed from
Mars and women from Venus. For all the organizing tech-
niques being used by the interviewed women, few space-
saving trends prevail among the men interviewed. Some men
used CD towers, crates or cinder blocks to save space.

“My roommate and I bunked our beds, which gave us
extra space to put in a couch,” freshman Brandon Herd said.

The efforts generally end there, however, and precious
space under beds often goes un- or under-utilized. Usually
books are not neatly stacked, but rather shoved into a
corner or crate that also plays host to a towel and a bag of
chips. In some rooms, crumpled-up clothing, luggage and
food vie for the same space in a corner. Not surprisingly,
not a towel hanger in sight.

Why the organizational differences between the fresh-
men we interviewed? Some women speculate that men use
fewer space-saving techniques because men generally
bring less stuff to college than women do.

Whatever the reason, freshmen men seem to stress com-
fort, rather than neatness. Their belongings are found in ap-
parently arbitrary locations around the room because that’s
where the men like them, not because the locations are effi-
cient or aesthetic. Freshman women, on the other hand, seem
to stress that comfort comes from neatness. Thus, all their
items are neatly stacked and shelved in out-of-the-way places.

As different as these philosophies are, one should remem-
ber that neither is necessarily wrong. So if any gender wars are to
begin this year, they won’t come from dorm decorating.

 

_ NOT EVERY.  .
ROOM is asaézit‘

“Y and tidy a.g,«Collvin: L 5‘

E Gleason ’s, but each
student’; abode: I I I V
has a personality; I I
Students, employﬂa
wide range of V
decorating styles. - E
and toeach I ‘
student, the style
makes it a home.‘ ‘
Check out the " .
interesting [clog]; ;,*
on the nightstand.‘
Paoro BY CHRISTIE.
PHILLIPS/PHOTO
EDITOR

BY ERICA PRossER
Fmums Eorroa

Whether this is their first year away from home or
their last year of college living, most students can benefit
from a little advice about living and learning at Washing-
ton and Lee University. Here’s a handy list ofthings that
might make everything about the college experience that
much more comfortable.

1. Organize. It doesn’t matter what your method of
organization is as long as you have one. You can sleep
longer if you don’t have to spend twenty minutes
searching frantically for your chemistry notebook be-
fore class. -

2. Get as much sleep as you need. Ifyou absolutely
have to pull an al|—nighter, fine, but do yourselfa favor and
try to avoid it. You’ll feel much better, and you’ll have a
much better chance ofretaining the information you study
if you aren’t fighting to keep your eyes open.

3. Keep your place relatively clean. This doesn’t
mean being obsessive and spotless, of course. But a
dirty place (dust, bread crumbs, empty drink contain-
ers, etc.) invites insects and other fun critters to make a
home where you do.

4. Eat well. Try to maintain a somewhat balanced and
regular diet. This can be hard on a college schedule, but
it’s healthier for you, and you’ll have much more energy if
you take care of youself.

5. Talk to the profs. That’s what they’re there for, after
all. Don’t be afraid to go to your professor’s ofﬁce and ask
questions. Be friendly and polite, and remember: these
people will be writing your letters of recommendation some-
time soon. It would help ifthey knew your name.

6. Budget your time and money. Both ofthese can run
out when you least expect it, and a little planning can save
you a real headache. Keep your checkbook and your cal-
endar balanced.

7. Winter is coming, but don’t expect snow days. In
the Blizzard of 1996, three feet ofsnow fell on Lexington,
and W&L closed for all of two days. Since then, the school
has not closed for inclement weather, and the chances ofa
closing for anything less than another blizzard are slim.
Usually, if Buildings and Grounds can get the walkways
clear (and they always do), the school opens, regardless of
road conditions in the area.

8. Have fun. This is college, not prison. Get the work
done, but play a lot, too. We’re supposed to look back at
these years as the best of our lives, so make ‘em count.

Regarding the map

Last week, this newspaper ran a map of downtown
Lexington, complete with locations of a handful ofbus1-
nesses. Most of the map was transferred directly from a
similar map given to freshmen last year in a book pub-
lished by the University. The editors of this paper made
every effort to include the establishments freshmen tend
to use the most so as to make the map useful to the new
students. It was naturally impossible to include every
single downtown business on the map, but if any mer-
chants were offended by the publication, we apologize.
The Ring—tum Phi sells advertising space in which mer-
chants can publish their telephone numbers and wares,
information that was not provided on the map in ques-
tion. Any inquiries or comments can be directed to The
Ring-tum Phi at 462-4060.

Hey, you!

Do you like to write?

Do you like to see your
name in lights (or bylines?)
Write for the Phi!

To write features, contact
Erica at 464-1806 or Ginger
at 462-4291 and say:

‘‘I wanna write for the Phi!”

W&life

Turning your dorm into a I

PAGE 3

FROM TIE-DYE to tiny lights, this and other collegiate residences give students the chance to express their
creative, domestic or wacky sides. PHOTO /tl’ MIKI5 CRIt'l‘I;‘NI)l~.’N

Off campus living: home is
where the disco ball hangs

Upperclassmen flee
the dorms and carve

niches in Lexington
BY CAROLYN PRBSLY

STAFF Wanna

Forget campus donns and frat houses . . . the Wash-
ington and Lee University upperclassmen know all about
the ﬁner points ofliving away from home. From familiar
childhood furniture to eclectic garage sale ﬁnds, those
who live off campus are

in college, so that’s close to home. The wooden dresser I
have now was from when l was little,” she said.

To bring some extra personality to their house, she
and her roommates bought old lamps and tried to make
them tasteful.

“They were so hideous, so we repainted them
said, laughing.

Senior Shane Dever is no stranger to furnishing with
off-the-wall ﬂavor, either.

“I have a signed picture ofMr. Rogers in my room, since
I met him when I was little,” he said. “And I still have my
childhood bed that looks like a race car, but my feet hang a

foot off the end. How-

!a7

Coyle

on the inside track of
tasteful living and funky
decoration.

Move _over, Martha
Stewart. » .

When W&Ljuniors
Liz Gay, Noelle Gamble
and Erin Eggers moved
into their house at Cedar
Creek, their ideas for
decoration were as far
from gingham and lace as_
one could get.

“We brought the
jungle theme in from
Gaines last year to deco-
rate the living room,”
Gamble said.

“I painted my room
‘pukey’ green,” Gay said
amidst ﬁts of laughter. “I
guess Ijust wanted it to
be different . . . various
shades of puke!”

Eggers’s room ap-
pears to be equally

ever, since l’ve matured,
l’ve given up the Speed
Racer® comforter in fa-
vor of satin sheets and
a disco ball that hangs
from the middle ofmy
room.”

Despite these
many interior design
pioneers, some stu-
dents, like junior Scott
Moses, lack the propen-
sity for extreme decor.

Moses prefers to
furnish his room with
sports and movie post-
ers, memorabilia from
home and souvenirs
from the trips he has
taken.

“And you’ve al-
ways got to have that
one picture from your
guy friends back
home,” he said, com-
pleting the list ofdeco-

unique.

“I’m in a loft with-
out a door,” she ex-
plained, “so I installed an
oriental screen that makes it more private. And I have a
quilt that makes my room feel homey.”

Eggers’s friend, junior Deirdre Coyle, moved into her
place on Marble Lane and also furnished her room in a
way that made it feel more comfortable and familiar.

“All the furniture in my room was used by my sister

IN THIS ROOM, colorful lanterns brighten the surroundings
while expressing a unique character. P1-/om /1}’ CHms77/5

rative necessities.

With tastes ranging
from “jungle meets the
, Orient” to “Mr. Rogers
meets ‘Boogie Nights, the upperclassmen are old pros at
making their living quarters seem more I ike home.

In furnishing their rooms with decorations tailored to
their own personal whims, these creative off-campus resi-
dents succeed in making their environments reflect the fa-
miliar, the funky or the fantastic.

1”

  
    

Weléotnegto Washington and Lee University! Stay-

... , ngcampus—on the weekends may be fine, but get-

;i’ 5 and having fun can be much better. But in

ii ounlittle corner ofVirginia, there isn ’t that much to do

 fC,l0sé,by (no, really?/). So here 's a guide to interesting

5-destinations no more than a few hours away from good
old This week: Desti-
nation Williamsburg.
_ V Got a hankering for
history, good cooking or
just, interesting shopping
spots? Then Colonial
Williamsburg is for you. It’s
just a few hours (and cen-
turies) away.

Colonial Williamsburg
is part of the bigger city of
Williamsburg, Virginia,
home to the usual attrac-
tions like dining, shopping
and camping. To experience Colonial Williamsburg,
though, you must buy a ticket at the Visitor Center, take
a short bus ride into the past and prepare to do some
walking.’

Along the way, you will see re-enactors in period
costume, shops full of homemade goodies, soldiers
maintaining a camp and craftspeople . . . well, crafting.

It’s strange how fascinating the old buildings and

 travel through time

 

products can be, especially if you’re from Lexington.
Williamsburg is a Revolutionary War-era spot, quite re-
moved from the Civil War-era style of Lexington. Just
the change of brick color should be welcome.

Williamsburg features shows and demonstrations daily,
and each week traces the progress of the colony from British
rule to independence. And
don’t forget: The College of
William and Mary isthere, too.

To get to Colonial
Williamsburg, head east on _
Interstate 64 to exit 238 (mid-
way between Richmond and
Norfolk). Follow the green
and white signs to the Visi-
tor Center.

Tickets vary based on
access and length of stay.
The basic pass is $26 for one
day and does not include
some of the houses (such as the Governor’s Palace).
The Colonist’s Pass is $30 for two days and allows
slightly more access, although not every building is
accessible. The Patriot’s Pass, $34, is good for a whole
year and includes full access and discounts on shop-
ping, dining and entertainment in the area. This is by
far the best value, especially ifyou plan to return.

— compiled from staff reports

 

 

‘PAGE 4

Volleyball spikes again

Freshmen
come up
big in contests
BYSmHEGxMm

 

STAFF Wizrnaiz

Coming into Sunday’s match
against Greensboro College, the Gen-
erals had not dropped a game since
their match against Coatholic in the
Washington and Lee Invitational.
Sunday was a different story. W&L
pulled out a ﬁve game nail-biter (6-15,
15-13,15-6,14-16,15-10)tobringtheir
overall record to 7-1.

The first two games saw the
Generals dealing with a lack of com-
munication and confusion around
the court. Greensboro frequently
capitalized on the quick middle at-
tack and a big block, both of which
W&L lacks in their arsenal.

Freshman Lindsay Ruckert
showed tremendous leadership
around the court and was com-
pletely dominant offensively.
Ruckert deﬁnitely appears to have
secured a very important role on
this year’s team already into the
season.

Nancy Reinhart also made an im-
pressive showing offensively in this
grudge match. Ruckert and Reinhart
were offensive staples for the Gener-
als that were good for a quick side-
out and power plays.

During the critical second game
win for W&L, Tori Hayes played spec-
tacular defense coupled with smart
hitting that kept W&L alive in the
match. Hayes, Ruckert, Reinhart, and
the sets of sophomore Katherine
Kline set the tone for W&L’s win.

The ﬁfth and ﬁnal game of the
match was a tight rally-score game
brought on by Greensboro’s come
from behind win in the fourth. W&L
led at 12-2 in the fourth game and gave
up 11 unanswered points.

The Generals lineup looked tired
through the tough previous three
games. However, during the ﬁfth
game, the fresh legs of freshman Ricka
Hildebrand came through with tre-
mendous hitting and blocking. “I was
just excited and ready to beat them in
ﬁve,” Hildebrand contended. I

The Generals’ 1998 season contin-
ued with the winning trend set at last
week’s W&L Invitational. Thursday,
Hollins College was the latest oppo-
nent to fall to the Generals. The 15-8,
15-1, 15-10 sweep brought W&L’s

sports

FRESHMAN LIZZY SWANN spikes a ball in Sunday 's match against
Greensboro. The Generals are now 6-1. Howsrizk HOVERY/EXECUTIVE EDﬂ'0R

overall record to 6-1, and their ODAC
record to 2-0.

The ﬂexibility of the Generals’ ros-
ter, their deep bench, and the combi-
nation of experience and a talented
freshman class once again proved to
be the winning factors. Head Coach
Terri Dadio was able to work 13 play-
ers into the lineup at some point in the
match. The Hollins match “was a good
chance to have the other players get
the experience,” Dadio said.

In a show ofthe impact of W&L’s
freshman and upperclass talent,
Snodgrass and. Hildebrand lead the
team with ﬁve kills apiece, both off
of the setting of sophomore Pam
Saulsbury.

“The Hollins game was really
good because we have a tendency
to play down to the level of our op-
ponent, but we didn’t do that in that
case,” Snodgrass said.

The various combinations of
players and winning attacks in this
early part of a difficult season ap-
pears to be the crucial element that

Dadio and the Generals need to
combat the loss of the powerful
Class of 1998, and to maintain their
ODAC dominance. -

Tuesday, W&L was given no
trouble in handily defeating
Guilford 15-7, 15-5, 15-4. This
match marked the ﬁrst of the Gen-
erals’ 10 ODAC matches. A

Guilford was the only ODAC loss
for the Generals in 1997; after this
win for W&L and the win over the
Quakers in the semi-ﬁnals of last
week’s invitaional, redemption has
been served.

Junior Nancy Reinhart, 1997’s
ODAC Player of the Year, led the Gen-
erals with nine kills and 12 digs.

Reinhart’s ODAC experience will
be crucial for W&L in the weeks to
come, as the Generals head further
into their schedule and closer to the
ODAC tournament at Bridgewater.

Wednesday begins a three-game
stint on the road for W&L as they
travel to Randolph-Macon Women’s
College for their third ODAC match.

Women’s soccer wins again

Team breaks
record in 14-0

one game in their 14-0 rout.
Scoring throughout the game was fast and furious. The

 

rout of Hollins

BYHwwmCmmmc

SPORTS FHTOR

If there were any questions about the women’s soc-
cer team living up to last year’s standards, they were
silenced last week. The Generals defeated their sec-
ond and third opponents to improve to 3-0 for the
season and in the ODACs.

On Saturday against Virginia Wesleyan, senior forward
Ginny Jemigan netted her ﬁﬁh goal of the season during the
second half to put the team up 1-0. The score remained 1-0 at
the final buzzer as the Generals won their third straight game.
Senior Stephanie McKnight and sophomore Lauren Harris
combined for their third straight shutout in goal.

“It was a good, close game,” Jemigan said. ‘‘It was the
first time this season that we had been challenged, and we
were struggling a little bit with recovery defense all over the
ﬁeld. Overalll, we played a lot better than we had been.”

Thursday’s contest against Hollins was anything but a
struggle. The Generals set a school record for most goals in

team posted six goals in the first 19 minutes of the game,

including three in a span of 1:40. Two more goals in the".

period sent the team into halftime with an 8-0 lead.

The scoring didn’t end there. The Generals jumped right
into the second half, scoring another six goals in under 15
minutes. The score remained 14-0 until the final buzzer.

“Despite the huge margin on the scoreboard, it wasn’t a
team effort out there,” Jemigan said. “It wasn’t the team we
ended last year’s season or the team we had been working to
be this season. We played as individuals, and all in all, it was
not a comforting victory.” »

Eight different Generals recorded points in the rout, in-
cluding Jemigan, who tied a Washington and Lee record
with four goals in one game. Senior co-captain and all‘-time
leading scorer Karin Treese had three goals and two assists,
and freshman midﬁelder Kate Bidwell recorded her fust ca-
reer hat trick in the contest.

Other goals were scored by sophomore midﬁelder Liz
Olson, sophomore midﬁelder Courtney Nolan, freshman for-
ward Lauren Wendell, and freshman midﬁelder Drew Pow-
ers. .
The Generals will try to extend their run Sunday at 2 p.m.
against Greensboro on the Liberty Hall Fields.

     
  

  

W&L.

 

    

.__g(')’ 9 
AVa;1Wesleyan 3 _
.     4

 

‘Guilford  27 l

 

sponrs BRIEFS

W&L dance team
selects new members

Try-outs for the W&L’s dance team, R.E. Belles, were
held on Saturday. The new team members are: Cyndi
Johnson (captain), Sybil Prince (lst lieu.), Bethany
Petrofsky (2nd lieu.), Charron Hodges, Bentley Knight,
Denise Mayo and Ashley Tyson.

Riding team gallops
towards competition

On Saturday, the riding team will compete at Hollins
College. The competition starts at 10 a.m. and lasts all day.

The riding team currently has 35 riders either actively
competing or training for a place in the competition lineup.
All members will participate Saturday.

SEPTEMBER 21, 1998

Guilford stuns Generals

 

Team drops to
«s  0-2 after heart-
breaking third quarter

BY BRENDAN HARRINGTON

SPORTS EDITOR

For the second week in a row, turnovers and a lack of a
solid run defense proved to be the Generals’ downfall as
Guilford downed Washington and Lee 27-20 on Saturday
afternoon in Greensboro, North Carolina.

The Generals committed ﬁve turnovers, four of them by
Christian Batcheller, on their way to a heartbreaking loss.
Batcheller threw two interceptions and fumbled twice.

“You can’t turn the ball over and expect to win football
games,” head coach Frank Miriello commented. “We didn’t
make the big plays when we needed to, and that was the

I difference in the ball game.”

The Generals once again had problems stopping the run,
as the Generals gave up 255 yards on the ground. Leading
the Quakers was senior running back Dwayne Cherry who
finished with 153 yards on 20 carries and two touchdowns.

“We got a lot of young guys out there on our defense
and at times it can be a little scary,” Miriello said. “But the
big improvement from the Hopkins game is that the de-
fense made some great plays down the stretch that gave
our offense two opportunities to win.”

Despite the ﬁve turnovers, the Generals still had nu-
merous chances to tie or win the game down the stretch.
After Dwayne Cherry scored on a 35-yard touchdown run
to make the score 27-20, Batcheller was hit from behind on
the ensuing drive, forcing a fumble. Terrance Wilson re-
covered for Guilford at the Generals’ six-yard line with 7:26
left in the game and it looked as though that would be the
game. But the defense stepped it up and kept the Quakers

out of the end zone, stopping senior running back David
Heggie twice on the one-yard line and forcing a unsuc-
cessful 20-yard ﬁeld goal attempt that kicker Matt Daly
hooked to the left.

The Generals took over on their own 20 with just over
ﬁve minutes left to play and drove the ball all the way down
to the Guilford 24-yard line before Batcheller coughed it up
on a botched option play with 1 :29 left in the game. But once
again the defense came through in the clutch when it looked
as though all hope was lost. The Generals’ defense then
forced Guilford to go three and out. W&L got the ball back
on the Guilford 49-yard line with 31 seconds left in the game
following a short punt by Heggie.

On ﬁrst and ten, Batcheller threw an incomplete pass
intended for senior wide out Chas Chastain that was
nearly intercepted at the Guilford 20-yard line. On sec-
ond and ten, Batcheller threw long into double cover-
age looking for J.T. Malatesta, but the ball skipped off
Malatesta’s outstretched hand ﬁve yards deep in the
end zone and the pass fell incomplete. On third and
ten, Batcheller threw to sophomore running back
Hanley Sayers on a screen play, and Sayers took it
down all the way to the Guilford 24.

The clock stopped with three seconds left to move the
chains after the ﬁrst down yardage as Batcheller lined up
the offense for one last play. On the ﬁnal play, Batcheller
threw to the back left comer of the end zone looking for
Chastain, but the ball was batted down and it fell harrn—
lessly to the turf as time expired.

Batcheller ﬁnished the day 16-25 for 194 yards, one
touchdown and two interceptions. For the Quakers,
quaterbacks Brian Foulks and Jon Hardy were a combined
9-25 for 133 yards, no touchdowns, and no interceptions.
Malatesta led all receivers with 53 yards on four catches.

“We have a tough schedule,” Miriello said. “We just
have to keep focusing on the positive aspects of these
games and try not to dwell on the losses.”

Men’s soccer falls to 1-1

Generals can’t
score in first
ODAC contest

 

BY Tor) '\WiiiiAMs

STAFF VVRITER

In their ﬁrst ODAC game of the season, the Generals
failed to score in their 3-0 loss to Virginia Wesleyan. The
defeat sends the Generals to 1-1 and 0-1 in the ODAC con-
ference.

The Blue Marlins, ranked 17th nationally in Division III
standings, led the Generals at halftime by a score of 1-0.

Daniel McVey, a junior forward from Virginia Wesleyan,
scored with a sharp volley from the comer to give the
Marlins a lead with 4:01 remaining in the first half.

Two sophomore forwards from Virginia Wesleyan each
added a goal in the second half. Vincent Sciullo headed
one past General goalkeeper Andrew Grimes during a Gen-
eral defensive breakdown approximately ten minutes into
the second half.

Saturday was the first time that Grimes, a freshman, has
stepped in front of the net for the Generals. Justin Hauck
followed suit later in the half with another header past
Grimes to give the Marlins the 3-0 lead that would later
become the ﬁnal from Liberty Hall Field.

“I was glad to get into the game,” Grimes said. “But it
just didn’t come out the way anyone wanted. They were a
tough team, but we had our own mistakes.”

Washington and Lee head coach Rolf Piranian knows

that the Marlins are “deﬁnitely one of the best teams in
the conference,” and he says the Generals have “a lot of
work ahead of them.”

“We’re a good team, but we’ll have to see how we
respond [to the loss],” Piranian said. “Hopefully, we’ll
come back and work harder this week and turn this around.”

Senior Sam Chase, who set a school record for most
goals in a game in last week’s contest against Catholic,
said that he didn’t feel much additional pressure entering
Saturday’s game, other than the fact that Virginia Wesleyan
is one of the league’s top teams. 1

“They’re a good team, and we got some bad breaks,”
Chase said. “But aside from that, I don’t think we played
all that badly.” Like Piranian, Chase said he hopes the loss
will serve as the team’s wakeup call.

“I think we can turn this loss into a positive,” he said.
“That was our second game, and we’re not match-ﬁt yet.
Once we get a couple more games under our belt, we’ ll be
ﬁne. Hopefully we’ll even see them in the tournament.”

Prior to Saturday’s kickoff, W&L athletic director Mike
Walsh honored Chase for setting the record for most ca-
reer goals by presenting him with the game ball.

“I feel quite honored that they did that for me,”
Chase said of the presentation. “I wish I CO.lld give
the ball to all the guys who’ve given me the passes for
the past four years.”

Chase promptly gave the ball to his parents, Sam and
Nancy Chase, who were present for their son’s second
game as a senior.

The Generals will travel to Emory to face Emory & Henry
College on Thursday at 4:30 p.m.

 

SOPHOMORE COURTNEY NOLAN dribbles easily past a Hollins player towards goal in the 14-0 rout. Nolan
scored a goal as the Generals set a record for goals in a game in the contest. ZEENIE GINWALLA/PH! STAFF



'Thursday
Men’s soccer @ Emory & Henry

Friday
Volleyball @ Maryville

  UPCOMING
zvznrs .

VVednesday
Volleyball @ RMWC

Saturday
Football @ Centre
Riding Team @ Hollins, 10 a.m.

Cross Country @ Dickinson
Men’s soccer @ Goucher

Volleyball @ Maryville
Sunday

Women’s soccer vs.
Greensboro, 2 p.m.

 

SEPTEMBER 21, 1998

RESPONSIBILITY LECTURE CONTINUES

Princeton University Professor Amy Gutmann will give a talk titled
“Religious Liberty and Civil Responsibility” on Thursday. She has served
on the faculty at Princeton since 1976, and in 1996 she wrote “Color Con-
scious: The Political Morality of Race” with Anthony Appiah.

Harvard University Professor Charles Hallisey will deliver a responsi-

bility lecture next Monday. His talk, titled “The Sense ofCivil Responsi-
bility in Contemporary Buddhism,” will focus on the lack ofengagement
with concrete legal issues by contemporary Buddhist intellectuals.

All ofthe responsibility lectures will take place in the Science Center

' Addition, Room A214 at 7:30 p.m.

FILM SOCIETY BRINGS SNOW TO TROUBADOUR

The next presentation ofthe the W&L Film Society will be “Smilla’s
Sense of Snow” (Denmark, 1995), directed by Bille August. The sus-
penseful thriller, which is based on a best-selling novel by Peter Hoeg,
revolves around a possible murder in Copenhagen, but it is much more
fascinating as a character study of Smilla Qaavigaaq Jesperson, a bitter
half-Inuit woman, powerfully played by Julia Ormond. Screenings will

I _ be at 7:30 p.m. Friday and Saturday in the Troubadour Cinema.

CROCKETT WRITES BOOK ON DURRENMATT

German Professor Roger Crockett has written a comprehensive overview

‘ of one of Switzerland’s most talented and scandalous playwights. In his book,

“Understanding Friedrich Diirrenmatt,” Crockett examines Diirrenmatt’s dra-
matic and narrative oeuvre as well as his failures. He notes that the latter is
often as revealing about an author as the former. The book is now available in
the University Bookstore.

WRITE FOR THE RING-TUM PHI

. The Ring-tum Phi invites freshmen and other students interested in work-
ing on the newspaper to attend our weekly meetings 7:30 p.m. Tuesday nights.

« You can control the time commitment: Write one article a month to have

writing samples for job interviews or talk to one of our editors about an assis-
tant editor position and spend every weekend in the ofﬁce.

MEMORIAL SERVICE FOR ED HAMER

A memorial service for former Washington and Lee romance languages
professor Ed Hamer will be held on Wednesday at 4 p.m. in Lee Chapel.
Hamer passed away on Aug. 13 while traveling abroad with the W&L
Alumni College. Hamerjoined the W&L faculty in 1954 and taught at the
school for 42 years before retiring in 1996.

MARTY LECTURES IN LEE CHAPEL
Dr. Martin E. Marty, one of America’s most respected authors and

scholars in the field of religion, will speak on the issue of “Christianity
‘ Among the Religions: The Global Scene at the (End of the Millennium”

7:30 p.m. Thursday in Lee Chapel. .
' —'—'e-mail General Notes to phi@wlu.edu

;f,Lyn Cook.

 I_EwINsKY OFFERED MODELING JOB IN ITALY

 ftreithat killed him and injured several others. Authorities had no com-

  Too much homework can be bad for you, according to two acadeIn-
P ics from London University. A study paper produced by Dr. Susan Hallam

 ting daily.

I _STARR’S DAUGHTER JOINS CHELSEA

' ‘MISS VIRGINIA CROWNED MISS AMERICA
9 , E I Roanol<e’s Nicole Johnson, a 24-year-old diabetic who wears an in-
 sulin pump on her hip, was crowned Miss America 1999 on Saturday,
Johnson works as a writer and producer for “The 700 Club” promo-
tions and wants to be a national news anchor and national diabetes
I ‘spokeswoman.
‘ ‘I Miss North Carolina Kelli Bradshaw was ﬁrst runner—up and Miss
Florida Lissette Gonzalez was second runner-up. Rounding out the top
' ﬁve were Miss Missouri Deborah McDonald and Miss Kentucky Chera—

3An Italian fashion house is offering Monica Lewinsky $480,000 to

I model one of its suits at a show. Rome-based Gattinoni wants Lewinsky

for its ﬁrst collection for larger women, Italian newspapers reported
, ;,Saturday. ‘

‘OINEI DEAD, 16 HURT IN KENTUCKY DORM FIRE

. Students and faculty mourned the death of a Murray State University
a ophomore as investigators tried to find out who set the residence hall

“I-rnent Friday on whether the tire was related to a suspicious blaze ﬁve
 days earlier on the same ﬂoor of the same building.

FORGOTTEN CONVICT RELEASED
if I A 58-year-old woman who was jailed last year when prison officials
discovered she never served a manslaughter sentence imposed 16 years
ago was set free Friday. Ms. Randley, who now plans to “serve God,”
was sentenced in 1981 to eight years in prison for shooting her boy-
,_friend to death. But because of a bureaucratic ‘mix-up, no one ever ar-
 ‘rived to take her away. ‘

QHOMEWORK HAS BAD EFFECTS »

"and Dr. Richard Cowan says homework for children younger than the
I age of ‘I2 can create “extreme tensions” in the family. , ,

The English government recently issued homework guidelines even
;;for children as young as four, saying they should do 10 minutes of read-

While Bill Clinton and Kenneth Starr might not be friends, their daugh-

ters will be rooting for the same football team this fall. Starr arrived in

,Palo Alto last Wednesday to help his daughter Carolyn settle in at

I ,Califomia’s elite Stanford University, where President Clinton’s daugh-
*ter Chelsea is enrolled as a sophomore. ‘ ,, ~- ‘*

 ' I ~ / . p _. —-compiledfrom the AP

BY TARAH GRANT

Awful Art

Plenty of Ravv, Roasted & Fried Oysters -

ernrnet svvirnrning
Blue Dogs

ALI. AcEs EVENT - KIDS 12 8. UNDER FREE - RAIN on SHINE -
LAVVN CHAIRS AND BLANKETS VVELCOMED

8th Annual

hur's Oyster Roast

TO BENEFIT FEEI7 THE I:UTLJI'\3E
Iyeatuniug

ADMISSION $5

NIAIINI STREET IN FRONT OF SEA BREEZE CAFE.

PAGE 5

Moyers’ lecture on drug abuse
creates diverse student reaction

. EXECUTIVE EDITOR

The press release promised stories
from his “personal experiences” at
Washington and Lee University. The
posters promoted him as someone to
whom we could relate. Many students
came to Alumnus William Cope
Moyers’ Contact lecture last Monday
night expecting educated insight and
analysis of W&L’s most popular so-
cial activity from a man who was once
in our situation. ,

Instead, they got what some stu-
dents described as an hour-long
“infomercial,” promoting Hazelden,
the drug rehabilitation center for
which Moyers now works, and its
public policy agenda.

“It was propaganda bullshit,” said
one student who was required to at-
tend the lecture for one of his classes
but left after 15 minutes.

Moyers, who has appeared on
“Larry King Live” and the “Oprah
Winfrey Show,” showed his W&L
audience a slide show, then distrib-
uted a Hazelden publicity packet.

Some students found the lecture
disappointing not because of what it
addressed, but because of what it did
not address.

“It failed to live up to my expec-
tations because he failed to address
the ‘early end’ of addiction, such as
we might find here at W&L,” senior
Patrick McCormack said. “I now
know more about insurance than I
could ever cared to know, and I have
learned a bit more about helping full-
blown alcoholics ﬁnd treatment, but
. . . dealing with problem drinking,
as opposed to alcoholism, would have
been more valuable to us as a com-
munity.”

Moyers spent almost half of the
lecture advocating Hazelden-sup-
ported legislation that would increase

everyone’s insurance premium by ap-
proximately $15 per year to help sub-
stance-addicted patients. Alcohol ad-
diction is the “same as any other dis-
ease” and thus its victims should re-
ceive just as much public sympathy
and financial support, Moyers said.

While some audience members
seemed skeptical of this conclusion
due to the “free will” component of
drinking and alcohol use, Moyers’
persuasive rhetoric convinced some
students.

“I would consider it an investment,

-1
1
»

when taking into account the cost of ‘

drunk driving accidents, domestic vio-
lence and police costs,” senior Erin

Kraal said. “It doesn’t make sense that '

an insurance company would treat the
injuries one might sustain from being
an alcoholic (liver cancer, car acci-

dents, falls, etc.), but not the disease

that causes it.”

Moyers encouraged audience .
members to write letters to Congress -

to support the legislation. He also
challenged them to confront alcohol
abuse in their everyday lives. It is
something that can be changed, partly
through dialogue, Moyers said.
Contact Chairman Jason Hahn
agreed. “I think Moyers gave students
a great deal to think about,” Hahn said.
“Hopefully it will lead to some pro-
ductive campus discussions.”

The discussion, however, might be .

limited. While lecture attendees al-
most filled the C-school classroom
where Moyers was speaking, almost
half of the audience was comprised

of faculty members and Lexington _

residents, not exactly W&L’s “at-risk”
population.
“I don’t think he’ll have much ofa

general effect,” junior Jessica Helm 4
said. “Sure ‘Oprah’ and ‘Larry King’ ’

want him, but all his home turf could
provide was an audience of 30.”

send thought-
provoking comments
to phI@wIu edu

Something to think about...

“When a man talks dirty to a woman, it’s
sexual harassment. When a woman talks
dirty to a man, it’s $3.95 a minute.”

—-seen on a t-shirt

Fried Shrilnp — Clana Chovvder — AND NIORE AVAIL!-\'BLE"'

g BIueBeat Revue
.CarbOn Leaf

NO FOOD, BEVERAGES OR COCDLERS ALLOVVED - NO DOGS

80.4-.64-3.8601  VVVVVV-BﬂAYOISLAND.CONI

SPONSORED BY XL 102 AND Q94

SUNDAY, OCTOBER 4th, I993 - I2 to 7 PM - ON MAYO ISLAND.

(2l3A£...L.   1-877-i%§*C'}~FEE—4l3

I1 IIIIJUU I$L-IIIID DI2l]DU(Il[III

TAKE  
RISKS

 I‘.

IFE...

(not in credit cards)

Introducing the hlevv Anmorlcan
Express” Credit card for Students.
Live for today-

Build for tornorrovv-

The New Arnarican Express Cradlt
Card for Students is a resource you
can depend on.\/Vith benefits like big
airfare savings. free credit inforrnation,
and no annual fee. it'll help you get the
rnost frorn your student years —— and
help you build a solid financial
foundation for the future.

TQ APPLY

 

PAGE 6

ahitol H umor, Opinion and Reviews
  last Word

There’: ﬁnally something good at the movies

Diaz). Not only does the investigator ﬁnd “hair gel.” Why is her. hair standing up

BY BRIAN PRSICO
MOVIE Ozrnc

o|12'32i5l

(WORTH THE FULL PRICE OF ADMISSION)

Nobody could have possibly predicted
the success that “There’s Something About
Mary” would attain during this.summer’s
movie season. It seemed like it was destined
to fail. It was relying on the star power of
Cameron Diaz to carry it. Ben Stiller played
the lead character and his box ofﬁce appeal
had been limited to, well, frankly, nothing.
Even his comedy show had failed. There
hadn’t been any sort of MTVesque hype
about it at all. So how could this lead fish
possibly swim with as much success?

Well, for one thing, it’s really, really
funny. The story centers around a down
and out writer (Ben Stiller) who hires a
shady insurance investigator (the terriﬁc
Matt Dillon) to track down his high-school
love interest of thirteen years ago (Cameron

BY KEVIN MCMANHVIIN
—‘—*‘m- RAVING AND DRoouNo
For two days this summer I had the dis-
tinct pleasure of serving jury duty. In the
process I managed to have my last few shreds
of respect for our legal system ripped away
and generally found jury duty to be as in-
sulting and painﬁilly embarassing an experi-
ence as the Pauly Shore film of the same name.

The whole thing began when I received a I

lovely invitation from the State of New Jer-
sey. They were wondering if I were busy on
August the 1 1th, and would I like to drop by
the Union County Courthouse-for some tea
and scones and maybe jury duty? In very
polite language they suggested that if I
couldn’t make the courthouse function, per-
haps I’d rather stop byjail later for up to 30
days.

So I decided to make the trek over to Eliza-
beth, NJ (which, once you get past the lan-
guage barrier, is really a nice town if you like
that whole “decayed urban center swarming
with filth” look) and have my day in court.

The people there can best be described
as characters in an existential freak show.
Take thejury manager, a man whosejob re-
quires speaking in front of large groups all

Mary, but he ends up falling in love with
her. Things turn into absolute chaos

as everyone begins to compete for
Mary’s affection.

The simple plot isn’t what
makes the movie so appealing.
The tacky assortment of jokes,
ranging from masturbation to
mocking the mentally handi-
capped, gets disgusting at
times. Incredibly disgusting.
The Farrelly brothers, Peter
and Bobby, who wrote the
scripts for “Dumb and
Dumber” and “Kingpin,” de-
cided that the one way to make
this movie refreshingly original
is to take the innuendo down I
to the next level. And good
God, do they ever. Where most
movies might have stopped at the
actual insinuation of “cleaning
the loaded gun,” the Farrelly
brothers actually show you the

day. This guy had a lithp that made him thoot
thpittle like Daffy Duck on methamphet-
amines.

 let’s not forget about the Mensa can-
didates that ﬁlled that ranks ofthe jury pool.
The simplest of tasks — calling out your last
name when your juror number was called —
seemed a most gargantuan feat to these mu-
tants.

Perhaps the jury manager was partly to
blame (we may never know if juror number
thix theventy theven showed up that day),
but he must have explained the system at
least 40 times and people still responded with
gems like “here” or “that’s my number.” Un-
less Thatsmynumber is more common a fam-
ily name in central Jersey than I thought, there
were a hell ofa lot of people whojust didn’t
get it.

Then there’s my personal favorite: the man
next to me who showed me his jury card and
asked which number was hisjuror number. I
pointed to the big number in the center of the
card with the words “juror number” in front
of it. Oh yes, and our justice system is
founded on the belief that these people are
capable of weighing complex legal issues and
deciding people’s fate. Super.

   
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  

Across:

l. The king ofthe d-hall (the man
whose name rhymes with “Fritz”)
3. The favorite party spot across
from the post office that rhymes
with “dunster”

8. Where they come in ﬂocks,
wearing ties and sundresses to
drink, eat and be merry

9. The place where naked people
have been known to run and ﬂap
their arms and scream, “I’m
naked, I’m naked!” early in the
morning

11. The studly man who reigns
supreme over all the dorms

13. An often-heard statement in
the d-hall line: “What you need,

93

l_;The succulent meal of choice

' at Lee-Hi aﬁer 2 a.m.

16. The treed triangle where there
is always a party going on

17. The stylin’ man in the blue
shirt and sunglasses who will A
steal your car and sell it to the
Rockbridge gypsies if he sees it
on campus.

—This week ’s crossword puzzle was written by Dan Birdwhistle
and created by Jason Williams. See next week's issue for the answers.

it

Down:

1. Dean Howison can often be
seenjumping around his yard
with glee when playing this
game

2. The coolest lady in d-hall (the
woman who knows your name
by heart)

4. The imported girls you often
see at parties: they stand in
packs of5-8 and often hail from

5.4 a.m.—~lt’s cold. lt’s dark.
The party is over, and it’sjust
you, a barn, an outhouse and a
cow. Where are you?

6. The dorm where there are no
shower curtains, no women and
lots of guys

7. The way the freshmen travel
to parties

l0. The late-night DJ party where
one often sees things that are,
well, a little out ofthe ordinary
11. The foreign ‘broil’ which has
become known as the best d-hall
meal, hails from where?

12. Pieces of these dorm room
essentials often end up in the
quad by 6 a.m.

like that? Finger it out for yourself.

But even with low-brow toilet humor
as gratuitous as getting your “franks
and beans” caught in a zipper, you
need an incredible cast to

    

this movie relies on ensemble

comedy, and everybody

brings their share. Stiller is
wonderfully dorky, Dillon is
incredibly sleazy, and Diaz is an
alluring straight woman to this
bizarre, obsessive group around her.
The characters are what make
this movie fun, from a retarded brother who
wears earmuffs all year round to
Superbowl Quarterbacks. This movie has
veteran comedic actors (Chris Elliot:
“Cabin Boy,” “Groundhog Day”), up and
coming actors (Harland Williams: “Half
Baked,” “Rocketman"’) and relative new-
comers (Lee Evans as Mary’s friend
. Tucker). The astounding mesh of these
talented actors helps to make the au-

Anyway, I managed to survive the rig-
ors of the jury selection round and move on
to the prize round, where, if I correctly an-
swered a series of questions, I could win a
washer/dryer combo, a new Toyota Camry,
a year’s subscription to . . . no, wait, the
only prize was getting on the jury.

It turns out the defendant was so con-
cerned with the outcome of the trial that he
didn’t even bother showing up for it. I know
if I were on trial for possession of cocaine
with intent to distribute within I000 feet of a
school zone I’d possess at least a casual
curiosity in the outcome of the case, but I
guess that’sjust me.

As for the actual trial, the prosecutor pre-
sented a case as airtight as Howard Hughes’
bedroom. In response, the defense tried a
brilliant “no defense” defense. No wit-
nesses, no evidence, nothing but the words
“the defense rests, your honor.” Honestly.

In her summation, the defense attorney
(who was like a modem day Clarence Danow,
if only Clarence Darrow had been remark-
ably incompetant) stated her client’s posi-
tion V see, he wasjust holding the bag for
a friend, see, and had absolutely no idea it
contained more drug paraphenalia than



carry it off. With no stars, ‘ ‘ 1

dience laugh right up to the dance number
credits.
“Mary” is honestly a movie that can be
watched over and over, as proved by its
relative success during the summer (it has
already broken the 100 million mark and is
still climbing). Granted, it’s not going to
be a “Titanic” or “Good Will
Hunting.” lt’s not going to
win any Academy Awards.
, It’s not even going to stay
around in the theatersfor
much longer. But, with the
deluge of awful comedies
that summer movie audi-
ences were struck with (namely “Mafia!”
and “Wrongfully Accused,” both ofwhich
were so bad I wanted to scratch out my
eyes with a chisel and fill the bleeding
wounds with scalding butter ﬂavoring,
“Mary” was a refreshing change of pace.
It’sjust a fun movie.
Don’t take my word for it, though,
there’s just something about “Mary” that
you’ll have to see for yourself.

, or how I learned to stop ‘
' worrying and love jury duty

Phish’s dressing room. Never mind thathis

friend was a perfectly healthy 16 year-old,

boy, the defendant wanted us to believe that
he was merely exhibiting that famous “ghetto
hospitality” we’ve all heard so much about.

With the summations complete we re-
tired to thejury room for about five min-
utes, thirty seconds of which went to de-
bating the case and the rest of the time
going to bathroom breaks. It was nearly
lunchtime and we, the people, were hun-
gry, so the verdict came swiftly and unani-
mously: guilty on all counts. If it were
against the law to insult thejury’s intelli-
gence with lame defenses we would have
found him guilty ofthat, too.

But you know, all the jolly fun of cyni-
cism aside, the system did work for once.
An incredibly stupid criminal received a swift
yet fair trial. I guess thejury manager was
right when he articulated what makes our
courts work: “a juthtith thithtem for the
thitithenth, by the thitithenth.”

Yes, for one brief, shining moment, I was
“The Man.” lwas the Establishment. That‘s
the great thing about this country: eventu-
ally, every idiot gets a turn.

God Bleth America.

 

SEPTEMBER 21, 1998

‘won’t
- embarassment” but then became the first presi-

Congress declares war on
Clinton’s penis
Washington —— Con-
gress voted to declare war
on President Bill Clinton’s
penis in ajoint session held
earlier this morning. “That
petty tyrant is out of con-

the
me trol,” House Speaker Newt
Gingrich said. “We must

send a clear message that the American people
will not tolerate that kind of behavior from our po-
litical leaders. From our entertainers and sports
stars, sure, but not our politicians. Well, some
politicians, but not the president. Well, maybe JFK.
And FDR. And Lincoln, Harding, Johnson,
Chester A . . . well, the point is, notthis president.”

The war began this afternoon whena surgical
strike force consisting of Marines commandos and
surgeons parachuted into the White House. They
met with heavy opposition (i.e. Bill Clinton) but
were able to secure their objective of using smart
bombs to decimate their target.

Bill Clinton’s penis has been linked to a number
of terrorist activities over the years, including the
bombarding of Monica Lewinsky’s dress, the ter-

News
off

fictitious news from
The Looney B111

’ rorizing of Paula Jones and the impregnation of

Hillary. In apress conference Bill Clinton said (in a
remarkably high voice) that he is “glad lil’ Billy
be causing America any more

dent since McKinley to publicly admit that he
“hates this f"""*ing country and everyone in it."

Crack use still high among crackheads
New York—— A landmark study of over 1,200

A New York metropolitan area crackheads recently

conﬁrmed lawmakers worst fears —- that crack

. abuse remains as high as ever, despite stiffer drug
,» laws and improved police tactics. “Our study shows

that crack use remains steady at 100%,” said head
researcher Dr. Herschel Goldberg. The study shows
that 100% of crackheads have smoked crack at least
once in their lives, 100% have smoked it in the last
month and 100% were actually hopped up on rock
while taking the survey. When asked for a com-
ment, crackhead David Fredricks said, “Come on
man, just five bucks, I’ll pay you back tomorrow.”

Texas institutes “guns for bigger guns” trade

Austin —— Intrigued by the success of “guns for
cash” and “guns for toys” programs in getting
handguns off the streets in other areas, the Texas
legislature voted today to sponsor a statewide
“gunsfor bigger guns” deal. “It isimperative that
we get handgugqspoff the street,” said state Attor-
ney General Jed Houston, “and replace them with
ﬁrearms as needlessly oversized as our state’s
ego.” Lawmakers were concemed by statistics that
show that the average Texan only owns 17 guns,
many of which are handguns barely powerful
enough to blow the arm off a Mexican.

1

Monday Night Football

It ti o M r H R u

WednesdayNight DJ

, DJ Doug Panzer

HLlR?3[}.5kY

 

 

7*.

 

Washington and Lee University
VOLUME 101, NUMBER 3

Ultra ﬂing-tum Iﬂhi

 

Monday
SEPTEMBER 28, 1998

Hill Delays
New Garage
Constuction

Rejection of original

1‘ plans guarantees

continued student
parking problems

by Polly Doig

NEWS EDITOR

Washington and Lee students ar-
rived this fall to ﬁnd a drastically dif-
ferent parking situation in preparation
of a much-anticipated parking struc-
ture. They’re still anticipating.

Construction of the parking struc-
ture, part of W&L’s overall Master
Plan, was scheduled to begin in Octo-
ber. However, because of aesthetic rea-
sons, the University rejected the ini-
tial drawings and went to another ﬁrm.

“We found the original plans un-
acceptable; they called for a ﬁve-story
structure that was too tall for the loca-
tion and would not have ﬁt well with
the rest of the campus,” Lawrence
Broomall, Washington and Lee’s Vice
President of Finance, said.

The new plans will be presented
next week, and if accepted, design work
will begin immediately. Even accord-
ing to the best case scenario, construc-
tion will not begin until January.

The new parking structure will be
built on the backside of the campus,
where the Upper and Lower Gym park-
ing lots are currently located. It was
because construction would cause the
loss of an estimated 120 to 130 park-
ing spaces in this area, that the W&L
parking policy was regrouped.

Thejob of reorganizing was given
to Director of Security Michael Young.
“We moved commuter students to the
freshmen parking lot, and freshmen to
the Tennis Center. We also gave “B”
stickers (no daytime parking access)
to off-campus residents who live
within a half mile of campus.”

As off-campus residents scrambled
to obtain spaces, they discovered two
things; parking can be as rare off-cam-
pus as it is on-campus, and it can also
be extremely expensive. Private park-
ing lots in town are already ﬁlled, and

‘ cost on average $25 a month.

So while off-campusllresidents ﬁnd
thems§lve,s_,dealing with the cost of
finding other parking, and freshmen
find themselves resentful of the added
walk to their vehicles, the parking
structure is not being built. Hence,
Chief Young ﬁnds himself the target
of many related’ complaints.

One large Italian Cappucino maker arrived in Lexington last week. The brewing, steaming
and frothing will begin soon. Owners Dow Harris ’98 and Rich Walter ’98 hope to open
The Ruse coffeehouse by the end of October. The “brew house,” located at the corner of
Nelson and Randolph streets, will not only up the community's caffeine intake, it will serve
as a forum for all local arts. The Ruse will feature bands, poetry readings and anything else
the community wants to bring to it. VMI rats helped Harris and Walter (pictured third and
fourth from left, respectively) with the restoration Sunday.

 

Photo by Christie Pillips/Photo Editor

“Administration gave me orders to
plan for a certain situation and that’s
what I did,” Young said. “Even though
construction has been delayed, I don’t
see how we could reverse the policy
without causing a lot of confusion.”

And there still remains the confu-
sion of red tape to go through. “City
Council approved the Master Plan,

“which basicattysaid that there were a

number of things (i.e. sorority hous-
ing, pedestrian bridge, parking struc-
ture) that we’d like to implement over
the next few years,” Broomall said.
“However, as we get speciﬁc plans,
we still have to go back to get indi-
vidual approval.”

With construction now slated to
begin in January, W&L students are
learning to accept the present difﬁcul-
ties while looking forward to the ben-
eﬁts the parking structure will bring.
And the waitjust might be worth it.

“The original plan included be-
tween 550 and 600 spots,” Chief Young
said. “The newest design will hold up-
wards of 700 and will virtually allevi-
ate all campus parking problems.
We’re anxious to get going on it,”
Broomall said.

Co-Ed Cheerleaders Fail
to Cheer VMI to Victory

by Jennifer Agiesta

S TA FF WRITER

Virginia Military Institute’s football
game last Saturday contained all the
usual pomp of a college game, with one
minor change: the Keydet cheerleaders,

‘ male and female, all had crew cuts.

For the ﬁrst time, VMI has a co-ed
cheerleading squad composed entirely
of VMI cadets. Female cadets replaced
the Mary Baldwin students who had
been cheering with male VMI cadets
for several years. Only one female
cheerleader is an upperclassman.
Three male rats also participate, and
the Keydet Kangaroo is a female rat.
Last year’s mascot was a rat, and he
went on to cheer out of costume for
basketball season. However, his tran-
sition to cheerleader was not met with
the ﬁerce opposition that this rat domi-
nated squad is ﬁnding.

I This new all-cadet squad caused
some upperclassmen to fear that their
domination of rats was being threat-
ened with rats on the ﬁeld telling them
when to cheer. They took this com-
plaint so far as to petition the adminis-
tration for the removal of the rats from
the squad. A sophomore cadet, who
wished to remain anonymous, said,
‘‘It’s ridiculous that they fought so
hard to go to military schooljust to be
cheerleaders.”

However, the squad has the support
of the administration, and senior squad
captain Randy Eads said the petition-
ers are “basically wasting paper.”

According to Captain Julia Fultz,
assistant director of Cadet Affairs, the
petition was initiated by several
upperclass female cadets.

“These students participated in
many clubs and intercollegiate sports
last year, and they need to look in their
own backyards before they start
throwing stones,” Fultz said.

Cheerleading is considered a club,
and rats are allowed to participate in
clubs, provided that they attend the
Rat Challenge at least twice a week.
The cheerleaders do attend the Rat
Challenge, and according to Com-
mander John Riester, faculty advisor
for the squad, they are facing tougher
challenges than other rats.

“I am concerned about the heat
they’ll take. [The upperclassmen]

'don’t make the baseball players

throw pitches or make the track stars
run around the barracks, but they
make cheerleaders do a cheer,”
Riester said.

Despite these setbacks, the
cheerleaders have gone ahead with
the season as usual, hoping to gain
a bid to national competition. They
made an impressive showing at Uni-
versal Cheerleading Association
camp in Myrtle Beach, SC. If se-
lected to attend UCA nationals,
they would compete with top-notch
squads such as UNC, South Caro-
lina and Kentucky.

Said Riester, “We do have our own
women now, why should we use
women from other schools?”

Habitat for Humanity Raises
Funds for Project Horizon

by Heather McDonald

STAFF VVRITER

It is three weeks into the term, and
most students are learning the ﬁne
art of procrastination. However, the
volunteer organization Habitat for
Humanity has done everything but
procrastinate. Habitat has already
had two 1arge—scale fund-raisers in
order to support their current project.

W&L’s chapter of Habitat, in con-
junction with that of VMI, is attempt-
ing to raise $80,000 for a shelter spon-
sored by Project Horizon. This shel-
ter will offer longer-term housing and
counseling to the victims whom
Project Horizon is assisting. Project
Horizon is a local volunteer organiza-
tion dedicated to assisting victims of
sexual assault and domestic violence.

The construction will begin early
in the upcoming winter term. The Na-
tional Timber Framers Guild will be
laying the foundation and setting the
frame for the shelter. The house will
be constructed entirely of wood
beams joined by pegs, so that there is
no need for nails. The NTFG has as-
sisted other Habitat projects in other
regions in the past.

So far, Habitat has raised $35,000.

Two W&L grads, now at the Law
School, are assisting Habitat with ob-
taining grants to help increase fund-

1 ing. Habitat is looking for large fund

raising ideas for future projects.

The Gershwin Concert, held on
Sept. 22 in the Lenfest Center, raised
about $1,600. Prior to that was the
rafﬂe for President John Elrod’s park-
ing space. While returns are not yet in
from the rafﬂe, it is estimated that over
400 students bought tickets. Sopho-
more Juliet Bickford won the prized
spot, but not without an apparent ﬁght.

“I think Wes Armstrong bought
something like $150 worth oftickets,”
said David Sugerman, president of
W&L’s chapter of Habitat.

Habitat’s other, smaller—scale
projects include houses in Glasgow,
VA and landscaping buildings in Lex-
ington built in previous years. In
the past two years, two houses have
been built by Habitat volunteers on
High Street.

Anyone who is interested in Habi-
tat should call the Habitat office at
462-4254, or look for announcements
early in the week on the Campus No-
tices e-mail. Habitat goes to sites
on Saturdays from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m.
and meets at the University Center.

Photo by Christie Phillips/Photo Editor

From his perch on the ladder, Peter Dodge admires the
progress ‘(Tn Tast year’s Habitat for Humanity project.

Game Room
Plan Rejected

Lexington Police Department
pressures Planning Commision to
reject addition South Philly Phats

by Ezster Pados

STAFF WRITER

The Lexington Planning Commis-
sion dismissed a proposed game room
at its last meeting, due in part to resis-
tance from the Lexington Police De-
partment.

At a public hearing, John Wayne
Rife, owner of South Philly Phats at
107 N. Main St., requested permission
for the operation of a game room, fur-
nished with four pool tables, ﬁve to
six video games and ajukebox, in the
same building as his restaurant. The
room would have accommodated 50
to 70 people at a time.

For months, the Lexington Police
Department has opposed the proposal
for fear of attracting criminal activity.
Lt. Steve Crowder of the LPD said the
building’s location is unsuitable for
Rife’s business, due to insufﬁcient
lighting and recent criminal activity.

“Just last year, we had one shoot-
ing, and at least one stabbing in the
alleyway there,” Crowder said. “Fur-
thermore, I’ve prepared a list of com-
plaints over the past year, and we’ve
had in excess of a hundred calls from
that area,” Crowder explained.

Despite Rife’s willingness to meet
the Commission’s conditions, includ-
ing installing lights and video cameras
to prevent criminal activity, Crowder
believes that these precautions will
not solve the issue. In fact they will
only “light up the problem.” He said
that he will never be convinced that
the game room will work at that spe-
ciﬁc location.

In reaction to Crowder’s opposition
to his proposal, Rife attempted to con-
vince the police department and the
Planning Commission of his ability to
control violence with “No Smoking”
signs, no alcohol service and bounc-
ers at the door. “There is only one way
in, and one way out,” Rife said, “I am
not going to tolerate smoking, drugs
or any trouble at all.”

Furthermore, Rife said that he does
not understand the core of the prob-

lem. “Stop-In is right there,” Rife said,
“There is no danger there. Police men
monitor the area twenty four hours a
day. People don’t get killed at Stop-
In.”

Crowder said that he is not ques-
tioning Rife’s ability to run a success-
ful business inside the room. Instead
he’s concerned about the residents’
safety, and the possible increase in
criminal activity in the area. “It will
turn into a local hang-out,” Crowder
said. “John Rife can control what goes
on inside. But the people, locals and
students, will pour out onto the
streets. He’s no longer responsible,
we are!”

Many students and local youth feel
that Lexington lacks a place for them to
hang-out. Sharks, a similar recreation

room, closed last year. The Staircase Bar I

& Grill also recently closed. This virtu-
ally leaves the Palms and the State
Movie Theater as the only alternatives
to the fraternity parties.

“I think most people need and want
a new social scene, a new social activ-
ity,” junior Andrew Seo said. “I think
the police are just too sensitive to so-
cial issues.” Seo feels that given the
scarcity of such businesses in Lexing-
ton, it would be easy for the police to
search and monitor the business.

“Police should be concerned with
the alley and the surrounding area, not
the game-room,” said Sonia Hall, ajun-
ior. She, along with many other stu-
dents, would be very happy to see an
addition to the Lexington social scene.

Rife sympathizes with students.
“It’s a shame that there’s nothing in
Lexington,” he said. He feels that by
opening the game room, he would help
out in a small way.

The list of complaints gathered by
Crowder and Zoning administrator Bill
Blatter’s list of conditions incorpo-
rated in the conditional use permit
were presented to the Commission
September 24. The Commission will
pass their decision on to City Council
for the ﬁnal decision, but Pife said,
“It’s virtually hopeless.”

Co-Op Manager Don Burch
Retires After 19 Years

by Christian Vanderbrouk

STAFF WRITER

Whether serving/freshmen looking
for a little variety or bleaiy eyed se-
niors seeking a respite from arduous
exam preparations, Don Burch has
been a Washington and Lee mainstay
for as long as many can remember.

Thus, it was no surprise that when
Burch retired Tuesday after 19 years
of faithful service, his friends and co-
workers gathered for cake and lemon-
ade in the Co-op to exchange memo-
ries and to say goodbye. Those who
attended the party voiced strikingly
similar impressions of Burch.

“He is a real sweet man and ex-
tremely loyal to Washington and Lee,”
said Snack Bar assistant manager Judy
Sensabaugh.

Nuwassa Smith, a food service as-
sociate in the Snack Bar, said that Burch
was “a very caring person about
people he worked with.”

Faye Silvea of the Co-op also spoke

fondly of Burch. “He was a very good
man. He was nice working for and we
miss him a lot.”

Says Burch, “I really enjoyed my
association with Washington and Lee.
I’m gonna miss all those people.”

A committed family man, with two
children and two grandchildren, Don
Burch was no stranger to food service
and retail before he came to Washing-
ton and Lee. Growing up in Buena
Vista, Burch began work at the family
grocery store, Burch Brothers, at age
9. He continued working in the family
store through high school and, after a
few other jobs, joined the Washing-
ton and Lee family in 1979. Burch be-
gan his work in the Evans Dining Hall,
where he remained for 11 years, be-
fore taking over as Snack Bar manager,
where he had sewed since.

Speaking from his home in Buena
Vista, Burch spoke about his future
plans. Indeed, he shows no signs of
resting. “l’ve gotta be active,” says
Burch. “I’m going to try to stay in the
business world.”

Ellie ﬁling-tum lﬂhi
September 28th, 1998
OPINION:

dent, letters, quote of the week

W&LiFE:
Bridge, 250th bulletin

J’ SPORTS:

Homecoming Preview

Justice for student athletes, challenge ﬁom Alumni Presi-

Seniors and their futures, University Scholars, Natural

Football ﬁnally victorious, men’s and women’s soccer,
volleyball, rugby and ﬁeld hockey

PAGE 2

PAGE 3

PAGE 4

PAGE 7

 

iOp'.nion
Edi orial

SEPTEMBER 28, 1998

PAGE 2

Student athletes
deserve more credit

To fulﬁll the goal of administering a liberal arts education,
this university forces us to participate in ﬁve trimesters of physi-
cal education. Many students curse this policy, arguing that as
mature students, we can make decisions about exercise without
being forced. Nevertheless, it cannot be denied that for the ma-
jority of us, this policy is beneﬁcial. For varsity athletes, on
the other hand, the PE. requirement is ridiculous.

If the goal of tile P.E. requirement is to encourage students to

participate in sports, varsity athletes do not need it. If the goal of
the P.E. requirement is to teach students general sports skills,
varsity athletes do not need it. And if tlle goal of the P.E. require-
ment is to increase a student’s general ﬁtness, varsity athletes
deﬁnitely do not need it. They have already voluntarily partici-
pated in their sports, have developed the skills to be the best in
the school at their sports and have maintained exceptional physi-
cal shape. This school does not offer athletic scholarships or any
other serious incentives to participate in sports. Besides limited
fan support and a fuzzy varsity letter, athletes at Washington and
Lee do not get the slightest bit of compensation. They deserve
some.

Each trimester, every P.E. class meets for a total of about 24
total hours: one hour, twice a week, for twelve weeks (spring
term: double the hours for six weeks). A varsity athlete, regard-
less of the team, participates in 24 hours of sport in less than two
weeks, while working inﬁnitely harder than any PE. partici-
pant. After about nine weeks, our varsity athletes have com-
pleted the hour equivalent of the entire P.E. requirement. Why
should they have to do more? The administration should change
the P.E. policy to exempt students who have earned at least one
varsity letter from any sport. Even if a student quits after a year,
he or she has put in more time than the entire P.E. requirement
and should not have to take any more P.E. classes.

All week, our athletes bust their tails at practice. On week-
ends, their free time is replaced by long bus rides arld intercolle-
giate competitions, or more practice. Varsity athletes work harder
during the season than any P.E. participant could ever dream of.
Varsity teams have a pre-season, a regular season, and a post-
season, all of which involve vigorous running and lifting pro-
grams. Varsity athletes constantly try to improve their skills and
conditioning so that theirteam, which represents this university,
can win. And when they do win, the entire student body feels
immense pride for our athletes. But what acknowledgment, be-

yond pride, do they get? Two measlypcredits and the burden of ,

having to take three more _P.E. classes to graduate; 

_ The time has come for the administration to be reasonable.
For the study time they lose, for the social time they give up, and
for the continual commitment they give to their teams and this
university, Washington and Lee athletes deserve full recogni-
tion for their eﬁorts: the administration should exempt tllem from
the P.E. requirement.

 

   
  
 
  

  

Dear Editor,

It has come to my attention that I am not the only one
ﬁustrated with W&L’s current policies on sexual assault.
Now I’d like to give everyone a chance to do something
about it. Please read the following proposal and get back to
me with your ideas and opinions. If you think I’m right on
track, let me know and come sign a copy of the proposal. (1
hope to present it to the Student Affairs Committee later this
year.) If you think I’m way off base, let me know that too.

The reforms I’d like to see are pretty simple. As it stands

up, the penalty is seldom strict enough. ,   , I .
SURVIVORS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT: In order to
make the system better, I would really appreciate it ify

would contact me with your accounts of you experiences

, t0:COIlta_Ct_\l1_1e anonymously you may do so through;

    
  
     
    
      
 
      
  

 For Washington and Lee University to  
aj . port to an environment that will foster healthy relatiorislljps
 andend the sexually violent culture, as beﬁts an 

that ’des itselfon its commitment to honor. _ ,

Sexual Asault Education I .. V , P y 
_  [As it now stands, there  little sexual assault ' 
‘ tion for students. The program that now exists is 

is not continued for upperclasnnen. Many womm have no
their options for support or prosecution. Likewise, few men

_ achieve apro-active stance against sexual assault wevrecorng
* mendthe following: A  ’ 

rem system ofeducating students by halls has deﬁnite merit.
Students feel more corrlfortable to ask questions in small

groups, and there are fewer distractions. _

. withthe SFHB. Itwillbe entirely conﬁdential. iryohpgerei.

  

 
   

  
  

in scope. The tra.ining occurs early in the ties}: mm .-:i;‘;i
when the students aretoo overwhelmed to absorb  s

   
   
  
    
   

idea what to do ifthey have been raped They do notl/criow ’
P * know exactly what constitutes rape or sexual  Such‘.
antenvironment is unfair to men iandvwoinen.,Iritt)‘ir?ijl,e4r:;to: \

‘f Continue educating studerlts in srrlall groups.  p p , p
* Provideauial  sphere thatis less hostile fora victim

* Show the excellent video that interviewed students who
have been raped on this campus and was produced by
Washington and Lee students.

* Give students handouts listing helpful contacts should
assault occur. « ' , ~

* Clarify what to do when assault occurs.

"‘ Clarify thejudicial process at Washington and Lee and any
appeal process. 

* Acknowledge the student’s option to go to local legal

no one knows what to do in the event of sexual assault. Few’ 7   r 4f  ‘ ’
people know why they need to seek medical attention and I“

few people know howtoprosecute. When acharge  j"

*i   education on sexual assault for every

sclass; . ., . i. .
 is  professionals at Project Horizon for
 4   and to train the educators.

“ .

  
     

 the university for conﬁding in la

, . on every bulletin board on campus. .
glifto know who is representing them and

 

itohold thorn  foralldecisions made. Whiletheseo
i’’‘:)listsare‘sup'posed;tb:bepostedinmoreﬂianonelocatiorhno “ p
  e ‘ -  P -

sexual assault’ prosecution at

 

who has  severelyuaumatized. The trial should
   occurred ﬁnding the most

_ appropriate punishment for the offender. It  I
necessary to make victims and witnesses feel like

‘ effect of condoning rape. This  must realize i’? ' ~

/ if *.Clarify the legalbasisforgap

u e   j, I. im1tIdepostingﬁ19f§?ﬁTstIdér’f$namesh0ﬁldrt
frierid2ﬂa,orxftlIeuja1;*5Ilrerearelnarly‘changes.wewouldliketo , i

, ,   Comnritree,' the f 2
’ p _-  to {and the Student-Faculty Hearirlg,_: I

involved‘ir1n‘lals"wiﬂlareplacernerltfor .i . I,
_  Provide a confidential,   if

. , .  ._ ...willhe,ahleto
‘/  Rernindﬂle students involved oftheir  ,, j ‘
 at«Pi°Je¢i i P "~ I
T Horizon,?or cal1theProjectHorizonhotline. T ' . , "

  

“sluts” to do this. In a court of law, the sexual  «ﬁt. 
of avictim or  inadrnissible. This  ‘; (W
should be in a Student-Faculty Hearing  P‘ j N S?
* Provide the members of the Student-Faculty  ~
Boardwith thorough trainingineveryaspectofsexual‘,

 

assault. Inadditiontotrainingonthelegaldefinitions  , ji.

of rape, the members should receive training inthe T V
lraumatllatresultsfrornsexualassaultarldtypical ,
ernotionalresponsesofvictims. .. T p   T V ,
* Implement stricter punishments for those convicted. ;
of sexual assault The punishrnerlts givenrnust beta;
deterrent to future offenses. Light punishments have the j

and acknowledge that all assault,   
llighlydishonorable.-3“ , .  1:. ’  g ,
 zlna ‘

 

emrie;‘.;isiesiossooesa.r.:. . s f 
 ab9“.“h°‘$’¢1d°I1i-Fae,-are  A. i P
 
    
.. d¢nt:Fs9ﬁ1t>?t1¢ariiisB°aIﬁ9ase.havé‘. A
’n1i1T<isuspet1si0i1foramrItine=iwoman,ii

send.

coleiarsdaodyicclmsvzul

Letter to 1heRmg-tum Phz: Proposal for change inhandling sexual  t 

 

   
  
  
   
   
 
  

      
        
 
 

  
 
   
  

 

Flag-burning amendment threatens liberty

One of my major issues above all others is that of per-
sonal freedom. In fact, my senior quote dealt with that
issue: “Above all, freedom is the most

 

important thing,_’’ Ilam a ﬁrm believer in U -3,
o the First A-mendment and all of its aspects, 
from what we wear, to what church we til,‘ 
attend, to what we say.  -—Tara

A prime example ofa challenge to this
freedom today is the proposed tlag—burning amendment
to the Constitution. Ifpassed, this amendment would make
burning the American flag a form of protest illegal. This

-Blows Against

To the Washington and Lee student body:

‘ It is my pleasure to serve as President of the Wash-
» ington and Lee University Alumni Association for the
 o 1 I998-99 academic year. In that role, I am happy to
j V » inforrn you that unknown to the vast majority of you,
 T each of you, undergraduate and law students alike,
‘ has gained membership in a very special organiza-
, tion —- the Washington and Lee Alumni Association.
, First organized in 1840, the Alumni Association has
5, more than 20,000 active alumni scattered all over the
_ country and the globe.

All good things come to an end, and one day all
. too soon you will leave Lexington. The primary func-
‘ V» tion of the W&L Alumni Association is to perpetuate
V I the W&L experience long after you have departed
o ' Lexington. To facilitate this, there are 82 alumni chap-
. ters throughout the United States and United King-
dom, each of which will welcome you with open arms.
Additionally, the Alurrmi College and Alumni Travel
, Abroad, programs afford wonderful continuing edu-
: . cation opportunities to alumni and friends. The Alumni
Association Board of Directors, a group of 24 dedi-
/ cated alumni, works very hard to maximize the effec-
-  tiveness of the alumni chapter network and all alumni

programs. _
Many of you have beneﬁted already from the gen-
erosity of our alumni. Some of you have been inter-
. viewed by alumni; others have been to alumni chap-
ter events hosted in honor of new and returning stu-

 A letter to the student body

1 Alumni Association President challenges students T

dents; and others have gained valuable experience and '
career insights while interning for alumni. You, too,
can serve future generations of W&L students by be-
coming involved with your local alumni chapters,
serving as class agents, offering career assistance and
by recruiting students for W&L. These volunteer op-
portunities will allow you to help make W&L a stron-
ger institution and at the same time network and make
important contacts that can be useful for you in the
future. The reason that W&L is as it is today lies in
the fact that previous generations of alumni have given
of their time and talent to make it so. We hope that
you will be part of this tradition of service and help
make W&L even stronger in the next millennium.

As improbable as it seems to you today as you
stress over the next exam or project, one day soon
your student days will be behind you, and you, too,
will be a member of the alumni ranks fondly remi-
niscing on your days in Lexington. Like most of us,
you will ﬁnd that you never really leave W&L, but,
rather, you will return often in your mind’s eye. I hope
that your return trips, both visual and actual, will be
as pleasant and as rewarding as mine are. Best of luck
to all of you for the duration of your W&L career,
and I encourage you to take advantage of the strength
of the W&L Alumni Association.

Sincerely,
E. Phifer Helms ’74
Charlotte, NC

Q

':.t T.
V 3
I‘ 2 ,...l- :2 -“N
 ‘I ‘ “c
w«_/ ‘~./’va..“\..,»’ an 44.. 

    

“Yes. I think it’s a great opportunity to
bring together all the sororities and get
the message out that sororities are fun.”

—Hillary Bryant ’0l

  

“I love it because it’s naaaaaaash.”

—Sophie Lambrou ’0l

     

lieah, shwing clueless freshmen
boys my ‘cool blacklight’ is
deﬁnitely one of the biggest perks.”

—Vanessa Chen ’0l

‘seems like the ultimate irony: making the restriction of a
basic right to expression an offense against the very docu-
ment that grants that right.

People justify the existence, of a ﬂag-

“The ﬂag is a symbol of our country.”
Well, let’s think about that for a second.
What ideals does that embody? I believe
our country was founded on the beliefthat “life, liberty
and the pursuit of happiness” are inherent to us as hu-
mans. So thejustiﬁcation for this amendment is that by

restricting our right to expression, we’re protecting a sym-

bol of our rights? Hmm. That’s interesting.

This principle of freedom of expression can be taken a
step further. In my opinion, the right to freedom of ex-
pression includesthe right to express yourself through
your choice of clothing. So along this rationale, forcing
public school students to wear uniforms is a prime viola-
tion ofthis principle.

Last year, my school system made unifomls manda-
tory. The reasoning supplied by the school board where
I’m from was that uniforms would prevent gang violence

based on what
C C people were wear-
ing, and would
make the schools
safer. I’m sorry,
but if they think
that changing the
9 7 dress code will au-
tomatically stop
school violence,
they’re more naive than I thought. In fact, the uniform
policy seemed to exacerbate the problem in many schools.
The solution to problems like school violence starts so
far removed from what the students are wearing, but that’s
another rant. Sufﬁce it to say that, besides being like
putting a Band-Aid on an artery wound, uniforms restrict
students’ basic right to expression through their style of
dress. They may be kids, but they have rights under the
Constitution just like lawmakers.

Society today is full of challenges to our basic civil
liberties. It seems our rights are threatened every day by
our lawmakers. It seems that the very people we’ve en-
trusted to protect our rights have lost sight of their pur-
pose. Ifthis trend continues, we may ﬁnd ourselves in a
position where even the right to do something like this
has been severely limited. Just remember that no matter
what happens, we have the right to express ourselves, and
any challenge to that is a sinister thing indeed.

 

Above all, freedom
is the most important
thing.

 

Do you lik§_liing igthe Delt use? _

3- as I  .
“Yeah, because my
roommate’s so damn cool.”

—Amy Calce ’0l
(roommate: Vanessa Chen)

burning amendment by saying things like, ,

    

  uote of the week:

Not to compare this
school to Hitler, but he
always said that if you
want people to believe
a lie, all you have to do

is make it big.

—— Jeremy Hile-Hoffer on his belief
that W&L isn’t really 250 years old

@112 ilting-tum lﬁlli

Executive Editor: Tarah Grant
Hollister Hovey
Copy Editors Sarah Meldrum
Meredith Mlynar
News Editors Polly Doig
John Stewart
w&Iife Editors Ginger Phillips

Erica Prosser
Stephen Pcsce
Frances Groberg
Brendan Harrington
Kevin McManemin

Opinion & Editorial Editor
Sports Editors

Last Word Editor

Photo Editor Mike Crittenden
Christie Phillips
Online Editor Tom Wadlow

Layout Assistant Stephanie Bianco

John Costello
Jason Williams

Advertising Manager
Managing Editor

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington. VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor and Business Manager, but
The Ring—Ium Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in
the Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University Center, by
noon on Saturday to appear in that week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for
content and length. Letters. columns and “Talkback” do
not reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial
Board. Advertising does not reflect the opinions of The
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

JAMES G. Lsvnueu l_laRAFtV
WASli|:lG::'O[\rl £1‘ LEE LE‘-lli/_EFlSlTY
L IT“ 30

208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington. VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wIu.edu

 1998

J}

it

 

F

5

1-

 

SEPTEMBER 28, 1998

&L1EE

PAGE 3

Class of 1999

Prepares for

Life Beyond the Colonnade

by Ginger Phillips

F EA TURES EDITOR

For most of us, September 10 signiﬁed the beginning
of another academic year here at Washington and Lee
University. For others, however, thatdate meant the be-
ginning of their last year here among the white columns
and green grass.

These students are the Class of 1999, the last graduat-
ing class of this millenium and the one lucky enough to
receive those special 250"‘ anniversary class rings. De-
spite its unique characteristics, this year’s W&L se-
nior class must face some of the same challenges as
generations of other seniors.

The mere fact of being part of the next graduating class
has numerous and often frightening implications. This
means no more of the security that college life provides.
It’s almost time to step into the real world and to apply
all of that knowledge that you’ve been saving up for
the last four years.

“it’s just generally strange to be a ‘senior’ all of a
sudden. Everyone here is either in my class or younger
than me. I’m supposed to be the old, jaded, wise one
now,” senior Cliff Woolley said. “I suppose that in a way
I am, but still, the word ‘senior’ just has a ring of ﬁnality
to it.”

Seniors have to deal with the sometimes stressful tasks
of ﬁnding ajob, getting into graduate school, ﬁnding a
new place to live and separating from and leaving behind
[many of their W&L friends. These objectives seem to be
daunting and even overwhelming, but every senior must

make decisions like these. Surprisingly, many seniors are '

taking their post—graduation worries in stride.

“I have no worries. I just thank God that it all works
out,” senior Nadiyah Howard said. “I usually get really
worked up about things until I remember I have very little
control over them ultimately, so I leave them to God and it
all works out.”

Most seniors have speciﬁc goals that they would like
to achieve after graduation, whether they are to continue
their education, to establish themselves in an occupation
or to get married and settle down. Whatever their goals
may be, seniors must carefully plan the steps that they
take this year to make those dreams become realities.

As everyone who survived the college application pro-
cess knows; applying for anything takes a lot of time and

' effort. Many graduate school applications also require

)-

1

Q

general entrance exam test scores. Take a huge leap past
the SAT and the ACT, and you ﬁnd the LSAT, the MCAT,
and the GRE. Often these exams are graded on a curve, so
senior test takers must not only worry about their own
scores, but those of everyone else too.

While applying to grad school is a tough process, ac-
tualiy convincing someone to pay you - and pay you well
- for the wide array of talents that you learned at W&L
may be even harder. To the pleasure of the faculty and
administration, however, many graduating students
feel well-prepared to face that challenge.

“Life here is deﬁnitely sheltered,” Woolley said, “but
it’s a good education in a good community, so I’d say that
it has prepared me well.”

_ 4-itie Phlli/o o E n}
The Red House is the meeting place of the
University Scholars. One perk of the pro- .

gram is the use of the Red House for
studying, meeting, cooking or just relaxing.

 Amateurrphotographerslit  
  G0tIan.amazing“orfunny   
- photothatneedstobe.r-   
-:   A .S.hared?.  H . M L, 1.,
[3 .Submit it to «theRing-tuimj Phi, '
 hotofof the Week” Contest!” '
 ".Yo_un*light.see it on the ifrontr _
 _,,g.',,,.'pa,g,e! Contact The Phi at - ’

  

 462-4060 for more'iqnf,o.. _

Others, like Howard, have a slightly different opinion.

“I guess the Poverty Program did prepare me for the real‘

world, and there have been others that gave me a glimpse
of it,” she said. “I could not honestly say, however, that my
total experience at W&L was one that prepared me for the
real world.”

Making a career decision is a huge responsibility, so
it is important to make theright choice. Some seniors
know exactly what they want to do when they gradu-
ate, and others want to take a little time off to decide
where they want to go on the occupational highway.

“I plan to take a few years off before going to grad
school. During that time I plan to go to N-Street Village to
work,” Howard said. “I really enjoyed working there last
summer, and if all my prayers are answered I’ll be able to
return for a couple of years until I ﬁgure out what I want to
focus on in grad school.”

Woolley hopes to find a temporary job in the Lexington
area for the year after graduation.

“I will probably get a job here in Lexington or down in
Roanoke, as my fiance Holly is a year behind me,” he said.
“I’m very interested in multimedia and television, so I might
try for a job at a TV station in Roanoke if I don’t ﬁnd
anything in town.”

Whatever their worries about the future, the seniors
can rely on a multitude of faculty and career development
coordinators to help them throughout their senior year. As
they prepare to be successful in the so-called real world,
the Class of 1999 will leave its imprint on the University, and
they will take a piece of the University with them as they
strive towards success and happiness in the future.

Top
10
LOCATIONS

The Class of 1999 is preparing to join
the ranks of W&L alumni. Here is a
look at the most popular professions
among preceding generations of
graduates and where they chose to
live after Lexington.
—Data was compiled from Alumni
Association membership records.

T 01>
10
OCCUPATIONS

See a Natural Wonder Near Lex

Staying on campus on the weekends may be fine, but
getting away and having fun can be much better. So here ’s a
guide to interesting destinations no more than ’a few hours
away from good old Lex. This week: We ’re of to Natural Bridge.

Just a stone’s throw south of Lex-
ington is one of the Seven Natural
Wonders of the World: Natural Bridge.
This natural wonder has been a tour-
ist draw for centuries, as the hype
around the stone formation will indi-
cate. But this source of local pride
might be worth a visit if you have
some free time and want to spend it
learning new things in a local setting.

Historically, the bridge itself has had
a colorful existence. Native Americans
saw it as sacred, while George Wash-
ington (yes, of Washington and Lee
fame) sun/eyed it. Thomas Jefferson
owned the property at one time, as well.

Today, the area has been modem-
ized with a wax museum and factory tour, a gift shop, an inn
and conference center, outdoor shows and trails for hiking
buffs. Visitors can also tour the caverns, where the tempera-
ture is a constant 54 degrees Fahrenheit. At night, the com-
plex features “The Drama of Creation,” a light and sound

 

show depicting the creation of the world.

“It was a really interesting show, and the lights were
amazing,” said senior Bill Overbaugh. “It was nice to see
how the story of Genesis related to the whole experience.”

A word to the wise about the wax mu-
seum: wax ﬁgures are one thing. If you
take the factory tour, though, you might
learn more about wax people than you
cared to know. The tour features dem-
onstrations on casting and molding
heads, trimming the wax ﬂesh, assembling

A tour of this facility is included free with
the cost of the wax museum ticket.

And speaking of cost, here are the
rates for Natural Bridge attractions. The
best value is the package, which includes
tickets to all the attractions and costs $15
for adults and $7.50 for children. If you
want to see just one attraction, each one
is individually priced at $8 for adults.

To get to Natural Bridge, you can take Route 11 south
until you see the signs, or you can take Interstate 81 south
to exits 180 or 175 and follow the signs. For more informa-

tion or reservations, call 1-800-533-1410.
—— compiled from staﬂ reports

Pennsylvania

North Carolina
7.2%

New York
7.9%

the characters and implanting theleyes.‘

New Jersey
California 43%
5.5% ‘

_5.7%

 

1

Georgia
84%

Florida
8.8%

Accounting _
3.4% Engineers

Insurance 25%
4.0%
Arts

4.2% ‘\

Journalism
4.7%

Real Estate

5.3%

Physicians
7.9% ‘

Education
9.0%

 

In celebration of Washington
and Lee University ’s
bicenquinquagenaty, the 250"’
Nostalgia sub-committee will
attempt to educate the university

storied past. Throughout the year,

Bicenquinquagenary Bulletin,
some of them serious and some of
them, well. . . not so serious. So

Before the age of Homecoming
banners, W&L actually used to

the 1950s, the annual Homecom-
ing festivities were highlighted
by a late night torch parade
through the streets of Lexington
in which the students were
required to wear their pajamas.

University Scholars Are Out There  Everywhere

by Erica Prosser
F EA TURES EDITOR

You may not notice them, but they’re there. They
look just like everyone else. Maybe one of them is the
woman who sits next to you in chemistry. Maybe that guy
you just walked past on the Colonnade is one. They may
not be obvious, but they’re everywhere.

They are the University Scholars.

Okay, so it isn’t as glamorous an organization as the
CIA. But the University Scholars program is one of the
most interesting and least under-
stood opportunities at Washing-
ton and Lee University.

Just what is this program? , 
How does one join? What does it »  )
entail? And what does the future  ‘ :,,¥,,,_(v
hold for the University Scholars  t  «-«ab
organization? lire“ ‘ “ M“

University Scholars is a pro-  
gram designed by the faculty to
challenge further and interact with students. Junior Roshni
Nirody, the group’s president, suggested that the strength
of the program lies in the academic possibilities it pro-
vides students.

“I think it is important that motivated students realize
that the program can provide them with the opportunity
to explore their education from a different perspective,”
she said. “Essentially, the program allows students to cre-
ate their own courses, pursue independent work and have
more interaction with professors.” S

The requirements for graduating as a University
Scholar are simple: maintain a 3.25 GPA and complete three
seminars, a reading course and an honors thesis. The fall
seminar is on a social science topic, the winter seminar is
on natural science and the spring class covers the hu-
manities. (And no fair taking three natural science classes
in a row; Scholars must take one of each of the seminars.)
So at ﬁrst glance, the program seems to be an opportunity
to do more work. But there’s more to the University Schol-
ars program than can immediately be seen.

The seminars cover an interdepartmental range of top-
ics; some past examples of classes include “The evolu-
tion of evolution,” “Botany for Poets” and “Dante and
Machiavelli: Giants of the Renaissance.” In their spare

time, Scholars host the State of the Discipline lectures and
other guest speakers each year. The Red House, the home
of the East Asian Studies program, also houses the fully-
equipped University Scholars area in which members of
the group can study, hold meetings or cook. And this year,
the Scholars plan to become even more visible with a news-
letter, a wider range of class offerings and a varied array of
visiting speakers.

Junior Meredith Welch, a Scholar, applied to the pro-
gram because of what it offered.

“I was intrigued by the idea of getting to take very
specialized seminars with other students who really wanted
to be there,” she said.

Her sentiments were echoed by junior Lance Clack,
another Scholar.

“I thought it would be a good opportunity to take
really good classes in areas where I didn’t know very
much, and thereby further myself intellectually,” he said.

Continuing practically, he said, “I also thought it would A

look good when I applied to grad school.”

Who teaches the seminars? W&L faculty members,

of course. Scholars can approach professors with ideas,
or professors can suggest topics. Mike Smitka, associate
professor of economics, is teaching the current social sci-
ence seminar, a class that focuses on industrial revolutions.
He has taught one Scholars class before, and although the

classes mean more work forhirn, he thinksthe work is worth it.
“[The University Scholars classes] are the most in-
tense teaching experience I’ve had here,” he said. “Part
may be that students are there because they want to be.
But they also take it seriously, and enjoy thrashing out
ideas.” The ideas that the students put forth make Smitka

-think, as well.

“I learn a lot from the discussions,” he said.

What do the scholars like most about the program?
Welch and Clack both said that the challenge and diver-
sity of the classes and discussions are favorites. Nirody
elaborated on their choices.

“To my knowledge, there is no other organization on
campus which allows students the amount-of intellectual
freedom that University Scholars does,” she said. “Stu-
dents can take interesting classes and get credit for leam-
ing tai chi, having an informal discussion about aesthet-
ics, or arguing about the economic implications in the ﬁlm
‘Mary Poppins.”

So we know it’s a great organization, full of opportu-

. than six can be sophomores. Every program has some lee- _;

nity. From 1984 to 1996, 143 students have graduated as
University Scholars. So why has the group gone so unno-
ticed for so long?

“Apathy,” Welch said. “Though I think we have it in
a much smaller dose [than the rest of W&L], it is present.”

Nirody offered a slightly more forgiving explanation
for the group’s relative silence.

“Because the nature of the [organization] in the past
has primarily centered upon the academic features of the
program, visibility was not really an issue,” she said. ‘‘In
the last few years, Scholars have become much more ac-
tive and the quality of the program has improved.”

And the program will continue to improve. Many
Scholars have answered the call to get more involved in
the program and make the group more visible. Clack is
putting out the newsletter, while other Scholars are orga-
nizing lectures, luncheons, interviews and class sugges-

_ tions. Several members expressed hope for the future of

the program.

“I believe that with the proper leadership we will con-
tinue to add new and more interesting seminars and ﬁeld
trip opportunities,” Welch said.

Clack agreed. ‘‘I hope that the program will continue
to provide challenging interdisciplinary classes and as-
sume a role of intellectual leadership on campus,” he said.

So how does one join this promising group? Wéll,
getting into the program may_ be tough. Freshmen and
sophomores with outstanding academic records at W&L
are invited to apply in January. The group isn’tjust “smart
people,” though; invited students then go through a rig-
orous application process involving a personal statement,
letters of recommendation from faculty and interviews with

bothfaculty and Scholar committees. The object of the i3

search is to ﬁnd thoughtful people who will speak up and L"
offer new ideas in discussions without dominating the group. j
Of the 18 students chosen in this process, no more ..

way, though, and this one is no exception. Juniors who have "
completed two of the University Scholar courses with a B+

a

majority of Scholars enter the group as freshmen. ’*

Still have questions about University Scholars? Con-
tact the group’s faculty advisor, Professor John Lambeth, *

1

at ext. 8814, or contact Nirody. Or just ask that person in I’
class beside you. You never know; he or she might be a if
Scholar. r:t

 

about Washington and Lee 's 3

weekly facts will appear in the 
without ﬁtrther ado, ﬁll! fact #1 . "

have parades . . . real parades. In -.

- ..~.«-.eres»...;-s-svs....-.»7.-sz.....\x:..»..v....-r;s....;w_..-.~.. .- -. .-  — 

’.—.s.\-53.’.-‘_ -_.-..-.v~..-.-e.'.'.¢ -:»:..o-x... .

e.-’A,-_.-._-.-.y..v -‘-my .-  -;  .

x

or better in both may be considered for the program. Still, the 

1.

$5353.

 

PAGE 4

SPORTS

SEPTEMBER 28, 1998

Generals Score
First on the Road

Players sidelined with injuries last
season come up big as team puts
their first in win column 21-20

by Brendan Harrington
SPORTS EDITOR

The Generals broke into the win
column in dramatic fashion on Satur-
day aftemoon in Danville, Kentucky
as they knocked off Centre College 21-
20 in athrilliiig come-from-behind vic-
tory. Senior wide Receiver Chas
Chastain caught a 7-yard touchdown
pass from junior quarterback Christian
Batcheller with 3 :36 remaining in the
game to give the Generals their first
win of the season.

“It’s such a relief,” Batchellor said
following the victory. “Starting off0-
2 was really disappointing, but last
year we started 0-4. To get that first
win earlier this year is really nice.”

When Washington and Lee took
on Centre College last season,
Chastain was watching from the side-
lines wondering if he would ever be
able to play football again.

The previous week, he had tom the
Anterior Cruciate Ligament (ACL) in
his knee for the second time in his ca-
reer during a 34-20 loss to Guilford.
But now, one year later, Chastain is
back out on the ﬁeld, and on Saturday
afternoon he came up with the crucial
game winning touchdown.

“It’s obviously nice to have him
back out there,” Head Coach Frank
Miriello said. “He’s a big play guy
and we really missed that last year.”

Sophomore running back Marc
Watson was also watching from the side-
lines a year ago after he injured his knee
in a preseason scrimmage. But like
Chastain, Watson played a crucial role
on Saturday, rushing 19 times for ll 1
yards and one touchdown.

“Marc gets more and more conﬁ-
dence every time he touches the ball,”
Miriello said. “We knew it wouldjust
be a matter of time before he broke out
this year.”

“Chas and I have both worked re-
ally hard,” Watson commented. “To
be back out there and to help get this
ﬁrst win — it’s the greatest feeling in
the world.”

In the two losses prior to Saturday’s
victory, the Generals had problems
holding onto the football and were
giving it up more than they were tak-
ing it away. But that was not the case
against Centre, as the Generals forced
six Colonel turnovers (three fumbles,
three interceptions) and suffered only
one turnover.

“The defense came up with some
big plays in the red zone,” Miriello
said. “The defense has looked better
and better each game.”

The Generals looked like they were
in trouble early on after the Colonels
took an early 7-0 lead on a 47-yard
touchdown run by quarterback Drew
Mildren just 58 seconds into the game.
The Generals held their ground and
eventually tied the score 7-7 after
Watson ran it in from ﬁve yards out
with 2:02 left in the first quarter.

The only scoring in the second
quarter was a 29-yard ﬁeld goal by
Chris Ward which gave the Colonels a

10-7 lead. It looked as though the C010-
nels would score a touchdown right
before halftime as they had it first and
goal, but senior John McAllister
stripped the ball from Colonels run-
ning back Kevin Chapman, and sopho-
more Andy Robinson recovered the
fumble on the Generals one-yard line.

In the third quarter, Centre scored
a touchdown on their ﬁrst possession
by running the ball in from the two-
yard line to give the Colonels a 17-7
lead with 1 1 : 1 1 left in the third quarter.

The Generals struck back less
than a minute later, as Batcheller
threw a 52-yard touchdown pass to
senior tight end David Ritchey to
make the score 17-14. Ward added
another 29-yard field goal for Cen-
tre with 1:59 left in the third to make
the score 20-14 going into the final
quarter.

The Generals dominated the time of
possession category in the final quar-
ter, holding the ball for 13 of the ﬁnal 17
minutes of the game.

“It was a great victory but we can
play better,” said Miriello. “The best
is yet to come.”

Riding Team Jumps.-

   
  

B riding   ﬁnished second
if rall ’ as awarded the Re-
’ serve Chanipionsmp Trophy. W&L

competed’ against 14 (teams to earn ,

the award, and was onlyatwo points
behind defending .1998 lHSA’Na-
tional Champions Hollins‘. K’ ,
Thirty-five” students’ currently
compete on the team. I V ‘A 4
The team’s next competition

 
 
  
 

  
  
 

T — f willbethis simday atVirg

  

. in.niaT°°h ‘
',startingatl1:00a.m. ‘ V ' .

Hollister Hovey/Executive Editor

Members of the W&L and Radford rugby teams launch themselves and their
teammates skyward on Saturday in attempts to get possession of the ball.

V-ball Improves
in Maryville

by Steele Cooper

STAFF WRITER

The Generals took to the road this week on the heels of
a tremendous winning streak. Friday and Saturday Wash-
ington and Lee played in the round robin Maryville Col-
lege Invitational and posted an impressive 3-1 record for
the weekend. This brought their overall record to 1 1-2.

Friday, W&L added Westminster (3-2) and Eastern
Mennonite University (3-1) to their growing list of de-
feated opponents.

These were both big wins for the Generals.
Westminster is regionally ranked, and Eastern Menno-
nite is currently ranked first in the Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference. W&L is second in ODAC rankings to
EMU, so these wins show promise for a repeat ofthe
Generals’ championship last year.

Senior Megan Snodgrass suffered a sprained ankle
early in the tournament on Friday during the match against
Eastern Mennonite. This loss for the weekend meant a
shift in the lineup for the Generals.

“Everyone picked it up and adjusted really well,”
Snodrass said, who hopes to be ready for the match at
home on Thursday against Bridgewater.

The Generals’ second loss of the season came on Sat-
urday to Thomas Moore (2-3). Thomas Moore went un-
defeated for the tournament with consistent play and a
strong attack.

“We weren’t as intense as we were the day before,”
said Freshman Ricka Hildebrand. “They attacked everyl
thing.” Saturday also brought an easy win over the host
team Maryville (3-1).

On Wednesday, W&L travelled to Randolph—Macon
Women’s College and garnered yet another easy win (3-0).
Once again, the Generals proved strong. “The Randolph-
Macon game gave us no trouble. It was deﬁnitely a good
easy win,” freshman Lee Charbonet said.

W&L will be back in the Warner Center on Tuesday for
their 6:30 match against rival Bridgewater College.
Snodgrass’s return and the home court advantage will all
be working in the Generals’ favor. “We still have a lot of
matches,” Snodgrass said, “but we feel conﬁdent that we
can beat the ODAC teams.”

Women’s Soccer Record Anther Suto  

by Frances Groberg

SPORTS EDITOR

The Generals have started the sea-
son off just about perfectly. Not only
are there no numbers in the team’s
“loss” category, but there’s another
zero in the “goals against” category.
This fact did not change on Sunday,
as the team steamrolled Greensboro
College l0-0.

“We lost our sweeper from last
year, so it was really important to us
that the defense step up,” sophomore
goalie Lauren Harris said. “We
haven’t really been challenged yet as
a defense, but we’re working hard, and
our organization is improving.”

Senior forward Karin Treese
posted her second hat trick of the sea-
son with three goals as well as an as-
sist, and freshman forward Lauren
Wendell scored the ﬁrst two goals of
her career.

This game marked the second in the
season in which Washington and Lee
netted double—ﬁgure goals. Seven dif-
ferent players scored for the Generals
and three others had assists in the rout.

Averaging 7.5 goals per game,
the offense has certainly proved it-

Hollister llovey/Executive Editor

Senior Lauren Francis passes the ball to junior Carly Nasca in the club ﬁeld hockey game
against UVA on Saturday. The Generals were defeated 5-2 and will travel to Lynchburg today.

selfmenacing. The team’s defense,
however, has also proved nearly
unfallible behind key players like jun-
ior Deirdre Coyle and senior Nicole
Johnson. W&L’s goalkeepers, Har-
ris and junior Stephanie McKnight
have been key factors in the team’s
winning equation.

What stands out amongst the sta-
tistics for the Generals is the fact that
the defense has the ability to produce
offensively as well. In the Greensboro
game alone, two defenders, Johnson
and sophomore Samantha Garbisch
added an assist and a goal, respec-
tively, to the effort.

“Our teamwork has continued to im-
prove,” Harris asserted. “Our organi-
zation is coming together, but we still
have a long way to go.”

Other goals were netted by junior for-
ward Ginny Jernigan, sophomore
midﬁelder Margaret Hunter-Tumer,

sophomore forward Amanda
McDermott, and sophomore midﬁelder
Courtney Nolan.

The team will travel to Sweet Briar
College on Thursday afternoon to meet
the Vixens at 4:30. “We’re hoping for a
good, fast-paced game,” Harris said.
“Every ODAC game means a lot.”

Christie Phillips/Photo Editor

Junior forward Ginny Jernigan dribbles circles around a player
from Greensboro College on Sunday. The Generals won 10-0.

4
,N

Men’s Soccer Back on the Ball '

by Tod Williams

STA FF WRITER

What a difference a week makes. One week ago, the
men’s soccer team failed to score and gave up three goals
to the Virginia Wesleyan Marlins. In their two games this
week, the Generals gave up only one goal and hit the back
of the net themselves ﬁve times, coming away with a tie
and a win for the week.

The Generals hit the road on Saturday, this time travel-
ing to Goucher College in Baltimore, MD. This trip proved
to be fruitful for the Generals, who posted their largest scor-
ing total ofthe year as the Generals improved to 2-1-1.

Senior forward Sam Chase’s scored ﬁrst, less than two
minutes into the contest. Senior Mikel Parker kept the trend
going, scoring in the 13th minute and again less than four
minutes later.

Sophomore midﬁelder Scott Lofranco scored in the 39th
minute, giving the General’s a 4-0 lead. Chase finished the
day’s goal—scoring phenomenon in the 5 1 st minute from 20
yards out.

Chase attributed the Generals’ potent offensive attack
to a larger ﬁeld, “which let us spread them out a lot more.”

“I was glad to see Jamie [Parker] got [a goal],” Chase
said. “We’re going to need him throughout the season."

Gopher Head Coach Troy Snyder said he chalked W&L’s
first four goals up to his team’s sub-par performance. “I
knew [W&L] had a nice senior up front, but our defense

was really just lackluster. We really could’ve prevented
[the ﬁrst four goals].”

In front of the net, W&L senior goalkeeper E. J. Murphy
did not post a save or allow a goal in the game’s ﬁrst half.
Sophomore Jordan Ginsburg took over for Murphy in the
second half, recording one save and letting in one Gopher
goal offofa penalty kick at 60:56.

Thursday, the Generals narrowly missed a chance for
their ﬁrst conference win, coming away with a 0-0 tie on
their trip to Emory & Henry College.

The Wasps, l-5-l on the year, gave the Generals their
ﬁrst no-decision since 1994, sending the Generals to 1- l -l
on the year and still without a conference win. Although
W&L outshot the Wasps 19- 1 0, E&H still managed to keep
the Generals out ofthe net.

During the last ﬁve seconds of the game, W&L had
two chances to get on the scoreboard, but the E&H goal-
keeper saved both shots. On the other end of the ﬁeld,
W&L senior goalkeeper E.J. Murphy had four saves in
the contest.

Chase called Thursday’s matchup an “interesting game.”

“The ﬁeld was small and there were a lot of fouls,” Chase
said. “It wasjust one ofthose games where the ball didn’t
fall in the net."

The Generals’ will travel to Harrisonburg on Wednes-
day to face ODAC opponent Eastern Mennonite at 4:00.
Chase said ofthe pending contest, “we need a confer-
ence win.”

P

7

 

i « N2lIn€S.:s>

_l

Jr

4

Q.

'4.

ll.

 

.1

\
l\

1

$.

t.

.4.

 

SEPTEMBER 28, 1998

PAGE 5

‘-3 ‘I  Washington and Lee
Jl\a."  \  .4  University has announced

‘ I ' l l the appointmentof 25 new
teachers to its under-
graduate faculty, includ-
ing four tenure-track ap-
pointments.

TENURE TRACK APPOINTMENTS
DENNIS GARVIS, ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF MANAGEMENT ‘

Garvis earned his bachelor's and law degrees from the University of Iowa and
is currently completing a Ph.D. from Georgia State University. His ﬁeld of spe-
cialization is strategic management. He has taught as an instructor at the Univer-
sity of Missouri—KanSas City and Georgia State University.

ELIzABETH KNAPP, ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF GEOLOGY

Knapp is a 1990 graduate of W&L and received her Ph.D. in environmental
sciences from the University of Virginia in 1997. She was a visiting assistant
professor at W&L last year and her teaching interests are in geochemistry and
hydrogeology.

ROBIN LEBLANC, ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF POLITICS

LeBlanc earned a bachelor's in English with a minor in political science from
Berry College in 1988 and her Ph.D. in political science from the University of
Oklahoma in 1994. Her ﬁelds of specialization are comparative politics/Japan,
American politics/Congress and political theory. She served as an assistant pro-
fessor for four years at Oglethorpe University.

MATTHEW TUCHLER, ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF CHEMISTRY

Tuchler eamed his bachelor's from Haverford College, his master's from the
University of Chicago and his doctorate from the University of Illinois. Since
1995, Tuchler had served as a postdoctoral research assistant at the University of
Southern California. He has also taught as a graduate fellow at the University of
Illinois.

ADDITIONAL APPOINTMENTS

JOHNNY BASSO, ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF BIOLOGY

Basso received his bachelor's, master's and a doctorate in chemistry and bio-
chemistry from Concordia University. He has also taught at Concordia and held
a postdoctoral fellowship at Eastern Virginia Medical School in the department
of microbiology and immunology.
ASHER BIEMANN, INSTUCTOR OF RELIGION

Biemann earned his master's in philosophy from Karl-Franzens-Universitat in
Graz, Austria and is working towards a Ph.D. at the same institution.

JAMES CASEY, ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF ECONOMICS (VISITING)

Casey is a 1991 graduate of W&L and earned a master's in agricultural and
resource economics from North Carolina State University in 1994. He is cur-
rently working on his doctorate in forest economics and policy at N.C. State.
KHAMLA DHOUTI, INSTRUCTOR OF ROMANCE LANGUAGES (VISITING)

Dhouti is a 1991 graduate of W&L. She earned a master's from Middlebury
College and is completing her dissertation as a Ph.D. candidate at the University
of TexaS—Austin. V
SYMEON GIANNAKOS, ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR OF POLITICS (VISITING)

Giannakos is part ofa faculty exchange with the American University in
Bulgaria. He earned his bachelor's from Plymouth State University and his
master's and doctorate degrees in foreign affairs from the University of Vir-
ginia. His area of expertise is international relations.

ALAN GRANDA, PROFESSOR OF BIOLOGY (VISITING)

Granda is a Senior Humboldt Fellow at the University of Delaware. He is
teaching a special course in neuroscience titled "The Biology ofViSion" this fall.
JEFFREY HASS, ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF ANTHROPOLOGY/SOCIOLOGY

Hass earned his bachelor's in chemistry from Harvard in 1989 and his master's
in sociology from Princeton in 1993. He is currently a Ph.D. candidate at Princeton.
Hass Served as a teaching assistant at Princeton and has also taught at Duquesne
University and the University of Pittsburgh.

DONNA KOROL, ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF PSYCHOLOGY (VISITING)

Korol earned her bachelor's degree from the University of Wisconsin in 1983
and a Ph. D. in 1991 in neuroscience from the University of Virginia, where she
has most recently Served as a research associate.

MICHAEL KULIKOWSKI, ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF HISTORY

Kulikowski received his bachelor's in history from Rutgers University in 1991
and his master's and doctorate degrees in medieval Studies from the University of
Toronto. His area of special interest is the Middle Ages.

HUN LYE, INSTRUCTOR OF RELIGION

Lye received his bachelor's degree from Allegheny College in 1993 and is
presently a Ph.D. candidate at the University of Virginia. His area of special
interest is East Asian Buddhism.

EUGENE MCCABE, ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION

McCabe received his bachelor's degree from Bates College in 1995. He will
Serve as an assistant coach in football and men's lacrosse in addition to his teach-
ing assignment in physical education.

VERONIQUE MCNELLY, ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF ROMANCE LANGUAGES

McNelly earned her bachelor's and InaSter's in French literature at the Uni-
versity of Virginia and is currently a candidate for a Ph.D. from Virginia. Her
specialty is the French literature of West Africa and the Caribbean.

PULITZER WINNER READS POETRY

Henry Taylor, 1986 winner of the Pulitzer
Prize for “The Flying Change,” will give a
poetry reading in Northen Auditorium 7 p.m.
on Oct. 5. Taylor's visit is sponsored by the
Glasgow Endowment Program at W&L.

His books of poems include “The Horse
Show at Midnight,” “An Afternoon of Pocket
Billiards,” “The Flying Change” and “Under-
Standing Fiction: Poems, 1986- 1 996.” He has
published three other books and his transla-
tion of Sophocles’ “Electra” appeared last
spring in the Penn Greek Drama Series. Taylor
recieved a 1998 Individual Artist Fellowship
fron‘t the Virginia Commission for the Arts.

Rod Smith, editor of the University's liter-
ary magazine “Shenandoah,” describes Tay-
lor as, “A spectacular reader who connects
with any audience on an electric level.”

ANTHROPOLOGY HOSTS OPEN HOUSE

AS part of Virginia Archaeology Month,
the laboratory of anthropology at W&L will
hold an open house on Oct. 10 from 10 a.m.
until 4 pm. The public is invited to the labo-
ratory for the formal opening of new exhibits
at the archaeology museum and interpretive
tours of the historical Liberty Hall area.

The laboratory is located near W&L'S ath-
letic ﬁelds off of Route 60 West in the red
brick farmhouse.

Guided interpretive tours of the ruins of the
Liberty Hall academic building and historic
campus area will be conducted and brochures
will be available for Self-guided tours. The lo-
cations of buildings associated with the carn-
pus that are no longer Standing will be marked
so the public can See the extent of the campus.

STUDENTS ATTEND CONFERENCE ON ABUSE

Five W&L students will attend the Virginia
Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control's
13th annual conference on Oct. 8-10 in Nor-
folk, Va. Faculty, students, campus police and
administrators from colleges and universities
across Virginia will work together to create
solutions for preventing underage and binge
drinking on their campuses.

The W&L student leaders attending are
Greta Richter, Student Judicial Council chair;
Patrick McCorrnack, Student Judicial Coun-
cil secretary; Sara McCrone, Panhellenic
Council president; Mikel Parker, Interfrater-
nity Council president and Gregg Genetti, In-
terfratemity Council vice president.

Solution to crossword puzzle on page 8.

You know you're more than a piece of paper.
You're bursting with ideas and insights that can
change the world of business. And at Andersen

As a leading global management and
technology consulting organization, we bring our
insights and ideas to world—class clients to help

_n__IJ_g_:: PBIED TEAR
AtI1'LAn§EoLIO
SEPARATION .19“;
HJSTA_§_ES nu TER
SUD PUB: Consultingwewantthem.
BETTEE HALGIJJ N
’lEAD FENCE PIE
n HG PLATE cEg_§_
Al|’1' PIEBS cAnEI)
GEslrunEs CANAHY
EBCAT LED
STHEET EonEcAs'r
NEAT lN=VITABlE
All+I_l_S N0"ES :Lu5
PIPE snllni TERM

SUSANA NUCCETELLI, ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF PHILOSOPHY (VISITING)

Nuccetelli earned her bachelor's in philosophy and linguistics from the Na-
tional University of Rosario, Argentina. She holds doctorate degrees from
Universidad Autonoma of Madrid, the University of Murcia and City Univer-
sity of New York. Her area of Specialization is philosophy of the mind.
JAMES RAPER, ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF JOURNALISM

Raper is a 1971 graduate of the University of Richmond. For 20 years he
worked for the Virginian-Pilot in Norfolk and its sister newspaper, the Led-
ger-Slar. From 1984-1991 he was the managing editor for both newspapers.
CLIFTON ROBERTSON, INSTRUCTOR OF ROMANCE LANGUAGES

Robertson earned a B.A. in Iberian history and B.S.N. and M.A. degrees in
Spanish literature from the University of Virginia. He is presently a Ph.D.
candidate in Spanish literature from Virginia. He has taught at Virginia, the
University of Oregon and St. Mary's Academy in Almeria, Spain.

FRANK SETTLE, PROFESSOR OF CHEMISTRY

Settle earned his bachelor's degree from Emory & Henry College and his
Ph.D. from the University of Tennessee. Since 1995 he been employed by the
National Science Foundation as a program director. Settle is professor emeritus
of chemistry at Virginia Military Institute and has also taught at the US. Air
Force Academy, James Madison University and Virginia Polytechnic Institute.
DENNIS TERRY, ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF GEOLOGY (VISITING)

Terry earned his master's from Bowling Green University and his Ph.D.
from the University of Nebraska-Lincoln. He has taught at Nebraska and at
the University of Wisconsin-Oshkosh. ‘

LISA VETTER, ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF POLITICS (VISITING)

Vetter earned her bachelor's from the University of Maryland and her
master's from Fordham University. She is currently completing work toward
her Ph.D. at Fordham. Vetter has taught at Fordham and New York University
and her area of specialization is political philosophy.

TRINA WELSHEIMER, ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF BIOLOGY

Welsheimer earned her bachelor's from the University of Delaware in 1985
and her doctorate at the University of North Carolina. Welsheimer served as a
laboratory instructor in microbiology at North Carolina.

LESLIE WILLIAMS, ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF JAPANESE (VISITING)

Williams earned his master's in anthropology from Florida State in 1990,
was a Monbusho Scholar in Japan and earned his Ph.D. in cultural anthropol-
ogy from the University of Pittsburgh in 1997.

MARSHAL ZERINGUE, ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF POLITICS (VISITING)

Zeringue earned his bachelor's and master's in political science from Tulane
University and is working toward a doctorate in the department of govem-
ment and foreign affairs at the University of Virginia.

We're looking for thinkers. Notjust their diplomas.

It's all about making an impact.
Andersen Consulting Information Session—Thursday, October 8, 7:00 p.m. University Center, Room 114

powerful ideas to align strategy with
(people, processes and technology.

your future.

‘« I998 Andersen Consulting. All rights reserved. An equal opportunity employer.

them achieve profound change. After all, it takes

and expose you to a variety of projects and
industries. All of which builds a solid foundation for

Take this opportunity to talk to us about
yourself, and most importantly, your ideas.

‘Visit our Web site at www.ac.com

We'll provide ﬁrst—rate training and guidance,

Andersen
Consulting

 

 

PAGE 6

SEPTEMBER 28, 1998

l’RlNCll’l.|iS n/' S()l'Nl)

T I R Ii M ii X ’I‘ IN \' 1‘) ST I N (E

 

RECENTLY,
MORNINGSTAR CALLE
US CHEAP.  

IT’S NOT EVERY DAY
YOU GET A COMPLIMENT
LIKE THAT.  

All ﬁnancial companies charge operating fees

and expenses-—some more than others. Of ‘

course, the lower the expenses you pay, the better.
That way, more of your money goes where it
should —towards building a comfortable future.

We make low expenses at top priority.

As the largest retirement system in the
world‘ ——a nonproﬁt company focused exclu-
sively on the financial needs of the educational
and research communities —-our expenses are
among the lowest in the insurance and mutual
fund industries?

In fact, TIAA-CREF's 0.31% average fund
expenses are less than half of the expense charges
of comparable funds.’ It's why Momingstar--
one of the nations leading sources of annuity and
mutual fund information — says, "At that level
[TIAA-CREF] is cheaper than any other

[variable annuity] policy, and is even compet-
itive with the cheapest mutual fund complexes,
though it offers far more benefits.“

“TIAA-CREF sets the standard in the
ﬁnancial services industry.”

Of course, expenses are only one factor to
consider when you make an investment decision.
Morningstar also noted our commitment to
"consumer education, service" and "solid
investment performance." Because that can
make a difference in the long run, too.

At TIAA-CREE we believe people would
like to spend more in retirement, not on their
retirement company. Today, over two million
people count on that approach to help them
build a comfortable and secure future. So
can you. To find out more, call us at

I 800 842-2776. We'd consider it a compliment.

Visit us on the Internet at www.tiaa.-cref.org

Ensuring the future

for those who shape it?‘

1. Based on $256 billion in assets under managemen‘. 2. Stani}ar3 0’Pam/‘:1 /ruumnct RalI'n_qAnaIy..1IL4, I998; Lipper Analytical Services, Inc..
L4i;zzr-Di1'ectar.r'Anzz/y[i'ca/ Data 1998 (Quarterly). 3. Of the 4.829 variable annuities tracked by Morningstar, the average fund had total fees
combining annual expenses of 0.82% plus an insurance expense of 1.27%. Source: Morningstar, Inc., for periods ending 7/31/98.

4. Source: Muiningstar Principia VarI2zbkAnnuh‘ia1/Life 4/30/98.

TIAA-CREF expenses are subject to change and are not guaranteed for the future. Past performance is no guarantee of future results.
TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services distributes CREF certificates and interests in the TIAA Real Estate Account.
For more complete information. including charges and expenses, call I 800 842-2776. EXLCHSIOH 5509, for the prospectuses.
Read them carefully before you invest or send money.

ihe siudeni ociiviiies

wiih

homecoming weekend
fridciy, ociober 2, 1998 oi the povillion

Picture
yourself
here

in the Phiofﬁce, handling
accounts for real businesses
and earning commission for

ad sales
(across from the Student Activities Office).
We’ll contact you for an interview.

 

I L Keep upiwith what’s happening on the Hill. Get the university newspaper dehve ialitoly ueyery

I I  $3Q)toil\j1.anaging Editor Jason Williams, W&L University, University Ce ter,’

, wmmn:
BUSINESS Mmuistn

The Ring—tum Phi is looking for a new
business manager. If you’re thinking about
a career in public relations, advertising,
management, accounting, or you’re just
interested in a rewarding extracurricular
activity to boost your resumé, apply now:

Write an application letter to The Ring-tum
Phi Editorial Board. Tell us your
qualifications and why you want the
position. Deliver your letter to The Ring-
tum Phi mailbox in the University Center

_ ‘-«~w.u..-.«.-«-.-a.;-..-.\«.¢-:a.»..¢-/

boord presents

iho muse.meon’r

doors open: 8:30 p.m. — show starts: 9 p.m.

$8 w&| community .— $12 non—w&|

‘rickets on sale sepiember 28-October 2 oi the co—op

   
 

3.

 

K

 

The 1998 Homecoming Queen
nominees are in and they are all Wash-
ington and Lee women. The alumni as-

I,‘ sociation, Kathekon, picked a panel
from the faculty and staff to interview
the women and pick this year’s Queen.
The committee looks for a woman who
makes a great contribution to

‘it Washinton and Lee. This year’s can-
didates face interviews Friday. The
winner and her court will be crowned
during half-time of this Saturday’s foot-
‘:1 ball game against Randolph-Macon at
‘ Wilson Field.

The nominees are:
‘ CHI PSI
Amy Jo Baker ’99
Chi Omega
Escort: Chris Neilsen
A
KAPPA SIGMA
1
I

 

Cecily Audrey Reynolds ’99

Kappa Alpha Theta
A Escort: Andrew Duane
Beckler
LAMBDA CHI ALPHA
.*
A

 
 
 

A v ‘:

Elizabeth Carol Perkins ’99
‘Escort: Jeffrey Lynn Rankin

PHI DELTA THETA

*Mary Crawford McFall ’99

Kappa Kappa Gamma
Escort: Harry Maurice
Wilson
A
PHI GAMMA DELTA

A
f.

Kelly Elizabeth Stewart ’00

Escort: Jason Allyn Nichols
A

PHI KAPPA SIGMA

fﬂ

 

Cory Kristen Mettee ’99
Escort: Stephen Hall Birdsall

I.

 

PHI KAPPA PS1
I
1
Anna Berry Lowden ’99
Kappa Alpha Theta

‘ Escort: Mark Averyt

PI KAPPA PHI

    
 
 
    

Caroline Tison Simons ’99
Kappa Alpha Theta
Escort: Samuel Moore Chase

SIGMA ALPHA EPsILoN

Ashley Secrest Penkava ’99
Chi Omega
Escort: John Peyre Scurry

.E .
Elizabeth Katherine Spencer
  _,_,99  . 
Escort: Hansel] Merrill
Pasco

SIGMA N U

Suzanne Miriam Blum ’00
Pi Beta Phi
Escort: Darrick Harper
Alford

SIGMA PHI EPsILoN

 

Megan Lousie Snodgrass ’99
Escort: Michael John
Beakley

KAPPA ALPHA THETA

Amanda Jo Stallard ’99

‘Greeks Nominate
:Queen Candidates

 

Escort: John David

Sarah Elizabeth Rector ’99
Escort: Reed Calvert Kuhn

Grumbine

 

   

 

KAPPA DELTA

Enid Elizabeth Dean ’99
Escort: Matthew Adrian

KAPPA KAPPA GAMMA

Thurlow

 
    

Sarah Meier Saalfield ’99
Escort: Blake Nathaniel

Amy Kathleen Stowell ’99
Escort: Grady Walter Coker

(Beta Theta Pi and Minority Student
Association nominees not available at

press time)

PI BETA PHI

Jones

LOOKING BACK

photo cortesy of the Calyx

Kisses for a Queen. Professor of Chemistry Keith
Shillington made it his tradition to crown and kiss the
Homecoming Queen each year. Shillington kissed the
winner for 32 years until his retirement and subsequent
death in the early 1990’s. He crowned the ﬁrst Queen
from W&L, Catherine Christian ’89 in 1987.

 HOMECOMING

. V 4510‘ W
photo courtesy of Mercury Records

God Street Wine will perform Friday at the Pavillion. Doors
open at 8:30 p.m., and the show begins at 9 p.m.

W&L Celebrates
First Homecoming

Day in 1925

On Saturday, Nov. 7, 1925, thou-
sands of people stood in the rain in
standing room only space at

Wilson Field to watch the Generals
football team annihilate UVA, 12-0. The
first annual Homecoming began with a
bang.

The Alumni Magazine for October,

1925 announced the “First Official
Annual Homecoming Day.” Tickets
were $2 and the seats were reserved.
Alumni were invited to attend a meet-
ing ofthe Alumni Association, where
G.H. Denny, a former W&L president
-who later became president of the Uni-
versity of Alabama (the school accused
of stealing the “W&L Swing” and re-
naming it “The Alabama Swing”) ad-
dressed the crowd. Alumni also could
attend Saturday morning classes.

Campus accommodations had to be
made for 10,000 people. The Alumni
Magazine listed fraternity house man-
agers so the alumni could contact them
if they wanted to stay in their houses.
The railroads offered special rates from
all over the state to Lexington. Game
tickets were sold in Roanoke,
Lynchburg and Staunton. G

Local merchants were asked to keep
their stores closed during the aﬁemoon
so that everyone in town could attend
the game.

A dance was held on Saturday
night.

Many of the traditions which grew
up over the years are now gone: frater-
nity decorations, ﬁeshman parades, the
13 Club, pep rallies and the “Opening
Dance.”

On Friday night, the night before the
big game, the freshman, wearing paja-
mas, and other students would gather
in the gym for apep rally. W&L’s cheer-
leaders led the students in cheers and
athletes and coaches gave speeches. In
1955, the R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Com-
pany gave 1,000 megaphones to the stu-
dents for the pep rally.

Thirteen days before Homecoming,
the 13 Club would begin its initiation
period for 13 new

pledges from 13 different fraternities
who each paid an initiation fee of $ 1 3. l 3.
As their most

famous tradition, the pledges would
tar and feather the Cyrus McCormick
statue on the front lawn and cover the
base with number 13’s.

The drinking associated with the

Welcome
Back
Alumni !

If you have any
stories or photos
you’d like to share,
e-mail us at:

phi@wlu.edu

Homecoming game has also changed
over the years. In the 1955 Homecom-
ing issue of the Phi, the Executive
Committee stated that its policy
against public drinking would be
strictly enforced at that year’s game.
The University kept up the Home-
coming tradition over the years. 1955
is the only year they canceled the fes-
tivities.
The events occurred every year ex-
cept 1954 when the festivities were can-
celed. ~ compiled ﬁom staﬂ reports

it-=“3o.:p.m..t Haeécoming

PAGE 7

New York,

Band will

Rock

by Lora Ellison

STAFF WRITER

Many northern ears have perked
up at the mentioning of God Street

Wine as the choice for this year’s '

Homecoming band.

o

-.-. ....l:.

This New York group has a reputa- :1
tion for knocking the crowd’s socks ‘

off in concert, and there are many loyal
Washington and Lee fans that can at-
test to that.

Compared with groups such as
Phish, The Mighty Mighty Bosstones
and Ben Folds Five, God Street Wine
obviously has a somewhat diverse
sound which ranges from bluegrass
to ska, and covers many genres in be-
tween.

Their newest self-titled album fo-

cuses on the energy and spontane- -‘
ity that drives their live perfor- '

mances. Their contagious enthusi-

asm on stage as well as a knack for r

improvisation are two major
strengths which keep their fans com-

ing back for more. “They have a big -
following, mostly from the Northeast, '

but I think even the people who
haven’t heard ofthem will be pleas-
antly surprised,” Student Activities
Board President Wes Armstrong
said.

ThaMuseMeant, Friday night’s
opening band will move from the gentle
strum of the guitar to high paced thrills
of the mandolin. Originally from Santa
Fe, this group has taken its unique
sound on tour with Blues Traveler,
Dave Matthews Band, Leftover
Salmon and several others.

  
  

been on it

. . . . .. . ‘._ -_.,._._...-.n~.v.-.-x.-.._- . 3... .4 . . .4 ..... ...
.. .... -.--.. . ...-....-.-son-‘rs.n...~.-rum...-....
;.,_,-_._«,-.v.,._-.,-.,..-.-..,y.-.-cu. -.-c..-. .r. _ . an .- A

. o c.v v__v,O.-LwV..t;'.'AI‘p';¢i

.
.
0.
-.
.
.
-1
v.
'5
-.
-.
'1
H
v,
.

4 .v \

 

 

PAGE 8

Humor Page

LAST WORD  

SEPTEMBER 28, 1998

Hey buddy, Can You
Spare an Internship?

by Kevin McManemin

BLEA TING AND BABBLING

Your C-School friends have gotten
a great head start on their careers at
the Career Development and Place-
ment Office’s Meet the Players pro-
gram. Now we’re pleased to announce
that we’ve created a program for the
rest of the school:

Meet the Panhandlers

A Career Development
and Placement Office pro-
gram designed especially
for liberal arts majors.

Make valuable contacts and learn
hot hints from the professional unem-
ployed. More than 40 homeless alumni
will be on hand to answer your ques-
tions and borrow your money.

Then, branch off into the small
group seminar that best suits your in-
terests:

—Dumpsters: bedroom, pantry or
both?

—The right way and the wrong way
to mumble incoherently to yourself.

—A beginners guide to malt liquor.

—Public urination laws and you.

photo by Jana Bircliuin

A Meet the Panhandlers participant practices an important
career skill and makes the most of his English major.

 

Crossword Puzzle

ACROSS

1 Poles 4 RBI’ e‘g'

5 Snooped 5 Annoy

10 Ruler of old 6 Evaluated

14 Dismounted 7 Rambow

15 Huge 8 

16 Stew 9 Condemn openly

17 Schism 10 Threw

19 Fountain drink 1 1 Gr°°_Ve

20 Certain captives 12 Asslstant

21 Expulsion 13 Jungle sound

23 Chew the -— (mediate) 18 Ran

24 Clean 22 Prod

25 Sofa 24 Breathes heavily

29 Dangle 25 Piece ofwood to keep a
33 Beg car from moving

34 Bam-er 26 Upper class

35 Bakery item 27 Canvas shelters

36 Marriage band 28 Childrenls game

37 Dish 29 Listens to

38 Yield, as territory 30 “Aida? e‘g' _

39 Lawyer: abbn 3] More expansive

40 Docks 32 Indigent

41 was concerned 34 Group ofwarships

42 Expressive motions 37 Robbing Ships at Sea
44 Songbird 38 Container

45 Begone! V 40 Purplish color

46 was ahead 41 Military school student
47 Avenue 43 Afma" ﬂy f ",vely‘jinuch, ploudiof helit
50 Predict 44 Red gj nizer/ChouiNip-Fou.
55 Tidy 46 Adored

56 Unavoidable 47 Break

58 weapons 48 Actress Garr

59 Memoranda 49 Incline

60 Pivot 50 Greek cheese

61 Tube 5 I Hm]

62 Class 52 Competent

63 Tenure 53 Pronounce indistinctly

54 Pour
  And not

1 Im etuous . .

2 Maggargne :3 1994 T”b"”e Med” “needed to screw it back in.
3 lmmerses ervlces

tereot ’es”p’rot‘e‘stla¢k ortusigsr  . .=:={  " ~ 
Hoill  ooh’-—‘fEh, why-a is it ,there’s-a no roles
‘stereotypes-a no] more? Mama jmialg” cried 
9 Giuseppe?Dorriiriic1§_Francis(Aritigliong at the Ethw 4»
Stereotype  é,March down Hollywood Bou- r‘
Jevard today.,Tlie§tereotypes are angered by the ,
>1’ léidisturbingliglack ofjfoles for crude ethnic stereo-
gjtypes irifrnoiiernlfilrnsi‘ “Me ‘rikey’ being steleotype

A, A ~ , “When‘rriy tribe first come to Hills of Hollywood
 many moons ago there were many go§$‘d roles for
3 braves,” explains Chiefwoiks-On-Commission of the

, Redfoot tribe. “Now all roles for minorities have
jg depth,’ intelligence. Poison for us simple stereotypes.”
   lThe1n‘arch”drew together stereotypes of every

1 1‘ race and creed, except for the Irish contingent which ‘

 blew off the march to go to a pub and the Polish

2 contingent which was stalled when a light bulb

, burnediout at their headquarters and they spent

‘ I7 all day trying to remember how many of them were

Just listen to what previous Meet
the Panhandlers participants have to
say:

“I interned in an alley a few blocks
away from Wall Street this summer and
it was great. Everyone was so friendly,
they onlyjumped me twice!”

Matt, class of ' 93

“When I graduated W&L with a
double major in philosophy and Me-
dieval and Renaissance studies, it sure
looked like it was back to living with
my parents for me. But thanks to the
contacts I made at Meet the Panhan-
dlers, now I’m living in my own tool
shed!”

Jimmy, class of '96

“My starting salary is seven dol-
lars and fifty-three cents a week. I
sleep in a refrigerator box with a fam-
ily of diseased squirrels. I’m addicted
to eight different drugs. But at least
I’m my own boss!”

Jill, class of '89

So if you’re majoring in English,
theater,joumalism, history, sociology/
anthropology, math, or any of the
other majors with little or no bearing
on the real world, come this Thurs-
day night to the dumpster behind the
D-hall and Meet the Panhandlers!
Program starts around seven-ish and
ends when the cops k.ick us out.

Tattered attire is requested.

The CDPO —— “because it’s your
own damn fault for majoring in liberal
arts.”

  
 

.   
‘moderatelypricedtotitwithin .

  

age” said march orga-

ClassiPhieds

For Sale

Lost and Found

1000 empty dip cans, make great
conversation piece and good build-
ing material, ring Bub or B0 at the
<insert name of your favorite south-
ernfraternizy> house.

Lost: freshman roommate. Left last
week for class at duPont Hall and
never came back. 6’ 1, male, brown
hair, blue eyes. Answers to “Brian.”

Found: Newcomb Hall. Found sit-
ting on Colonnade looking lost and
forlorn.

1997 BMW M coupe. Daddy just
bought me the new ’98 model so I
don’t need this ol’ clunker anymore.
Will trade for a handle of Beam or
best offer.

Lost: virginity. Last seen going into
frat party drunk. Please return.

Employment

Rockbridge County man has two
tickets to the WWF’s Summer Slam
’96. Will take a new rake or best offer.

45,755 Dead Bootlegs. No longer
needed as my stereo system is old
and the speakers have gone to pot.

Wanted

Anyone know a cure for genital
warts? Anyone? Call Rob at ext. 643.
Please hurry.

Frat needs pledges. Damn winter
rush, we have crappy jobs that need
to be done now! Tasks include
answering phones, errands to Stop-
In at all hours of day and night,
cleaning up puke and other bodily
substances after parties, occasional
self-flagellation and defecation, in-
tense manual labor and psychologi-
cal torture. Pay is nothing and you
maggots will like it that way until we
find out if you have what it takes to
be a brother.

Answers to Calculus midterm. What
the hell is a derivative? lntegr-what?
Ring Tom, Robinson Hall, R-5, third
aisle, window seat.

Date for homecoming. Please.
Anybody. I’m not a picky man.
Really. How about you? What’s
that, you’ve already got a date? Oh.
Okay. Sorry to bother you. Really,
anybody is fine. How about you
there, with the braces? What, you’ll
be out of town? Oh. Okay. I just
want to find a date for homecoming.
Oh God, why can’t I find a date for
homecoming? Well, if you change
your mind, ring Alexander at ext. 375.
Sony for wasting your time.

Editor needsed forPhi. Must know
goods grammar puncuation and
spelling, and spelling, must check
for fatc errors as;well as typos,
badly needed editors to edit. Must
not make up information or quotes.

Are you a “can-do” kind of person
who wakes up every morning
excited about the challenges of a
fresh new day? Are you a self-
starter, a go-getter, a people-per-
son? If you think this description of
you is “right-on,” l’ve got a niftyjob
for you: speed bump! Apply in
person, left lane, I-81, rush hour.

Nazi goons needed. Be a part ofthe
Administration’s “War on Fun.”

     
   
 
  
  
 

A Story Of Kegs, Dances, Paddlings,
And A Hell Night That Will Lead You To
The..... I

 Em i»\i«*.~. 1 im-

4

Personals

A W&L Original

SW preppy into beer, Dave Matthews
Band and myself, looking for willing
female to hook—up with this weekend
and then completely forget about.
Ring Chad ext. 345.

A W&L Original

SW preppy into beer, Dave Matthews
Band and myself, looking for willing
female to hook—up with this weekend
and then completely forget about.
Ring Mark ext. 486.

A W&L Original

SW preppy into beer, Dave Matthews
Band and myself, looking for willing
female to hook-up with thisrweekend
and then completely forget about.

Ring Chris ext. 253.

Needs husband before graduation
SWF looking for rich Southern man to
take home to daddy. Fax resume to
Mary Susan, ext. 532.

Goddess needs god

SWF, tall, thin, blonde. . . oh, damn
that honor system. SWF, short, fat,
frankly unattractive, seeking what-
ever she can get her grubby little
hands on.

Hello, it’s me again, I still need a date
for homecoming and I thought maybe‘
if I advertised down here it might work
better than the “Wanted” section.
So, anybody need a date? Anybody?
How about you, in the box above —
short, fat and unattractive is not a
problem with me. What’s that, you’re
busy thatnight? Oh, Okay. Well, if
anyone changes her mind, call
Alexander at ext. 375. Please.

Phi writer looking to get in touch
with young women who like Phi
writers, ring Phi office.

4 THE aocm TH AT r:-tlxposrss wt. AT 
you KNEW -rpoi BE ‘rm: E‘.fOF‘ilf‘RATERNlTY Ru:-3i-i.
an-r wares AFRAID To Aroma-r.

"Send me
Name

oopyﬁcs) of I-IELLMASTER

Addmss

Biiiﬂcioka
P. O. Box 84 4

Sullivan's island, SC 293482

ZIP

 

$15 pm‘ book plus $2 shipping and handling.
Please make checks payable to Bil} Books and mail t-3'.

Editor ’s Note: This is a real book by a W&L alum It is not available at the W&L bookstore, so it must be purchased through
the author. Send this coupon and a check to the address above.

A

A

‘it

F

 

A

 

Washington and Lee University
VOLUME 101, NUMBER 4

OCTOBER 5, 1998

U112 ﬁling-tum {ﬂirt 

.U.S. Congress Passes
.Campus Security Act

Clinton expected to sign bill allowing greater
at public access to disciplinary hearing records

'1.

by Polly Doig

NEWS EDITOR

With resounding approval, this
week the U.S. Congress declared the
right to know more important than the
right to privacy.

With unanimous votes in both
Houses, Congress passed a bill that
will revise the way in which colleges
report crime, as well as the public’s
access to that information.

The bill, which President Bill
Clinton is expected to sign early next
week, calls for public access to certain
records from student disciplinary hear-

‘ ings. Security logs in both public and

A

private schools will have to be updated
daily, and made available to students.
“Of course it’s not ﬁnal until the
President signs it, but it looks as
though the college student media-—
both public and private—have won a
major legislative victory in their effort
to effectively and accurately cover
campus crime,” Michael Hiestand,
staff attorney of the Student Press Law
Center in Washington, D.C said.

The bill comes in response to a
grass-roots movement that advocates
the increased awareness of campus
crime as well as the students’ right to
know the persons or places around
them that might be dangerous.

For private colleges such as Wash-
ington and Lee, the new bill could have
serious repercussions.

The Washington and Lee Honor
Code, widely considered to be one of
the strongest in the country, is upheld
mainly by student-run organizations
which thrive on privacy. Both the Ex-
ecutive Committee and the Student Ju-
diciary Committee operate on the
premise that their deliberations are
highly secret until a decision has been
reached, at which time an announce-
ment of the crime and punishment is
made.

“I think that during a hearing,
things need to be kept fairly quiet, but
once the case has been heard, it’s good
to get it all out in the open,” Dean
Anne Schroer—Lamont said.

Greta Richter, President of the S.J.C.,
contends that the W&L judicial pro-

Jury Finds Lobsterback
Guilty of M arder

it

1.

by Tarah Grant

EXECUTIVE EDITOR

Without any deliberation, ajury de-
livered its verdict of two acquittals and

' two convictions, one manslaughter

K

'4”

andvone murder, in a reenactment of
the Boston Massacre trial on Friday
afternoon. The Honorable Edmund
Trowbridge (Gray Castle ’53, ’55L)
announced the convictions to a
Lenfest Center audience of over 300
alumni, students and faculty after a
two»-hour trial ﬁlled with intense de-
bate and interruptions from a riotous
audience.

“The verdict I received, along with
my other soldier comrades was exactly
as I predicted,” said Hugh Montgom-
ery (Chris Luttrell ’0 IL) who was con-
victed of manslaughter.

Attorneys John Adams (Harvey
Handley III ’66, ’72L) and Josiah

T Quincy, Jr. (Stephen Annand ’72L) ar-

gued for the four British soldiers ac-
cused of murdering three citizens of
Boston during a confrontation in front

( of the town’s custom house. They pled

not guilty and reminded the jury to act

— with “patience, candor, and caution”

because “the reputation of this coun-
try depends on the outcome of this

" trial.” The defense focused on the fact

i

that the confrontation occurred at
night, preventing the eye-witnesses
from knowing which soldiers were
guilty and “it’s better for four guilty
men to go free than to have one inno-
cent man be punished.”

Attorneys Samuel Quincy (Waller
Dudley ’74, ’79L) and Robert Paine

! (C.J. Steuart Thomas III ’86L) repre-

1

sented the prosecution. In his open-
ing statement, Quincy asked the jury
members to “disallow passion from
nibbling on the sweet meat of the
brain” and to convict the soldiers for
“willful, premeditated murder.” The
prosecution argued that the soldiers
did not kill in self-defense because the
citizens were only throwing snow balls
which could not seriously harm them.
The prosecution and defense pre-
sented a variety of witnesses, includ-
ing the Town Watchman (Beth
Maliszewski ’0lL), a slave (Rajesh
Prasad ’99L), a merchant (Sameena
Turabi ’00L) and a law clerk (Robert
Rogers III ’0 1 L). Apprentice Archibald
Bowman (Melissa lnzerilo ’0lL) and
wigmaker Samuel Hemingway (Direc-
tor of Dining Services Gerald Darrell)
gave the most impassioned testimo-
nies. Aﬁer demonstrating how he had
“pummeled soldiers” and calling one of
the defendants “mean as a snake,”
Bowman was told by the judge that his
“exuberance [was] charming” but he
would be pleased if Bowman stuck with
“just the facts.” Hemingway was rep-
rehended for referring to British soldiers
as “lobsterbacks” and for talking to
audience members while on the stand.
Throughout the trial, outspoken
members of the audience voiced their
support for the prosecution’s case,
calling the soldiers “murderers” who
killed in “cold blood.” Perhaps
prompted by the audience’s com-
ments, the prosecution repeatedly tried
to belittle the defense’s witnesses. At
one point during the trial when the

See TRIAL, Page 2

cess works well as it is. “I’m not try-
ing to deny the public’s right to know,
but the S.J.C. works to try and correct
situations such as these,” Richter
said. “For example, the punishment
for physical assault is immediate sus-
pension——we remove the threat to stu-
dents’ safety.”

While Richter doubts that the stu-
dent media could handle increased
access in an accountable manner,
Schroer—Lamont says that public ac-
cessibility might not be such a bad
thing.

“I think there can be some ben-
eﬁts, and I do think that student jour-
nalists are capable of handling it in a
responsible way,” Schroer—Lamont
said.

Currently, under the Family Edu-
cation Rights and Privacy Act
(FERPA), many universities refuse to
provide information about the out-
come of disciplinary proceedings
when a violent crime is involved, cit-
ing these outcomes as part of the
student’s academic record.

Congress also passed a revision
of FERPA that permits the parental
notiﬁcation of underage violations of
state, federal and local alcohol poli-

See CONGRESS, Page 2

1: 5 =

1998 Homecoming Queen Crowned

Phi Kappa Psi nominee, senior Theta Anna Lowden, was crowned Homecoming Queen
during halftime of the football game. Lowden is pictured here with her escort, senior Mark
Averyt. In spite of exceptional fan support, the Generals lost 34-6 to Randolph-Macon.

Photo by I-Iollister H. Hovey/Executive Editor

Literacy Volunteers Help Children

by Maggie Yates

NEWS WRITER

In an ideal world, young children
who need help reading would first go
to their parents.

But volunteers who went to tutor
children at the Treemont apartment
complex, a low—income housing
project in Buena Vista, learned that
this is not always the case.

“It was kind of sad,” volunteer and
W&L sophomore Jane Lacy said.
“The parents were saying, ‘I’m so glad
you’re here. Ican’t read to my kids.’
It deﬁnitely opened my eyes.”

Though the children at the
Treemont apartment complex come
from a supportive family background,
many of their parents cannot read and
therefore have a hard time helping
with homework. Due to this,
Rockbridge County Literacy Volun-
teers has committed themselves to
ﬁghting illiteracy in Lexington since
1986.

Literacy Volunteers, which has sev-
eral literacy programs in Lexington,
has adopted a new program geared to
help these young children learn to be
better readers. Volunteers go to the
Treemont apartment complex twice a
week to help about 30 young residents
with reading and other homework
Mondays and Wednesdays. The ma-
jor goals of this program are not only
to help the students become indepen-
dent readers, but also to teach them
organizational skills to help them get
their work done in a more efﬁcient

Photo by VCl1ristie Phillips/Photo Editor

For the reenactment of the Boston Massacre trial, Stephen Annand (’72L) represented the
British soldiers accused of murdering American colonists.

manner. Literacy Volunteers also hopes
that these Monday and Wednesday
afternoon visits will not only beneﬁt
the children, but will provide a teach-
ing model for the parents to follow in
the future.

As of now, the Treemont program
only has only a few volunteers, but
they are hoping others will join.

Literacy Volunteers also have two
other programs geared towards chil-
dren, Family Literacy tutors and Rov-
ing Readers. Roving Readers is a
HeadStart program that sends volun-
teers either into a school or to an after-
school session to read to pre-school
aged kids, while Family Literacy tutors

provides one-on-one tutoring for a
student. '

Unlike the Treemont program and
Roving Readers, Family Literacy tutors
must have some formal training on how

I to tutor children since their duties in-

volve helping kids who read below
their grade level. Literacy Volunteers
gets involved with these children when
they are notiﬁed by the school about
students who need extra help.

In addition to offering program for
children, Literacy Volunteers also of-
fers programs for adults, which include

See LITERACY, Page 2

 

Photo by Christie Phillips
Virginia Governor Jim
Gilmore speaks at Lee
Chapel Rededication
ceremony.

Holy Book Scandal Threatens VMI with Lawsuit

by Jennifer Agiesta

NEWS WRITER

For 19 years, Virginia Military Insti-
tute has given its graduating seniors
the Holy Book of their choice.

Now, this practice is being chal-
lenged by the Freedom From Religion
Foundation, a Wisconsin-based inter-
est group.

The group has threatened VMI with
a lawsuit if the practice is not stopped,
although it has not yet found a current
or former student willing to challenge
the school’s practice in court. Accord-
ing to a survey done by VMI’s news-
paper, The Cadet, 83 percent of cadets
think the process should continue, and
11 percent agree that it should stop.

The FFRF sent General Bunting a
letter on August 20 asking him to stop
giving out books and also to stop the
Baccalaureate Service held on campus
before graduation. This voluntary ser-
vice is run by the VMl’s chaplain and
is Christian in nature. Chaplain Jim Park
said it’s a chance for students and their
parents to celebrate through prayer the
culmination of four years of hard work.

The letter said, “The actions of the
Baccalaureate Service and handing out
holy books is an impermissible en-
tanglement of religion and state and
an illegal endorsement of religion.”

It also quoted the Virginia Consti-
tution, Article 1, Section 16: “Noman

shall be compelled to frequent or sup- :

port any religious worship, place, or
ministry whatsoever.” 

The group feels that these actions
by state-supported VMI give unfair
preference to students of faith and that
those who do not believe are wrongly
forced to distinguish themselves as
such or have someone else’s religion
forced upon them.

General Josiah Bunting, superinten-
dent ofVMI, replied on August 25. His
letter said that VMI would continue to

hand out holy books and hold the ser-
vice. Bunting has said that he would
ﬁght all the way to the Supreme Court
if necessary.

However, the school is not con-
vinced of the seriousness of the threat.
Assistant Head of Public Relations
Charles J. Steenburgh said the “arro-
gant sounding” letter surprised them,
and seemed to come out of nowhere.
He feels the group may have a hard
time ﬁnding a plaintiff to ﬁght the
school.

Annie Laurie Gaylor, editor of the
group’s newsletter Freethought Today,
told me that even if the group cannot
ﬁnd a student, they do have taxpay-
ing members in Virginia who could act
as a plaintiff, however they would pre-
fer a student.

Handing out Bibles was part of VMI
commencement from the founding of
the institution in 1839. Francis H.
Smith, the ﬁrst superintendent of the
school, felt that with a diploma and a
bible, a student could achieve any-
thing. He frequently wrote on the in-
side cover of these bibles a verse from
the gospel of Luke: I have prayed for
thee that thy faith fail not. When Smith

left VMI after ﬁfty years of service,
the tradition ended.

It was reinstated by the institution’ s
last chaplain, Charles Caudill, in 1979.
The books were not purchased by
state funds, but supported by a gift
from Pat Robertson of the Christian
Broadcasting Network. The books
were handed out in a voluntary cer-
emony separate from commencement.
Cadets have the option of choosing
any holy book—Koran, Torah, even
the Encyclopedia of Biblical Errancy-
they would like, or if they prefer not to
receive a holy text, they receive a book
of quotations called America’s God
and Country. Chaplain Park said they
give out about 25 of these non-holy
books each year. Over time, VMI has
handed out over 5,100 books.

Chaplain Park and General Bunting
both agreed that the books should be
given out with the diplomas, as Su-
perintendent Smith wanted. In 1996,
they brought the two back together,
and the separate ceremony died out.
Said Park, “We are big on character
development here, and we see faith in

See HOLY BOOK, Page 2

Ellis ﬁling-tum ilﬁht

October 5, 1998
OPINION:

and fall frolicking
W&LrFE:

international perspectives
SPORTS:

soccer still undefeated

For and against afﬁrmative action, letter from IFC,

Studying abroad, foreign exchange students, and

Football gets squashed, volleyball sweeps, women’s

PAGE 3

PAGE 4

PAGE 6&7

 

 

-1 ' - ‘ I - I V - .- .~ gm‘.-... ..-.\-......nu.......«._v...-.i.....-..-..—. .4
::..—,..t.mb.-::.at-z:.ee.;..;..un_-:..._:..a:a:ziaa.a_:n. .. .....‘.- .4» 0*

HOLY BOOK

continued from page 1

God as an aspect of that.”

The FFRF sees all of this as a major violation of
constitutional rights. Gaylor said, “Whether purchas-
ing the books or merely acting as a conduit, it gives
students the false impression that this is a sectarian,
not secular, institution. Students should not have to
distinguish themselves as non—believers.”

The Freedom From Religion Foundation was
founded in 1978 with the goals of keeping church and
state separate and educating the public about the views
of non-theists. Their members are “freethinkers.”

According to their website, “most freethinkers con-
sider religion to be not only untrue, but harmful. It has
been used to justify war, slavery, sexism, racism, ho-
mophobia, mutilation, intolerance and oppression of
minorities. The totalitarianism of religious absolutes
chokes progress.”

In 1996, the group sued the federal government over
the use of “In God We Trust” on currency and as our
national motto. Their appeal was brought before the
Supreme Court, but was denied. The Court declared
the motto “non-religious.” The FFRF says it keeps
several challenges in the courts at all times and that it
has members in all ﬁfty states and Canada.

LITERACY

continued from page 1

a literacy program and an English as a Second Lan-
guage program. Jones said that the ideal student for
the literacy program is someone who realizes that he
can further himself with reading skills and is motivated
to succeed, though she says that is not always the
case. Jones said that at the present time, there were not
many adults enrolled in the literacy program due to the
difﬁculty in reaching these men and women.

Jones also recently started teaching English as a
Second Language class for citizens who do not speak
English. She says that students are from various coun-
tries including Mexico, China, Russia, and Burma, and
that she conducts all ofthe sessions only in English to
ensure that the students learn. Though they also pro-
vide one—on-one tutoring, Jones believes that classes
will serve their purpose better.

Ifyou would like tojoin Literacy Volunteers, please
call 463-7037 or 463-4324.

Tell us some news.

,, phi@wlu.edu

 
    
 
    
 
  

  

  

  

     
 
 

G. LEYBURN LIBRARY
W;l\gl*AllENSGTON 8- LEE lJN|VEfiS!TY
LE)(lN(;Tr_‘N \/A ?-‘.4""'

5 and get a 3rd

  acggsettes and get. a 3rd 

éurée ~ Enteﬂainti; t,»...S , e

 NEWS

continued from page 1

town’s bookbinder Henry Knox (Robin Kaspar ’0 1 L) was on the stand, Quincy pulled out an
old, tattered book and asked Knox to rebind it for him.

Aﬁer closing statements, the judge refused ajury member’s request for deliberation time.
“I think you can do it rather quickly,” Trowbridge said.

Historically, six of the eight soldiers on trial for the Boston Massacre (where ﬁve citizens
were killed) were acquitted, and two were convicted of manslaughter. Friday’s jury, com-
prised of the first row of the audience, was perhaps more persuaded by the reenactment’s
prosecution, for they acquitted two of the four soldiers on trial, convicted one of manslaugh-
ter and one of murder, Kieran Bartley (’00L), one of the directors of the reenactment, said.

Several law students organized the reenactment, with Dean Joan Shaughnessy serving
as the faculty coordinator. Directors Bartley and William Donnelly (’93, ’99L) started re-
searching the actual Boston Massacre trial last March. They found historical documents
and condensed the testimonies of over 80 witnesses down to eight, four for the prosecution
and four for the defense.

“From the beginning, our idea was to produce a condensed version of the entire trial,”
Bartley said. “[The trial] was chosen because of the example of professional ethics demon-
stratedby John Adams and Josiah Quincy, Jr., the men who were the defense counsels for
the soldiers. Both men were strong advocates of colonial rights, yet both realized that the
soldiers were in need of counsel in what would be a trial for their lives. A number of lawyers
had already refused to take the soldiers’ case knowing that public sentiment was strongly
against the soldiers.” .

Over the summer, Bartley and Donnelly sent witness statements and background material
to the law school alumni who had volunteered to be in the production as the counsels and
judge. When school started, they got help from the Student Bar Association and its Sesqui-
centennial Committee Liaison Robyn Hill (’ 99L). They selected law students to be witnesses
and defendants, ordered costumes, borrowed a bayonet from the Liberty Hall Volunteers,
teleconferenced with participants, and arranged the post-trial reception.

Hill initially had difﬁculty ﬁnding students to volunteer. Ralph Clements (’00L) said he did
not want to have a speaking role, but he agreed to “dress up as a British soldier and just sit
there.” Clements ended up playing Matthew Kilroy, the soldier who was convicted of murder.

“I was glad that I participated after it was over,” Clements said. “I had never been in any
kind of stage production before, and so when I walked out onto the stage in that costume, I
guess I had a real case of stage fright. I could just imagine the entire audience snickering at
me personally. After a while, though, I began to realize that the audience had come expecting
me and the rest of the cast to look like this, and that I didn’t look any more or less ridiculous
than anyone else up there. By the end of the performance, I was really starting to enjoy it and
get into character a little bit. I guess it really didn’t matter since a person on trial for his life
would look scared and mortiﬁed, too.”

Although Bartley and Donnelly did not take the stage, they also were pleased with the
production. After Trowbridge announced the verdict on Friday afternoon, the audience
gave a long ovation to the participants.

“We were happy the way it worked out,” Donnelly said. “We had a couple of discussions
I wondering how much the political pressures of

the day affected the case, and I really think we
got our answer on Friday.”

Donnelly, who was a history major as an
undergraduate, added that the reenactment
was a “nice break from doing law school as-
signments.”

The mock trial, though, was both entertain-
ing and educational for the participants and
the audience. “I saw excellent attorneys ply
their trade——in period garb, no less,” Bartley

. said. “The production could have sewed as a
class on litigation technique.” l 9

Solution to crossward

    
    
 
   
 
 
 
  
    
    
   
 

on page 8

EL 553.-
  ‘CD5 — $2 079’
— 5 I oﬁ’

price as marked
 _C,’_A,rAL06uE 7'/nes:
Q fbrjustp
“.4 I. 99

just 5 I.

  

(6

. “,1

076/721

 
   

» a

0CT9§1§Q@

 

OCTOBER 5, 1998

Chi Omega Makes Strides
Against Cancer

The Chi Omega Sorority and Catholic Campus Ministry of Washington and Lee

Sunday, October 13. Participants are invited to seek pledges from friends, profes-
sors, family and others for the ﬁve mile walk through and around the city of
Lexington. All donations are tax deductible, as the proceeds go to the American
Cancer Society and the Rockbridge Community Unit of the ACS.

Cancer is a devastating disease whose reach is not limited to large cities: three out
of four Rockbridge County families will have a member affected by cancer, accord-
ing to a 1995 pamphlet distributed by the Virginia Division of the American Cancer

Rockbridge County.

The walk begins, rain or shine, on Sunday, October 13 from the Harris Teeter
parking lot. Registration is at 1:30 p.m. and the cost of registration is ﬁve dollars. The
individuals who turn in the most money on the day of the event will receive prizes

there is a penny-voting for the “Favorite Dog Contest,” which will be held out-
side the Co—op on the Washington and Lee campus the week preceding the event.

For more information on the Making Strides Against Cancer walk, please con-
tact Sarah Rector at (540) 464-6280.

CONGRESS

continued from page 1
cies. The move came in response to recommendations of a Virginia task force that studied
campus drinking.

According to Richter, about 90 percent of the cases the S.J.C. handles are alcohol—related.
“The majority of people who come before us are embarrassed and regret what they did. If
campus media gain access to that, they’re going to blow it out of proportion. It’s read by *
everyone. . . other students and faculty. It’s embarrassing and people remember it.”

Which is exactly the argument made by the opposition: in cases such as these media
attention is embarrassing, and can serve as a deterrent. At this early stage, it looks like one
of the major differences at W&L will be that notices posted after student hearings will name i
the defendant, the crime he/she was convicted of and the punishment.

“Particularly with respect to sexual assault cases, the women l’ve worked with have had a real
need to have a notice posted after the hearing; it seems to be a very important part of the healing
process,” Schroer—Lamont said.

About 90 percent of campus crime is perpetrated by students against students, and is A
related to other social problems. Because of this, provisions were included that deal with

‘ binge drinking and violence against women, as well as the suspension of ﬁnancial aid for

students with drug-related convictions. One million dollars was also set aside for a study
of how colleges handle sexual assault, something Washington and Lee was considering
making a return to anyway.

“We did sexual assault surveys on campus during 1990 - 1993, there’s been talk of going
back and doing it again to see where we are now, as opposed to where we were,” Schroer-
Lamont said. “When we don’t address something for a couple years, students get the idea
that we’re ignoring it.” If

So while qarppuses await the ‘practical applications of the new bill, it’s enough for some
simply to ‘know that this step has bieieirrtaken. “It’s certainly- beerra long time in coming,”
Hiestand said.‘ .rlt  . . . . - »

      
 

 

University are co-sponsoring a “Making Strides Against Cancer” fundraiser on L

The ACS will use the money for research, education and treatment of patients. ‘

Society. In addition, there are currently about ﬁve hundred cancer patients in 1

at a ceremony held immediately after the walk. In a further effort to raise money, ' 

‘Q

............OPINION-EDITORIAL 

Let’s go frolic

Frolicking excites me more than anything else in
all the world. Autumn provides a prime opportunity
for those who enjoy a good frolic. Some like to frolic
in the form ofa football game. Others prefer to toss
the frisbee with friends or their big fuzzy pup named
Duke. Still others
would rather sim-
ply prance around
like enchanted fair-
ies.

Whatever your
pleasure, the point
remains that a
good romping through the crisp autumn air refreshes
the human soul in a way that should not be ignored
because of minor hindrances.

Returning from my final classes last week, I was
deeply saddened by a front yard that was graced
with heavenly sunbeams and brisk gusts of wind,
but no frolicking students. Of course, the reason
that no one ornamented the front lawn is because
the school is generously thinking toward the future
and replenishing the voluptuous verdure for times
to come.

I am glad that students have the courtesy to re-
spect requests not to upset the growth process. I
am worried, however, that because of restricted use
of the choice spot for fall frolicking students will
neglect (or restrain) inherent longings to hop, skip
and jump on the way to cold season.

So I take this opportunity (before it is too late)
to challenge the student body not to hold back the

desire to enjoy

Off His Rocker

2

‘ Stephen Pesce ’O1

   

ll
'  the wonderfulfa

weather. Do not
allow the lawn job
being done in
front of the Col-
onnade to do a
lawn job on your

Some like to frolic
in the form of a
football game. . . .

 Others WOuld spirit and spunk,
rather simply prance W°"‘d“’_‘ ” be 3
. shame if when

around hke en’ those poor leaves
chanted fairies. change into their

colorful autumn
3) outfits, nobody
takes any notice?
All you lovely
ladies who got all gussied up for Homecoming fes-
tivities this past weekend, how would you have felt
if no one noticed how gorgeous you looked? So
please remember to give the trees the same cour-
tesy. When you see those exquisite yellow, orange
and red leaves, frolic, as if to say, “Why Madam,
you look simply radiant this gorgeous afternoon.
May I have this dance?”
Along with honor system, Spring Term and
a‘ caring faculty, the divine Shenandoah climate
proves one of the unique charms of Washington
and Lee. Let’s not ignore this gift. This autumn when
a heart-warming cool breeze passes through Lex-
ington, go outside and frolic. Let some spirits other
than Jack Daniel and Jim Beam move you through
to finals.

Ellie iﬂing-tum iﬂlii

Executive Editors Tarah Grant
Hollister Hovey
News Editors Polly Doig
John Stewart

W&LIfe Editors Ginger Phillips
Erica Prosser
Stephen Pesce
Frances Groberg
Brendan Harrington
Kevin McManemin
Sarah Meldrum
Meredith Mlynar
Mike Crittenden
Christie Phillips
Tom Wadlow

Opinion & Editorial Editor
Sports Editors

Last Word Editor
Copy Editors

Photo Editors
Online Editor

Business Manager
Advertising Assistant

Jason Williams
John Costello

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor and Business Manager, but
The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Saturday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters, columns and “Talkback" do not
reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E—mail: phi@wIu.edu
http://w1u.edu/~phi
Annual subsription rate: $30

’ ivefaction widens T V
ttisi 4‘

d/to l L‘

' tin

 ii whofcton

uote of the Week:

 

I want to buy her, put her
on a platform in my house and
watch her all day long.

— Anonymous junior on the beauty of a
sophomore at Homecoming

J)

  

  

“My friend taking a
shower in the water
fountain at Wilson
Fiel ”

——}ean Rowan ’0l

l/I‘

“Four losers playing

tennis in the dark while

everyone was at the
concert Friday night.”

 

—Elizabeth Doem'es’0l

 

,. What’s the craziest thing you saw

 

at Homecoming?

“The mysteriously

exploding beer at the centipede on the
Munster.” dance floor.”
—Lauren LaFauci ’0l —Sean Fierke ’99

A , ‘Al;ee‘tioinmunity_a_rejworl,<ing‘ to ‘greaxera more re-
 job in workingwith us toward this goal. The con-

“ boththe administration of the school and the

 

“Travis Winfrey doing

 

   the .
negatiyfe .aspects‘of- fraternity life‘

. Currently. the.   the iwashington and

 

‘spans V V po;sia1.='»;~;tn;;;.‘sp1;ere jandeto establish
‘-;social.altematiyes to alcpohol.‘ We feel that the 1
. newspapers‘ onﬁthis campus could do a better

stant portrayal of (ioftenfunderage) undergradu-
” ates engaged inirresponsible drinking does little
t to alleviate the pressure we are all feeling from

state of V-irginia on thisiissue. By sensationaliz-
ing a “play«hard” attitude you simply increase
the pressure from those who wish to drastically
change our social habits here at W&L. While
‘these events do occur, we believe they are over-
represented. There is another side of this cam-
pus that habitually goes un- or under-reported.
We all have a stake in this issue, and a broader
perspective is needed, rather than who gets more
papers read from week to week. '

Sincerely,
The IFC and Fraternity Presidents

 

PAGE 4

Globetrotting, the Washington and Lee Way  

 

W& LIFE

OCTOBER 5, 1998

Students discover new educational, cultural opportunities through a wide range of study abroad programs

by Ginger Phillips

F EA TURES EDITOR

Are you ready to get out of Lex-
ington for a while? What about a trip
to a new and exciting place, maybe
somewhere far away? No, not
Roanoke. How about going to Spain,
Germany or even Australia? Or per-
haps you’d like to climb to the top of
the Eiffel Tower in France or tour the
streets of St. Petersburg in Russia.
These are just a few of the many
places in which W&L students can
choose to study through a wide va-
riety of study abroad programs. De-
ciding to study abroad is a big deci-
sion, but one that every W&L stu-
dent should consider.

“Studying abroad is an opportu-
nity that no one should pass up,”
senior Catherine Ruth Felton said. “It
is so hard once you graduate to travel
and see new places.”

Before youjump in that airplane,

By that time, most sophomores have
completed their second year of a for-
eign language and are beginning to de-
cide on their respective majors. They
feel that an educational experience
abroad would enhance the knowledge
they learned in the past and the deci-
sions they make in the future.

Despite this trend, a W&L student
generally can choose to study abroad
at any time, with few exceptions. Fresh-
men may only study off campus during
the spring and summer of their first year,
and seniors can opt for education
abroad with the special permission of
the Committee on Courses and Degrees.
A studentwith a minimum GPA of2.5 is
eligible to study offcampus during the
normal academic year, but only a 2.0 is
required for off campus study during
the summer.

“This year I have seen a marked in-
crease in the number of people inter-
ested in study abroad,” Dr. William
Klingelhofer, Director of the Ofﬁce of
International Education, said. “Atten-

 

Courtesy of Josh Chamberlain

A bull ﬁght in Seville, Spain was just one of the many cultural

stay in Spain this year.

‘however, you must ﬁnd the study
abroad program that best suits your
, needs. In order to do that, there are a

few important questions that you
must ask yourself. Where do you
want to go and what do you want to
study there? When do you make the
trip and how much money can you
afford to spend? Should you go with
a W&L-sponsored program or just
go on your own? These are all fac-
tors that will weigh heavily on your
decision to study abroad.

“After speaking with my advisor
and professors, I realized that it was
the opportune time to study abroad,”
junor Megan Fink said. “I had al-
ready ﬁnished two years of Spanish,
and studying in Spain would allow

' me to be completely immersed in the
, culture.”

Many W&L students choose to

 study overseas during the latter half
I of their second undergraduate year.

‘activities introduced to W&L students during their six week

dance at the Study Abroad Fair was
extremely high, and I think that the fair
was a success for the representatives
and for all who attended.”

Students who choose to study
abroad have two primary options. They
can either enroll in a study abroad pro-
gram based in the United States, or they
can apply directly to a foreign univer-
sity or institution. Each choice has its
advantages and disadvantages. By us-
ing an intermediate institution like a
U.S.—based program, a student can have
the comfort of knowing that they have
a contact back home who is committed
to ensuring a positive experience
abroad. Applying to and transferring
credit from these programs is often
easier, but they also tend to be more
costly than direct enrollment.

By directly enrolling in a foreign in-
stitution, a student can deﬁnitely save
some money, but the added paperwork
can be undesirable and frustrating.

by Elianna Marziani
STAFF WRITER

Think Washington and Lee is
not culturally diverse? W&L does
have some cultural diversity that it
continues to promote through pro-
grams like the Native Language As-
sistant program.

The NLA program was started
in 1982 through a gift from the Pew
Memorial Trust. In this program,
students from other countries who
speak Spanish, French, Japanese,
Chinese, German or Russian in the
standard, dialect-free form of the
language are eligible to apply to
come to W&L to act as a part-time
student and part-time native lan-
guage assistant.

An important distinction to
make is that these NLAs are not
TAs, or teachers’ assistants. TAs
are generally masters degree stu-
dents at large schools who teach a
class in lieu of a “real” professor.
W&L does not use TAs. The NLAs

their classrooms. They have con-
versations with students in their na-
tive languages and offer a more fim
aspect of language and culture,
thus broadening students’ hori-
zons and helping eliminate what
Professor Robert Youngblood
called the American “isolationist
mentality toward other cultures.”

NLAs Provide Culture

work with language professors in ,

He asserted that there is a “re-
ciprocal gain” involved in this pro-
gram; just as W&L students learn
more about foreign cultures, the
NLAs get a real picture of life in the
U.S., which is not always the same
image as the one they receive
through images from Hollywood.

Rosa Villot, the NLA from
France, agrees with Youngblood. A
British Literature masters degree
student at Diderot Paris Seven on
the Jussieu campus in Paris, Villot
ﬁrst came to W&L last winter for a
three-month period as an NLA and
decided to come back this year for
seven months.

“I enjoy talking about my cul-
ture. It’s fun,” she said.

Villot also plays French music
on her campus radio program
“Chipie,” which airs on Thurs-
days. Not only is she contribut-
ing to W&L students’ knowledge
of the French culture, but she is
having a good learning experi-

ence herself.

“I get to know my own lan-
guage better and can make com-
parisons and explain,” she said. “I
love it here. lt’s really cool, because
I get to know the people,” she said.

Unfortunately, this great pro-
gram has encountered some prob-
lems recently with changing visa
laws. But with luck, W&L will be
able to keep bringing NLAs to carn-
pus for years to come.

Many choose to do this, however, be-
cause it is often a more complete form
of cultural integration than the U.S.-
based programs. Students must at-
tend institutions that primarily serve
native students, instead of a school
that is speciﬁcally designed for the
beneﬁt of international students.

For the student who prefers to
study through a home-based pro-
gram, W&L offers a variety of op-
tions. The most popular are the
unique, six week study abroad pro-
grams sponsored by W&L during
each spring term. Students are accom-
panied by W&L professors and can
study language and culture in places
like Spain, Russia, France, Germany
and Japan. Other trips are not lan-
guage oriented, such as the art his-
tory trip to Italy and the economics
tour of Europe.

“The six week spring term is often
a way of‘breaking the ice’ to acquire
a comfort level in a foreign culture,”
Greta McCaughrin, Instructor of Rus-
sian, said.

Whether students decide to par-
ticipate in a W&L program or not,
there is a great deal of preparation
required for any trip abroad. Applica-
tions, money, passports, travel ar-
rangements and packing are all po-
tential hassles that can be avoided
through careful planning. Credit for
off-campus study must also be pre-
approved, and students must remem-
ber to register for classes for the term
during which they will be abroad.

Students interested in studying
abroad will find the Office of Interna-
tional Education, located in Tucker
Hall, to be an invaluable resource. In
fact, the first step in planning for a
trip abroad is to consult with advi-
sors from that ofﬁce. They have the
knowledge and resources to help
make both the planning and experi-
ence of studying abroad more efﬁ-
cient and enjoyable.

“This was my first trip to Europe,
and it was challenging to try and pack
all I needed for seven weeks in a for-
eign country,” Fink said. “However,
W&L did a pretty good job of help-
ing us prepare.”

Despite the time and effort re-
quired to choose and to plan the right
trip, most W&L students who have
already studied abroad agree that it
is an experience that has helped them
both academically and culturally.

“It was really a mind-opening ex-
perience to study art, architecture and
history in Paris,” said Felton, who
studied and worked in France during
spring and summer this year.

“I was able to increase my lan-
guage skills and to learn about the
world of broadcast news when I stud-
ied and worked in France. I was com-

pletely emerged in the culture,” she
said.

Many students hope to improve
their language abilities by going
abroad, but studying in another coun-
try is notjust for language majors.

“I highly recommend studying
abroad, especially ifyou are majoring
in a foreign language. That is the only
way to train your ear to the language,”
said Fink, who participated in the W&L
trip to Spain in the spring. “But even if
you’re not a language major, the cul-
tural experience itself compliments
what you learn in any classroom and
gives you an appreciation of different
people.”

It is this cultural aspect of studying
abroad which students ﬁnd to be the
most valuable. The study abroad ex-
perience opens students’ minds to new
ideas and people. Many return to the
United States with a new perspective
and a greater appreciation for other cul-
tures and their own.

“Just to leave here and see how
things work in other countries, espe-
cially in a culture as different as the
Asian culture, really gives you a bet-
ter perspective on the world,” junior
Matt Seals said. “After going to Ja-
pan, I have such a great respect for the
Japanese people and their culture.”

“Everything I saw in Russia made
me feel more fortunate, and I realized
how much we take for granted,” junior
Stephanie McKnight said. “Despite the
conditions there, it is such a giving cul-
ture, and I truly loved the, people
there.” _,

Being part ofthe daily life ofa dif-
ferent culture is also rewarding because
it teaches students the real meaning of
being independent.

“The most important thing that I
learned on the trip was how to be truly

independent,” Fink said. “When you
are not fluent in a language and are
unfamiliar with aplace, then you really
understand what this means. Once you
begin to feel comfortable in a different
environment, it is really wonderful to
see on the faces

Courtesy of Catherine Ruth Felton

The 15 W&L students who participated in the 1998 Spring
Term Abroad Program in France were able to visit this cha-

teau in the Loire Valley.

four or ﬁve days without speaking any
English at all. But it isn’t necessarily
the experience with the language that

is so important, but the experience of

meeting new people.”

After studying abroad, students
return home and to W&L with many
wonderful memories.

“I was there [in France] for the
World Cup Finals,” Felton said. “That
night, after France beat Brazil, every-
one"Was‘crowded out on tIre‘Champs-

which is the day the eastern front
closed in World War II,” McKnight
said. “The Russians had lost a lot of
men in the war, and the people hon-
ored their dead at the tomb of the un-
known soldier. People were weeping
at the sight of the grave. It was the
most solemn moment of my life.”

If the accounts of W&L students
are any indication, the decision to
study abroad is a wise one. There is
so much to Ieam beyond the Colon-

Elysees. We were all so happy and sing»»»- -nade, and studying abroad can expand

ing, and I felt like I was French, too.”
“I was in Moscow for May Day,

your horizons in ways that are not
possible on campus.

of the people how
happy they are
that you have em-
braced their cul-
ture.”

“The trip deﬁ-
nitely helped me
to be more inde-
pendent because
I was there on my
own for a while,”

 

Jamaica
native Sonia '
Hall dis-
cusses
upcoming
plans for the
International
Club with
fellow mem-
ber Kelley

junior Bryson J0)“ Both
Datt, who studied agree that
Chinese and the I-Club is
taught English in important in
Taiwan this sum- increasing
rner, said. “Sl(:jme- diversity on
times wou go campus.

Photo by Christie Phillips, Photo Editor

International Club Broadens Horizons

by Erica Prosser
F EA TURES EDITOR

Some see Washington and Lee
University as a home away from home.
Others see it as a home really far away
from home.

No matter what point on the
globe you hail from, if you have an
interest in foreign culture, the Inter-
national Club may be for you.

“We’re about half American,”
club president and W&L senior Bill

 

Overbaugh

said of the  
nationali— >  ,

ties of club *-'  
members. " ‘ i "
“I’mAmeri- 3 ” g‘ .6!’
can, as ° 
president.” “’  

Hecame ''

to W&L from a tiny town in upstate
New York, but his interest in interna-
tional affairs brought him into contact
with the International Club.

“When I got here, I found an
amazing group of friends here at the
house andjoined at ﬁrst more for the
social aspect than anything else,” he
said. “I ﬁnd that although we aren’t
anti-Greek, the members of the club
create an environment which tends to
offer a bit of an alternative to the Greek
system, something which is nice for a
change from time to time.”

The International Club web page
lists goals for the club, which are:

“Helping the incoming student adjust
to the university and American ways
of life, reaching out to the Student
body to introduce them to the many
different cultures present on their
campus and establishing a university-
wide network of students and alumni
with international experience.”
Overbaugh said that the goals have
not exactly changed, but the functions
of the club are not what they used to
be.

“With the new Ofﬁce ofInterna—
tional Education, we have found . . .
we are no longer the sole support
group speciﬁcally for the International
Students, so we are channeling efforts
more into learning and teaching about
other cultures,” he said.

The club, which boasts 40 active
members so far, has always been the
source of interesting and multicultural
activities. This year’s plans are al-
ready underway, and Overbaugh said
he has a lot in mind for the club this
time around.

“We have been trying to organize
some interesting theme parties, Jamai-
can parties,” he said. “We had a
samba/salsa party last week.”

The group d0esn’tjust stop with
parties, though. Trips are also in the
forecast. The group will try to take
one or two cultural trips to Washing-
ton, D.C., each term, as well as trips to
more local locales like Natural Bridge
and The Museum of Frontier Culture.

Members have fun in the group,

but they learn, too. Overbaugh wants
to continue the tradition of weekly
meetings that feature cultural presen-
tations that educate members about
the fascinating aspects of other cul-
tures. The group has already had a
slide show, and he plans to encourage
international poetry readings, discus-
sions, origami demonstrations and
other displays of the world outside the
red brick and white columns of the Col-
onnade.

Some old favorites from the club
will return this year, too. The annual
Orphan’s Dinner, which is a dinner on
Parent’s Weekend for members with-
out parents here, will be held as usual.
The Evening Abroad will also return,
which is a chance for students to make
presentations about other cultures to
the W&L community. Past themes
have included Japanese tea ceremo-
nies, Judo demonstrations, German
techno lip synchs and Jamaican folk
songs.

With all these interesting events,
what does Overbaugh think is the best
thing about the club?

“The people, by far,” he said.
“Sometimes after working hours on an
event or meeting, I get so tired, but
then in the middle I look around at all
these faces, so excited about what’s
going on, and it makes all the hard
work worth it. That sounds really
cheesy, but hey! Everyone involved
is here because they really love it,
which makes events fun to organize,

and even more fun to participate in.”

The people are one reason why
Overbaugh is impressed with the club,
and with W&L as a whole, this year.

“Four years ago there were less
than a dozen international students,”
he said. “This year there are 23 in the
freshmen class. I think the school has
taken a really proactive move recently,
and they’re trying to increase our in-
ternational population to help the
school expand, and promote it over-
seas. I think they are doing an excel-
lentjob so far.”

Canjust anyonejoin in the Inter-
national Club activities? Well, not
quite.

“Almost all of our events are open
to anyone oncampus, so everyone is
welcome to come to our meetings,”
Overbaugh said. Active members must
pay dues, though, of $25 per year,
which helps cover transportation costs
for the club.

“We ﬁnd that most of our active.

members are freshmen and sopho-
mores,” Overbaugh said, “but we also
like to get upperclassmen involved.”

Need a slightly more cultural
“home away from home” than you had
before, orjust want to learn more about
other nationalities and cultures?

Anyone interested in joining the
International Club can get involved by
showing up for club meetings at the
International House at 7 p.m. on
Wednesdays or calling Overbaugh at
462-4723.

 

OCTOBER 5, 1998

PAGE 5

 
  

by Tom Wadlow

ONLINE EDITOR

When I was a kid, I lived in a small
town. It was so small that I used to

’ joke that ifyou drove by it at 25 miles

per hour and blinked you would prob-
ably miss it. There wasn’t much to
do around this town. In fact, there
was so little there that when my
friends and I would meet to try to find
somewhere to go and have a good
time (usually a 30 minute drive, at
least), we would all meet up in a park-
ing lot behind the auto parts store.
Despite the lack of entertainment,
there were a few redeeming qualities
about the area. The one I recall the
most now is a little shop called “The
Corner Store,” or to those who lived
near it, “Nancy’s” after the lady who
owns it. It is basically a little store in
the middle of nowhere where you can
get almost anything. And most im-
portantly, Nancy knows your name.
The memory may be a little
skewed with time, but I remember
tromping through the snow to cross
the three miles to Nancy’s to get some
vanilla extract for some cookies or
something that my mother was mak-

~ Gourmet Smokes, Beers,
y Peanuts Tucked Away
on Washington Street

ing for Christmas. My mother didn’t
even know if Nancy had vanilla ex-
tract, but she sent me through the
snow to get it anyway.

I eventually made it up to the store,
and when I walked in Nancy spotted
me and said, “Hi, Tommy, how you
doing?” I think I told her it was cold
or something, but more importantly,
did she have any vanilla extract? She
responded with, “Of course! What
kind of a store would this be if we
didn’t sell vanilla extract!” Well, I
got the vanilla and went home.

Many years passed and I eventu-
ally came to the small town of Lex-
ington, Virginia to seek a college de-
gree at a little school in this town
called Washington and Lee. As Ijust
noted, Lexington is a small town, but
it is appreciatively larger than the
town where I spent my formative
years. I made my way through fresh-
man year and into my sophomore
year without finding anything in Lex-
ington that came close to Nancy’s.

During my sophomore year, I was
wandering down Washington Street,
I believe in search of cigars other than
those you can buy at a gas station,
when I noticed a sign on the door of
a shop that said they sold cigars. I

 

Photo by Christie Phillips/Photo Editor

Chuck Smith, husband of Assistant Geology Professor Elizabeth
Knapp, is co-owner of Washington Street Purveyors.

remembered someone in my sociol-
ogy class mentioning the place to me
so I stopped in.

The store was small and was in what
must be one of the older buildings in
Lexington. There were three rooms,
the main one that you walk into from
the street had hot sauces and assorted
food stuffs, most of which I had never
seen before. The room to the left was
lined with beer and the room to the right
was lined with wine. Track lighting
attached to the floorboards of the ﬂoor
above the store lit the rooms, the light
bouncing off the brown, rough-hewn
exposed ceiling beams of the old build-
ing and coming to rest on a burgundy
ﬂoor and old-brick walls. Behind the
glass counter that held the cigars was a

well-used fireplace that now held the
credit card reader and printer on a table.
The store was packed to the ceiling with
various odds and ends ranging from re-
frigerators holding Pepsi and other so-
das to cases upon cases of wine lining
the ﬂoor. There were also racks of beer
I had never heard of and the ingredi-
ents to make your own beer if you so
desired. I noted the store in my mental
inventory, bought a cigar and left.

It wasn’t until about a year ago dur-
ing late October of my junior year that
I recalled the little store on Washing-
ton Street, because now I was looking
for a bottle of wine other than those you
can buy at a grocery store. I remem-
bered the room of wine, so I stopped
in, bought some wine and had a brief

 

 

 

FRANK HOBBS EXHIBIT OPENS IN C-SCHOOL

Paintings, drawings and prints by Frank Hobbs will be on exhibit in the
Williams School of Commerce, Economics and Politics from Oct. 8 to Nov.
17. There will be a reception 5 p.m. Thursday in the Williams School.

Hobbs resides in Staunton, Va., where he teaches at the Beverley Street
Studio School, of which he is a founder and cu1"I‘eIIt‘president. He is ‘currently
‘serving as a part-time assistant professor of art at Washington and Lee, as
well as an adjunct professor of art at the Virginia Military Institute.

CHORUS GIVES FALL CONCERT

The Washington and Lee Fall Choral Concert will take place next Tuesday
'3 8 p.m. in the Great Hall of the Science Addition.

Under the direction of Dr. Gordon Spice, professor of music, the University
Chamber Singers will perform a choral selection from each of the centuries end-
ing in “49” in honor of the University's founding date of 1749. While the work
may not have been composed in that year, it would have been current at that
time. Selections include John Dunstable’s “Quam pulchra es,” Jaques
Arcadelt’s “Margot labourez les vignes” and Handel's “Blessed be God.”

Scott Williams, music director, leads the University chorus in “Music of
our Time,” featuring works by Sondheim and Gershwin, as well as an avant—
garde selection by Scandinavian composer Egil Hovland and a stirring spiri-
tual, “Elijah Rock," newly recomposed by Moses Hogan.

PULITZER PRIZE WINNER READS POETRY

Henry Taylor, 1986 winner of the Pulitzer Prize for
“The Flying Change,” will give a poetry reading in
Northen Auditorium 7 p.m. Monday. Taylor's visit is
sponsored by the Glasgow Endowment Program.

His books of poems include “The Horse Show at
Midnight,” “An Afternoon of Pocket Billiards,” “The
Flying Change” and “Understanding Fiction: Poems,
1986-1996.” He has published three other books and
he received a 1998 Individual Artist Fellowship from
the Virginia Commission for the Arts.

 

Taylor.

DEANE REVEALS SECRETS OF IRELAND, ENGLAND, SCOTLAND

Seamus Deane, the Donald and Marilyn Keough Professor of Irish Studies
at the University of Notre Dame, will deliver the Shannon-Clark Lecture in
English at 8 p.m. next Monday in Northen Auditorium. A reception will be
held in the Boatwright Room immediately following the presentation.

Deane’s lecture is titled, “Secret Histories: Irish, English, Scottish.” In ad-
dition to his teaching duties at Notre Dame, Deane served as the director of
the Field Day Theatre and Publishing Company and as editor of the Field Day
Anthology of Irish Writing.

He is the author of “Celtic Revivals: Essays in Modern Irish Literature,
1880-1980, “A Short History of Irish Literature and The French Revolution”
and “Enlightenment in England, 1789-1832.” In addition to six volumes of
poetry, Deane recently published a prize-winning novel “Reading in the Dark.”

MUJERES ESPANOLAS, EL FEMINISMO Y EL QUIJOTE

The Department of Romance Languages will present a talk by Spanish
author, editor and literary critic Lidia Falcon in Northen Auditorium on
Monday, Oct. 19 at 7 p.m. There will be a brief reception after the talk.

For more information, contact Ellen Mayock 463-8816. Visit the Falcon
lecture website at http://madison.wlu.edu/~mayocke/LFalcon.htm

NEW ISSUE OF SHENANDOAH Now AVAILABLE

The fall issue of “Shenandoah, The Washington and Lee Review” is now
available for $5 at the University Bookstore. This issue of the award-winning
literary magazine features work by Judy Jashinsky, Scott Ely, Mary Yukari
Waters, Mary Oliver, Billy Collins, Robert Morgan, Reginald Shepherd, Su-
san Hahn and many others.

AUDITION FOR THE SECRET SERVICE

Roles are available for seven males and four females in the upcoming Lenfest
production of William Gillette's “Secret Service.” Auditions will be held 4
p.m.- 6 p.m. Tuesday and Thursday in the Johnson Theatre. Scripts are avail-
able from the theater department secretary.

WOOD DELIVERS HOLMES DEVISE LECTURE

Gordon Wood, the University Professor of History at Brown University,
will deliver the Oliver Wendell Holmes Devise Lecture 1 p.m. Friday in the
Moot Court Room of Sydney Lewis Hall on the campus of Washington and
Lee University. Wood's talk is titled "The Origins of Judicial Review Revis-
ited, or How the Marshall Court Made More out of Less." The public is in-
vited to attend.

INDIAN MUSICIANS PLAY IN LEE CHAPEL

The International Performing Arts Series at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity will present an evening of classical Indian music in Lee Chapel next
Wednesday at 7:30 p.m., featuring Shubhendra Rao on the sitar, Partho Sarathy
on the sarod and Tanmoy Bose on the tabla.

Rao is among the foremost of the new generation of Indian classical in-
strumentalists. His concerts are noted for their sensitivity, aesthetic appeal
and musical insight.

Sarathy, who is from Calcutta, is a gold
medalist ofthe All India Radio's national
competition and has performed exten-
sively across Europe, Russia and North
America. Bose, also from Calcutta, has
made a name for himself as an accom-
plished tabla player, and has also traveled
internationally to perform.

Rao and Sarathy.

FILM SOCIETY PRESENTS “THE SWEET HEREAETER”

The next presentation of the Washington and Lee Film Society will be the
unsettling drama "The Sweet Hereafter" (Canada, 1997) directed by Atom Egoyan.

Screenings will be at 7:30 p.m. this Friday and Saturday in the Troubadour
Cinema. As always, there is no charge for admission, although contributions
are welcome.

Atom Egoyan's shattering film, based on Russell Banks‘ novel, concerns a
small Canadian town buried in grief after 14 children are killed in a school bus
accident. To the town comes a quiet lawyer (Ian Holm), who seeks to repre-
sent the residents in a class-action suit.

Critic Richard Schickel in Time magazine called “The Sweet Hereafter” a
“solemn, subtly structured, beautifully, and utlimately hypnotic movie.”

Roger Ebert wrote, “This is not one of those [John] Grisham ﬁlms in which
the lawyers battle injustice and the creaky system somehow works . . . [this is]
an unﬂinching lament for the human condition.”

“The Sweet Hereafter” won the Jury Prize at the Cannes Festival and was
an Oscar nominee for best director and best adapted screenplay.

VOGEL SPEAKS ON RESPONSIBILITY

Lawrence Vogel, associate professor of philosophy at Connecticut College,
will present a talk next Monday as part of Washington and Lee's responsibility
lecture series. Vogel’s lecture, “Jewish Philosophies After Heidegger: Levinas
and Jonas on Responsibility” will be held in the Science Addition, Room A214,
at 7:30 p.m.

Vogel received his bachelor's degree from Vassar College in 1975 and his
doctorate in philosophy from Yale University in 1989. He previously taught and
lectured at Yale University and Vassar College and he received a National En-
dowment for the Humanities Summer Institute Fellowship in 1990.

LEE CHAPEL HOLDS MEMORIAL SERVICE FOR LEE

A memorial service marking the 128th anniversary of Robert E. Lee's death
will be held at 12:05 p.m. next Monday in Lee Chapel on the Washington and
Lee campus. Lee served as president of the University from 1865 until his
death in 1870.

Gary W. Gallagher, professor of history at the University of Virginia will
be the guest speaker for the service. The Liberty Hall Volunteers re-enact-
ment group will participate, as will the University Chamber Singers. Earlier
in the day, at 9:30 a.m., the bells of Lee Chapel will toll, commemorating the
hour of Lee's death in 1870. I

A proliﬁc writer and expert on the Civil
War and Reconstruction era, Gallagher's
three most recent books are “Lee and His
Generals in War and Memory,” “The
Spotsylvania Campaign” and “The Confed-
erate War.” He appears regularly on the Arts
and Entertainment Network’s series “Civil
War Journal.” Gallagher also received the
1998 Laney Prize for the best book in the
field of Civil War history and shared the
1998 Lincoln Prize.

   

W . th I I - —e-mail General Notes to phi@wlu.edu
rapping e co umns.

 

conversation with the guy standing be-
hind the counter. We traded names and
I left the store with my purchase.

I think I went back a couple of
times after that but I remember going
there one particular time shortly af-
ter my first visitjunior year. I parked
my car a short distance away and
tromped up the short hill to the store
through the cold of the encroaching
and soon to be incumbent winter. I
opened the door and walked in. The
store was pleasantly warm after the
biting chill of the windblown street
outside and there was classical music
playing softly in the background. I
started heading toward the back
where the wine was when I heard,
“Hey, Tom. What’s up?”

The guy who spoke out the brief
greeting was Chuck Smith, owner of
Washington Street Purveyors, the
store I was in now. Chuck found what
I needed in the wine section of the
store and I left.

I went back with increasing fre-
quency after that, finding that he rarely
didn’t have the wine I wanted, and if
he didn’t, he could point out a compa-
rable one with great accuracy. The store
stopped being named “Washington
Street Purveyors” in my mind and took
on the name that many in Lexington
know it by: “Chuck’s place” or “Chuck’S.”

Chuck opened the store in July of
1996 along with co-owner James
Owens because, he said, that he “real-
ized that Lexington didn’t have a wine
shop.” The large volume and selection

of wine that ranges from $4.99 a
bottle to much more pricey vintages
is not the only thing Washington
Street Purveyors has to offer.

There are also specialty, imported
and microbrewed beers, brewing in-
gredients and tools, fine cigars, ciga-
rettes ranging from American Spirits
to Dunhills, hot sauces, cheeses,
handmade potato chips, shirts with
chili peppers on them, boxer shorts
with chili peppers on them, cook-
books with titles like “Cooking in the
Nude” and every kind of peanut that
you can possibly imagine, just to name
a small portion of things in the store.

Despite this large inventory,
Chuck thinks the most appealing
thing about the store is the atmo-
sphere. “I think a lot of [the appeal]
is the setting, the whole building.” He
says, “It’s kind ofa feel ofbeing in a
[wine] cellar.”

It’s hard finding a place like
Nancy’s. The type of small store that
carries a little bit of everything with
a proprietor who knows your name is
slowly being replaced with large
stores that carry too much of every-
thing at the expense of quality. They
don’t know who you are and never
will. Chuck's place has done a pretty

goodjob of replacing Nancy’s while
I’ve been in Lexington with one mi-
nor exception - I don’t think he has
any vanilla extract.

Online Editor Tom Wadlow now
works at Washington Street Purveyors.

 

Washington & Lee-Oxford
Exchange Program

Under this program University College at the
University ofoxford hosts one wasington and Lee student
each year for a full-year pron-am of study in some area in

which a tutor at University College is availablethe program

is designed for the selected student to study abroad airing
his or her junior year. Current sophomores who are
interested in applying for this program may contact:

Profemor Carl Kaiser
Williams School of Commerce, Room 313
463-8517

 

SPRING BREAK Cancun, Florida, Etc.
Best Hotels, Parties, Prices. Book Early and Save!
Earn Money & Free Trips! Campus Reps / Organizations Wanted
Inter-Campus Programs 1 -800-321-60 I 3 www.icpt.com

GIVE US TIME TO REPAY
YOUR LOAN.

After just three years in

the Army, your college loan
could be a thing of the past.

Under the Army’ s Loan

Repayment program, each

year you serve on active duty
reduces your indebtedness by
one-third or $1,500, whichever
amount is greater, up to a
$65,000 limit.

This offer applies to Perkins Loans, Stafford Loans
and certain other federally insured loans which are not
in default.

And this is just the ﬁrst of many beneﬁts the Army
will give you. Get the whole story from your Army

 540-886-2651
ARMY. BE ALL YOU CAN BE?

 

www.goarmy.com

 

 

PAGE 6

SPORTS

OCTOBER 5, 1998

Homecoming ’98: Generals Get Stung

iYellow Jackets quarterback
‘Brian Partlow throws ﬁve
touchdown passes in 34-6

fvictory over W&L

_ by Brendan Harrington
1; SPORTS EDITOR

 The Randolph-Macon Yellow Jackets used an explo-
;5 sive passing attack and suffocating defense to down Wash-
 ington and Lee 34-6 Saturday afternoon at Wilson Field.
if Junior quarterback Brian Partlow, a transfer from William
 and Mary, threw ﬁve touchdown passes in what turned
~: out to be a dismal homecoming for the Generals.
1? “The effort was there,” head coach Frank Miriello said
.5 following the game. “[Randolph-Macon] just had a little
33 more talent then we thought.”
i The Generals (1-3, 0-2 ODAC) had a number of bad
 breaks early on in the game that put them in a hole that
 they would never be able to dig themselves out of. A pen-
'23 alty for having too many men on the ﬁeld set up the Yellow
1; Jackets first score, a three-yard touchdown pass from
,1 Partlow to receiver Michael Becker with 4:51 left in the first
 quarter. An unsuccessful fake punt led to the next
it Randolph-Macon touchdown, this time a four-yard touch-
 down reception byjunior wide receiver Sean Eaton, with
i: 13:40 left in the second quarter.
ii “We were substituting a lot of guys in and out and mix-
 ups happen sometimes,” Miriello said, referring to the costly
;i penalty. “As for the fake punt, they just didn’t buy it. 1
 still think it was a good call.”
i, The Generals managed to score their only points of the
i2 game in the second quarter as Andy Vendig kicked two
3 ﬁeld goals, one from 32 yards and the other from 37 yards.
3.‘ Partlow threw his third touchdown of the half with 2:54 left
3 in the second quarter, a 6-yard strike to Jon Wells, and the
 Yellow Jackets took a 21-6 lead into the locker room.
if Partlow threw two more touchdown passes in the
'1 second half, a two-yard throw to Tom Bush and a 24-
 yard strike to Eaton. Partlow finished the game 25-51
;§ for 342 yards and five touchdowns. Partlow did throw
"3 three interceptions, but the Generals were unable to do
 anything with them, going three and out each time they
 forced a turnover.

“The turnovers we forced didn’t lead to any points and
 that hurts,” said Miriello. “Against a team of that caliber,
;i you can’t afford to not take advantage of their mistakes.”

Hollister llovcy/Executive Editor

Freshman defensive back Jack Arnold prevents a Randolph Macon player from catching a pass in
Saturday’s homecoming battle. The Yellow Jackets did manage to score other touchdowns, however.

The Generals struggled offensively all day long and
could only muster up 59 rushing yards and 205 total yards.
Junior quarterback Christian Batcheller was 22-38 for 146
yards and had no turnovers or interceptions. Sophomore
running back Marc Watson picked up 52 yards rushing
on 12 carries.

Game Statistics
SCORE BY QUARTERS 1 2 3 4 RUSHING: RMC-Antoine Ransom 12-54,
Chad McMillan 6-29, Brian Partlow 6-20,
Randolph M300“ (3'1) 7 14 6 7*‘ 34 Andre Carter 3-10, Tom Bush 2-6, Steve Ott
Washington & Lee (1-3) 0 6 0 0 _ 5 1-2. WLU—Marc Watson 12-52, Hanley
Sayers 7-18, Kyle Overstreet 1-3, Carter
Lee 1-0, Doug Williams 1-minus 5,C.
Batcheller 3-minus 9.
RMC WLU PASSING: RMC-Brian Partlow 25-51-3-
342, Patrick Bates 1-3-0-3. WLU—C.
First DOWNS 23 14 Batcheller 22-38-0-146, Russell Wrenn 0-1-
Rushes-Yds (Net) 30-121 25-59 0-0,
Passing Yds (Net) 345 146 RECEIVING: RMC-Michael Becker 8-97,
Passes A'ft'C0m'1nl 54-25-3 39-22-0 Sean Eaton 5-80, Tom Bush 4-68, Jon Wells
Total Offensive Plays-Yds 84-466 64-205 4-56, Antoine Ransom 2-30, Chris Valis 1-6,
Fumble Returns-Yds 0-0 0-0 Chad McMillan 1-5, Justin Basdikis 1-3.
Punt Returns-Yds 4-9 2-8 WLU-Chas Chastain 4-44, Scott Moses 4-
Kl°k0ff Retums-Yds 2-37 6- 1 07 34, Marc Watson 4-8, Wesley Hardy 3-19,-
Interception Retums-Yds 0-0 3-3 J.T. Malatesta 3-10, David Ritgzhey 2-19,
punts (N0- AVeT3ge) 4-25.3 8-38.8 Scott Humphreys 1-13, Hanley Sayers 1-
Fumbles-Lost 0-0 0-0 minus 1_
Penalties-Yds 6-56 7-64 INTERCEPTIONS: RMC-None. WLU-
Possession Time 31:14 19:29 Will Baker 1-0, Jack Arnold 1-3, Keith
Sacks By Number-Yds 1-8 1-8 Prusek 1.0.

Men’s Soccer

Up and Down

by Tod Williams

STA FF WRITER

Homecoming weekend has always
been special at Washington and Lee,
and the men’s soccer team surely did
its part to make the weekend memo-
rable. On Saturday the Generals
notched their ﬁrst Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference victory of the sea-
son and then followed up on Sunday
by winning a circus ofa game in over-
time.

Sunday’s game against Savannah
College of Art and Design proved to
be quite a case of Dr. Jeckyl and Mr.
Hyde. The first halfended in an un-
eventful 0-0 tie, but the second half
proved to be a little more interesting
than the first.

At the 51 :50 mark, W&L’s Jon
Wright, a senior forward, scored the
games first goal off of an assist from
fellow senior Mikel Parker. When the
Generals returned down the ﬁeld less

2

c

 Sophomore defender Jacek Mucha strikes a ball in Sunday’s
1: contest against Savannah A&D. The Generals won 4-3 in OT.

it Hollister Hovey/Executive Editor

than one minute later, Jamie Parker
scored the game’s second goal, his

See SOCCER, page 7

“We couldn’t generate any offense at all, nothing
seemed to work," Miriello said. “They just overpow-
ered us.”

The Generals try to get back on the winning track next
Saturday as they travel to North Carolina to take on
Davidson. ,_,

Women’s Soccer

by Frances Groberg

SPORTS EDITOR

This week, the Generals proved that they can indeeed
pull out the tough victory. In fact, they did it twice.

On Saturday, the team gave up its first goals of the sea-
son to Guilford, yet managed to net the 4-3 homecoming
victory to remain undefeated. The win boosted the team’s
record to 6-0.

Senior captain Karin Treese opened the scoring at 5:56,
heading a ball past Guilford goalkeeper Jenny Akman. Just
32 seconds later, Treese schooled Akman once again, scor-
ing from 30 yards out to put the Generals up 2-0.

The Quakers, however, did not let the score stand.
Guilford forward Ingrid Werge became the first player to
score against Washington and Lee this season at the 8:12
mark, and Amy Evans helped herteam to tie the Generals 2-
2 before halftime.

Five minutes into the second half, freshman forward Kate
Bidwell put the Generals up once again with her fourth goal
of the season. Sophomore forward Lindsey Williams broad-
ened the gap again in the 73rd minute with her first goal of
the season, giving W&L a 4-2 lead.

That goal proved crucial to the Generals’ victory, as
Quaker forward Alison Schott’s penalty kick in the 76th
minute put her team one goal closer to tying W&L.

Despite the close call, the Generals were able to keep

V..ba11sﬁ11   
- Jumping High

by Steele Cooper '1 t . I. . 

Sm? WRITER

W&L was on the roadbnce againfon 'I‘liursday.._/

V traveling to ODAC rival Lynchburg College. The Gen-5 ” 4 -

erals defeated Lynchburg in a fivegame match-(15-7’,
i 11-15, 6-15, 15-5, 15-7). This win broughttheir record 
to 13-2, and 5-0 ODAC, keeping them on’ track to -
qualify for the NCAA national tournament. W&L is 
currentlyrankedi ﬁfth in the.South Region; the top § 1
regionally ranked teams at the endof the regular _sea-
son will advance toltheltournament. 1 1* ' '
The second ‘ and third, games against ,  sq
Lynchburg were this week’s tough spots for th_efCzen- _ 3
erals. “We were like football players playingilvollei ‘M
. ball,” Freshman Ricka Hildebrandjsaid. ‘W&L had a
difficult time executing their passes duringthose 
losses, but pulled together asfa team to finish gt
match in two impressive fourth andiﬁﬁth games. 8 ,
Freshman starter LeeICharl5,onet  inseveg
big blocks  the fourthgand ,ﬁfth.to‘?hel,p slviutiqdo, ,
, Lynchburg. SheAflsiconﬁdent"el29ut ,thie»;prospectsf;,fo'
a national bid. .<“We:liave to keep on playing   q
q and winning’, so we  gojito ‘hejytournament 1 ‘
Charbonet asserted ‘ ; 3 _. ’ \ qfrj    5 "
On : '1',uesday,7W&l§{ efféated‘ oDAc"ri.ya
Bddgewater,Co:1egem,dnee§émes(1-5-1.0, .15;-.i1;1é.
12). Bridgevyater ha,s‘trac,iiti‘onaily,be'ena very ton 3
opponent for, the ‘Generals, and,,the§win lielpedth
- tearn’s‘conﬁdence. ,     ;: j  j: .2 5   ,
The Generals were once again strong behind Fres f-
man Lindsayikuckeit. Ruckert delivered 19 killsan; p  1;
nine digs againstBridgewater, which further /estaqb-V ‘
‘ lished her presence onithe team and initlie--confeiy I
ence.»“Everyone on this g.te,iiiI‘1.1 Plays strongly when .3
given a chance to step up and piay,”7Ru§kert said 1'
Sophomore,setter Katherine- Kline helped tos
the victory with 21tiassisﬁ,»Klineiunderstands the
valry between Bridgewater and W&L.”‘fThe‘ win’ In
three » games boosted our sel,'f-conf'iden'ce- because. .«
previousgamesihave been really tough,” lélinejsaidf , 
Tomorrow night W&L will host Emory andjHenry'-Q 1
in the Warner Center at 6:30.;Tl1ey look to continue‘ 1
this winningjstreak and workjcloserﬂto their bid,jforthej4

 

  

 
 
  
 
    

national championships;  

 

Stays Unbeaten

Guilford from scoring again, and the buzzer sounded with
the Generals up 4-3. .

Junior goalkeeper Stephanie McKnight called the gan as
“our most rewarding win of the season. The whole team;
was really solid. From here on out, the season will pick up.
lt’s crunch time.”

Assistant Coach Lorraine Taurassi agreed. “The abil-
ity [to win tough games] is definitely there. This week,
they got a chance to prove it.”

W&L pulled out another close victory last Thursday
against Sweet Briar, collecting their ﬁfth shutout of the
season 1-0.

Though the Generals posted 36 shots against the op-
ponent, only one shot -was able to find the net. Sopho-
more midﬁelder Shana Levine scored the critical goal 24
minutes into the first half, assisted by freshman midﬁelder
Drew Powers and sophomore midﬁelder Liz Olson.

“We played down to Sweet Briar’s level,” Levine said.
“We kept shooting from the outside, even though they
weren’t working. We didn’t adjust very well.”

The shutout, W&L’s ﬁfth consecutive of the season,
tied a team record set in 1990 and again in 1993.

The Generals will try to go 7-0 as they host arch-rival
Roanoke College this Thursday at the Liberty Hall Fields
starting at 4:00 p.m.

“We beat them in overtime last year, and we’re expect-
ing a really tough game,” Levine said.

Hollister Hovey/Executive Editor

Sophomore defender Samantha Garbisch trips a Guilford player as she makes a play for the ball.
The Generals pulled out the tough 4-3 victory over the Quakers during homecoming weekend.

 

  
   
  
 
  
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

...-..;. ..-.,_-............. —.‘..............._.... .r.-...

 

OCTOBER 5, 1998

SPQRTS

 

PAGE 7

SOCCER CONTINUED FROM PAGE 6

36th career goal and 78th career point. Matt Wilson’s assist to Parker was
his first oftwo on the day. The Generals would hold their 2-0 lead for over 30
minutes.

After the Generals’ sudden offensive burst, the game quickly returned to its
previously uneventful state until the 72nd minute when Generals sophomore
Scott Lofranco had a collision with the Bees’ Roddy Burgess. The two, who
bumped heads in a mid-air struggle for the ball, were stunned as they lay on the
ground. A trainer was called out to check on both players, but Burgess jumped
up and refused to be examined. Play resumed afterwards when both players
seemed to be ﬁne.

Approximately six minutes later, at 79:30, Burgess, who had been substi-

1 tuted, went into a violent seizure that lasted more than a minute while lying on

the ground in front of SCAD’s benches. Play was stopped as a trainer and a
doctor from the stands examined Burgess. Burgess was wrapped in blankets
and jackets, and an ambulance was called.

Lofranco was relatively unfazed by the accident. “I didn’t realize it, but I
must have lost half of a second,” he said.

The seizure obviously affected both teams very deeply, according to senior
Sam Chase.

“We gathered together and said a prayer for him,” Chase said. “It really
makes you realize how important a game is when the kid’s on the side almost
dying.”

Play resumed approximately ten minutes later, and the incident proved to
be quite a turning point in the game, Chase said.

“That really took the wind out of our sails,” he said.

The Bees’ Marten Magnusson scored an unassisted goal just over three
minutes after play resumed at 82:39. The Bees scored again on their next trip
down, just one minute and fourteen seconds later. Alan Huijsmans Sent an
unassisted shot into the net from 20 yards out on the right side.

The game didn’t remain tied for very long, though. Chase, W&L’s senior
scoring phenom, sent one in at 85:43 off an assist from Wilson to give the
Generals a 3-2 lead.

The game then returned to a 3-3 tie less than 20 seconds later when SCAD’s
James Stokeld scored another unassisted Bee goal at 86:02.

W&L had two close shots at ending the game as the clock ticked down.
Sophomore forward Jon Wilson almost shot one by SCAD keeper Jonathan
Ward at 87:30.

On a fast break only 28 seconds later Parker was tripped from behind by
SCAD player Freddie Bennett. Bennett received only a yellow card, much to
the dismay of W&L coach Rolf Piranian and the rest ofthe team.

The Generals were forced to enter their second sudden death overtime game
ofthe season as regulation play ended with the game still tied at three.

Little time was wasted, though, as Chase ended the game 1:13 minutes into
overtime with an unassisted shot from 35 yards out, giving the Generals a 4-3
win. Chase now has 105 career points.

SCAD head coach Neil Cunningham said he wasn’t quite Sure about
the happenings ofthe game, which sent the buzzing Bees to 4-4-1 on
the season.

“W&L came out very strong and caught us on our heels,” Cunningham
said. “But once we got into it, it was like anything you can do we can do
better.”

Cunningham said he was very impressed by Chase’s scoring attack.

“That number 13 had a great game and especially a great winning goal,” he
said.

Jordan Ginsberg, a sophomore, spent the entire game in front of the

goal for the Generals, his first start on the year. “I wasjust glad to step in
there and help out,” Ginsberg said. “The first 80 minutes were great, but
I got kind of nervous in the last 10.”

Ginsberg was playing in place of the usual keeper E.J. Murphy, who sat out
on Sunday due to a sprained ankle. Murphy said he was not worried about
thejob Ginsberg could do.

“I have more confidence in him than in me sometimes,” Murphy said.

W&L head coach Rolf Piranian was positive after the game. “I’m really
proud of the guys,” he said.

The Generals first conference win of the season came on Saturday, at the
heart ofthe homecoming festivities. W&L dominated Guilford College 5-1 at
Liberty Hall Fields.

The Generals never had a problem generating offense. Chase opened up
the scoring only 5:24 into the game. That goal sent Chase over the 100-point
mark for his career.

The intimidating Quakers tied the game up shortly after at 11:30 when
senior Owen Finberg scored. '

Just seven minutes later, Parker reclaimed the lead for good for the Gener-
als. Senior defensive standout Mikel Parker scored his first goal of the sea-
son sandwiched between a pair of Matt Wilson shots. The two goals were
the ﬁrst career goals for the freshman. W&L outshot the Quakers on the game
18-4.

The only dark spot in the Generals’ week came on Wednesday as they fell
to the Eastern Mennonite Royals in Harrisonburg.

The first half passed without a goal, much like Sunday’ s game. The Royals
were first to get on the board as Jamie Miller scored with an assist from Aaron
Buckwalter at 65:5 1 into the game. Several minutes later, EMU player Cedric
Steiner passed the ball to Jon Moyer, who was standing just inside the pen-
alty box. Moyer’s goal put EMU up 2-0, a lead that would prove sufficient for
the win.

W&L senior forward Jon Wright posted the Generals’ only goal ofthe
day in the game’s 85th minute. The Royals outshot the Generals 10-9 in
the contest.

The Generals, who now stand 4-2-1, 1-2-1 in ODAC play, will host Lynchburg
College on Wednesday at 4 p.m. at the Liberty Hall Fields.

This Week

TUESDAY
Volleyball vs. Emory & Henry 6:30 p.m.

WEDNESDAY
Men's Soccer vs. Lynchburg 4:00 p.m.

THURSDAY

Women’s Soccer vs. Roanoke 4:00 p.m.
Volleyball @ Sweet Briar

SATURDAY

Football @ Davidson
Men’s Soccer @ Hampden-Sydney
Women’s Soccer @ Emory
Men’s, Women’s X—country @ D Il-111 Championships

 

IM’s Gear Up For ’98”q’.-

by Carter Thomas
STAFF WRITER

 

I Let the games begin! The 1998-1999 Washington and Lee, I 
University fall Intramural season is off and  to  ‘

. start, opening with Men’ s Touch Football and Women’syBasket
“ball which begins October 13. The men’ s football  began
r September 24 and will continue through October 22, as}.t1"io“
. beastly fraternity brothers, independents, and law  1',
kick, pass  punt their way to victory. ' “  '6

SCHEDULE  F

Racquetball: F
Mar. 8 ' ‘  .
Swimming:  225’;
Turkey Trot: Mar. 12‘

    
   
  
 
  
   
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
   
  
   
 

-,‘-FALL-WOMEN   Q

. Basketball:.Oct. 13-30
,9 Tennis: Nov. 4-18

. FALL—MEN Bowling: Mar. 21j-Apr
Football: Sept. 24-Oct. 22 Wrestling‘ M?‘ 10:1
Golf: Oct. 5-27

. _ 5 SPRING-WOIYIENF
, Tennis: Oct. 26-Nov. 19 ’ 5

Indoor Soccer: Nov. 4-19 if/idooili ?8°§;r:,
Ping Pong: Nov. 1-Dec. 10 are ' »  '
W'INTER-WOMEN SPRING-MEN  :
Bowling: Dec’ L19 Ult. Frisbee: Apr. :2

May 6

Volleyball: Jan. 27-Feb. 1 1

~ WINTER-MEN
Volleyball: Jan 18-26
Squash: Jan. 27-Feb 8
Basketball: Feb. 23-Mar. 25

Softball: May,9~23y I
Track: May 14 2 I I

Please note that an extremely important meeting will be held,
Tuesday, October 6th at 7:30 p_.m. in the Warner Center,C1ass~'i 3
room (500) for any and all sororities, women law students,  ’
independent women interested in Intramurals thisyear. 

. please keep in mind that individual sports and activities 
: scheduled as interest and desire is shown. So, as thejl 998 9”
Intramural season kicks off, be sure to get involved”and;b,ring*
your friends, for it’ S going to be more fun thanryoifll 

 

 

We invite you to explore AnoIyst coreer opportunities with

First Union Investment Bonking.

\/\/oshington ond Lee University recruiting dotes:

Compony Intormotion Session:

Tuesdoy, October 8, 1998

First Union/V\/heot First Union Interviews:

\/\/ednesdoy, October 21, 1998

Bovvles HoIIovveII Conner:

Tuesdoy, October 20, 1998
First Union/\/\/heot First Union Spring Interviews’:

TBA

Pleose contoct the Coreer Development Otiice

ot 463-8595 ior more detoiIs.

  rigﬁﬁiv

Capital Markets Group

The combined strengths oi

Bovvles HoIIovveII Conner & Co, First Union Copitol /\/\orI<ets
ond \/\/heot First Union

O I 998 I-'[I'.rz‘ L'z1z'r2/1 (.'n/'/mi"/in?)/1. Firttr ("Mimi (.'ii/2[m/ .1[/17'/i’l’[.\' and 11'/./rm‘ I-'1'/'.ti* Unimi tll'L‘ r7’ii’i.tinI1.\‘ i{f'l1’/11711‘ Fi7'.rr Si‘rIiI'z'tz'i".\'. I211‘.

1>’niii/zit Hri//nii'i‘// (.'um1i'I‘ C“ (To. [X1111 ri_/_'fi'/111/1‘ rg/'11’/mil Hzzri .S'i'i‘12/‘i'Ii‘i:r, Int‘.

OBJECTIVE
INDUSTRY
CAPITAL
RIGOROUS

IN - DEPTH
TRANSACTION

GLOBAL

SKILLED

ENDURING

 

PAGE 8

Humor Page

LAST WORD

 
  

OCTOBER 5, 1998

The Stuff Dreams are Made Of

by Brian Prisco
PH] MOVIE our

.1. 2 3 4.35

(WORTH THE FULL PRICE OF
ADMISSION)

“What Dreams May Come” is pos-
sibly the greatest love story ever told.
Most people might feel this a comment
that may be stretching the limits. For
them, I say go see this movie. Ifthis
movie doesn’t move you, then you are,
to quote the film, “a soulless bitch"
(this includes men) and should con-
sider erasing yourself from the human
race. Call me, I will mail you the gun.

The movie works on every level
that most love stories crash and burn
on. Level one, the cast. Most movies
that deal with love star Johny Hi-l’m-
Good-Looking-This-Is-The-Last-
Movie-You-Will-Ever-See-Me-In-
Once-My-Good—Looks-Fade and
Suzie Whee-I-Can’t—Act-Look-At-
My—Hooters. Their dialogue and
screen presence make you want to pro-
jectile vomit.

Not the case here, folks. It stars
Robin Williams (Jesus, people, ifyou
don’t know what movies he’s been in,
crawl out from under your rock) and
Annabella Sciora (“The Hand That
Rocks the Cradle”), who play a hus-
band and wife who have been through
more than most people go through in
a lifetime. Both stretch the acting range
from doting and playful to morose and
melancholy, and touch every base in
between with a grace and skill that can-
not be matched. They are supported
by Cuba Gooding, Jr. (“Jerry
Maguire”) as a guardian angel/guide
and Max Von Sydow (“The Exorcist”)
as a scholar who adds to this already
dynamic bunch.

The second level this movie works
on is speed. Hey, James Cameron, get

 

Crossword Puzzle

out your notebook. You can make a
successful romantic story in under two

 

I’m sick to death of it. This movie
throws the couple into the vividly

hours. This painted can-
movie hasNO vas of the
slow moments. Divine Com-
It leaps from edy. From
memory to heaven to
memory and hell,Christy
keeps the ac- (Williams)
tion moving. chases for
Most romantic his wife
movies drag when every-
on like a onetellshim

Volkswagen full of morbidly obese
Sumo wrestlers carrying bricks uphill
in a stiffwind. Not here, folks.
Thirdly, landscape and scenery.
Your average love story is set in a cafe,
or a beach, or the city. Blah blah blah,

to leave her be. This movie makes “Ti-
tanic” look like it was done in a bath-
tub. There are no words to explain
what you see. It is a technical mas-
terpiece that ranks up there with the
moment Dorothy opens the doors

to Auntie Em’s cottage and be-
holds Oz in all its technicolor
grandeur. You have never seen
anything like this movie, and
probably never will.

This movie will make you
laugh, cry, and fall in love. That
is such a blase cliche it makes
me nauseous, which is the other
thing the movie stays away from.
There are more surprises and
twists and turns than you know
what to do with. Even if you can
see the end coming or can pre-
dict what happens next, you just
don’t care.

So, my final advice to you:
drop your books and go see this
movie. Do not make the mistake

    
      
   
  
   
   
 
    
 

of waiting until it comes out on
video, you need to see this film on a
big screen to truly appreciate it. It

   
   
  
    
     
    
 

Robin Williams stretches his acting muscles in the true epic love
story of the 90’s, “What Dreams May Come.”

will amaze you; it’s a feel-good
tearjerker. This movie will change
your perspective on life.

A Beginner’s Guide to Shakespeare

by Kevin McManemin

OUT OF ME HEAD

Because we want to inform as well
as entertain here at the Last Word, to-
day we present, very seriously and
without sarcasm or silly jokes, the first
part of our very serious series “Pass-
ing Your Required English Courses.”
Today we’ll be looking at that drama-
turgical deity himself: Billy
Shakespeare.

It’s a pretty safe bet that any course
you take in the English department will
involve at least three ofShakespeare’s
plays and probably some of his hoino-
erotic sonnets as well. It doesn’t mat-
ter if you’re taking a course on e.e.
Cummings — your professor will still
make you wade through “Richard III”
or “Macbeth.”

You see, when your professors
went to college they, like us, were told
that Shakespeare was the greatest
writer in the English language and as-
signed his plays. And, just like us, your

professors got about seven pages into
“Hamlet,” said “what the hell is he
talking about?” and spent the rest of
the day watching TV, drinking beer
and eating Doritos.

Your professors have no idea what
any of the characters are saying ei-
ther. No one knows. Shakespeare’s
contemporaries didn’t even have a
clue. “What thee helle talkst he
aboute?” They’d say in the middle of
the first act, then spend the rest of
the day at the pub drinking mead and
eating pigeon—meat sandwiches.

No one is willing to admit this,
however, and face the threat of seem-
ing like they “just don’t get it.” And
so the charade of Shakespeare being
the greatest writer ever perpetuates
through the ages.

So what exactly did this dude
write? Let’s take a closer look at the
four basic kinds of Shakey’s plays:

The Comedies — Remember that
this defines “comedy” in the broad-
est sense. Comedy refers to a play in

donna.

Off the Wire

ﬁctitously compiled by Kevin McManemin

Downsized baseball teams faired poorly
As the 1998 baseball season comes to a close,
many team owners are looking back with regret on
a series of ,downsiz’mgs, layoffs and cost-cutting

measures undertaken to increase proﬁts.
The Detroit Tigers faired poorly this season after
I eliminating the position of shortstop, citing it as
“simply not cost effective.” The Seattle Mariners
faired even worse with a corporate restructuring
scheme that combined the positions of 1st, 2nd
and 3rd base into a single position called “base.”
The ’98 Mariners will enter the record books for
having been scored on 532,658,765 times this sea-
son, breaking the record previously set by Ma-

The Philadelphia Phillies actually improved this ‘
season aﬁer replacing batters with computers. The

which the protagonist is still alive by
the end, and has nothing to do with
whether or not it’s supposed to be
funny. Incidently, this is why the NBC
show “Third Rock from the Sun” is
refered to as a comedy.

The Tragedies — All ofhis trag-
edies consist of the same essential
three characters:

I) The hero who
starts out cool but ends
up so nervous and
jumpy you’d swear he
stayed up the night
before drinking a
case oflolt cola and
a pot of cappuchino.

2) The guy played
by Captain Picard from
“Star Trek: The NextGen—
eration.”

3) The older woman who thinks
she’s really on top of her craft since
she’s acting in a Shakespeare play and
therefore dreadfully overacts and is
kind offunny to watch in a tragic sort
of way, like watching a clown get hit
by a train.

The Histories — A general rule is

   
  
 

..«-r""‘

that any ofhis plays with a number in
the title is probably a history. “John
II,” “Henry III,” “Henry the IV part
two,” “Slaughterhouse Five,” these are
Shakespeare’s histories. They are re-
markably inaccurate when compared
to real history books on their subjects;
however, they are every bit as dull as
any history book on the mar-
ket today.
The Romances —- Ro-
mances usually contain fan-
tastic and supernatural el-
ements such as sorcerors,
elves, faires or talking
bears along with the ro-
mantic tales of true love.
Just remember that people
used to be a lot more gull-
ible and believed in practi-
cally anything in the l600’s.
Imagine—true love. Ha!

So just remember this about
Shakespeare: his comedies weren’t
funny, his tragedies are hilarious to
watch, his romances are fantasies and
his histories are filled with more his-
torical inaccuracies than Ronald
Reagan’s memory.

So what relevance do Shakespeare’s
plays have on our modern world? Well,
not bloody much. However, it would
be cool to talk like a Shakespeare char-
acter.

Take these simple examples of com-
mon phrases Shakespearized and soon
you too can be speaking like one of
the sprites from “A Midsummer’s
Night Dream.”

Dude, we were so wasted.

Hark! Yon devious ale keg forsook us!

My asshole English professor
woke me up in class.

Twas a scoundrel that didst awaken
me from Diana’s bawdy slumber!

I can't believe it 's not butter.
Nay, be it not so! But for mine own
lips to taste such sweet sucor, surely
was not the wealth of bishops in a
fishmongerer’s hat? Be this not the
butter of my father’s churn, but beist
it some wretched malefescence? O
margarine, thou cursed abomination.
O thou poison’d chosterol-free swill.
T’would I rather have but the cho-
lesterol coursing through mine
humours.

[exeunt]

(;REE;Eiiu'rty"ihd'exAc
‘ and‘iCREF Growth Account‘

..{S&P and Moodfs
rating for TIAA**

RIiSEARC

“---Ameﬁcas
TOD Pension Fund.”
.../Money Magazine, January 1993

- ybuwledm‘ 0”“

H COMMUNI

(answers on page 5)

ACROSS

I Mistake

5 Sharp tasting

10 Travel on water
I4 Musical passage
15 Office gadget

I6 Bone

17 Adam’s son

18 Speechify

19 Eye or piggy end
20 Radiant

22 Counsel

24 Brainless one

26 Shoe part

27 Emergency

30 Items for smokers
35 Game of chance
36 Comedian Johnson
37 Fast gait

38 “-Yankee Doodle. . .”

39 Behavior

42 “I Like —”

43 Tome and Gibson
45 Drizzle

46 Bird sound

48 Certain protests
50 Interrogates

51 Onassis

52 Wading bird

54 Brandy

57 Firemen’s needs
61 Surrounded by
62 Sensational

65 Great Lake

66 Montez or Falana
67 Act badly

68 Speed contest
69 Gangster’s girl

70 Haste

71 Hold back

DOWN

I Strikebreaker

2 Ear part

3 Notion

4 F ortuneteller.

5 Handsome fellow
6 Freight

7 Greek letter

8 Soak ﬂax

9 Rest period

10 Undermine

1 1 Jai -

12 Hotels

13 Great Salt —

21 Expression

23 Period

25 Make dull

27 Ascend

28 Tragic lover

29 Rome’s land

31 British gun

32 “Tempest” sprite
33 Rube

34 Walks

36 Body structure: abbr.
40 Items

4] Young fish

44 Disgrace

47 Deters

49 A feast — famine
50 Ranked

53 The upper crust
54 Quiet

55 Melville work
56 Fish organ

58 QED word

59 Paddy plant

60 Appear

63 Game official, for short

64 Caviar

©1994 Tribune Media Services

Phillies ended up batting .004 this year, nearly,‘ V.
double last year’s result. And down in Texasthe is
Rangers are regretting cutting back on supplies
like catcher’s masks and ‘mitts after suffering 198
catcher fatalities this season. ’
Ownersareiconsidering increasing their dwin-
' dling profit margins by moving the teams to Mexico
and the Dominican Republic, where not only will
an average pro ball player work for just $9.70 a year,
but will actually play better baseball as well.

Student Council President impeached in sex scandal

Peoria, IL -— David Capasano, president of

I the third grade student council at Franklin
Roosevelt Elementary School, was forced to step
down today barring impeachment proceedings.
‘ Capasano’s reign had been marred by allegations

that he’d kissed classmate Rebecca Johansen on g
the lips. “This is not acceptable behavior from our
leaders,” said third grader Mark Fredricks, “Doesn’t
he know that girls are yucky?” Many students are
concerned that their president is setting the ex-
ample that casual kissing is acceptable behavior in
the age of cooties. Others worry that Capasano
will no longer be able to govern effectively after
being made the butt of countless jokes and cho-
ruses of “David and Becky sitting in a tree, K-I-S-
S-I-N-G.” Student Council Vice President Jennifer
Beaman has vowed to “restore morality to third
grade political office,” adding that “boys are so
gross. Like, ewwwww.”

Strom Thurinond still alive

Washington — In a feat that doctors are call-
ing “a medical miracle,” Senator Strom Thunnond
did not die today. The 96-year-old statesman con-
tinued the metabolic processes required for life for
another 24 hours, failing to keel over in his seat on
the Senate ﬂoor or collapse face-first into his bowl
of oatmeal this morning at breakfast. Doctors at-
tribute Thurmond’s amazing longevity to “some
sort of pact with Satan.”

-—‘Mlliam Ravdin, TIAA-CREF Participant

HIGH MARKS FROM
MORNINGSTAR, s&1>, MOODY’S,
MONEY MAGAZINE AND BILL.

‘ S X e take a lot of pride in gaining high marks
from the major rating services. But the fact

is, we 're equally proud of the ratings we get every

operating expenses that are among the lowest in the
insurance and mutual fund industries.”

\Vith TIAA-CREF, you'll get the right choices —
day from our participants. Because at TIAA-CREF, and the dedication ——to help you achieve a lifetime
ensuring the ﬁnancial futures of the education and of financial goals. The leading experts agree.
So does Bill.

Find out how TIAA-CREF can help you build a

research community is something that goes beyond
stars and numbers.

We became the world's largest retirement orga- comfortable, financially secure tomorrow.
nization‘ by offering people a wide range ofsound Visit our VVeb site at www.tiaa-cref.org or call

us at 1800 842-2776.

investments, a commitment to superior service, and

_
Ll A A
. .
9' Ensuring the future
for those who shape it.”
' Source: Moi-ningsnr. Inc.. July 31,1998. Momingsi is an independent service (in! rates mutual funds and unable .ln|'|u|[lC3. The top I096 offunds in an investment carcgun rCLL'I‘v‘:‘ nu; «an and the next 12.5% recent

{our sins Momingsiu propnenrv nungs i-etlzcr hisronccil nsk-idiusrcd performance and are subject to change zvcry mnnrh. Thcv ire calciilsrcd from the :ccL>uiir‘«. rhrrr-. l‘l\r'L",1nLilCf‘l-\C.Il' .i\ L-rage .mnu.i| returns in
excess of 90-«lav TI'C2L\Llr\' bill returns with Jppmpmrc tee idiusrmcnh. and 1 risk factor lhll’ rctlecis performance bclow 90-«lav T-bill rciums. The overall star ratings interred in ihmc Jrc .\lurningir.ir‘~ published
rzungs, which are weighted svengcs or its rhrcc-,five-..1ml icn-year ratings for pcnods ending lulv 31. I998. The separate I unpublished) ratings for each ofrhe penal: are:

 

CIBF Stuck Amllll CIEP Glohd Equities Xzcollnl CXIF Equity Ink: Auonnt CIEF Gtvwth Amount CHEF Bond Market Account CIBF Social Choice 
5”‘ iUU"§/ Sm R.iting/ Sm RJung/ Sm RAll|'1g/ Sur luring, Sm R.iiin§/
Number of Domestic Equity Numb<r ntinicmmonal Equity Number 0fD0l1'I€$(lE Equity Number of D0m€.\lIC Equirv Number or I-"nail lnminc .\'unih<rui'Domcsiic hqum‘

Period Accounts Rated Azcounts lured Accounts lhinl Accounts Rarcil .-‘iccnuiirs lhiml Acrnunis lured
3-Year 4/2-12° 4/459 5/2.120 5/2.120 4/719 4/2.120
5-YW '*/ L363 5/335 N/A N, A -I/487 4,/1.303
l0'Y¢=r 4/674 N/A N/A . x/A N/.\ N/ A i

"Thesevtop ratings ueﬁaxd on TlAA‘s excepnonzl ﬁnancul strength, claims-paying ibilirv and overall operating perforrmnce. 'Bascd on QSKCIS under mzrugcment "'Sriinduvd -1" Poor’: Inrumnrr Rrll’Ul_ﬂ ANRIVIU.
1998; Lipper Analytic Services, Inc.. Lippzr-Dirmuﬁr Analytical Dam. I993 iQum<rl_v) CREF certiﬁcates and inrcmrs in the l'li-\.-\ Rn] Esme Account ire disxnhuicd bv TIA.-\-CREF ll1dl|’Idu.1‘ mil

Inmirurionzl Services. For more . ,l... inforinaiion, including charges ind expenses. call I 800 842-2733,:xr<n.sion 5509. for the CILEF iind Tl.-\A Real Estate Account Pr().1[Y€\‘I|A‘£>. Read thfﬂl carefully before
you invest or send money.

A

     
     
     
   
   
    
      
   
    
   
    
   
   
   
     
  
   
  
   
  
   
  
    
  
 
 
  
     
 
  
  
  
    
   
  
   
 
  
    
   
 
      
   
   
  
  
   
    
  
   
   
  
  
     
  
   
   
   

 
   
 

  

:
u

a

   

4 Two students
'* charged with
vehicle theft

74.

Washington and Lee University
VOLUME 101, NUMBER 5

Clip: Iﬁing-tum Iﬂlti 

OCTOBER ‘12, 1998

 

by Hollister Hovey
and Polly Doi g

EDITORS

Two sophomore women were
charged last week on two counts of
felony unauthorized use of a vehicle,
in connection to a joyriding incident.

According to the Rockbridge
County Sheriff s Department, Ellen S.
Elliott of Denver, Colo., and Stephanie
A. Fortener of Dublin, Ohio, went with
friends to Berky’s Restaurant at Lee-
Hi truckstop after a night of partying
on Oct. 1.

Fortener

Elliott

Soon ‘after, the women left the res-
taurant on ‘foot and began walking
along U.S. Route 1 1 toward the city of
Lexington. Arresting ofﬁcer Deputy
Rob Tacket said the girls passed
Goad’s Body Shop on the same road,
and found two vehicles with the keys
in the ignitions.

Elliott took a Nissan Pathﬁnder from
the lot, while F ortener took a Corvette,
and both began driving toward Lex-
ington. Fortener arrived on the Wash-
ington and Lee University campus and
parked the car in the Gaines parking
lot. Elliott’s vehicle apparently did not

by Hollister Hovey

EXECUTIVE EDITOR

University of Wyoming student,
Matthew Shepard, was kidnapped,
tied to a fence, pistol whipped in the
head, burned and left to die. The likely
motivations for the crime — robbery
and Shepard’s homosexuality.

A biker found his body 18 hours
later and mistook him for a scarecrow
because of the way he was tied up.
For 12 of those hours that Shepard’s
body hung on the fence, temperatures
dropped below freezing.

    

have lights, and she pulled over to the
side of the road and passed out be-
hind the wheel.

Tacket found Elliot and asked her
to take a breathalizer test, which she
refused. Elliot was subsequently
charged with driving under the inﬂu-
ence and refusing to take a breathalizer
test.

According to Tacket, Fortener
awoke the next morning and, “took the
car to the country with every intent of
returning it.” Later that day, she turned
herself in and made a full confession.
She was charged with felony unautho-
rized use of a vehicle last Thursday.

Elliott agreed to cooperate with
police after Fortener came forward.

Charges were ﬁled against Elliott
on Oct. 7 and against Fortener on Oct.
8. Tacket said the car theft charges
were delayed because the girls agreed
to cooperate and were considered a
low ﬂight risk.

Felony unauthorized use of a ve-
hicle carries with it penalties of up to
ﬁve years in prison. It is a lesser charge
than grand theft auto, and recognizes
“joyriding,” and the intent to return
the vehicle. Elliott’s refusal to take the
breathalizer test will result in a one-
year suspension of her driver’s licence
ifshe is found guilty.

W&L President John Elrod said in
response to the incident, “Either or
both of [the women] may choose to
withdraw. If they choose not to do so,
they’ 11 probably be found guilty by the
SJC.” ' 1

Dean of Students, David Howison,

Gay student beaten,

Shepard, 21, remains unconscious
in deteriorating critical condition at a
Fort Collins, Colo. hospital. He suffers
from a cracked scull, burns and cuts.

Russell Arthur Henderson, 21, and
Aaron James McKinney, 22, were
charged with attempted murder and
kidnapping. Police added aggravated
robbery charges because Shepard’s
wallet and patent leather shoes were
stolen.

Police said the men lured Shepard
from a University of Wyoming hang-
out by telling him they were gay.

Police charged two women, Chas-

pleted by August 2000.

Finally, a groundbreaking development

Holding the ceremonial Chi Omega shovel, sophomore Elizabeth Holleman accompanied by (left to right) junior Mary-
Heather Welder, sophomore Georgie Hickam, sophomore Julie Boncarosky, and junior Ashley Penkava represented Chi
Omega on Friday at the Sorority House groundbreaking ceremony. Construction of the five house is expected to be com-

 

Photo by Christie Phillips/Photo Editor

refused to comment about honor-re-
lated ramiﬁcations.

Both women have a trial date set
for Nov. 20. As of press time, both
women were still residing in Gaines
Dormitory. They did not return phone
calls regarding the incident.

left to die

tity Vera Pasley, 20, and Kristen Leann
Price, 18, as accessories after the fact
for helping the men dispose of their
bloody clothes. The women reported
the men to the police and said
Henderson and McKinney made anti-
gay remarks about Shepard.

A According to The Denver Post,
both McKinney’s father and Price said
Henderson and McKinney never set
out to nearly kill Shepard, but
McKinney was embarrassed that

See VICTIM, Page 2

More alcohol-related offenses
cause increased LPD action

by Eszter Pados

STA FF WRITER

Washington and Lee University
social functions keep Washington and
Lee Security and the Lexington Police
Department on their toes due to a sig-
niﬁcant increase in alcohol-related mis-
demeanors among students.

Just during Homecoming Weekend,
14 students were arrested for alcohol
related misdemeanors, a much higher
number compared with regular week-
ends.

Returning alumni have contributed
to the problem in the past. This year,
they kept quiet. “Things have
changed in the past ﬁve years,” Chief
Bruce Beard of the Lexington police
department said. “Ten years ago,
alumni came back wild and crazy. But
fortunately things have mellowed out
in the past ﬁve years.”

According to Beard, there weren’t
any alumni arrested this year.

Students, on the other hand, con-
tinue to cause problems.

Five of the 14 arrests were for un-
derage possession of alcohol, a class
three misdemeanor. Three students
were arrested for selling alcohol to in-
dividuals under 21, a class 1 misde-
meanor. Two students were caught
drinking in public, a class four misde-
meanor. Only one student was caught
drunk in public, a class four misde-

CC

meanor, and three Washington and Lee
men were arrested for urinating in pub-
lie on Main street, a class 1 misde-
meanor, also classiﬁed as indecent ex-
posure.

Police officers and Washington and
Lee security are aware of the nature of
big functions like Homecoming.

“We know ahead of time when func-
tions like Homecoming are,” Beard
said. “We schedule more officers to
work these weekends.” 1

Mike Young, Director of Washing-
ton and Lee Security, said that these

 

We know . . . when
functions like Home-
coming are. We sched-
ule more officers . . .

these weekends.
——Chief Bruce Beard

 

events attract a lot of people. ‘Most of
the time, there are a lot of people who
are not part of the Washington and
Lee community.

“More people are involved, there-
fore there is more crime,” Young said.
“More people means more opportu-
nity.”

In addition to police officers and

99

security personnel controlling the area,
four Alcohol Beverage Control agents
were in town last weekend. Accord-
ing to Beard, the agents want to pre-
vent alcohol violations. They mostly
check stores and restaurants where
alcohol is sold. On occasions like
Homecoming Weekend, a lot of alco-
hol is sold to underage students.

Beard said that selling alcohol to
underage individuals has one of the
most serious consequences from all
other alcohol violations. It is a class
one misdemeanor.

“Consequences can be as serious
as confinement in jail for up to 12
months or a ﬁne up to $2,500, or both
penalties,” Beard said.

Bear_d said that Alumni Weekend
is the social function that causes the
most problems. Young begs to dif-
fer.

“I think Fancy Dress is deﬁnitely
the most extraordinary, in terms of
crime,” Young said. ‘‘It’s like a three-
day drunk[fest], people are just out
ofcontrol.”

“Several years ago, Washington
and Lee had a rash of thefts over
Fancy Dress. Considering the num-
ber of guests from outside the com-
munity, who are not bound by the
honor code, crime rates took a leap,”
Young said.

See ALUMNI, Page 2

250*“ video to be beamed to

by Polly Doig

NEWS EDITOR

As Washington and Lee University
gears up to celebrate its 250*‘ anniver-
sary, ﬁlm crews are descending upon
the stately campus. . g

“60 Minutes?” “20/20?” Maybe
“Politically Incorrect?” Are national
media sitting up and taking notice of
the bicenquinquagenary‘?

Not just yet. The ﬁlm crews belong
to Golden Dome Productions, and
they have been assembling footage for
a special 250‘*‘ video since March.

“There are a variety of elements in
the video,” said Neil Penick, Director
of the 250"‘ Celebration. “There are
short video clips on the Honor Sys-
tem, the Law School, W&L today, stu-
dent life and the 250"‘ celebration in
review.”

The idea came when W&L admin-
istrators saw a similar video that was
done by Golden Dome for Notre Dame
University. Arrangements were made,
and crews began ﬁlming at the 1998
Fancy Dress Ball, the so-called “col—

- lege social event ofthe South.”

Since then. the crews have been
ﬁlming continually on campus, accord-
ing to Louise Uffelman, a communica-

tions writer in the W&L News Ofﬁce.

“The idea is to ﬁlm every aspect of
campus life that we can,” Uffelman
said. This includes various special
events such as the 250'“ kickoff Open-
ing Convocation, the Rededication of
Lee Chapel, the Bicenquinquagenary
Ball, the London Hampton Court
event, various speeches and lectures,
the symbolic repayment at Mount
Vernon of the endowment given by
George Washington, and the Respon-
sibility Symposium.

The video’s expected audience
might be a little different than one
might think.

Rather than simply making the end-
product available for sale, on May 1,
1999, the designated National Day of
Celebration, segments of the video will
be broadcast via satellite to more than
50 alumni chapters across the coun-
try. The satellite uplink will also fea-
ture a live show, hosted by Roger
Mudd ’50 and Cecily Tynan Badger
’9l from the Lenfest Center and a
tent from the Liberty Hall Ruins.

“It’s going to be the largest alumni
gathering in history,” Penick said.
“We’re expecting about 3,000 alumni
on campus, and another 3,000 in indi-
vidual chapters connected by satellite.”

alumni chapters via satellite

The gathering will be the culmina-
tion of a yearlong celebration.

“This is truly a special year,” Presi-
dent John Elrod said. “It is remarkable
to think that we are one of the oldest
institutions in America and even more
remarkable to think that we are older
than America herself.”

Along with special events, how-
ever, Golden Dome crews have also
been ﬁlming everyday aspects of stu-
dent life. That means that shots of stu-
dents dissecting laboratory animals,
doing differential calculus equations,
speaking foreign languages and toss-
ing frisbee on the historic Front Lawn
will also be included in the video.

“Basically it’s geared toward ev-
erybody in the W&L community, but
particularly those who can’t make it
back to Lexington for the event,”
Penick said. -

According to Uffelman, the video
has been budgeted as part of the 250"‘
Observance. Penick says the project
is costing about $85,000. And by the
sound of it, the show should be well
worth it.

“We want to make the show enter-
taining, upbeat and celebratory -
show who we are and what we do
well,” said Penick.

W&LIFE: CAMPUS NUTRITION
Roman Koshkin works out regularly in
the weight room to keep in shape.

OPINION:

PAGE 3

SPORTS:

 

continues

Ellie ﬁling-tum iﬂlii

October“ 12, 1998

Incompetence at computer HelpDesk,
dishonorable Bookstore and
Clinton’s troubles

W&L1FE:

Watching your nutrition, excercise on
campus and warnings about antibiotics
PAGES4&5 ‘

Men’s soccer upsets, women’s soccer
drops ﬁrst and football’s losing streak

PAGES 6&7

 

PAGE 2

 

NEWS

OCTOBER 12, 1998

New bills increase
financial aid costs

Changes will affect many, aid programs

by Polly Doig

NEWS EDITOR

The newly,-signed Higher Educa-
tion Amendments of 1998 could have
a signiﬁcant impact on the way col-
lege students do business with their
ﬁnancial aid offices.
Though President Clinton’s signa-
ture is barely dry, the amendments,
3 which reauthorize the Higher Educa-
‘ tion Act of 1965, already promise to
affect several federal loan and ﬁnan-
cial aid programs.

“Obviously I think that’s great be-
cause I have loans, and it’s going to
make it a lot easier for people who
wouldn’t otherwise have the oppor-
tunity to continue their education,”
said sophomore Shani Lee.

The legislation includes substan-
tial raises in federal Pell Grants, which
will now be capped at $4,500 begin-
ning with the 1999-2000 academic year.
The new maximum climbs $300 each
year until 2003, when it will reach
$5,800.

Also included is an increase in the
loan limits for Perkins loans, which will
now be set at $4,000 for undergradu-
ates and $6,000 for graduate and pro-
fessional students. Another important
aspect of federal aid, the Unsubsidized
and Subsidized Stafford loans, will see
significant drops in interest rates
charged to students. Whereas both
loans are currently capped at 8 per-
cent interest, new rates will be set at
the equivalent of the 90-day Treasury
bill rate plus 1.7 percent while in school
and 2.3 percent thereaﬁer.

The changes in federal policy come
‘~ on the heels of a recently-released

5 study conducted by student loan pro-

' vider Nellie Mae concerning the con-

~ sequences of undergraduate and
graduate loans.

_r«. 041 A-vna‘ . .. w -'- «- -, ,- an 7:V‘<&‘b a.'\4«"\‘:.’bEo'-.“:.-‘h"vnI*h"u‘nt‘(‘n”‘df-8‘.ﬁl?‘&nt<1.V%'i‘4'c§y

Nellie Mae found ‘that ‘approxi-'1 - 1

7- mately 25 percent of all recent private

'-‘ college graduates, as well as 18 per-

.1 cent of public college graduates, have

2- loans surpassing their present annual
earnings. In addition, 12 percent of all

,. graduates have monthly loan pay-
ments that surpass 20 percent of their
monthly income.

. “While most students are able to
repay their loans successfully without
significant impact on their lifestyle,
that number is getting smaller over
time,” said Lawrence O’Toole, presi-
dent and chief executive officer of
Nellie Mae. “It’s important that stu-
dents consider the salary potential of
a chosen career early on so there’s a
strong likelihood that the salary will
support repayment after graduation.”

According to the study, the aver-
age student loan debt has increased
from $8,200 in 1991 to $13,800 in 1997.
The average debt accumulated for
four-year private school students was
$15,300, while for public school the
total was $10,900.

“Our survey confirmed what many

have suspected. While student loans
have helped millions of students gain
access to a post-secondary education,
higher debt, incurred from borrowing
to cover the cost of college, is becom-
ing more of a burden to some stu-
dents,” O’Toole said.

Even Washington and Lee, which
prides itself on keeping tuition low
through a sizeable endowment, has
raised tuition appreciably in past

9 years. The 1998-99 academic year saw

an increase of $400.

According to O’Toole, more than
half of all college students now finance
their education at least in part through
loans.

“If you work (academically)
through high school, you shouldn’t
be penalized because you don’t have
money,” said Lee. “Loans and ﬁnan-
cial aid should be available to those
people.”

The numbers back him up. The
study showed that an overwhelming
79 percent of undergraduate borrow-
ers said that student loans were very
or extremely important in allowing them
to continue their education. And very
soon, this crucial part could be com-
ing at a slightly less dear cost.

What do you
think?

phi@wlu.edu

1 1 24 S. Jefferson Street   l
mmnnmn

, Between The Palms
& Domino's Pizza

 

B

     
 

  

ALUMNI

continued from page 1

“People stole from dorms,” Young
said, “people who didn’t belong.”

Young and Beard agree that Par-
ents Weekend is the event that causes
the least uproar.

“Parents Weekend is a very
pleasant event, it’s generally mel-
low” Young said. “We like it! Al-
though some parents were caught
drunk in the past.”

Beard and Young both said that on
event-weekends such as Homecoming
Weekend, they may take it easy on
people who are not causing serious
problems.

“To avcertain degree, we overlook
parking violations,” Beard said, “un-
less it’s a danger to the public.”

Beard said that it is hard to control
parking, because there are so many
people in town, and not enough park-
ing spaces. As long as the ‘illegally
parked car is not interfering with other
traffic regulations, the owner will not
be punished. '

According to Young, if someone is
not causing problems and not drawing
attention, he or she may sail through.

“But if one is out of control, and
drawing attention, we have to deal
with him or her,” Young said.

So far, the police department and
security have managed to keep things
under control with their cooperation
with each other.

“Security is of tremendous help to
us,” Beard said.

While security patrolled fraternity
houses, police ofﬁcers dealt with the
streets.

“Together we have been keeping

usic

Open l0ia.m. ‘til 9p.m.

464-4050

we FlND IT FOR
LOW STPRCE

I  _
  Come see the photographs of W&L alumnus C. Taylor Crothers.
- A special gallery has been set up in the Night Owl store. ’
 Admission is free, but the exhibit is this week only. So hurry!

They really exist!

During VMI’s recent defeat, the female members of the Virginia Military Institute
cheerleading squad try to keep up the crowd’s spirits.

Photo by Christie Phillips/Photo Editor

things under control,” Beard said.
“But it’s always hard to predict what
will happen during the next event.”

VICTIM

continued from page 1

Shepard ﬂirted with him in front of his
friends.

People across the country have
condemned this as a hate crime. Presi-

dent Clinton made a statement saying
he was “deeply grieved by the act of
violence . . . Hillary and I ask that your
thoughts and prayers be with Mr.
Shepard and his family and with the
people of Laramie.”

House Minority Leader Richard
Gephardt (D—Mo.) said that “this hei-
nous crime deserves the condemna-
tion ofall Americans.”

The leader of G&L, Washington and

Lee’s gay and lesbian organization’

does not think this sort of hate crime
could ever happen at W&L. “People
here are so into being socially polite
that I don’t particularly think this could
happen here,” president Jessica ,
Simpson said. “1 don’t understand how
ignorance could lead to something like
that. lt’s almost incomprehensible.

“To do something like this you’d
have to belittle someone to the point
of not even acknowledging them as a
human being,” she added.

Co.

 

Monday-lnday
ll ain. - 5 pm.
Saturday

 Write for the Phi.
’ Tuesday, 7:30 p.m.
Room 208

v _"‘ nu,‘ ', ‘.1’. 
l!4l.*tlW:)9.lW(6.s “

‘3‘;~‘.I“.'.“$"‘.*f.- §“.‘*.“a‘ 3*“ ’ °~ ‘ ' "‘

§|lI'llIQ Bfﬂﬂll '99

Sell mils. Earn cash

& 00 I700 '"

SIS is now hiring oamnus

4' IIIWBSI I'ﬂIBS III Jamaica.
M91110!) 8. Florida

oy

Dealer

RDSENCRANTZ
AND I
GUILDENSTERN
ARE
DEAD
to

Tom Stoppard

directed by
Al Gordon

  
   

October 23, 24 8C 26, 1998 0 8:00 PM
October 25, 1998 0 2:00 PM
Keller Theatre 0 Lenfest Center

*. . ‘-

on comparison of ‘99 A

 M A.) OK

      .    5 time
1Eq“1PPed. 99 C°‘°  
 can Get A W61 M--. ....-  

Less Than 1_ast"'Year'A)l

I

ll

Corolla with options 1

1-300-643-4349 or
WWW.SlSII'ﬂllB|.I§0l|l

oro a - *~   W W M M W  1
worldglest car in history, basid Olll    ., .  . ﬁg‘
° ,_,..M{No~-Matter'Wl13t" ° ‘,3’

WM'___MﬁW_,,,.,

.....»«-—-«V-"

.1’

 

.........,....OPINION-EDITORIAL 

Does Bookstore

respect Honor
System?

One of the major features that attracts men and women
from across the country (especially Texas) to the “grand
old school of the south” is the honor system at Washing-
ton and Lee. Both inside and outside the classroom the
rewards of the honor system are immeasurable. W&L stu-
dents take pride in upholding the beliefs that our honor
system represents.

There is, however, one institution at our school that
does not take us at our word — the University Bookstore.
Beginning this fall, the bookstore began to enforce a strict
policy that requires anyone who wishes to return a book
purchased at the bookstore to present a receipt. We all
know how easy it can be to buy the wrong book for a
class or buy two copies of the same book because they
have different cover designs. Many of us have had to
return a whole set of books because we decide that we
have gotten in a little over our heads and need to drop a
class. We also all share the experience of losing our re-
ceipt.

if this happened in past years, it was no big deal. The
person behind the counter would give you the refund, no
questions asked. But if you tried to return a book this past
fall without that golden ticket, you were out of luck —— no
soup for you. '

For those of you who need your memories refreshed,
the Honor System makes_it clear that there is no lying,
cheating or stealing at Washington and Lee University.
Returning a book that you did not actually purchase at
the bookstore would be lying and stealing, and W&L stu-
dents have pledged not to do these things. Students
should be given a refund if they pledge to have bought it
at the bookstore.

Regardless of the honor system, let’s stop and think
about this for a minute. I think it is safe to say that the
average W&L student is fairly intelligent, although as
with anything there are always some exceptions. Retum—
ing something to the bookstore that you did not buy is
not the smartest thing to do. The bookstore does tag all
the books that it sells both manually and electronicly, and
you would have a difﬁcult time getting around these ob-
stacles. There are easier ways for a criminal to make a
proﬁt. ,

Now I could understand that the bookstore might be
doing this for logistical purposes. They might want to

_- keep an accurate record -of all purchases and returns so

they want their receipts. But come on, they have comput-
ers that register every purchase. If this is the only reason,
come on bookstore people, give us a break. Not all of us
have rich parents and brand new SUVs.

Some of us are paying our own way, and I think we
should be allowed to lose a receipt and still return a book
instead of having to swallow a thirty-dollar mistake. And
if the bookstore thinks we are lying, than what good is the
Honor System anyway? lt’s time for the bookstore to
join the rest of the campus and take students at their
word. Professors do it, the administration does it, the
dining hall does it and we the students do it. Why not
the bookstore too?

@112 iliing-tum iﬂlti

Executive Editors Torah Grant
Hollister Hovey
Polly Doig

John Stewart
Ginger Phillips
Erica Prosser
Stephen Pesce
Frances Groberg
Brendan Harrington
Kevin McManernin
Sarah Meldrum
Meredith Mlynar
Mike Crittenden
Christie Phillips
Tom Wadlow

News Editors
W&Lg'fe Editors

Opinion & Editorial Editor
Sports Editors

Last Word Editor
Copy Editors

Photo Editors
Online Editor

Business Manager
Advertising Directors

Jason Williams
John Costello
Matt Lorber

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor and Business Manager, but
The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Saturday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters, columns and “Talkback” do not
reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reflect the opinions of The Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu -
hltp://wlu. edu/~phi
Annual subsription rate: S30

Ii

"‘*{:u0te of the week:

A lot of these guys could
have played Division I, but
instead they came here so

they could party.

— Anonymous lacrosse player’ s father

House puts Clinton closer to what he deserves

So it appears that good ole Bill Clinton is one step
closer to getting the ax. The House voted last week to
begin an impeachment inquiry. The
258-176 vote in the House was
largely along party lines with only
3 1 Democrats bucking the tide to be-
gin hearings. House Judiciary Chair-
man Henry Hyde led the charge
against the President and was successful in gaining
the support of every single Republican in the House.

The proceedings will not begin until after the No-
vember 3rd elections; they are waiting in order to better
gauge what the public wants. If the trend is toward

greater Republi-

‘ ( can numbers, it
is clear that the

hearings will
bring much
stronger results.

Most of the
31 brave, just
Democrats are
coming up for
election ,next
month and must
realize that they
cannot blatantly
ignore such ob-

I do not understand
‘ how Clinton has been
able to manipulate so
many people, namely
his wife and his party,
into following him. Do
they not realize the true
scum that he is?
7 7 vious wrongdo-
ing; the citizens,

the voters will not stand for it. Another six congress-
men strategically chose to miss the vote that day, and
you can be sure they had something more important to
be doing. But who can blame them, they show up to
vote their conscience and they become ostracized by
their party; if I were them I would say that haircut could
not wait another day.

It is somewhat disgusting how partisan thisscandal
has become. Luckily, however, the correct party has the
majority and justice just might be served. We all know
President Clinton is too power hungry to resign. He did
not admit to the affair with Lewinsky until there was
irrefutable DNA evidence. He is not going to resign
until he thinks there is no chance he will get off. Let’s
all hope that it will come to that, but then again that will lead
to President Al Gore, it doesn’t get much scarier than that.

“Everything, because the D-Hall is
w  -9!

—-Matt Gooch ’0l

 Juaplammghr   s

.3" Jean Rowan _’01

We just can’t win, maybe we should blame this all on

the people who voted for Clinton in the first place. And

. while we’re at it, Hillary Clinton isnot
exactly a pillar of the community.
She. is to blame as well. For

up for Women’s Rights, why in the
world is she still married to such

an abuser of women?

She has no respect for herself or for her daughter.

Hillary is even more power hungry than Bill and it is

someone who pretends to stand ‘

going to backﬁre on her. The decision to stand up for
her husband rather than stand up for herself will hurt
her in the long run, even if she does eventually ditch
the cheating scoundrel. Her loyalty is more or less ri-
diculous.

l do not understand how Clinton has been able to
manipulate so many people, namely his wife and his
party, into following him. Do they not realize the true
scum that he is? Maybe we will be lucky enough to see
a president impeached, it could not happen to a more
worthy fellow.

in H

“Salisbury .Steak..”

—.lerryGut1ben’02

“The ice cream novelties.”

—CliffCislak ‘O2

“What’s a D-Hall?”

-—Kirby Eight (Perspective)

PAGE 4

 

  W&L1FE

  

OCTOBER 12, 1998

Campus nutrition: Who is eating Well at W&L?

by Elianna Marziani
STAFF WRITER

“The salad’s not too fried.”

“The reason why freshmen drink so much is they aren’t
getting their nutrition from the D-hall, so they have to
look other places.”

Jokes and remarks such as these, made by freshman
Chris Hagan and sophomore Tim Koss respectively, are
often heard at meals in the Evans Dining Hall. Whether
people say them merely to have something to discuss at
meals other than how they just bombed their history
test or ifthey are being serious is anyone’s guess.

Remarks such as these, however, do cause people to
wonder just how healthy the D-hall and the students
who eat in it actually are.

Some of the biggest complaints made about D-hall
food are that it is too fried, does not have enough fruits
and vegetables and is not healthy overall.

“There’s just so much glop,” sophomore Chris
Kauffman said, asserting that he “definitely [eats] more
healthily” now that he is no longer on the freshman
meal plan and only eats in the D-hall four times each
week.

Freshman Elizabeth Thomas said, “While it’s decent
for the most part, there is a lot of fried food, and there
should be more fresh vegetables and fresh fruit rather
than corn all the time.”

Almost everyone interviewed agreed that there was a
lot of fried food and not enough good-tasting, fresh veg-
etables. Sophomore Christina Julian said that while she
likes the D-hall food, she is eating more healthily now
that she is not on the freshman meal plan.

“Ifyou’re going for health, it’s not very good. But if
you don’t care, it tastes good. Their desserts are awe-
some,” freshman Jay Campbell said.

Adam K. Bradberry, the cook for all vegetarian items
in the D-hall, said that the D-hall “has its ups and downs.”
He explained that the D-hall always uses sanitary, healthy
methods of cooking the food and tries to cut down on
grease.

While Bradberry agrees that there is a lot of butter
and cream in some D-hall foods, he reminds students
that there are also foods such as the ﬁve vegetarian dishes
located at the end of the line, dishes that he makes with
no butter and very little cream.

Bradberry said that he tries to reduce the fat in the
foods he cooks by using low or no fat substitutes for
items required in his recipes. He added that 90 percent of
the vegetables in the D-hall have not been seasoned with
anything except “a little salt, a little pepper and only
enough butter to cook with, to cover the bottom of the
pan.” Bradberry believes that the D-hall offers enough
selection for students to eat healthily, if they so choose.

Perhaps one of the biggest problems, however, is not
with D-hall food, but with the students themselves. Dwight
Bitz, manager of the Evans Dining Hall, believes that stu-
dents do not always want to eat healthily. While stu-
dents complain about all the grease, whenever the D-hall
cuts back on fried food, it gets comment cards asking for
more of it.

Out of the 27 comment cards representing two weeks
worth of student feedback to the D-hall, I5 ofthem re-

, quested fried foods such as french fries, chicken pop-
‘ pers and onion rings. Another request was for cinnamon

butter, which is not exactly a Healthy Choice Award prod-

' uct.

Bradberry agreed that students do not always make
healthy choices, and he estimated that only one-third of

: diners make healthy choices about their meals. Like Bitz,
he noted the contrast between what students request

. unhealthy eating habits, but they think that the D-hall could

 

Photo by Hollister Hovey/Executive Editor
Students enjoy brunch at Evans Dining Hall, but others wonder how healthy the food choices are.
and what they eat: while they request healthy food, the
items that the D-hall staff ﬁnd are the most popular are
those such as cheese sticks and onion rings.

He suggestedthat both a gender and a class division
exist in this matter.

“Mostly females eat much healthier than males do,”

Julian asserted that it would have been healthier for her
last year if she could have taken-food out of the D-hall.
Then when she got hungry for a snack, she could have

packaged food was around in her dorm.

eaten something healthy instead of whatever unhealthy,

Almost all the students interviewed agreed, pointing out.

that they were paying for the food anyway. The most com-
monly requested take-out food was fmit, followed by ba-
gels. There appears to be room for compromise on this
issue, however.

“If you’re eating one bagel or a piece of fruit or ice
cream cone, we don’t disapprove of that at all,” Bitz said.
“Wejust don’t want people stocking up.”

Basically the D-halljust does not want people making
it their supermarket. Fair enough. As to the other issues,
the comment cards are on the table by the main entrance
to the D-hall. Perhaps if enough students .request these
healthy items, some kind of arrangement can be made to
satisfy everyone.

While students always have complained and always
will complain about D-hall food, the situation is not too
bad. The staff is much more talented than many other
colleges can boast, with chef Greg Pearce, head of the
National Association of Colleges and Universities’ Food
Services, and his culinary colleagues the products of many
years of experience.

Perhaps more importantly, the staff is accommodating
and truly wants to make life better for W&L students.
While the D-hall is not the model for health and nutrition

centers in the Western Hemisphere, neither is it the mess

hall from hell. With a little work on both sides, the W&L
community can become a very healthy one.

If more students choose healthier meals, and the D-
hall tries to make the healthy foods taste a little better
without compromising their nutritional value, maybe W&L
will become an example for those health and nutrition
centers after all.

At least it would be one more step to ensuring that
W&L will still have the happiest student body for years
to come.

Bradberry said. “Also, this freshman class doesn’t seem to
eat half as healthy as the previous one.”

Bitz and Bradberry both explained that there are many
healthy options available to students if they choose to em-,
ploy them. The D-hall has tried to cut down on fried food,
revamping 50 to 60 percent of its menu away from deep fried
food into baked or broiled food during the past two years.
The deli bar, which serves lean meats, is open during lunch
on Monday, Wednesday and Friday.

The salad bar is also open and at the students’ disposal.
At lunch and dinner there are five vegetarian, low-fat dishes
available at the end ofthe line, and the D-hall offers at least
three fresh fruits and vegetables at every meal, along with
canned fruits. It bakes 90 percent of its bread in its own
bakery, and it offers low-fat and skim milk at every meal. It
offers non—fat frozen yogurt and sugar-free Jell-O as healthier
dessert options.

Also, Bitz stressed that he takes students’ comments
very seriously and tries to accommodate them whenever
possible. He said that the D-hall is completely receptive to
students’ needs, willing to accommodate them for allergies
and kosher foods and ready to offer them boxed lunch op-
tions for when they have to miss a meal due to a class
schedule conﬂict. Bitz believes that the D-hall is “certainly
up there with the best of them” when it comes to offering
healthy meal options to students.

Some students recognize and appreciate the D—hall’s at-
tempt to offer healthy food.

Freshman Kristen Bonnema thinks that she eats more
healthily here than she did at home, saying, “I generally get
vegetables and balanced meals here, which I didn’t at home.”

Many students take some responsibility for their often

I A cold, as most of us know from experience, usually
produces a clear nasal discharge. But it’s quite common
for the discharge to thicken and look greenish, and this

s symptom sends a lot of cold sufferers to their doctors to
ask for antibiotics.

In fact, a greenish secre-
tion is nothing to worry about
and, in itself, does not call for
antibiotics. Colds and ﬂu are
caused by viruses, and anti-
biotics cannot kill’ viruses,
only bacteria.

A recent survey showed
that an astonishing 60 per-
cent of all patients seen in pri— » 
mary care for the common
cold were given a prescrip-
tion for antibiotics. This is
not only a waste of money
and resources, it increases
the likelihood that bacterial
strains will develop antibiotic
resistance. Thus when you
really need antibiotics, they
might not work. And taking
antibiotics is hardly a picnic
-— you’re at risk for side ef-
fects. '

Studies years ago showed
that greenish discharges in
the course of the common

help them out still more. Some ofthe biggest requests stu-
dents made were for more and better vegetables, 24-hour
accessible juice and/or other drink machines and the per-
mission to take food out ofthe D-hall.

Despite the academic and social time constraints
that come along with being a Washington and Lee
student, many undergraduates are ﬁnding the time to
exercise. ‘

“I think that it’s really important to work out on a
regular basis,” sophomore Mary Beth Brookby said.
“Staying ﬁt helps you to maintain your body’s basic
health, and it’s a great outlet for releasing stress.”

From the multi-million dollar Duchossois Tennis
Center to Wilson Field, W&L provides a wide variety

We are here to pump you up

cold were caused by the vi-
rus, not by invading bacte-
ria. A recent study in Clinical Infectious Diseases cast
more light on how viruses work in your upper respira-
tory tract. The symptoms you experience, including na-
sal secretions, are not the work of viruses, but of your
own immune system responding to the virus.
Scientists used to think that viruses infecting the

Cautions for upcoming cold season

Antibiotics not always key to curing common cold woes

Photo by Chnstre l”hllllpSll)ll0C0‘ Editor
Nurse Jane Wheeling gives a’ flu shot to
sophomore Laura Schramm .

nasal passage destroyed nasal cells, but this is not
the case. Cold viruses provoke a massive immune re-
sponse (sneezing, inﬂammation, secretions and so
forth), including an increase in certain types of im-
' c ‘mune cells that, in the
course of your recovery,
may add yellow or greenish
color to the discharge.
I If you develop complica-
‘ tions with your cold or ﬂu,
~*such asbronchitis or an ear
I r or sinus infection, you’lI Z
Vneed antibiotics if these
prove to be bacterial. Doc-
tors should not prescribe
antibiotics “just in case,”
but should diagnose a bac-
» V terial infection before pre-
scribing.
' .If'yourifever,lasts more
than a few days-and you .
have a continuing produc-
, tive cough or worsening ear
pain, if would make sense
to return for a Iook—see. But
if you call your doctor
about a cold or flu, you
should. decline antibiotics
that are offered casually “to
be on the safe side.”
Bottom line: Chicken
soup, hot tea, aspirin, ﬂu-
. ids and saltwater gargles
may not be high-tech, but they are much more effec-
tive against cold and ﬂu symptoms than antibiotics
you don’t need.
—— from The University of Califor-
nia, Berkeley Wellness Letter, October 1998, provided
by the Washington & Lee Student Health Center

by Ginger Phillips

F EA TURES EDITOR

Alcohol, drugs, nutrition, exercise, sexually transmit-
ted diseases, contraception, stress, sexual assault...

Chances are that there is a lot that you don’t know about
some of these issues. Perhaps you have a question about
alcohol or drugs that you’ve never asked because you were
afraid of being embarrassed. Maybe you’d like to know
more about the symptoms of sexually transmitted
diseases, but you didn’t know whom to ask
and wouldn’t be caught dead doing STD
research in Leyburn Library.

There is someone on campus who
can help. In fact, there aremore than
70 people who are well qualified to
answer your questions on these is-
sues and more. They are the members
of LIFE, an acronym that stands for
Lifestyle Information for Everyone.
LIFE is an organization of students

Photo by Hollister Hovey/Executive Editor

 
  

ofathletic facilities for its students. While many ofthese
facilities can be considered state of the art, some stu-
dents feel that others need, to be updated.

Sophomore Mike Holmes, shown above, and many
other students work out in the weight room in the Warner
Center. Facilities like this one and the one in Gaines Hall
have resulted in many complaints from students who
would like to beneﬁt from newer and better equipment.

“The weight rooms are adequate, but they could deﬁ-
nitely use some improvement,” Brookby said.

dedicated to promoting healthy lifestyles
among W&L students.

“LIFE is very active on campus, and I think
that it is a really important group because LIFE provides
students with information that they can use to make healthy
decisions in their lives,” sophomore LIFE member Martha
Cornbrooks said. Often students ﬁnd it more difﬁcult to
maintain a healthy lifestyle in college because ofthe many
unhealthy obstacles that the average college student must
face.

“There are a lot of issues that face students as they

 

Making LIFE a little better at W&L ~

come to college. Most W&L students are very stressed,
and that doesn’t leave"much time for healthy eating and
exercise,”junior Anna Parris, president ofLlFE, said. “A
lot of people tum to alcohol as a release and a diversion from
their worries. This is why it is important for an organization
like LIFE to encourage responsible, healthy behavior.”

LIFE membership has steadily increased during the past
few years, and prospective members must undergo at least
twenty hours of training in a wide range of health related topics.

"I really value that a large portion of the student

body is trained to deal with such a variety of

issues,” Parris said. “Students can go to

a LIFE member for advice on a very

informal basis so that they will not
feel uncomfortable.”

LIFE has already planned
many campus activities for this year.
Freshmen had their ﬁrst encounter

with LIFE during Freshman Orienta-
tion, when LIFE sponsored a speaker
and group discussions among LIFE
members, dorm counselors and freshmen.

The Controlled Drinking Experiment will be
conducted by LIFE members and Peer Counse-
lors on October 19. The organization will also sponsor a
speaker later this month in commemoration of National Sexual
Assault Awareness Month, and the AIDS quilt will be on
campus for World AIDS Day in December.

“We are trying to be very involved in campus life and
to make ourselves visible,” Parris said. “When people are
in precarious situations, or iftheyjust need advice, we try
to be available for them.” ‘

 

 

  

)1

OCTOBER 12, 1998

PAGE 5

“Life in a box is better than no life at all, I expect. You ’a’ have a chance, at
least. You could lie there thinking, ‘Well.-At least I ’m not dead. 

—from “Rosencrantz and Guildenstem are Dead”

\

Leshner, Armstrong decide it ’s better ‘not to be’

by Tarah Grant

EXECUTIVE EDITOR

eniors T.W. Leshner and Wes Armstrong are best
friends both on and off the stage.

They have been friends for four years and roommates
for two, and next weekend they will be co-stars in their
senior thesis project: “Rosencrantz and Guildenstem are
Dead,” a play about two best friends.

Armstrong thinks that the parallels between the two
sets of friends beneﬁt the production. “The characters
have to act like best friends,” Armstrong said. ‘‘It helps
when the actors are like that anyway.” .

Rosencrantz and Guildenstem are collegnchums of
'Hamlet. As the action of Wi1l_ia;g§hakespeare’s “Ham-
let” swirls about them, Rosencrantz and Guildenstem have
time “off stage” to ponder their situation, the meaning

Rosencrantz  

  Guildenstem
D e a cl

a r e

their lives and what their names are. Filling their time ABOVE; iv
with sprightly dialogue and absurd word games, Gui1denstem(T_w_
Rosencrantz and Guildenstem wonder if they are not part Leshner) and
ofthe action, are they then merely marginal players with Rosencrantz (Wes

no real purpose?

Stuck in an existential groove and unable to change
the script in which they barely play a part, the friends
ﬁnd that “their only exit is death.”

Playwright Tom Stoppard wrote “Rosencrantz and

Armstrong) are minor

characters in
Shakespeare’s Hamlet,
but in Stoppard’s play

7

Guildenstem are Dead” more than 30 years ago, but di— they re the S,tarS'
rector Al Gordon considers it to be a timeless piece. , R_I(_'HT:
“‘Rosencrantz and Guildenstem’ answers the tough, Franc'S_ Mc_W'"'amS’
modern questions about personal integrity and commit- Syb” Prince’ Josh
merit,” Gordon said, “but at the same time, it offers a Chambe”ai“’Rya“
LaRue and Kathie

thoughtful and touching portrait of friendship and the
human condition.”

Performances will be on Oct. 23, 24 and 26 at 8 p.m.
and Oct. 25 at 2 p.m. in the Lenfest Center’s Keller
Theatre.

Soroka solicite them-
selves in a medieval
theater troupes’ sex

show.  _, ,_
Photo counesy 0 Susan Wager

Photo courtesy of Susan \Vager

    

Bicenquinquagerary
Bulletin
provided by the 250"’ Nostalgia Sub-Committee

Often referred to as the “Shrine of the
South,” Lee Chapel was built in 1867 soon
after the arrival of General Lee.

General Lee realized it was difﬁcult to
gather the entire student body at once and
proposed the construction of a building
the campus lacked, a chapel. Contrary to
popular belief that Lee designed the build-
ing, Lee Chapel was designed by Thomas
H. Williamson, an engineering professor
at VMI. For many years the chapel was
the site of Baccalaureate and Commence-
ment ceremonies for graduating classes.

Nothing puts careers ahead like

 

pace-setting success. And as a leading
ﬁnancial services corporation, First "
Union is merging the best in D O N ’ T
professional brokerage, mortgage, _ __

banking and IT career opportu- I '
nities with a personal approach-
abiliry that can only be found
here. By placing such a high
value on personal as well as
professional needs, were
creating wide-open prospects
for others which ultimately
yield our success. That’s just

one of the reasons that more
and more. grads are ﬁnding
the green light at First Union.
Want to put your career into
high gear? We will be inter-
viewing on campus October
21st. Stop by your Career
Center for details. Or mail
your resume to: First Union
Corporation, Attn: Corporate
College Relations, Job Number:
CCR—WAL, 1525 West WT Harris
Blvd., Charlotte, NC 28288-0970; or
e-mail to: jobs@ﬁ1stunion.oom

 

Solution to crossword
puzzle on page 8

SPRING BREAK Cancun, Florida, Etc. ,
’ Best Hotels, Parties, Prices.
Book Early and Save!

Eam Money & Free Trips!
Campus Reps I Organizations wanted
Inter-Campus Programs
‘I-800-327-6013 www.lcpt.corn

 

W&L REPAYS GEORGE WASHINGTON

A spectacular ﬁreworks show over the Potomac River, an appearance by
George Washington and a unique and historic gift presentation will highlight a
special evening at Mount Vernon on Saturday.

As part of W&L’s 250‘“ celebration, a check for $50,000 will be presented
to Mount Vernon as a symbolic repayment for a similar gift that George Wash-
ington gave the school more than 200 years ago.

The black—tie affair will take place on the lawn at Mount Vernon begin-
ning at 6 p.m. and will be hosted by Roger Muss ’50. The $250 per couple
ticket price includes a candle—lit tour of Mount Vernon with George Wash-
ington impersonator William Sommerfield, a reception and dinner.

After dinner, Elizabeth Formidoni, president of the W&L Student Ex-
ecutive Committee, will present the check to Mrs. Robert E. Lee IV, re-
gent of the Mount Vernon Ladies Association.

FILM SOCIETY CELEBRATES GYPSY MUSIC

The next presentation of the Washington and Lee Film Society will be a
documentary of Gypsy music, “Latcho Drom” (France, 1994), directed by Tony
Gatlif.

Screenings will be at 7:30 p.m. on Friday and Saturday in the Troubadour
Cinema. As always, there is no charge for admission, although contributions
are welcome. This ﬁlm is in Romany and French, with English subtitles.

For centuries the Gypsies have traveled the world, taking with them only
what they could carry on their backs. But by the end of “Latcho Drom,” a
visually and musically arresting tribute to Gypsy culture, you may feel as if
you’ve walked every single mile with them.

Plotless and without dialogue, the ﬁlm traces Gypsy music back through‘
all its origins and permutations. The movie shows Gypsies as a scorned people
who are run out ofpastures and apartments as undesirables. For many ofthem,
music is their one true resource. Passed on from generation to generation,
their songs function as a sort of folk history.

Ageless and at the same time flexible enough to include comment on re-
cent politics (as one Romanian ballad about Ceaucescu illustrates), the music
changes with each country, along with the styles ofthe people too. But, as the
movie points out, the song remains essentially the same.

SOSA LECTURES ON THE OBJECTIVITY OF NORMS

Dr. Ernest Sosa, the Romeo Elton professor of philosophy at Brown Uni-
versity, will give a public lecture in the Science Center in room A—2l4 next
Monday at 7:30 p.m. The title of his talk is “Normative Objectivity.” He will
address whether the objectivity ofnorms is undermined by disagreement or by
naturalism.

Sosa has taught at Brown University since 1964 and has been a visiting
professor at the universities of Western Ontario, Pittsburgh, Miami, Michigan,
Texas, Harvard and at St. Catherine’s College at Oxford. He is the author of
over 160 papers published in philosophyjoumals.

Sosa has also has edited several collections and works of reference and is a
member ofthe editorial boards of 12 philosophy journals, including “Ameri-
can Philosophical Quarterly,” “Philosophical Perspectives” and “Philosophi-
cal Studies.”

VOGEL SPEAKS ON JEWISH PHILOSOPHERS

Lawrence Vogel, associate professor of philosophy at Connecticut College, .

will present a talk on Monday as part of Washington and Lee’s responsibility
lecture series.

Vogel’s lecture will be held in the Science Center, Room A-214, at 7:30 p.m
and is open to the public. His lecture is titled, “Jewish Philosophers After
Heidegger: Levinas and Jonas on Responsibility.”

Vogel received his bachelor’s degree from Vassar College in 1975 and
his doctorate in philosophy from Yale University in 1989. He previously
taught and lectured atYale University and Vassar College and he received
a National Endowment for the Humanities Summer Institute Fellowship in
1990.

He is the author of “The Fragile We: Ethical Implications of Heidegger’s
Being and Time” and more recently edited and introduced a volume of Hans
Jonas’ later essays, “Morality and Morality: A Search for the Good After
Auschwitz” for Northern University Press. '

-—-e-mail General Notes to phi@wlu.edu

S   T‘ ”P

»-.q¢~V.,«.

» r

 

 

 

 

PAGE 6

 

OCTOBER 12, 1998

Wildcats pounce
on Generals 29-7

W&L offense struggles for second
straight week in loss to Davidson

by Brendan Harrington

Sroms EDITOR

Coming into the season, it was w-
parentthat theGenetals’ defense was a
major concern, since the tam gradu-
atedeightstarters. Yetnooneques-
tionedtheGenerals’ drilitiesonoffense,
which returned eight stuters including
jimiorquarterhackChristim Batcheller.
But after five games, the Generals of-
fense is having itsownproblems,which
culminatedina29-7lossatthehandsof
Division l-AA Davitbonon Saurday.

WahingtonmdLee(l-4,0-ZODAC)
is averaging 15.4 points per gnne and
has scored only 13 points in the last
twoweekslthadbeenmorethansix
quarters since the Generals had scored
a touchdown when W&L scored in the
third quarter against Davidson.

“Offensively we are struggling,”
W&L head coach Frank Miriello said.
“Randolph-Macon and Davidson are a
lot better on defense this year, but we
should be a lot better on offense. Our
big play guys have to start making the
big plays. We just haven’t been doing
thatlatelyandwescemtobejustmisse
ing them by a finger tip.”

The defense played respectably
against Davidson's option offense and
keptthemtoaseasonlow3S8yatds.
Two of the fourDavidson touchdowns
resulted from superb ﬁeld 
Davidson began its first touchdown
drive on the W&L 27-yad line follow-
ing a Batcheller  The third
touchdown chive started on the W&L
23 following a blocked punt.

“Our defense is getting better ev-
ery week,” Miriello said. “We played
with a lot ofdiscipline today on de-

fense, and except for a few breakdowns
here and there, we played very well.”

W&L did a good job of containing
the option, but Davidson’s Tommy
Dugan had a solid day for the Wildcats
(3-2), mnning for two touchdowns and
throwing for one. He led rushing for
Davidson with 68 yards, and finished
the day eight of 19 passing for 111
yards, one touchdown and one inter-
ception. His touchdown pass was a 27-
yxd strike to wide receiver Roland Wil-
liams with 9:42 left in the -garne. Run-
ning back Eric Ferguson scored the first
touchdown of the game for the Wild-
ulswith 5:33 left in the ﬁrstquarter.

Sophomore nose tackle Bo
Henderson had a huge day forthe Wild-
cats on defense. Henderson led all play-
ers with 12 tackles, three ofthem for a
loss, and also posted two sacks. .

Marc Watson was one of the few
bright spots for the Generals, continu-
ing his stellar play. He scored the only
touchdown for W&L on a dazzling2l-
yard touchdown scamper with 4:42 left
in the third quarter. He finished the day
with 82yardson15cam'es,andisaver-
sgingmorethanfiveyardspercarry.

Batcheller finished the day 17 of 27
for 142 yards, no touchdowns and one
interception. Wide receiver J.T.
Malmesta led all Generals receivers with
60 yards on three catches.

W&L ishome forthenexttwoweeks,
hostiig l-hmpden-Sydney next Saturday
aid Sewmee for Paents’ Weekend

“We have ourbacks against the wall,
but we’ve been here before,” Miriello
said. “ lt’s not like we are 9-lor 8-2 ev-
ery year and being in this situation is
shockingtous.0ur tamwill respond”

See STATS, page 

Men’s soccer declaws Tigers

by Tod Williams

STAFF WRITER

A team’s homecoming game is always big, and the play-
ers are especially driven to win. When you are someone
else’s homecoming opponent, that desire to win runs even
deeper. The thought of ruining the homecoming festivities
can‘ bring a smile to the face of even the tamest competitor.

‘ Prior to Saturday’s game against Washington and Lee,
Harnden-Sydney was the only school that remained unde-
feated in ODAC play. In fact, the Tigers were ranked sixth in
the South in NSCAA Division 111 polls. Much to the Tigers’
dismay, their first ODAC loss came amidst their homecoming

celebration. W&L pulled out the win 1 -0.

The Generals lacked their usual offensive production in
the game, but the one goal they scored would prove suffi-
cient to upset the Tigers. In keeping in step with the season
and the past three years, Sam Chase quietly did his job as the
Generals’ scoring forward.

Chase called the win “pretty big — the biggest of the
season.” Last year, Hampden-Sydney beat the Generals at
home for W&L’s homecoming, so Chase said it was nice to
return the favor. He also pointed out that the Generals did not
need many extra incentives as motivators. “We really want
home field advantage during playoffs, so everyyconference

See SOCCER, page“/'

Volleyball ,
still rocks
ODAC

by Steele Cooper .

is

STA FF WRITER

K

The Generals posted another un-
beaten week in ODAC play. Thursday

W&L traveled to Sweet Briar, and won A

their seventh ODAC match (15-6, 15-4,
15-10). Their record now stands at 15-2
overall and 7-0 ODAC. This win brings

the Generals closer to repeating as }

ODAC champions. _
“The ODAC tournament is our pri-

mary goal right now. Nationals are kind

of out of our hands,” senior captain

Megan Snodgrass said. “All we can 5

do is play our best in the ODAC and
see what happens with the NCAA
toumament.”

Freshman Ricka Hildebrand and »
Snodgrass had seven kills each to lead
the offense. Sophomore Katherine
Kline posted 10 assists to lead the
Generals’ setters. “Overall, we played

relaly well as a team. We will still need I

to finish strong through the tough
matches to stay on top,” Kline said.
Washington and Lee has only three ‘

remaining ODAC matches before the
ODAC tournament on November 6'“
and 7"‘. The top six regionally ranked
teams will go to the NCAA touma-

' ment; W&L is currently ranked 5*‘.
Tuesday, Emory and Henry fell to the I

Generals as the latest in W&L’s tear
through the ODAC competition (15-,5,
15-4, 15-7). This win brought the team’s
record to 14-2 overall and 6-0 ODAC.

Hildebrand led W&L with 12 kills, “

and Kline led the setters with 17 as-
sists. Junior Nancy Reinhart, ODAC
Player of the Year for 1997, totaled 13

digs for the General defense. ,4

Tuesday, the Generals will travel to
Randolph Macon to take on the Yel-
low Jackets. '

evmimmss Participant

HIGH MARKS FROM

MORNINGSTAR,

s&1>, MOODY’S,
MONEY MAGAZINE AND BILL.

etahealotofprideingaininghighma.-ks
 Butthefact
is.we'reequallyproudoftheratingswege¢¢v¢.y
day ‘I'll!!! oltrparticipants. BecauseatTIAA-CREF.
etuuringtheﬁsnncialﬁrturesoftheeducationand
researchcorumunityissotnethingghngogsbgyond
starsanduumbers. ‘
We becamethewor-ld's largest retirement orga-


investments. a commitment to superior service. and

 

So does Bill.

us at 1800 842-2776.

-ljﬁllefune
Irethsuwlusﬁeit.’

operating expenses that a.re among the lowest in the
insurance and mutual fund industries!"

With TIAA-CREF. you'll get the right choices —
and the dedication -to help you achieve a lifetime
of ﬁnancial goals.‘ The leading experts agree.

Find out how TIAA-CREF can helpyou build a
comfortable. financially secure tomorrow.

Visit our Web site at www.tiaa-cr'ef.org or call

Send me

A Story Of Kegs, Dances, Paddlings, .
And A Hell Night That Will LeadYou To

The.....

THE BOOK *rH.a§?r EXPOEES WHAT
‘YOU KHEW "rjo BETRUE or FRATERNITY RUSH,
BUT WIZRE AF!'w.‘A1D__TO Armin‘.

 

oop'y(ies) of HELLMASTER

' -3 331-I1“ __ H _A :‘* * seniathu ‘  * ‘ ' anuiin.Th:nuplulu-fﬁnnhinasiwaun-ntexgxg-nceweIis'¢xn1snlrhe:xn32.5xm¢a..
_4”_"-7*" ' V . E _ ‘ﬂ _ %I!%ﬂIIw_vl-d\‘l'lr_vae_¢ieirhe:firxudeasnnnfsltun-.ﬁte-.uhInen-nru:vn1ge.u-auntmurnsm
. .& - '1. _' _I_ 1. r _‘ g  lselow%1hyT-hllwruns.Thoverdlsurr:tripret‘ervrdrnatIweueMovnnigsm-‘tpuh|.s|...g
'-" v -v- -."v r— -v v “‘l#3LlK.T‘Icsqau$lupd&d)raIspixa:hd'lkperinhac
""‘-"IV 3-I-'-v sun.-'-v Starlaiy 5.. V - -
"""""°"""'F'7 N-|'--Ii---Ii-I-I7 s-nadir-an-‘cage; susadrn-unap-y .vu-oaa'r.unmm N-antserniﬂutnucﬁqsutr  F335
r‘, “'11 .Uw—s&d Aca—s&d muumlnnl rlecunaulaul A.-munlmd
‘ V49’ 5/1124! s/1.120 um -I/2.120
.:: :,*:: W   W 
"M N/A .\'/A N/.-\ N/.«\
"'l'I.:uptu‘q-at-dan‘l'lﬁ-‘-‘ ' ' ' 4__- - ..._ . . . .
. . . , . . . -, 'I3doru1IsmhrnuupnnI,“'$u.olard ‘-Fur’: lnsuuaur Ian A ‘
l'’'.'‘ 93''"  "‘—,_'-£lP"l,""::-_A-ll-I 2-. rsrsonuusgt Cairo-ulna an! aunt; a. la. mural Eunmum at ~.krI;ln.l ls; r1.u.cnzr 
"-'__-ﬁg’. ‘“V . dlﬁlll-27J3,m5%.i¥theCIEF:IdT|AA&E.::eA<contutpr\npeuuses.llndthenucazeti-ilytgﬁng

$15 per book plus $2 shipping and h
Please make checks payable to Bill Books and mail to:

Ba'1IBooks
R0. Box 844
Sullivan's Island, SC 29482

ZIP
andling.

 

  

 SPORTS

omen’s soccer drops ﬁrst two of year  

  
     

.   eisalgjg;game,”~hesaid.iChaseatnibutedﬂie

» .  jex¢e1iei3¢~p¢rronnanc¢aggoai.   

 1:;Att¢ti68'xIﬁm1t=édfséoreleéssrlééwhase . - ., _ .. ,

- jsentthe Generalsto 6,."-2-1 on,‘ eseasb ‘~and\4 cl 1;i,Il.0l?AC, .

oppedto5l“l}3-lfand4-isl;§it:QBAC¢pla$§cii*»ﬂié,yeafIHis§"

,,  T °7ﬂ1,°%reeri>élh§f9Ftl1°$°.9fY§5?l$9,9 8 , . éihlez 

’ Onthé 6i3posite‘efnd ofthe ﬁéld;‘~s3é1iior   ' A

’ “ )&.his third shutout,é,fthe):, ‘

'ttl6;.to say‘ about his own‘perfoif-matte , ‘ 
¢3¥§17$»Play: ‘-‘\1Ve’re .. lli?§Rla¥il18‘l“!l?°li

E by Frances Groberg

SPORTS EDITOR

 
 
  
      

 

Great sports teams have to come back from tough losses to be successful.
The big losses sometimes serve as a wake-up call, giving the team new life and
drive to win. This year, the women’s soccer team has the opportunity to be-
‘ 2 come one of these teams.
*' The Generals lost their first two games of the season this week to Emory and
_ Roanoke, dropping their record to 6-2 overall, 5-1 in the ODACs. , , , s ’ ' _
On Saturday in Atlanta, Washington and Lee failed to put one on the board.  ,g,_?¥Fl§i«§;Y3:T¢~§9“,!”igl  - d"
A ..IiEm°T}”S Jill Warm SC0f€d the only goal of the game in the second half, defeat- .  ‘ . r .. ‘i ' « x  line 
ring the Generals 1-0 in their ﬁrst non-conference loss. , " I in 8  if V A _ . . , p  2
 “Despite the loss, we felt good about the game,” sophomore forward Marga- if ' ‘
:Hret-Hunter Tumer said. “They’re ranked third in the south, so the fact that we held
them to one goal in ‘the final minutes of the game made us feel really good.”
4’ Thursday at Roanoke proved to be extremely frustrating for W&L. The
(Generals controlled play for the majority of the game, but the Maroons were
;able to convert the few times the ball crossed the 50-yard line, coming out on

  
  
       

 
  

 
   
 
   

 

 
 

:',top 2-1.
‘  “Overall, we played well,” sophomore goalkeeper Lauren Harris said. “We Frances Groberg/Sports Editor
,,"just had a few defensive breakdowns.” Support for the women: Members of the men’s soccer team

 Head Coach Jan Hathom tried to “beat the doldrums” by mixing up the

‘hstalriting lineup for the team. “I wanted to raise the intensity of practice, so

L the day before the game, I told [the team] that all of the positions were

.‘:';open,” she said.

“"" Despite the new lineup, the Generals fell behind for the first time this season . .

7'' when Roan0ke’s Melissa Stanhewicz scored the first goal of the game from 25   

 yards out. The 1-0 score stood at the half.

_ Sophomore midfielder Shana Levine evened it up for the Generalsjust

‘_'over six minutes into the second halfwith her direct kick. Levine has four
goals this S‘3350Y1- Davidson (3-2) 7 8 7 7—29

, The turning point came withjust under 20 minutes left in the game. A Gen-’ Washington & Lee (1_4) O O 0 0 _ 6
“ erals’ foul set up a successful penalty kick for the Maroons, shifting the score

. .
A ‘E’. and, more importantly, the momentum, for the rest of the game. WLU DC I h   e k

, “We recovered [from the kick], but not enough to tie the game up again,”

support their women counterparts against Roanoke.

STATS FROM PAGE 6

SCOREBYQUARTERS 1 2 3 4

"'1-lathom said. “We got a little frantic in the ﬁnal minutes, but I was very im- Flrst Downs 14 20 TUESDAY
8 lPTe55ed that the team “VET gaVe “P7, RuSiieS_YdS (Net) 31-122 50-247 Men’s Soccer vs. Bridgewater4 p.m.
A The final 20 minutes of the game were characterized by numerous chances P3531118 Yds (Net) 142 l l l V011eyba11@ Rand01ph_MacOn
 for W&L, but the team was unable to convert on any of them. The score Passes Att-Com-Int 27-l7-2 19-8-0 W
{remained 2-1 at the buzzer, as Roanoke handed the Generals their first loss of Total Offensive Plays-Yds 58-264 69-358 EDNESDAY
lithe 59350” Fumble Returns—Yds 0-0 0-0 W°me"’5 50°99’ @ Lynchburg
'8 Harris considers the loss a learning experience. “We weren’t yet comfort- punt Retum5_YdS 2_2 , 4_52 THURSDAY
¢ table playing at such a high level for a full 90 minutes. The loss will help us to Kickoff RetumS_YdS 5_94 2_37 Men,s Soccer @ Denison
:_raise our expectations and play our game for the entire game.” Interception RetumS_YdS 0_0 2_27
 Hathom agreed. “The losses will either help us or pull us apart. That’s up to P t A 8_3 2 8 6_3 8 2 SATURDAY
'[the team], but I have every confidence in them.” un S (N0 Verage) ' ' Football "5- Hampd°“'SYd“ey 1330 Pm-
’ 8 Despite how things went for the team this week, Hathom has faith in her Fumblfisiost 0‘0 0'0 , Mews S°°°er@ VMI
" team. “The team really proved to me that they have it in them to be great. Penaltle5‘Yd5 7‘70 . 6'50 Womenls S°°°er@C°llege °fN0lT° Dame
mstatistically, we beat them. We just have to put itall together.” ~i-i -xv P0SSeS5l0I1 Time 29143 301 l 7 ' ’ V * Men’5a W°m.en"5 X‘°°um1')’@ VMI lnVlf3tl°“3~’l '
W The Generals willtryto get back on track this week in their important contest Sacks By Number—Yds 211 ll ” '8 2 '  2 l2-l7  7 H 2 '" . , . , __)V0lle)’b3ll@G°“°h°l"T°“mammV" M 

at Lynchburg on Wednesday. J L i 2 

‘.

 

eneral Information Meeting’

on 

  Tuesday, ctober 20

 Spring Term,     Limited
    Semester, or 7:0 pm   Financia|Aid
 Ful|Year »   Available],

 

 

PAGE 8

Humor Page

LAST WORD

OCTOBER 12, 1998

Korn’s Family Values

by Henry Gola

CONCERT REVIEW

Recently, W&L student Henry Gola
attended Korn ’s Family Values tour
in Philadelphia and lived to tell
about it. The Last Word brings you
his courageous tale as part of our
continuing eﬂorts to ﬁll up space.

When George Bush coined the
phrase “family values,” it’s doubtful
that chants cursing police, a cage con-
taining gyrating fans and public uri-
nation is what he had in mind. That’s
what went on at the sarcastically
named Family Values Tour, which is
now in its third week ripping across
America.

The male answer to Lilith Fair, this-

testosterone-charged tour has more
than filled the void for an aggressive
show left by Lollapalooza’s departure.
Riding the commercial success of Korn
and the controversy of Rammstein, the
tour also boasts West Coast veteran
Ice Cube, neo-metalheads Limp Bizkit,
and the goth-metal stylings of Orgy.
Rammstein, the German group that
garnered major MTV airplay with their
hit “Du l-last,” relied on special effects
and shock value to wow the largely
Adidas-clad crowd. In front of a burn-
ing backdrop, the lead singer set him-
self on fire, whipped out a fake penis,
urinated on both his keyboard player
and the crowd and shot ﬂamethrower
blasts above the mosh pit. Oh yeah,

W&L Film Society
Fall Schedule

“dedicated to bringing you the highest qual-
ityﬁlms you ’d never pay to see otherwise”

Kbla Khgash (Iran, I997) Ayoung woman
is sentenced to stoning for baring her naked
ankles in public. This ﬁlm sparked the great
Iranian political debate -—- should capital pun-
ishment be administered for religious crimes
or is torture enough?

Me Bloody Knickers (Great Britain, 1996)
The saucy tale of two irrepressibly naughty
Leeds barmaids. In the style of great British
comedy, which means it involves lots of men
in drag and hundreds of bad puns.

Jane Austen’s “Pride and Prejudice”
(Hong Kong, 1996) See the latest fruit of the
Jane Austen revival genre — Hong Kong style!
Jackie Chan as Charles Bingley and Jet Li as
the scandalous F itzwilliam Darcy face off in a
Kung Fu death match for Elizabeth Bennet’s
honor. Featuring Michelle Yeoh as Lady
Catherine de Bourgh, the nunchuck-wielding
aristocrat with a taste for blood.

YetAnother Mob Movie(USA, 1998) Mar-

V tin Scorsese’s latest. It stars —— get this —- Joe

Pesci as a violent psychotic mobster and Rob-
ert Di Nero as his saner mob cohort! Complete
with brutal beatings, Rolling Stones-laced
soundtrack and gratuitous profanity. This
movie was pieced together entirely from out-
takes of “Goodfellas” and “Casino.”

Twp Blue Pigeons (Europe, 1997) One of
thoseintellectual Euro-art ﬁlms involving lots
of symbolism you won’t understand. A spar-
row ﬂies out a window. A young boy receives
a toy train for Christmas. A truck ‘drives up

and down the street in the rain. A series of E

seemingly unconnected events that add up to
nothing in the end -- or do they? *
*edit0r ’s note: no, they don ’t.

Naked Ambitions (Cinemax, 1998) The
long-awaited sequel to “Naked Endeavors”
and “Naked.Desires.” Part of Cinem'ax’s con-
tinuing artistic quest to portray the human
condition; well, at least that portion of human-
ity that’s naked and large-breasted.

Attention
Parents

It'S1:30 ll.lll. III! 3 WGIIIISIIIV
lllllllllllll. Ill! VBII KIIOW Vlllfﬂ
V|lIll' Bllllll IS?

Flnll outwliatsreallv Iiallllenlntl
on camnus. subscribe to

Ellie ﬂing-tum lﬁhi

sent! a clioclmr $30 In:
last! Imlllams
Illa Illlla-IIIIIIPIIIBISIIIOSS lllllco
llnlvorsltv center
loxlngtln. Ill 24450

0! WIIIII VIII’?! III GIIIIIIIIS. SIN! I
GIIICK IlllIll' Ill! l|II|' Oi IIIIIII 209 ll
IIII IIIIIVIISIII cllllﬂl.

and they played music
too, thrashing out power
chords that comple-
mented the deep-voiced

German rants of Rammstein himself.

Despite Rammstein’s antics, it
was Korn that stole the show. The
strength of Korn’s funky guitar riffs
and lead singer Jonathon Davis’ cli-
mactic screams became even more
evident live. Old favorites “Divine”
and “Blind” as well as new songs
“It’s On” and “Got the Life” all in-
tensified the crowd. Another high-
light came when Ice Cube, who ear-
lier rapped through an impressive set,
came out to perform “Children of the
Korn,” a hip-hop/metal hybrid, and
“Wicked,” which Korn had earlier
covered on “Life is Peachy.”

Family Values, which has enjoyed
solid ticket sales, is out to prove crit»
ics wrong who said the market for
giant—sized tours appealing to male
teens no longer existed.

Krautrockers extraordinaire Rammstein turn up the
heat at the Family Values Tour. '

An open letter to the IFC and fraternity presidents

Last week you guys wrote a letter to the
campus papers saying that our portrayal
of underage drinking on this_campus is
detrimental to the goal of minimizing alco-
hol abuse on this campus. You charged us
to report on the more sober side of W&L
and tone down on the’ stories of wild

drunken abandon.

My question to you is: are you f"‘**ing

joking?

Maybe there aren’t too many joumal-
ism majors on the IFC, but let me break it to
you: somebody not getting arrested for
drunk in public is not a story. Here, which
of these headlines do you find more inter-

two,” or

“Fourteen sent to inﬁrmary in hall crawl
gone horribly wrong?”
“Responsible drinker cuts self off after

“Student ends up naked in a dumpster
in B.V. after weekend-long drunken frenzy?”
Look, the campus papers ignoring the

problem of alcohol abuse won’t make the

problem disappear. lfanything, people will

start to think they live in a. consequence-

get worse.

free environment and the problem will only

If we want to eliminate alcohol abuse,
we need to run front page pictures of people
passed out in a pool oftheir own vomit. We

they should be". They should have thought
about that before they got underneath the
beer bong for the eighth time that night, rather
than crying to the Phi or Trident for report-
ing their drunk in public charge the next week.

This is how the campus papers can help
the IFC in their goals -— not by sweeping the
alcohol problem under the rug and hoping it
just disappears, but by informing the public
about the possible consequences of their
drunken debauchery.

Let’s not turn our papers into sycophan-
tic tools ofthe administration. Let us do our
jobs asjoumalists and try reporting the truth,
in all its alcohol-drenched glory.

 

esting: need to run stories on every alcohol-related
“Nothing goes wrong Wednesday case that comes before the SJC. Sincerely,
night,”or Sure, people will be embarrassed, as well Your Phriends at the Phi

26 Musical instrument 3 Handout tree

29 366 days 4 “—— 27 Make a speech

32 Build Miserables” 28 Revival

33 Sheer linen 5Vote 29 Advances

34 Sheltered Side 6 Senator 30 Eagle’s nest

35 Actor Andrews Specter 31 Paper packs

36 Practical joke 7 Observed 33 Bind tightly

37 Moneyin Milan 8 Bus. abbr. 36 Bearing

38 One — time 9 Strutting 37 Row

39 Trim dance. 39 Strategy

40 Small portion 10 Fruit 40 Collieries

41 Disturbed I I Fixing over 42 Pact

43 Burns 12 Moslem 43 Backslider

44 Unrefined prince 45 Picture border

45 Money penalty 13 Wire mea 46 Present

46 Lorne - sures 47 Bellow

43 5621 eagle 18 Heron 48 Exude

49 Pastry 23 Twine 49 Rue de la —

52 New York College 24 Peruvian 50 Concerning

53 Area between Indian 5l Paradise
warring armies 25 Fishing net 54  . . man —-

Crossword Puzzle   
, 57 Unlawful activity 55 Zodiac sign

(answers on page 5)

ACROSS 15 Place for 20 Naval officer:

1 Trade sports events abbr.

5 Underlying 16 Half: pref.__ 21 Singer Campbell
10 Prepare hastily 17 Magnum, P.l. 22 Boo-boos

for an exam 19 J annings of 24 Metal
14 Adept old ﬁlms 25 Fencing item

58 Ireland

59 Playing card

60 Consumer

61 Beasts of burden

DOWN
I Escort
2 Black, to poets

 1994 Tribune Media Services

 

Off the wire

F ictitously reported by Kevin McManemin

Southerners tackle Y2K problem

Richmond, VA -— Computer scientists
around the globe are rushing to solve the
Y2K bug. In the old Confederacy, where there
are no computers (or “big purdy shiny
thingies,” the blanket Southern term for all
electronics), scientists are grappling with a
Y2K crisis of their own: they are concerned
that there will be no year 2000 as no one in
the South can count that high. Most South-
erners know only up to about three or four,
some know all the way into the double dig-
its; none can get past 1,865. “If we caint solve
this here dadgum problem, will thar be a
NA SCAR season in year two-zero-zero-
zero?” wondered Southern mathematician
Clem Botetourt. Scientists worry that if the
year 2000 NASCAR season doesn’t happen,
life in the South will grind to a halt (nearly
twice as fast as it’s going now).

Whites stage “Million Man Rave”

Washington —- To show their pain and
anger for being laughed at on the dance ﬂoor
all their lives, this week hundreds of thou-
sands of white guys descended upon our
nation’s capital to bust some funky moves.

“White people have historically been seg-
regated to the back of the room at dances.
Well no more. If I feel like gettin’ jiggy wid’
it, then I’m darn well goingto get jiggy wid’
it, by golly!” said Million Man Dance orga-
nizer Martin Steinhouser, a middle manager
at the Sears department store in Danbury,
Connecticut. i

The activists converged upon the Mall in
DC and danced until the sound of Italian loaf-
ers beating the pavement became almost
deafening. “l’m busting my mad ﬂavor for all
to see,” said dance activist Ben Mulhaney,
‘‘I don’t care if I can’t move to the beat or if
the rhythmless ﬂailing of my arms and legs
reminds people of a seal having an epilectic
seisure.” Mulhaney then attempted to “Cab-
bage Patch,” a dance move that was cool
maybe ten years ago.

The white guys are demanding that Con-
gress pass laws allocating more federal funds
to wealthy suburban schools for dance
classes and more money for dance research.
“Perhaps someday minorities will be able to
come up with a dance move so simplistic, so

easy that even the stiffest white guy in the

world can’t f"‘** it up,” said Steinhouser.

Man overjoyed to “just be friends”

Sacremento, CA -- Local man Dan
Bruckman is reportedly “ecstatic” that his
attractive co-worker Mary Phillips wants to

I “just be friends” and doesn’t want a more

physical relationship. “When Mary said she
didn’t want to spoil the specialness of our

friendship with sex, boy, was I relieved!” A

gushed Bruckman. Bruckman reports that he,
too, was concerned about the specialness
of their relationship and that sex was “the
furthest thing from my mind” with the beau-
tiful, available Phillips; ‘‘I think I speak for all
men around the world when I say that noth-
ing frightens us more than the prospect of
mining friendships with amazing, mind-blow-
ing sex,”-said Bruckman.

1/0 have the foresight to set goals and the determination to meet them. You have the creative spirit to take your
own ideas, implement them and make them work. You've got what it takes to head to the top with a rewarding career _
in retail. Hechfs, a division of The May Department Stores Company, has 0 place for you.

Hechl’s invites you to explore the opportunities in our Executive Training Program. Show us your style, your passion
for excellence, and we'll show you on exciting career. '

0 Buying ‘
0 Corporate Finance

Come and see us at our Reception at UCl T4 on
Thursday, October 22nd, 7 p.m. - 9 p.m..

Ask your Career Center for details. —

HECHT'S

A DIVISION OF THE MAY DEPARTMENT STORES COMPANY

Equal Opportunity Employer

To find out more about opportunities at Hechlls, visit www.moycompony.com

 

4

/4

 

U112

VOLUME 101, N0. 6

. Elrod toasts
,alcohol

by Polly Doig

NEWS EDITOR

Last week, to coincide with National
Alcohol Awareness Week as well as
Parents Weekend, Washington and
Lee University President John Elrod
sent out a letter to students’ parents
regarding campus alcohol abuse.

Citing the need for a partnership
between administrators, faculty, stu-
dents, trustees, parents and alumni,
Elrod acknowledged the existence of
“the serious health problem” of alco-
hol abuse at W&L.

Elrod’ s letter comes at a time when
a nationwide outcry for recognition of
binge drinking and alcohol abuse is
being made. With the goal of height-
ening awareness about the widespread
binge drinking that takes place on carn-
puses, National Collegiate Alcohol
Awareness Week kicked off last Mon-
day in Washington, D.C.

“We have to send the message that
drinking can be dangerous, underage
drinking is illegal, and letting it hap-
pen is wrong,” Health and Human Ser-
vices Secretary Donna Shalala said at
the kickoff.

A little closer to home, Elrod and
W&L are working toward the same ends.

I awareness

“Washington and Lee University
is not immune to this national colle-
giate health problem,” read part of
Elrod’s letter. “We are working hard to
understand the attitudes and habits
of our students regarding alcohol and
to ﬁnd the right response to this is-
sue. . . Much work has already been

done.”
Several student activities were also

designed to increase understanding of
alcohol and its potential conse-
quences in observance of National
Alcohol Awareness Week on the
W&L campus.

Students had the opportunity this
week to take Alcohol 101, which is an
interactive computer simulation game
of drinking that brings home some of
the possible side effects. Each player
attends a party, chooses how much to
drink and can experience the residual
effects and consequences of alcohol
use. The game took place in the Com-
merce School computer lab Monday
through Wednesday and in the GHQ
on Thursday.

Students also coordinated a media
campaign and distributed posters, book-
marks and tabletents across campus.

See ALCOHOL, Page 2

‘Social deviants
travel to Europe

by Tarah Grant

EXECUTIVE EDITOR

This spring term, ten students will
leave Lexington three weeks before ﬁ-
nals and not finish their academic term
until almost two weeks after gradua-
tion. These students will not be act-
ing with deviancy; rather, they will be
studying deviancy~—in Europe.

Sociology Professor David Novack
will teach a six—credit course this spring
term titled Deviance in Cross Cultural
Perspective: Being Jewish in Central
Europe. When most students get ready
to register for winter term, those who
are interested in NoVa_pk’s Sociology
406 will need to start thinking about
spring term now. Novack will hold an
informational meeting and slide show
7 p.m. Wednesday in Newcomb 28B.

Students in Sociology 406 will ex-
amine the Jewish life in Central Europe
from World War II to the present. From
April 19 to May 7 on campus, students
will study deviance theory, with read-
ings focusing on Jewish history. On
May 12, they will depart for Central
Europe. “Students will study the ex-
perience where it took place,” Novack
said. “It’s also an opportunity to go
places where you wouldn’t normally

go?’

Students will spend 12 days tour-
ing and sightseeing in Central Europe,
going to Vienna, Prague, Budapest,

Belgrade and Krakow. They will listen

to guest lectures by specialists on Jew-
ish life and visit relevant historic sites
including synagogues, Jewish cem-
eteries and Auschwitz.

Novack, who has never been to
Auschwitz, said he is still a little un-
comfortable when he thinks about
visiting the grounds of the Nazis’
infamous death camp. “lt’s not go-
ing to be a pleasant experience, but
it will be a meaningful one,” Novack
said. “It’s evidence ofthe dark side
of humanity.”

From May 25 to June 13, students
will attend class sessions at the Ameri-
can University in Bulgaria (AUBG).
AUBG, which receives roughly 50 per-
cent of its funding from the United
States government, is housed in the
buildings of the former communist
headquarters. Because Bulgaria was
the only Nazi ally during WWII
where the country’s king refused to
turn over its Jewish citizens to the
Nazi regime, Novack said AUBG is
an appropriate setting for the ﬁnal
portion of the course.

At AUBG, W&L students will share
their classroom with students from
AUBG and Mary Baldwin College.
“Class sessions will focus on a com-
parative analysis of the normality and
stigma of being Jewish in Central Eu-
rope,” Novack said.

The program is unusual in that it

See EUROPE, Page 2

Sociology 406 is only oneof the

term.

Politics professors Lewis John
and William Connelly will teach a
course called “British Politics in
London.” In additional to studying
the fundamentals of the British gov-

, ernment, students will compare the
British and American political sys-
tems. The first four weeks of the
class will be taught in London, and

Other ways  ﬂee Lex

Washington and Lee courses that .
will be taught abroad this spring‘

the last two will be heldin Lexing- I
ton. Applications are available from I

the professors and are due on Nov.
12.
Two art courses will betaught.
in Italy. Professor Kathleen Olson-

Janjic will teach an art history and

studio course titled Drawing Italy.

High Renaissance in Florence and

Rome, an art history course, will

be taught by Assistant Professor

George Bent. Both classes will

spend the first two weeks of spring

term on campus and the last four
abroad. » . ‘ ‘ I

See ABROAD, Page 2

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNivERsmI’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

Tiling-tum {ﬂirt

MONDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1998

      

eneralswin in

The ecstatic Generals celebrate their victory following the successful 42-yard ﬁeld goal by freshman Brad Wiginton in the
ﬁnal seconds of Saturday’s game. Though only their second win of the season, the Generals played intensely to overcome
an early 14-point deﬁcit and claim a 23-21 victory in front of the Parents’ Weekend crowd.

inal seconds

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

Bicenquinquagenary Ball gets rolling

by Tarah Grant

EXECUTIVE EDITOR

Students and faculty received in-
vitations this week to the
Bicenquinquagenary Ball. However,
with no posters on campus and no ad-
vertisements in the newspapers, few
know anything about the ball.

Co-chair of the 250‘*‘ Ball Commit-
tee Erin McGrain says the clandestine-
ness is intentional. The committee
wants everyone to be surprised when
they enter the Warner Center on Nov.
14. The evening will be “simple, el-
egant, and classy,” McGrain said.

“The ball is basically the largest
student-component of the 250"‘ cel-
ebration,” Mandy Stallard, the other
co-chair of the ball committee, said. “It

is something that every member of the
W&L community can attend to feel the
spirit and excitement of this momen-
tous occasion.”

The 250"‘ Ball weekend will start on
Friday, Nov. 13 with a Widespread
Panic concert in the Student Pavilion.

On Saturday, the 250"‘ Ball will
transform Doremus Gymnasium into a
three dimensional yearbook. Ball at-
tendees will dance and mingle among
images from the university’s past. Pro-
jectors will display images from “Come
Cheer for Washington and Lee,” the
250"‘ celebration book, on two large
screens in Doremus, and enlarged
photographs from the book will deco-
rate the hallways of the Warner Center.

Student Co-Chair of the 250'“ Com-
mittee Nate Tencza said they modeled

the ball after the Mock Con Gala, but
they are trying to make it “just a bit
classier.”

The Students Activities Board and
the 250"‘ Ball Committee selected a
band called The Chairmen of the Board
to entertain ball attendees. McGrain
describes the band’s music as a mix
between swing and shag. “It’s like
beach music but a little more jazzy,”
she said.

The Chairmen of the Board has
toured internationally, with concerts
in such places as London’s Hammer-
Smith Odeon Theater and New York
City’s Apollo Theater. The band has
also appeared on Dick Clark’ s “Ameri-
can Bandstand,” Johnny Carson’s
“Tonite Show,” Don Comelious’ “Soul
Train,” and have shared the stage with

such legends as BB King, Jackie Wil-
son, The Isley Brothers, Earth Wind
& Fire, The Four Tops, Nancy Wilson
and the Spinners.

According to Neil Penick, director
of the 250“‘ observance, the commit-
tee chose to hold the ball only in the
small gym and keep the decorations
simple because they did not want it to
compete with the annual Fancy Dress
Ball. “The 250*‘ Ball will be intention-
ally not as extravagant as FD,” said
Penick.

The tentative ticket price will also be
less extravagant than FD: $30 for a
single ticket, $45 for a couple. The memo-
rabilia package includes two champagne
ﬁutes and two t-shirts, Stallard said. Tick-
ets for the ball will go on sale Nov. 9 in
the University Center.

Poetic justice rocks Diamond Street

by Lora Ellison

STAFF WRITER

Had you been strolling down Dia-
mond Street last Tuesday night, your
eye might have been caught by a mul-
titude of ﬂickering candles coming
from #1 l3.

Upon a closer look, you would
have seen about 30 students gathered
on couches, beanbags and the ﬂoor,
all listening intently to various stu-
dents pour forth their souls through
their own poetry.

Sophomore Susan Slim resounded
bitingly, “You’rejust not the marrying
type, he tells me, his ﬁtted navy blue
baseball cap tucked behind his ears

. . You’re an eyebrow piercing, I
don’t give a f"‘*k kind of girl. He
does not know me.” One after an-
other, people took turns at the mic,
alternating between poems and
songs, inducing both tears and stom-
ach gripping laughter. ‘

No, you haven’t been teleported to
Oberlin or one of those strange hippie
schools. You’re still at W&L, conser-
vative focal point of the college uni-
verse; but on Tuesday, Oct. 20, the So-
ciety for the Arts made a breakthrough
and held this year’s first open mic night
for poetry, ﬁction and music.

JAMES C‘. LEYr>',_;7>.,i ,
w'As.a.i:u<=r7om  Li L“

 
 

n .

Senior Whit Morris opened the
evening with a sultry reading of
“Smoove B” from the Internet, which
was later compared to the dialog of
the chef from Comedy Central’s “South
Park.” This casual beginning, along
with a supportive group of people,
made this the perfect environment for
untucking your shirt, relaxing and shar-
ing a little bit of creativity. The vari-
ous breaks also allowed the students
to get to know the people to whom
they’d been listening.

Most of the attending students
shared an overwhelming excitement at
the success of the gathering. “I’ve
been waiting for something like this
since I started going to school here,”
junior Jessica Helm said. “There are
some very interesting people here, and
they ﬁnally have a place to gather to-
gether.”

The Society for the Arts has been
dwindling over the last few years, but
students such as juniors Childs
Cantey, Ashley Marano and Caroline
Cobb are working hard to build it back
up again.

“We want to promote the diverse
talents of the students on campus,”
Cobb said.

In the future, they plan to hold

See ARTS, Page 2

 

During
Society for
the Arts’
Open Mic

_ Night, sopho-
1 more Chris-
' tine Metzger
reads an
untitled poem
she com-
posed her-

self.

Photo by Hollister
Hovey/Iixecutixe
Editor

Ellie ﬂing-tum lﬁhi
October 26, 1998
OPINION:

W&LIEE:

SPORTS:

Talk Back and a pair of angry letters from Virginia
Tech and cross country team

Husband and wives on campus, Lexington’s best love
locales and the Elrod’s love story

Football comes from behind, women’s soccer claims
ODACs, men’s soccer breaks win record PAGE 7

PAGE 3

PAGE 4

 

. .e..._-.a.-...x...-._...ii...».-....

 

PAGE2

N

61112 iﬁtng-tum iﬂlii

EWS

OCTOBER 26, 1998

Sophomores charged with
stealing, destroying Phis

by Heather McDonald

NEWS WRITER

Commonwealth Attorney Gordon
Saunders charged two former Wash-
ington and Lee women with grand lar-
ceny last week in connection with the
theft of 1,500 copies of The Ring-tum
Phi.

Ellen Elliott and Stephanie Fortener,
both 19, are each charged with unau-
thorized use of a vehicle and grand
larceny, both felonies. Elliott is also
charged with driving under the inﬂu-
ence and refusal to take a Breathalyzer
test.

The charges of unauthorized use
of a vehicle are for taking two cars
from Goad’s Body Shop on Route 1 1,

and using them to drive back to cam-
pus.

The charges of grand larceny re-
sult from the theft of approximately
1,500 copies of the Oct. 12 issue of
The Ring-tum Phi.

The two charges are separate felo-
nies in separate jurisdictions. The
charge of unauthorized use of a ve-
hicle occurred in Rockbridge County,
outside the City of Lexington jurisdic-
tion. The charge of grand larceny oc-
curred within the City of Lexington.

“The Commonwealth Attorney will
prosecute the theft of the paper him-
self. Our responsibility basically at
this point is only that of witness,”
Chief of Security Mike Young said
about W&L’s role in the trial.

Elliott and Fortener cannot be
brought up before the Executive Com-
mittee for honor violations because
they withdrew from the University
prior to the Phi theft.

The plaintiff in the grand larceny
case is Washington and Lee Univer-
sity; the case will be fought on behalf
of the student‘ body‘ because the Phi
is the property of the student body.
Approximately one-third of the Phi’s
budget is provided through student
activity fees, a mandatory fee each
student pays at the beginning of the
school year.

The Student Body Constitution
states that: “The Activities Fee shall
entitle the payer to yearly subscrip-
tions to The Ring-tum Phi. . .” The
EC allocates an amount each year to
the Phi to provide an issue of the Phi
for each member of the student body
without an additional subscription or
extra cost.

The Phi also had an obligation to
its advertisers to make sure that the
paper was properly distributed so they
had to have the stolen copies re-
printed. The Phi editorial board de-
cided that it needed to bring this inci-
dent to the attention of the Common-
wealth Attorney.

“We want students to know that
we aren’t just playing journalists,”
Phi Executive Editor Tarah Grant said.
“We put a lot of time into each issue
and we take our work seriously. You
can’t just throw away an entire week’s
issues because you don’t like a story,
and then have your daddy send us a

check.”

Grant would like the court to order
that the women do some community
service hours in addition to working
to pay for the reprints themselves.

Many students were at first con-
fused as to why the Phi wasn’t dis-
tributed Oct. 12, and then were an-
gered.

“The students I talked to seemed
fairly upset about it,” Young said.

Sophomore Georgie Hickam, a jour-
nalism student, heard about the inci-
dent and e-mailed the Phi on the
evening the papers were stolen. She
asked that the editors consider repub-
lishing the edition in order for the
story to be printed.

“I couldn’t believe these two girls
were stupid enough to steal a car in

the first place,” Hickam said. “And
then they thought by threatening,

they could prevent the press from
printing a story.”

In order to get the story out, Jour-
nalism Professor John Jennings took
matters into his own hands. He
printed copies of the front page by
cutting individual stories and reduc-
ing them on a copier machine, then re-
pasting them to a new sheet to form a
mini-edition of the Phi. He then
passed out the mini-edition to his
classes Tuesday morning.

The Richmond Times-Dispatch
and The Roanoke Times published
stories about the incident last Friday
and Saturday, respectively.
Newscharmel 10 in Roanoke also cov-
ered the story during a break of
F riday’s “Today Show.”

The initial incident took place
Wednesday, Oct. 1 . Elliott and Fortener
went to Berky’s Restaurant with
friends after a party. They decided to
leave, and began walking home.
Around 3:50 a.m. Deputy Rob Tackett

' ﬁiund Elliott passed out behind’ the

wheel of a Nissan Pathﬁnder in the
southbound lane of Route 1 1. Tackett
requested that Elliott take a
Breathalyzer test, but she refused.
Tackett then charged her with driving
under the inﬂuence and refusal to take
a Breathalyzer.

Thursday morning Goad’s Body
Shop, which is across the street from
Berky’s restaurant, reported two cars
missing to the police. Elliott, who was
already in custody, confessed that she
and Fortener had taken the vehicles.
Later that day, Fortener went to the
Lexington Sheriff’ s office voluntarily
and confessed.

Phi Executive Editor Holllster
Hovey and News Editor Polly Doig
checked the police docket on Sun-
day, Oct. 11. After speaking to Of-
ficer Tackett, Hovey and Doig at-
tempted to contact both Elliott and
Fortener for an article about the car
theft, which was to be published in
that Monday’s edition of the Phi.

Despite repeated messages left
with roommates and on voicemail,
Elliott and Fortener never returned
phone calls.

The Phi staff ﬁnished the newspa-
per at 3 a.m. The article, “Two stu-

§|lI'illﬂ Break '99

Sell trills. earn cash.
S18 is now hiring camnus

IIIWBSI rates I0 Jamaica,
Mﬂlliﬁﬂ 8. Florida

1-888-848-4849 or
www.ststraveI.com

..J/~‘\i\,'ii':IS C7». l.EYB'..${3li\5 .
V‘/ASHli\!GTON E’ ' '
I r- ll /"'!‘f\1l"\ vi -
L.LAiiw..i um, V 1  

dents charged with vehicle theft,”
was the week’s top story.

At about 3:30 a.m. Monday, Hovey
received a threatening call at home.
The caller did not identify herself.

Monday afternoon, The News-Ga-
zette delivered 2,000 copies of the Phi
to the University Center for distribu-
tion.

When Grant, Hovey and Doig ar-
rived in the University Center around
4 p.m. to distribute the newspaper,
approximately 1,500 copies of the pa-
per were missing. Hovey and Doig
headed toward Gaines to ﬁnd Elliott
and Fortener.

When Hovey asked for the miss-
ing papers, Elliott responded that the
paper is free, and there was no rea-
son why they couldn’t take home
multiple copies.

Hovey told the women that they
could return the papers or pay for the
cost of the reprint. Elliott returned
approximately 50 copies she had in
her backpack.

Despite rumors that more than one
person was involved, Young denies
that Elliott and Fortener were aided
by others.

“[Elliott and Fortener] did not in-
dicate that anyone else had helped
them [with the newspaper theft],”
Young said. “It seemed to stand to
reason that they’d been accused of
stealing the cars, and the headline in
the paper was involving that story.
They looked like the only suspects
we had.”

After the initial confrontation with
Elliott and Fortener, Hovey left a mes-
sage with Young, and Doig spoke
with Dean of Students David
Howison, who both promised action.
Monday evening, Young and W&L
security conducted a search for the
missing newspapers.

Tuesday morning, Young found a
car illegally parked with 25 copies of
the Phi in it. Young towed the car and
demanded that it not be released un-
til the owners were questioned.

“We impounded the car,” said
Young. “It was improperly parked. It
had the evidence of possible theft.”

Elliot and Fortener told Young that
they had dumped the newspapers in
the dumpster behind Frank’s Restau-
rant. Young subsequently drove them
to the dumpster to retrieve the cop-
ies, but the trash had already been
picked-up.

In the meantime, the Phi decided
to reprint an additional 1,000 copies
of the Monday edition, an additional
cost of $360. The reprints were dis-
tributed Tuesday afternoon.

“The administration has always
believed, at least in the eight years
since I’ve been here, if our students
commit a crime, then they should be
held responsible,” Young said. “They
have a responsibility to the commu-
nity of Washington and Lee and to
the community of Lexington and
Rockbridge County as a whole. The
administration, while we ﬁnd it un-
fortunate incident, doesn’t want to
hinder any prosecutions.”

ALCOHOL

continued from page 1

In addition, the annual Controlled Drinking Experiment
was held Thursday evening in the GHQ Bistro.

According to director of W&L health services Dr. Jane
Horton, the goals of the controlled drinking experiment are
simple. “Participants drink in a controlled setting,” said
Horton. “We do ﬁeld sobriety tests, measuring their blood
alcohol content (BAC), and responses to alcohol over time,
and show differences in how quickly someone’s BAC rises
depending on gender, body weight, eating, etc.”

The results were posted and discussed throughout
the event, and entertainment was also provided. Ac-
cording to Horton, participants were teamed with a non-
drinking partner, at least 21 years old, weren’t allowed
to continue drinking once their BAC reaches .12 (the
level where dysphoria and major motor skill impairment
can begin), and were allowed to stop drinking at any
time they felt they should.

A “pour a drink” contest was also held, in order to
“demonstrate that mixed drinks often have more alcohol
that one standard drink,” Horton said.

Awareness seems to be increasing on many levels of
campus life. This year, two W&L freshman halls are com-
pletely substance-free. This means that there is no alco-
hol, cigarette or drug use within any of the rooms on the

ARTS

continued from page 1

events such as art exhibitions, group performances, swing
dance lessons, photography classes and more poetry
readings, most of which will take place at the “Ruse,”
the new coffee house that will soon be opening on
Nelson Street.

“We also want to bring in regional speakers and

EUROPE

continued from page 1

ends June 15, weeks aﬂer Washington and Lee University’s
academic year ends. According to Novack, this is due to
the fact that the program directors had to blend three dif-
ferent academic calendars—W&L’s, Mary Baldwin’s and
AUBG’s. W&L administrators decided to allow this un-
usual situation because it is a one-time program and they
felt that it was a unique and important opportunity for its
students, according to Novack.

Novack got the idea for the program from his wife, who
teaches at Mary Baldwin College. She taught a course in
Europe on the psychology of women three years ago and
related to her husband what a wonderful experience it was
to teach students of incredibly different backgrounds in
‘the same classroom.

Novack also admired the relationships his wife was able
to develop with students when they lived, ate and traveled
together. “There’s a sense of closeness you can’t other-
wise get,” Novack said.

ABROAD

continued from page 1

Geology Professor Ed Spencer, Philosophy Professor
Harrison Pemberton and Classics Professor Herman Tay-
lor will teach an interdepartmental course in Greece. Stu-
dents will be required to take a class called Cultural His-
tory and Natural Philosophy of Greece and then select one
of the following three classes: Greek Art and Architecture,
Plato or Regional Geology of Greece and the Greek Islands.
The ﬁrst two weeks of the program will be spent in Lexing-
ton and the last four in Greece.

Three foreign language courses will be taught abroad
for the entire six weeks of Spring Term. A French pro-
fessor, yet to be determined, will lead a supervised study
program in Paris, France. Assistant Professors Francoise
Fregnac—Clave and Ellen Mayock will teach in Madrid,
Spain. Professor Roger Crockett will bring students to
Germany. The study abroad program in Moscow, Rus-
sia, which would have been lead by Assistant Profes-

halls. The idea was so popular when it was offered, that
more people signed up than there was room for.

College binge drinking ﬁrst came to the national fore-
front as an issue in 1993, when Harvard University released
a survey citing shockingly high numbers of binge drink-
ers. Using a standard definition of ﬁve or more drinks in a
night, Harvard found that percentages were particularly
high (more than 80 percent) among members of Greek or-
ganizations.

Since then, national awareness has further been raised
by the high—proﬁle deaths of several college students.
Harvard recently came out with another survey in Septem-
ber, reporting that binge drinking levels had increased in
the four years since their last study.

And just last week, University of Michigan freshman
Courtney Cantor died in a fall from her sixth-ﬂoor dorm room
window after attending a fraternity party.

Although the investigation is ongoing, ofﬁcials said al-
cohol was involved. _

An estimated 50 college students die annually because
of binge drinking, while hundreds of others suffer alcohol
poisonings.

“We as a community are responsible for actions on our
campuses,” Shalala said.

troupes,” Cobb added, “and we hope to make trips to local
shows and events as well.”

The next meeting for The Society for the Arts will be
this Thursday at 7:00 p.m. in duPont Auditorium.

For more information, you can also visit their web site
at www.wlu.edu/~sfa.

So Novack began thinking of developing a course for
Washington and Lee students that would combine some
of his interests and be an exciting and meaningful topic for
students to explore. The result is his Sociology 406, Devi-
ance in Cross Cultural Perspective: Being Jewish in Cen-
tral Europe.

The $1,950 program cost, which Novack notes is lower
than other spring term study abroad courses, includes
round-trip airfare from New York to Vienna, with the option
to stay in Europe at no additional charge; accommodation
and food with full board in Bulgaria and on a bed-and-
breakfast basis elsewhere; tuition and use of all facilities at
AUl3C§,,including access to e-mail; city tours and museum
fees; and comprehensive insurance coverage.

“It’s a fabulous opportunity for cultural exposure at a
price that is affordable,” Novack said.

For more information, contact Novack at 463-8792. A
non-refundable deposit of $250 is due by Nov. 30.

sor Anna Brodsky, was canceled this week because of
political and economic unrest in the country.

According to Kirk Follo, Instructor of Gemian, there are
more opportunities for students to study abroad this year
than ever before. The administration recently hired two
full time international education specialists, making it clear
to the faculty that the University is interested in support-
ing education abroad, Follo said.

Follo encourages students who are interested in going
abroad this year with a Washington and Lee spring term
course to contact the relevant professor immediately.

“It’s what spring term is supposed to be for-doing
unusual kinds of things,” Follo said.

Limited ﬁnancial aid is available, but the forms must be
completed by Nov. 2.

According to Follo, Sociology 406 is the only course
for which the price has been set.

  
 

n t e
s4o.4o.nn

e Parents Discount e
e Newly Renovated e
e Free HBO w/ Remote e
 No Smoking Room is
e Free Continental Breakfast

 

SHEAR TIMING
HAIR SALON

Mondays-Haircuts $2.00 Off
When You Mention This Ad  

Wtmims ippto

4154:1145

 “Please realize

Ithat the first
duty of
newspaperimen
is to get the
news and PRINT
THE NEWS . "

-William Randolph Hearst,
quoted in “Editor & Publisher,"
August 12, 1944

U1]: King-tum flit welcomes story ideas and
Letters to the Editor submissions. Write to
phi@wlu.edu or come to our weekly editorial board
meetings 7 pm. Tuesdays.

0€i'271oqg

»-

 

 
 

.............OP1N1oN-E

Glitz itling-tum lﬂlit

DITORIAL

PAGE 3

STAFF EDITORIAL

School spirits win at W&L

Maybe the fantastic 4th quar-
ter of this Saturday’s football
game will do for Washington and
Lee athletics what Sammy Sosa
and Mark McGwire have done
for baseball.

Well, probably not, because no
one was there. By the time the
winning field goal was kicked, ev-
eryone had already gone to sleep
off their tailgate hangovers.

But who would you expect to
stay? They don’t allow alcohol in
the stands of Wilson Field.

No matter how hard our ath-
letes try, barely anyone on this
campus seems to give a damn
about supporting them —— unless
spirits are involved.

The showing at football games
is decent, but only until halftime,
when the tailgate buzz wears off.
And while they’re there, the
crowds are less enthusiastic than
the onlookers at a chess match.

It’s really sad when most of our

high schools were juggernauts of
school spirit. Stadiums filled to the
brim for basketball games, with
bands, cheerleaders and heckling
fans. Football fans might have

(C

We hear so many
people say how much
they love W&L, but
they don’t really love
the place — they love
the parties.

77

been kind of tipsy, but at least they
cared about the game and used
their roudiness for some good
badgering.

We hear so many people say
how much they love W&L, but
they really don’t love the place —
they love the parties.

If they really cared about what

W&L was about, they would try
to make every aspect of this
school great, including the turnout
at sporting events.

We may be smart, but we’re
doing nothing to help our cause
any by showing such pathetic,
shallow support of our school. If
we had any real pride in what this
university really should stand for,
it would be a better place.

Really, if we had more spirit,

we would have more fun. We love .

the parties because so many of us
have passion for alcohol. Sport-
ing events could be just as fun if
we had a fraction of the same pas-
sion, and showed it.

Don’ttell us that they just aren’t
entertaining. We know you love
sports, you just don’t seem to like
them when your friends and
collegues are playing.

Try to stop letting your spirits
overshadow the spirit that should
matter.

Z;/if/I
a 
M

Letters to The Ring-tum Phi 

Dear Phi,

I recently accessed your article about two students
charged with vechicle theft via the intemet. I have vis-
ited Washington and Lee fucntions numerous times and
ﬁnd it a shame that such an article would be published.

I attend Virginia Tech and while students may be
arrested there has never been such an embarrassing
article, like yours, published in our school newspaper.
At Tech many fraternity members have recently been

‘ ‘charged with embarrassing subject matter. *Whilé‘the
public news has made: this i_ss_ue jftgery public" our
school has been very sympathetic to the issue.

I thought Washington and Lee was founded on
honor and pride. When I attended homecoming and
"FD" everyone was very friendly. I would never have

such a lack of respect.

This article proves that the secluded, little school
in the town of Lexington is nothing but a snobby,
backstabbing, selfish waste. is everyone there so wor-
ried about being the best that they would publish such
an article just to make themselves feel better? Yes, this

Cross country captain claims
unfair coverage in Phi

Dear Phi Editors,

It concerns me that you have yet to print anything
this year about the cross country teams. Although it
must have slipped your notice, Washington and Lee has
a men’s and a women’s cross country team, both of which
are nearing the ends of their seasons. Our state meet,
where the women’s team placed third, was two week-
ends ago. The Ring-tum Phi did not so much as mention
it, despite the fact that sophomore Wendy Case placed
sixth in the state individually. I find it bizarre that aschool

, cated athletes on this team devoted much time and effort
to their sport, and they deserve (even a little) recognition
for their well-earned accomplishments. Three meets re-
main in our season: the Gettysburg Invitational, ODACS
and the Regional Meet. I hope you will use these three
final opportunities to report on a successful team and to
give my teammates the recognition they deserve.

Sincerely,
Ashley Smith
Co-Captain, Women’s XC Team

suspected that you would treat fellow students with

newspaper did not include this success story. The dedi- /

Virginia Tech student disagrees with printing of Phi article

is the media, but I would hope that there are better
things going on in Lexington so you could have spared
these girls such embarrassment. ’ I
I'm sorry, but you all really need to think before you .

publish such life-darnaging rubish. I will think twice
before visiting your intitution again; I'd rather visitjail.

I could not imagine being those two girls, let alone
being you knowing that I helped to ruin their lives.

Sincerly,

P.S. Do you not think these. girls are not sorry for
what they did? How do you think their family feels?
What would your family do? Have you ever made a
mistake? Are you perfect? -

Everyone has messed up . . . maybe to a lesser de-
gree, but that is regardless of the point. Have a good
day and thank you for your time. I look forward to read-
ing your paper, and hope that next time it will spread
happy news, instead of destroying news.

American Cancer Society ,
thanks W&L students

Dear Editors,

On behalf of the Rockbridge Community Unit of
the American Cancer Society, I wish to express my’
thanks for the 100 studentsiwho participatedin the
tenth annual Making Strides Against Cancer walk-a-
long. We collected over $1200, and over 30 prizes
from local merchants were given away; In addition, r
Erin Kraal’s hall won the “Sweet Taste of Victory Con-
test,” earning a free lunch with Dean Dalhouse at
Wilson Walker. Chi Omega edged out PIKA for the
$100 IFC Award, which they donated to the ACS.»
PIKA, for the fourth year in a row, won the free piz-
zas courtesy of Frank’s Pizza. Susan Srnith’s puppy,
Annabelle, was the overwhelming winner of the F a-.
vorite Dog Contest, garnering over 55 votes of the L
225 votes cast in the week prior to last‘LSunday’s/_
event. ' P . I be

Thanks to all who contributed to the efforts to
wipe out cancer in our lifetime, especially the meme 4 ;
bers of Chi Omega and the Catholic Campus Minis- ‘

try, co-sponsors of the event. ' I A

Sincerely, ,
W.C. “Burr” Datz ’75

'K.

N.

TALK? j;:.

1’ 
Q 1,}. ., ,

 

“Holding back the throngs of fans trying to tear
down the goalposts.”

—Andy Simmons ‘O1

Parents boogie down with the kiddies

Why was Lexington infested with some of the world’s
most giddy, excited people this past weekend? I looked
around and saw these few thousand smiling parents, and I
wondered what could Washington and Lee’s Parents Week-
end possibly do to put these parents in such a marvelous
mood. lcame up with a few different rea-
sons why our parents might love this
place so much.

Looking at my father, I might assume
that everyone’s parents are weather
fans. But I guess cool, crisp weather
does not ﬂoat everyone’s pirogue like it
does a man’s from the sweltering Big Easy. So while gor-
geous weather might have inﬂuenced the happy moods of
our parents this weekend, I think a more profound reason
effected the general good nature.

Now, some of the parents may have decided to let the

spirits move them
6 C

3..

day. Remember-

. . . my mother would ing that Weekend

. . SCIIIOF year In

have given me an atomic high Scho 01 when
wedgie followed by a their little darling
swift kick to the back- depleied the

_ ‘ stock in the fam-
side that would knock uy nquorcabinet,

maw and paw
may have de-
cided that this
weekend was

you into last week’ (one
of her favorite lines).
payback time.

7 7

While I admit
maybe a few parents may have enjoyed a bit too much
company from Jack and Jose, I think something else may

have caused those goofy grins.
Quite possibly, our parents see our college culture as
something totally bizarre and inconsistent with their own
lifestyles, and, therefore, they appreciate the fact that they

{I



,.

I E

"*7" :

/‘e
uote of the week:

I was so mad when my

daughter graduated because
that meant no more Parents’
Weekend. All y’all are going

to do is party.

— Anonymous mother of alumnae preparing a
freshman for the excitement of last weekend

}}

Where were you when W&L

  

“I was at the soccer game because the
football team was losing.”

-—Allison McQueen ’02

kicked the winning ﬁeld goal?

  

“Being one of the throngs of people
trying to tear down the goalposts.”

——Nick Cirnino ’0l

 Off His Rocker
  Stephen Pesce ’01

through till I Sun-.

no longer have to put up with us. If my room at home had
looked (or smelled) in any way similar to my room here at
school, my mother would have given me an atomic wedgie
followed by a swift kick to the backside that would “knock
you into last week” (one of her favorite lines). This week-
end, however, she laughed and rolled
her eyes. She didn’t pull my underwear
over my head and I ’m still progressing
on the tirneline.

Saturday evening, however, I realized
why these people looked like they had
been breathing helium since September.
I can’t really explain it, but maybe an example will shed
some light on the matter. As I looked across a hot, loud
fraternity basement, I saw parents enjoying themselves
just as much as their children. What struck me most were
the faces of these parents. Daddies, no speciﬁc names,
let’s just call them all Bob, busted a move with their little
girls, grinning from ear to car. At that moment they wanted

‘ to be on that sweaty floor more than anywhere else (and I

promise it was not to show off their dynamic dance moves).

The bottom line is that they like us, they really like us.
We don’t understand why they get so excited about any
little thing that we do and blow it all out of proportion.
When I was nine, I had a hamster, Pee-Wee. If I put him in
the bottom drawer of my chest, he would “magically” peek
his little head out the top drawer 30 seconds later. I called
all my friends over and showed them. They were not quite
so amused, but I was still proud.

I think all of us blessed enough to have our parents
visit this weekend need to let them know how much we
appreciated their Visit.

@112 ilttug-tum ilﬂlii

Tarah Grant
Hollister Hovey
Polly Doig

John Stewart
Ginger Phillips
Erica Prosser
Stephanie Bianco
Stephen Pesce
Frances Groberg
Brendan Harrington
Kevin McManemin
Sarah Meldrum
Meredith Mlynar
Emily Barnes
Mike Crittcnden
Christie Phillips
Tom Wadlow

Executive Editors

News Editors

W&Life Editors

Opinion & Editorial Editors
Sports Editors

Last Word Editor
Copy Editors

Photo Editors

Online Editor

Business Manager
Advertising Directors

Jason Williams
John Costello
Matt Lorber

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor and Business Manager, but
The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Saturday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters, columns and “Talkback” do not
reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Ofﬁce: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu
http://wlu.edu/-phi
Annual subsription rate: $30

 

 

PAGE 4

  W&

@112 itting-tum iﬂlii

IFE

OCTOBER 26, 1998

You may now kiss the student

Some Washington and Lee students vow to love, honor each other ‘til death do th eypart

by Ginger Phillips

F EA TURES EDITOR

You might not realize it, but en-
gaged and married couples are here
on the Washington and Lee Univer-
sity campus. They are not just faculty
members, however, because some W&L
students are going to the chapel and
they’re gonna get married. Others have
already made the trip down the aisle.

Some might say that these stu— —

dents are the unlucky ones. Why
would any college student want to
be tied down to only one person dur-
ing a time in life when he or she
should be having as much fun and
dating as many people as possible?

Most engaged and married stu-
dents, however, believe that they are
actually the lucky ones. They are
happy that they have found their true
loves early in life.

“I knew I had found the right girl,

_ and it felt like the right time to pro-

pose,” senior Seth Kellerrnan, who is
married to Hollins University senior

Tara Ferguson, said.

“Being married is great, and I’m ac-
tually enjoying life a lot more now than
I have in previous years,” he said. “I
am very content and happy with my
situation.”

Kellerman and Ferguson met at their
high school and have been dating since
their junior year. When they chose to
attend different colleges, they had to
commute between Lexington and
Roanoke to see each other.

“It took a good amount ofdriving to
be able to see her all the time,” said
Kellerrnan, “but it was worth it.”

Kellerrnan wanted a romantic setting
for his proposal, so he popped the big
question on top of a mountain in Cali-
fornia. The couple married on August
8 ofthis year and now live in Roanoke.

Junior Holly Estes and senior Cliff
Woolley met two years ago when both
were taking a class in the W&L theater
department.

“We knew early on that we would
be together forever,” Estes said. “It
was inevitable that we would get en-

gaged, and then itjust happened last
year on our one year anniversary.”

One of the most obvious advan-
tages to being engaged or married is
not having to search for dates to all
the W&L date functions each year.

Estes believes that this advantage,
however, is actually quite small com-
pared to the other benefits that ac-
company engagement.

“The least ofit is not always hav-
ing to struggle to find dates,” she
said. “It is so much more than that,
like always having someone you
can count on to be there for you
when you need them.”

Despite the presence of engaged
and married students at W&L, the
majority of the student body is single.
This deﬁnitely makes couples like these
unique, but they don’t seem to feel
uncomfortable being in the minority.

“It’s only strange when my girl-
friends are looking for dates for func-
tions because I don’t feel that need
anymore,” Estes said. “I remember
what that was like though. I also don’t

know that many undergraduate guys
anymore because I don’t feel that pres-
sure to go to the frat houses and meet
guys anymore.”

These couples also have different,
ifnot more, responsiblities than single
students because they must always
consider their partner’s needs.

“I no longer plan just for myself,”
Kellennan said. ‘‘I have to think for my
wife as well and about what’s best for
the both of us.”

Engagement and marriage have also
impacted these students’ plans for life
after graduation.

‘‘I am going to go to grad school
after I leave W&L, and I know that
wherever I go, my ﬁance will come with
me,” Estes said. “We want to get mar-
ried before I go so that we will already
be settled.”

One thing that is for sure, these stu-
dents are extremely satisﬁed with their lives,
and they hope that other students will one
day ﬁnd the same happiness in love.

“lt’s great,” said Kellerrnan. “ I encour-
age everyone to go for it eventually!”

Campus husbands,

by Eliarma Marziani
STAFF WRITER

True romance: moonlight walks, stargazing, candlelight dinners, soft mu-
sic, roses  and lunch at the Co-op?

Romance comes in many forms, as Tyler and Beverly Lorig and other Wash-
ington and Lee University staff and faculty husband-and—wife couples have
discovered.

Tyler Lorig is a professor of psychology. Beverly Lorig is the director of

A Career Development and Placement. After more than 20 years of marriage
‘ and nine years of working together at W&L, they have learned to appreci-
1 ate everyday romance, looking on something as simple as lunch together

Photo courtesy of Cliff Woolley
Senior Cliff Woolley and junior Holly Estes have been dating
for the past two years and plan to get married before she enters
graduate school. They are happy to have found true love at W&L.

Lex’s best love locales

intrepid. For the more relaxed lover, these remaining sunny days
can also be enjoyed with picnics, bicycle trips and journeys out
to Goshen Pass.

by Erica Prosser
FEATURESEDITOR

Junior Lance Clack suggested a very speciﬁc romantic spot in
the “wilds” of W&L campus property.

-waiting to bring you and someone else closer.

front of Lee Chapel,” she said.

 

Art by Hollister Hovey

When you’re trapped in Lexington or Rockbridge County, where
can you go to inspire romance? No matter your budget, time con-
straints or transportation situation, romantic spots are out there

Senior Rebecca Fitzsirnmons had some quiet, outdoor ideas for
enhancing romance. “I would drive up on the Blue Ridge Parkway
to see the scenery and walk in the forest,” she said. “It’s also nice
to walk on campus when no one’s around, late in the day.”

Junior Leah Schaefer echoed those sentiments. -“It’s nice to

V walk on the front campus when it’s getting dark, along that path in

Junior Meredith Welch preferred the thought of an outdoors ,.

I experience farther from the«Colo_nnade. “The best spof” L V

“~ofDevil’s Marbleyard, looking out overAni9ld Valley, . she said.’
Lovers beware, though; the trip to the top is a strenuous hike. The
Lexington Visitor Center has directions and information for the

 
  

“Down along the Woods Creek footbridge, there’s a gravel
path,” he said. “Right there, when the grass hasn’t been mowed
and the moonlight is shining down through the trees, is the best
place.” He said that deer will sometimes wander down to the
water to drink, adding to the magic of the scene. “It’s more than
a location,” he said. “It’s also timing.”

Want a suggestion that doesn’t involve so much outdoor
activity? Restaurants are a familiar romantic destination, and in
this area, bed and breakfasts also appear as popular spots. Susie
Price, a Lexington resident, favors a combination of both. “If I
were trying to stir up a romantic evening,” she said, “I’d go to
Maple Hall.”

Local resident emestine [sic] Hockaday agreed. “I like Maple

»g_I-Iall or the~Inn at Union Run,” she said. “They’re both bed and
breakfasts, so one thing ca'u_Icl»,l"ead toanother.” _

The key to romance in Lexington is to use your imagination. It
really is the thought that counts, so be creative! Love is worth it.

wives make time for romance at W&L

at the Co—op as “a nice treat.”

The Lorigs were married 21 years ago. Before coming to Washington and
Lee, they both worked at Yale University. When Prof. Lorig was offered a job
here I 1 years ago, he moved to Lexington to work as a psychology professor
while Mrs. Lorig stayed behind another year as assistant director of careers at
Yale. After completing that year, she moved to Virginia and began doing gift
work in the development office at Roanoke College.

“It was wonderful, to move back together as a family again,” she said.

A year after moving to Lexington, Mrs. Lorig began working as the director
of the Career Development and Placement Office at W&L, where she has
remained for the past nine years.

“W&L has a good reputation. I wanted to stay at a well-respected school,

one with high quality students,” she said.

by Ken J ackman
STAFF WRITER

Once upon a time, President John Elrod
and his wife, Mimi, met on July 4, 1962, when
John was dating a friend of Mimi’s sister and
he was invited to her house. When Mimi
and John saw each other, they were instantly
attracted. From that day forth, John and Mimi
knew they had something special. They be-
gan to date, and within only four months,
they were engaged. Less than a year later
they were married. Mimi transferred from a
school in Florida to Oglethorpe University
in Atlanta so that they would be together.

Now that the loving couple is living here
at Washington and Lee University, they are

  

Photo courtesy of John and Mimi Elrod

True love in Lexington

very busy, but they enjoy the time that they
are able to spend together. After a full day
they often spend time cooking dinner and
doing the dishes together. The Elrods say that
simple tasks are that much more fun when done
together by two people who love each other.

Sometimes, however, they need to get away
from W&L to be together. In those cases, they
schedule a time to go someplace where they
can relax and enjoy each other’s company - a
weekend trip to the beach or the mountains,
for example. They even enjoy car rides together
when they can talk or listen to the radio. The
Elrods simply love to spend time together.

Do fairy tales come true? It would seem so,
because the Elrods are an enchanted couple mak-
ing time in the 1990s to live happily ever after.

Prof. Lorig is currently on sabbatical at the Monell In-
stitute in Philadelphia, researching olfaction and brain activ-

students for majors, career courses

Prof. de Maria deﬁnitely enjoys the closeness they feel as a result of work-
ing on the same campus.

“We come in together, most ofthe time go we home together, and ifl need
her in any way, shape, or form, I don’t need to go across God’s green acre to
ﬁnd her,” he said.

Sweet as that sentiment is, both the Lorigs and the de Marias admit that
working on campus with a spouse is not always a bed of roses.

Mrs. Lorig said that her pet peeve is that people somehow expect her to
have some link‘ to her husband that lets her know where he is and what he is
doing at all times.

“I don’t keep up with him,” she said.

The de Marias face a similar problem.

“I don’t know how many times that Lynda has had to transfer a call for me,”
Prof. de Maria said.

One colleague who often called Mrs. de Maria’s phone number and had her

transfer him to Prof. deMaria’s line was under the mis-
taken impression that she was the professor’s secre-

ity, and Mrs. Lorig is here advising

and post-graduation plans.
One might wonder what it must
, be like to work on the same cam-
pus with a spouse, always seeing
each other at work. Mrs. Lorig says
that, in fact, when Prof. Lorig is
here, she rarely sees him at work.
“I could be working in Roanoke
or somewhere else and it wouldn’t
have been much different,” she
said. “We focus on our work dur-

One thing is certain:
couples on campus are
going strong and
promising to stick
around for a while.

tary. Sometimes, people dial the spouse’s number un-
intentionally.

“I’ve tried to keep my maiden name [in phone list-
ings] for that reason, but it doesn’t always help,” said
Mrs. de Maria.

Although some minor confusions occur, neither
couple has any strong complaints about working to-
gether on campus. Both couples strive to keep their
work independent of their relationship and respect
each other’s professional privacy.

“[Students’] work with me is done in conﬁdentiality,”

ing the day and catch up in the
evening.”

The de Marias are another example of a successful cam-
pus couple. Robert de Maria is a professor of journalism
and mass communications, and his wife Lynda is a depart-
mental secretary for the C—School. The de Marias have
been married for only four years. Prof. de Maria is begin-
ning his 22nd year at the University, while Mrs. de Maria
has been working at W&L for four years.

The couple met when Mrs. de Maria was working in
Charlottesville at the University of Virginia.

“A former student introduced us,” Prof. de Maria ex-
plained.

Mrs. de Maria started working at W&L as a temporary
worker to ﬁll in for a woman who was having health prob-
lems. When it became evident that the woman was unable to
return, Mrs. de Maria began her pennanent work at W&L.

The de Marias enjoy working on the same campus.

“I think it has its ups and downs. We get to see ‘each
other more frequently, and being newlyweds, that’s im-
portant,” Mrs. de Maria explained.

Her only complaint? She has to work all but two weeks of
the summer, while her husband is under no such obligation.

The de Marias take care to keep the romance alive de-
spite the workplace environment, though. Like the Lorigs,
they are very busy people who generally try, but fail, to
meet for lunch.

“But we e-mail,” Mrs. de Maria added.

 

9 9 Mrs. Lorig said. “Although they might despise [Prof.
Lorig], their conversations with me are held in the strict-

est conﬁdence. That information is never shared, and they can be completely

honest, even ifit related to my spouse who is making their lives miserable.”

The de Marias agree that this privacy is vital. “We both hold our privacy
issues very dear. I have no business to know," Mrs. de Maria stated.

For issues not needing conﬁdentiality, however, having a spouse on cam-
pus can actually be a great help at work.

“When I’m frustrated with how to get faculty support for something, [Prof.
Lorig] is a good person to run ideas across, “ Mrs. Lorig offered. “We often
have a very colorful discussion about career options for students.”

The Lorigs’ jobs occasionally serve to complement each other, and each
learns from the other.

Both couples enjoy working on campus together and were hard pressed to
come up with any negative aspects of working on the same campus.

“There is none. No, it’s the truth!” Prof. de Maria insisted.

The number of campus couples makes one wonder if personnel purpose-
fully seeks couples to work on campus. Seeing how well the couples seem to
work together, perhaps the idea is not totally implausible.

Then again, it couldjust be a result ofthe size of Lexington.

“W&L is one ofthe larger employers here. It’s a challenge for a two-career
couple, a professional couple, to come to a town like this,” Mrs. Lorig said,
offering the idea that perhaps couples end up working for W&L ‘in part be-
cause they have similar interests and few other employers through which to
pursue those interests.

Whether “couples on campus” is a plot created by romantics in the person-
nel ofﬁce or merely coincidence. one thing is certain: couples on campus are
going strong and promising to stick around for a while.

i

h

I

 

 

OCTOBER 26, 1998

W&E

2 itling-tum lﬂlit

IFE

PAGE 5

News from the d-hall:

Freshman
wins pie-
eating
contest

How fast would you eat a pie for
$25? That was the challenge posed
to some very brave diners in the
Evans Dining Hall at the Dining
Service’s annual Hoe Down on Oct. 14.

The event included live musical
entertainment, clog dancers and lots
of food. As part ofthe festivities, two
women and nine men participated in
a traditional pic—eating contest.

The challenge? Who could eat a
specially prepared dessert in the
shortest amount oftime. The menu?
Chocolate cream pies designed by
kitchen staff to cause the most chaos
per bite. Entrants were not allowed
to use their hands. They sat side by
side and began munching at once.

Josh Counts, a freshman, held all
comers at bay as he chowed down his
nine-inch pie injust under 23 seconds.

Dining Services is committed to
making each meal a special event for
student diners. They have several

Photo courtesy of Emily Donahue
Freshman Josh Counts got a taste of victory at the d-hal1’s
annual Hoe Down. He ate a nine-inch pie in 23 seconds.

more extraordinary meals planned for while you’re at it, enjoy the
the fall semester, including a Hallow— award-winning cuisine,

een Lunch, Thanksgiving and Christ- —phozos and text provided by DS
mas dinners. Come join the fun and Employee Emily Donahue

Eels’ new album shocks popular music

to E’s voice accompanied by drums and a string section
that brings to mind a holiday cocktail party, which is
joined again by the familiar organ progression. On “Ant
Farm,” a country—tinged guitar part adds a pleasant touch
of ease and comfort to E’s otherwise saddening vocal
and keyboard parts.

Sadness is a major theme of the album, most evidently
in E’s lyrics. In the last year, E has experienced the death

of several family members, including his mother. Song
titles like “Going to Your Funeral,” “Cancer for
the Cure,” “The Medication is Wearing
Off,” accompanied by album artwork that
includes a cartoon gravestone stating
“Everything is Changing,” reﬂect E’s
sense of loss and confusion.

The underlying concept to his
words is not his sadness, however,
but rather his reflections through-
out his ongoing search for happi-

ness. Even though the album begins
with “waking up is so much harder
/ when you want to die,” it doesn’t
linger in depression for long. When
he sings on the title track, “take me in
your warm embrace / I am trying . . . ,” you
know he really is trying, and the general warmth

of the music makes for a compelling moment.

By the last song on the album, “PS. You Rock My
World,” E has come to a completely healthy and remark-
able epiphany. “I was at a funeral the day I realized / I
wanted to spend my life with you,” he sings, before con-
cluding the album with “maybe it’s time to live.”

Eels has been compared to Beck and Radiohead, but
in truth, there isn’t another band on the planet that comes
close to their sound. Electro-Shock Blues is a modern
masterpiece, and exemplifies a fantastic new direction
of popular music.

by Matt Lamotte

MUSIC REVIEWER

he late 90s have brought about a revolution in
I popular music. The divisions between rock, pop,
hip-hop, alternative and electronica have given
way to a general interest in combining every instrument
and every sound available in an effort to create tex-
tured fields of music that draw from almost
every imaginable source. Few bands
have succeeded at this compositional
medium as well as Eels.

Eels scored a modern rock hit
in 1996 with “Novacaine for the
Soul,” a trippy, catchy single
with an even trippier video. All
of the musical conventions
from their earlier work appear
on their second album, Electro-
Shock Blues, a unconvention-
ally delicious pop masterpiece.
Eels’ trademark drum samples,
sleepy guitar lines, whistful vocals
and irreverent lyricism are now accom-
panied by a host of new unconventional touches.

The first single, “Last Stop: This Town,” begins with
what sounds like a pleasant toy keyboard melody and it
is accompanied by lead singer E’s breathy vocals.

As the song builds, electric guitars, samples, drums,
backgroud singers and eventually a record-scratching
groove enter the mix. Instruments enter and exit ran-
domly, almost anonymously, resulting in a patchwork of
rhythm and melody that take the listener through musi-
cal colors and textures that fascinate and delight.

“My Descent Into Madness” incorporates sleigh bells
with a jazzy bassline with an organ, before yielding entirely

  
  
 
  
  
  
 

1749 1999 —provided by the
25 0"’ Nostalgia Sub-

‘H, 5; Committee and
Susan Groves

Bicenquinquagenary
Bulletin

This year, Washington and
Lee University’s School of
Law is celebrating its 150"‘ an-
niversary.

The Law School’s history is
based in the Lexington Law
School, which was established
in 1849 by Judge John W.
Brockenbrough. Annexed by
the college in 1866, the Lexing-
ton Law School became Wash-
ington and Lee’s “School of
Law and Equity.”

John Randolph Tucker,
former Attorney General for the
Commonwealth of Virginia, gen-
eral counsel for the B&O Rail-
road, and later a United States
Congressman, was appointed as
the first Dean of the law school.
The first building that separately
housed the law school was com-
pleted in 1900 and was named in
memoriam for Tucker.

Aﬁer a fire that destroyed the
first Tucker Hall in 1934 and an
unprecedented increase in enroll-
ment in the early 1970s, Lewis
Hall was constructed in 1976 and
dedicated in 1977 as the perma-
nent home of the Washington and
Lee University School of Law.

K

Phi Eta Sigma
inducts new members

The following students were in-
ducted into Phi Eta Sigma, an honor
society for freshmen, last Friday:

Bryant Edward Adams
Didem Akyel
Ashley Alliene Anderson
Lee Anne Applegate
Kathryn Rhett Baldwin
William Evan Ballard
Allison Leigh Becknell
Craig Morgan Benjamin
William Lynn Bible
Daniel Moffitt Birdwhistell
Elizabeth Eleanor Borges
Rachel Leanne Bowes
Jocelyn Hendry Bowman
Virginia Ann Brumby
Allison Michelle Brurreau
Hillary Rose Bryant
Joshua Donald Chamberlain
William David Christ 11
Jeffery Kenneth Cook
Timothy Francis Coimier
Andrea Marie Creech
Ellen Rebecca Dupps
Katherine Derbes Eagan
Dana Marie Early
Joel Patrick Fechisin
Erin Kathleen Ferguson
Emily Thomas Forman

» Jordan Samuel Ginsberg

Henry Robert Gola
Matthew Lee Gooch
Charles Tyler Green
Laura Anne Green
Susan Ellen Groves
9 Catherine Ann Harding
'9 Brendan Norman Harrington
Colin Patrick Hayes
. Anne Cummins Hazlett
Raquelle Alicia Headley
Shari Noelle Henderson
Nathan Rollins Hoot
Matthew James Howenstein
Tyler Scott J orgensen
Christina Anne Julian
Christopher William Kautiinan
HyeWon Kim 1
Timothy Allen Koss
Seori Brian Kum
Lauren Elizabeth LaFauci
Katherine Caulkins Lamb
Robert Mathias Marmorstein
' Christine Anne Metzger
Stephanie Miller
Kathleen Moroney
, T , Erica\Ney1and
Rachel Alaina Perdue
V Stephen Matthew Pesce
Sara Kristen Peterson
Stephen Lewis Philipson
Ginger Renee Phillips
Hugh Kirkpatrick Rabb
Selanga Nandun Ranawaka
Reagan Allison Reaud
Angela Christine Roman
Kimberly Ann Russell
Nicholas Robert Ryan-Lang
Megan Lindahl Schwarz
Alexander Young Sedgwick
Crystal Ann Simpson
Althea Kendall Smiley
Kathie Soroka
Gina Lynn Spezialetti
Jennifer Ruth Strawbridge
Julieann Veronica Ulin
Nathan Kyle Urquhart
Mary Elizabeth Woodard V
, 1 Patrick Beaumont Wright
Adam David Yablonski
' Dorothy Yuan

1999 Sp1‘ingpp’ﬁlfer1frxi,in Central Europe

'l'iavel to Central Europe with Prpﬁessor ’No_yaek, and explore Prague,
Ki-al<ow,,Belgrade, Budapest,.aridVfie1nia. The focus of this study abroad
9 course will be the relatiire tlevianee and norntality of being lewish in
1 Central Europe from World War II is the present.‘ Visit historic jewish
sites including Auschwitz, -syriagognes, and the lamoufslewish cenieylgery
in Prague. Arrangements will be made for students to meet with ré¢itrii;,~ '
and students at universities in the various cities on the itinerary, thus
affording participants the opportiniity to discuss both the historic and 1
and current status of lewish identity in these culturally and geogmpieaﬂy
diverse areas. The primary study eompoiient will be at the American _.
University of Bulgaria where Bulgarian students will participate fully
in the class. The total cost is $1,950.00 For further informatim, cmtac}
Professor Novack in the Depaiitrnent of Sociology and Anthropology,

Presentation

l\/lorgan means niore
career opportunities

J.P. Morgan is 0 leading global financial firm that provides strategic
advice, raises capitol, trodes financial instruments, and manages assets
for corporations, governments, financial institutions, and private clients.

Please plan to attend our information presentation for
Washington & Lee students interested in

Investment Banking
Monday, November 2

7:00 - 9:00 pm
University Center — Room 1 14

J PMorgan

www.jpmorgon.com

J.P. Morgan is on equal opportunity employer.

 

W&L holds Writers Harvest for charity

For the ﬁfth year, Washington and Lee will participate in Share our Strength's
Writers Harvest, the nation's largest literary benefit to fight hunger and poverty.

On Thursday in Northen Auditorium at 7:30 p.m., assistant English profes-
sors Christopher Camuto and Lesley Wheeler, senior Beth Perry and sophomores
Christine Metzger and Susan Slim will join more than 2,000 writers across
the country in reading their poetry and prose. A donation of $ 10 is suggested.

R.T. Smith, editor of W&L‘s “Shenandozﬂi,” says of the Lexington event, “We
have raised substantial funds in the past years to help out the hungry, but last
year the turnout was disappointing. I hope people will join us this October.”

For those who can’t attend but would like to make a donation, please send
checks made payable to Share Our Strength to Smith in care of “Shenandoah”
at Washington and Lee. _

Tobias Wolff, chair of Writers Harvest 1998 and author of “This Boy's Life,”
said, “Writers Harvest is an occasion to be alert, to be awake about what’s
going on around us. It is an occasion to celebrate the possibilities of art — to
recognize that it can be a part of our moral atmosphere.”

Professor Jeans publishes essay

Roger Jeans, the Elizabeth Lewis Otey Professor of East Asian History at
Washington and Lee University, has published an essay in a new book titled
“George C. Marshall's Mediation Mission to China: Decemeber l945—January
1947.” The book was published by the George C. Marshall Foundation.

Jeans essay is titled “Last Chance for Peace: Zhang Junmai (Carsun Chang)
and Third-Party Mediation in the Chinese Civil War, October 1946.”

The book, a collection of 24 essays from authors in seven different coun-
tries, was edited by Lariy I. Bland, editor of the Marshall Papers Project and
managing editor of the “Joumal of Military History,” and also contains an
essay by Mark F. Wilkinson, professor of American diplomatic and modern
East Asian history at VMI.

Wind ensemble presents fall concert

The music department at Washington and Lee University will present its
Fall Wind Ensemble concert on Nov. 3 at 8 p.m. in the Lenfest Center for the
Performing Arts. Admission is free.

Under the baton of Barry H. Kolman, professor of music, the University
Wind Ensemble will perform "Slava!" by Leonard Bernstein, "Variations on
Est-ce Mars" by Sweelinck, and "March, Op. 99" by Prokofief. The concert
also features works by Woolfenden, Jacob, Jolo, Bourgeois and Cese.

Troubadour hosts Vampire Film Festival

The Washington and Lee Film Society will celebrate Halloween with a Vam-
pire Film Festival, Oct. 29-31. Thursday features "Nosferatu" (Germany, 1922),
directed by F.W. Mumau (silent version). On Friday, the featured ﬁlm is
"Cronos" (Mexico, 1992), directed by Guillermo del Toro, in Spanish with
subtitles. The last ﬁlm on Saturday is "The Addiction" (USA, 1995), directed
by Abel Ferrara, in English.

Each showing will be at 7:30 p.m. in the Troubadour Cinema, at the comer
of Main and Henry Streets. There is no charge for admission, although contri-
butions are welcome. Viewers should be prepared for a few surprises in the
theater.

Solution to crossword Projectﬂorizpn sponsors
puzzle 0" page 8 talk on Dating Violence
Aimee Perron of Project Hori-

zon will speak about dating vio-
lence 7 p.m. Tuesday in Northen
Auditorium.

Subscribe to

Elie ﬁling-turn lillii

Send a check for $30 to The Ring-
tum Phi, University Center,
W&L, Lexington, VA 24450

 

 

 

 

 

 

@112 iﬁiug-tum lﬂlii

Which Big5 firm
can offer you    
  a topcareor,
    3 balanced life:

and a passpartto a
world of opportunity?

Don’t worry. We won’t need to see your
passport photo. At Deloitte ér Touche, we
may be big, but were very friendly. And
we’re all about cultivating meaningful
relationships. Which is precisely why we’re
coming to visit on campus. There’s so much

we have to offer you as a Big 5 leader, like

i legendary company stability. . .the strength

of a $7+ billion global organization. . .top
challenges and clients. .. easy movement
between functional practice areas. . .an array
of programs that inspire a sensible work/life
balance. (We know you have a life outside

work. Well let you live it.)

We’re coming
to campus to
meet you.
Full-time, internships, externships
See your Placement Office for details!

Accounting, Information Systems

and Business-Related majors

Openings in. . .Assurance and
Advisory (audit) Services, Tax
Services, Enterprise Risk Services,
Management Solutions Sr Services

(middle market consulting)

Washington, D.C. 0 Northern Va.
. 0 Baltimore 0 Richmond.

is

Currently, we are seeking the best and
brightest college candidates who are ready to
begin their promising future in our Mid-
Atlantic Practice, a practice that’s doubled in
revenue over the last three years alone!!
We‘ll be extending offers after we visit
campus. And we’ll be inviting selected
candidates with offers to attend a Weekend
Event in Annapolis, MD, we call:
“Passport To a World of Opportunity.” It’s
an opportunity for us to get to know you
even better. (The event will run from Friday
morning, Oct. 30th, to Saturday afternoon,
Oct. 31st.) All food, entertainment and
accommodations are on us. We’ll even have
you back on campus in time to continue
your personal weekend plans. So, let’s
CONNECT. If you’re unable to meet with
us, we offer plan  which is to forward
your resume to: Deloitte &‘ Touche LLP,
College Recruiting, 1900 M Street, NW
Washington, DC 20036. Visit our website at

www.us.deloitte.com

In addition to being named one

of the 100 Best Companies to

Work for in America by Fortune"’
magazine, we have been recog-
nized by Workforce and Working
Mother for our innovative

work/life balance programs, and by
Computerworld and Information Week
for use of technology in the
workplace. Deloitte & Touche is an
equal opportunity firm We recruit,
employ, train, compensate, and
promote without regard to race,
religion, creed, color, national
origin, age, gender, sexual
orientation, marital status, ,, C , , , , ,
disability or veteran status.

 

@112 Iﬂing-tum lﬁht

‘ OCTOBER 26, 1998 . PAGE 7

  ‘Women’s soccer clinches ODAC regular season title

 

, This Week

1 Men’s soccer @ Roanoke

it Women’s soccer TBA*

‘ Football @ Bridgewater

,. Men’s soccer @ Salisbury

by Frances Groberg

SPORTS EDITOR

This year, the women’s soccer
team has put it all together, accom-
plishing two of their primary goals
this weekend.

First, the team captured its ﬁrst

1 regular season ODAC regular sea-

son title on Saturday by defeating
the Randolph-Macon Yellow Jack-
ets 2- 1.

‘Volleyball
‘spikes to
.victory

The victory sealed the second team
goal, ensuring that Washington and
Lee will host the ODAC tournament
on Friday and Saturday.

Saturday will also be "senior
day," in which the women’s soccer
program will honor senior tri-cap-
tains Elizabeth Richey, Nicole
Johnson, and Karin Treese.

Sophomore Lindsay Williams, start-
ing for the ﬁrst time this season, put
the Generals on top just 3:50 into the

game. Three minutes later, however,
the Yellow Jackets tied the game 1-1
with _a successful comer kick.

Senior captain Karin Treese,
W&L’s all-time leading goalscorer,
broke the tie with her ﬁnal regular-
season goal in the second half to put
the Generals up 2-1 .

“It was the fnst goal I’ve ever scored
against Randolph-Macon,” Treese
said. ‘‘It’s a great feeling to win, and a
great feeling to host ODACs.”

Sophomore goalie Lauren Harris
posted eight key saves in the second
half for W&L, when most of the action
was on the Generals’ side of the ﬁeld.

‘‘I’m really proud of the way the team
played,” Harris said. “We’ve started
playing really well together lately, but
we still have some aspects of our game
to ﬁx. We are still young, and a little
nervous, as the last ten minutes of
Saturday’s game showed.”

Thursday, the Generals coasted to

an easy 10-0 victory over Emory and
Henry. Treese posted a hat trick in the
game, her third of the season. Junior
forward Ginny Jemigan and sopho-
more midﬁelder Courtney Nolan each
scored two goals in the contest.

Last Saturday, W&L routed the
College of Notre Dame 7-0. Goals
were posted by sophomore Marga-
ret Hunter-Turner, Treese, J ernigan,
and Williams. Harris and junior
goalie Stephanie McKnight com-

by Steele Cooper

STAFF WRITER

The Generals volleyball team
tacked up one more win at the
Warner Center this week by defeat-

‘ ing Christopher Newport (15-3, 15-
8, 15-10) on Thursday.

The win was the team’s 11th

straight victory since losing to Tho-
K mas Moore exactly one month ago,
I September 26.

Washington and Lee is now 20-2
overall going into the final two
games of the regular season before
the ODAC tournament. They remain
ranked sixth in the region, on track
for the NCAA tournament.

Once again, freshman Ricka
Hildebrand led the offensive attack

gfor the Generals with eight kills
against Christopher Newport.

“We played really well as a team,
and I think we’re coming together
well in time for the post season,”

“ Hildebrand said.

W&L was also led by their deep
roster of veteran players. Junior
Nancy Riendhart totaled six kills,

(three aces, and 14 digs in the match.
Sophomore Pam Saulsbury led the
setters with 10 assists and recorded
10 digs as well.

On October 17, W&L traveled to

I the Goucher Invitational and posted a
4-0 record to take the championship.

The Generals defeated Alvernia
(15-6, 15-12, 15-10), Goucher(15-13, 15-
13,6-15, 15-12, and 15-12,20-18, 15-4),
and Seton Hill (15-3, 13-15, 15-1 1, 15-
8). Freshman Lindsay Ruckert was
named to the al 1-toumament team.

The Generals will travel to East-

ﬁern Mennonite on Tuesday after-
noon, and will be back in the Warner
Center against rival Roanoke Col-
lege on Saturday at 12 noon. The
match will be their ﬁnal contest be-
fore the ODAC tournament.

Tuesday

Women’s soccer vs.
Emory & Henry 2:30 p.m.

Volleyball @ Eastern
Mennonite

Wednesday

Friday

Saturday

Women’s soccer TBA*

State

Volleyball vs. Roanoke 12
noon.

*Provided the team
wins in the previous
round

Wiginton hits 42-
yard ﬁeld goal in
23-21 comeback

by Brendan Harrington

SPORTS EDITOR

It’s never over till it’s over.

Those words hit home on Sat-
urday afternoon at Wilson Field
as freshman Brad Wiginton’s 42-
yard ﬁeld goal attempt split the
uprights as time expired to give
Washington and Lee a dramatic
23-21 come-from-behind victory
over Sewanee.

The Generals scored 16 points
in the ﬁnal 4:41 to overcome a 21-
7 fourth quarter deﬁcit in what
was one of the most exciting
games in the history of Washing-
ton and Lee football.

“It was one of the most amazing
games I’ve ever been apart of,” said
junior quarterback Christian
Batcheller. “I don’t think I’ll ever
forget it.”

“It was a great win for us,”
Miriello said following the‘ e.

that’s been knocked around so far
this year.”.

Sewaneejumped out to a 14-0
second quarter lead, but the Gen-
erals cut the lead to 14-7 with 2:31
left in the second quarter on a 1 1-
yard touchdown pass from
Batcheller to junior wide receiver
J.T. Malatesta.

The Tigers went ahead 21-7
with 6:42 left in the third quarter
on Brian Morrison’s two-yard
touchdown run, his second
touchdown of the game.

With 5:18 left in the game and
the Generals still trailing 21-7,
Batcheller threw a 44-yard pass to
senior wide receiver Chas Chastain
on a 4th and 14 play which gave
the Generals ﬁrst and goal on the
Sewanee one-yard line.

On the next play, junior fullback
Scott Moses scored on a one-yard
run to make the score 21-14 with
4:41 leﬁto play.

The Generals defense then
forced the Tigers to punt and W&L
got the ball back with 2:48 remain-
ing. The Generals then drove 70
yards in just 50 seconds as sopho-
more tailback Marc Watson ran it
in from one yard out to make it 21-
20 with 0:51 left.

In a controversial decision, Head
Coach Frank Miriello decided to go

‘‘It’s big time medtcinerori team. 

You have to contain! Junior defensive back Harry Brookby tries to get around a block and
get to the ball carrier during the Generals’ miracle comeback at Wilson Field on Saturday.

for the two point conversion to try
and get the win instead of kicking the
extra-point and settling for overtime.
The two—point conversion failed,
however, as Batcheller couldn’t con-
nect with Watson in the end zone and
the Generals still trailed by one.
“The decision to go for two was
made ﬁve minutes ahead of time,”
Miriello said. “Their offense can eat
up 25 yardsjust like that and we didn’t
think we could stop them in overtime,
so we didn’t think twice about going
for the win if we got the touchdown.”
Just as it looked as though there
was no hope, the Generals executed
the on-sides kick to perfection and
sophomore Tom Monaco recovered
placekicker Andy Vendig’s perfectly
struck ball on the W&L 48-yard line.
“Andy practices that all the time
and he executed it to perfection,”
Miriello said.
The Generals then drove down
to the Sewanee 34-yard line, where

Freshman saves day

Batcheller connected with tight end
Scott Humphreys on a crucial 4th
and 5 play, giving the Generals a ﬁrst
down at the 25 yard-line with 1 1 sec-
onds remaining.

Instead of spiking the ball, the Gen-
erals rushed their ﬁeld goal unit onto
the ﬁeld, and Wiginton nailed the 42-
yarder as time expired. It was his ﬁrst
collegiate ﬁeld goal attempt.

Wiginton has kicked extra points all
season long for W&L, but just this week
Miriello decided to make Wiginton the
man for ﬁeld goals as well.

“ It was the kind of opportunity you
dream of,” Wiginton said. “ I mean,
what more could you ask for?”

After the ﬁeld goal split the up-
rights, the entire team piled on top of
Wiginton, while Coach Miriello and his
son T.D., who carries the cable for the
headset, embraced on the sideline in
an emotional moment.

“Our kids never, ever quit,” Miriello
said. “I told the guys before the game

Emily Barnes/Photo Editor

that when you have two 1-5 teams
it comes down to who can handle
adversity the best. Things started
out rough, but we kept adjusting
and we didn’t let it get to us.”
“After not living up to expecta-
tions so far this year, a lot of people
expect us to just quit, but we
don’t,” Batcheller said. “This was
a huge win for our conﬁdence.”
The Tigers ﬁnished with 375
yards rushing for the game but
had only eight yards passing.
Quarterback Max Fuller ﬁnished
with 198 yards rushing on 24 car-
ries to lead the Tigers. Watson
had another solid game for the Gen-
erals with 20 carries for 84 yards
and a touchdown. Batcheller was
17-37 for 219 yards with one touch-
down and one interception.
“Now we have something to
shoot for,” Batcheller said. “ If we
win our last three we can end the
season with a .500 record.”

SCORE BY QUARTERS

Sewanee (1-6)
Washington & Lee (2-5)

First Downs
Rushes-Yds (Net)
Passing Yds (Net)
Passes Att-Com-Int

Fumble Returns-Yds
Punt Returns-Yds
Kickoff Returns-Yds
Interception Returns-Yds
Punts (No. Average)
Fumbles-Lost
Penalties-Yds

Possession Time

Sacks By Number-Yds

Total Offensive Plays-Yds

Game Statistics

1 2 3 4
7 7 0 — 21
0 7 0 16 —- 23
S WLU
16 20
61-375 33-118
8 219
7-1-0 37-17-1
68-383 70-337
0-0 1-0
3-15 2-20
3-38 2-44
1-0 2-27
6-34.2 6-37.8
.2-1 1-0
6-68 6-73
31:50 28:10
5-28 0-0

RUSHING: S — Max Fuller 24-198, D. DeLaughter 12-72, Brian Morrison
15-60, Micah Elliott 10-45. W&L —- Marc Watson 20-84, C. Batcheller

8-19, Scott Moses 5-15.

PASSING: Sewanee—Max Fuller 1-7-0-8. Washington and Lee-C.

Batcheller 17-37-1-219.

RECEIVING: S-Ted Morrissey 1-8. Washington and Lee-J.T. Malatesta
4-53, David Ritchey 4-52, Chas Chastain 3-48, Scott Humphreys 3-46,

Marc Watson 3-20.

INTERCEPTIONS: S —- J. Beddingﬁeld 1-0. W&L —None.
SACKS: S- Brian Tyler 3-0, A. Tamburiello 2-0. W&L — None.
TACKLES: S — Robert I-lolley 5-5, A. Tamburiello 5-4, Billy Lewis 5-
3, Eddie Yeh 3-2, Michael Stanley 3-2, Brian Tyler 3-0, Towaski Hunt 2-
1, Johns Sears 0-3, Neal Chase 1-1, C. Edmiston 0-2, Brian Morrison 1-
0, Jason Hamilton 1-0, Jason Wheat 1-0, Neal Smith 1-0, Esau McAulley
1-0, T. Burrells 0- 1, R. Whittington 0-1, Steven Chandler 0-1, Rodney
Walker 0-1 , Jay Donnelly 0-1. W&L — Andy Robinson 4-8, Brad Baker
5-5, Jayson Lipsey 4-5, Will Baker 5-3, Josh Myerberg 4-4, Harry
Brookby 4-3, M. Navalkowsky 2-4, Ben Middendorf 3-2, John
McAllister 2-2, Jeff Mclntyre 2- 1, Scott King 1-2, Ross Kester 1-2, Lee
Swomley 1-1, Chas Chastain 1-0, C. Fitzgibbons 1-0, Bill McGettigan 0-
1, James Person 0- 1, Keith Prusek 0- 1, Scott Humphreys 0- 1.

bined for the shutout, the sixth of
the season.

On Wednesday of last week, the
team handed Lynchburg College its
f1rstODAC loss since 1996 by a score
of 2-1. Both goals were scored by
freshman Kate Bidwell.

The Generals will host Sweet Briar
on Tuesday afternoon in the ﬁrst
round of the ODAC tournament. The
game will be played at the Liberty Hall
Fields starting at 3:00 p.m.

Soccer
unbeaten
in last nine

by Tod Williams

STA FF WRITER

On Saturday, the men’s soccer
team hosted Randolph-Macon as
their Parents’ Weekend opponent.
The Generals shut out the Yellow
Jackets, winning their last home
game of the regular season.

Washington and Lee, who is 8-0-
1 in their last nine games, broke the
W&L record for most consecutive
games without a loss on Saturday
with their 1-0 win over RMC.

The team has only lost two games
this year, to Virginia Wesleyan and
Eastern Mennonite. Both games
were back in September.

This is the third season in a row
W&L’s win column has been in
double digits, the most times in
school history.

66

We’re not
looking too far
- . - -for-ward.-We .
have two huge
games in front

of us.
—Jamie Parker

1

—-—-->7

With the victory, the Generals
clenched a home berth for at least
the first round of post-season
ODAC playoffs.

W&L keeper E. J. Murphy had
ﬁve saves in Saturday’s game off
nine RMC shots. Murphy has al-
lowed seven goals this season, and
has notched seven shutouts this
year, six of which have come in the
last seven games.

The only goal in the game came
from junior midﬁelder Jamie Parker, his
ninth on the year. His goal, at 65:59,
was the third in a series of General
shots after a penalty kick. Yellow
Jacket goalkeeper Michael Matson
saved the ﬁrst two attempts.

After scoring half of the Gener-
als’ goals for the week, Parker said
he was “happy things were ﬁnally
coming together” for him this year.

Tuesday afternoon the Generals
shut out Ferrum College 3-0 at the
Liberty Hall Fields in their second-
to-last regular season home game of
the year.

Despite a scoreless first half,
three different Generals pulled it to-
gether to record goals.

Junior midfielder Scott
LeToumeau scored ﬁrst, just 31 sec-
onds into the second. _

Parker quickly followed suit,
scoring his eighth goal of the sea-
son at 54:34.

Sophomore midfielder Scott
Lofranco scored his fourth goal of the
season in the game off a header from
freshman Paul Wallace’s comer kick
to boost the Generals to the victory.

Although the Generals could now
be riding high after nine games with-
out a loss, Parker said the team’s
main goal is staying focused for the
last of the regular season games.

“We’re not looking too far for-
ward,” he said. “We’ve still got two
huge games ahead of us.”

The Generals, who now stand at
10-2-2, will travel to Roanoke on
Wednesday for a 4:00 p.m. contest.
The 13-2-1 Maroons are ranked sev-
enth nationally in Division III play.

 

 

PAGE 8

Humor Page

LAST W

Ellie Tiling-tum lﬂlrt

ORD

 

OCTOBER 26, 1998

$520 billion national budget explained

by Kevin McManemin

MY BOLOGNA HASA FIRST NAME

Those of you who keep up with
the news (i.e. a couple ofjournalism
professors) probably know that Con-
gressjust passed a massive $520 bil-
lion budget ﬁlled with more pork than
Rush Limbaugh’s pantry. The bill
spanned 3,825 pages, making it almost
half as long as “War and Peace.”

It weighed about 40 pounds. Re-
ally — it said that in The Washington
Post. No, I don’t know why anyone
would want to weigh the federal bud-
get either (sorry guys, I don’t have
the budget’s other measurements,
though inside sources swear it’s at
least a D-cup).

The point is that it’s really friggin’
big and no Congressman has read the
entire thing (the Mississippi represen-
tatives haven’t even gotten through
the ﬁrst paragraph). Yes sir, it’s good
economic times in the U.S. ofA and
the cash is being passed around like a
bong at a Pink Floyd concert.

WHERE THE MoNEY’s GOING

I $56,000 for presidential cigars

I $2 billion aid package to Russia
to keep capitalism from failing

I $3 billion for nukes for when
Russian capitalism inevitably fails

I $1.2 million for a new solar-
powered, energy-efﬁcient Al Gore

I $920 million to the Ken Starr
“Let’s drag out this painful spectacle as
long as we possibly can” fund

I $1.3 million for new soﬁware
after a mysterious virus wiped out all
justice department hard drives during
the Microsoft trial

I $3 million for the research, de-
velopment and testing of a new, hyper-
sappy catch phrase/cliché candidates
can run into the ground in the upcom-
ing elections

I $45 billion so that NASA can
continue our important national en-
deavor of shooting nerds into space

I $4 billion to hire new teachers
to ﬁll that fortiﬁed trench line we call the
public education system

WHERE THE MONEY CAME FROM
Well, when a mommy dollar and a

The government receives its rev-
enue from a wide number of sources
including you, me and the rest ofthe
middle class. The rich have accoun-
tants who are able to ﬁnd wonderful
loopholes like getting agricultural sub-
sidies for their yachts if they plan to
go ﬁshing on them. Rich people actu-
ally make money by paying taxes.

Until the middle class’ hard-eamed
money can be redistributed among the
poor and rich, the government puts the
money in the bank. Last year, the
United States government opened up
a savings account at Citibank. The
government got a competitive 5.6
percent compounded quarterly inter-
est rate on the national treasury and
a checking account with a free check-
book in their choice of the plain blue,
spring ﬂowers or world landmarks de-
sign. The government also refi-
nanced the mortgage on Alaska and
got a free toaster as part of Citibank’s
guaranteed service.

THE NATIONAL DEBT

In the past quarter century the
United States has seen its national debt
balloon like a ﬁeshman girl’s thighs af-

I $4 billion to solve the Social
Security crisis by shipping everyone
over 65 to Indonesia

 

  

I he ﬁatitously reported  y 

:-Supreme .Cotirt"¢ontract:', 9 

,  -~ n¢g0ti3.tl°¥1$4h°3§til!.P.~.  

V Washington, D.C..—¥1Justice‘Antoiiinﬁcalia‘ if

A will become a free agent effective  iftlie 
Suprern€;C0urt,d0e$i;’:t exercise'itsVoptioi1,t ;,\:e- 

_ sign  for the 1998-99 season. scaiia, tiié.iea§ue .:

 . leader in ‘.‘guilty”~.verdicts,».has demandedasalarfygj _
. ,o'f$l0 million  well overthe  .4
‘ .1 in theiconstitution‘ “eleven lpence;handva»half-ﬁj
"Qshillingperfortnightﬁ , ‘  ~ ' I  »

 

  

.~ I_ Z  The Court is apprehensive. about ‘losing. a (V ,
» jﬁother veteran justice so soon’ after trading ‘Ruth ,7 .-
. ‘Bader Ginsberg and David Souter to‘Grea't-Britain_,1.,_
 in return for a Chief Magistrate and two lower court a ‘
judges to be named later. . , , j 3 V
L If Scalia does not re-sign with the Supreme Court, K A
s it isjexpected that he’ll retain amateur judicial sta- -, 
tus so he can compete in the 2002 Olympics; 0

Loser to be made cool; by -
“South Park” rnejrchandisei ,
Indianapolis, IN .—~ Local loser Terrence 
Phelps, 16, announced plans to buy a f‘South Park” ‘
t-shirt ina press conference. heldearlier today. .
“(The show’ ‘SouthParl<?:. is.reaIly:,edgyvand.icool,»
. Wcaringa‘South Parl<"t-shirtywillrnalcejrneedgy,=L
and coolaswell,” Phelps explaineda   ~ 
His classmates at Grover Cleveland .Hig-l‘1 :
, School, .195 of whom already own "‘~Soutir,l’ark’3 t--J ‘iv
. shirts, were stunned by tlreiaimouncernent. “’W:0i\lV,i .5
I always thought Terrence was,’ like, atotal,itool,” V »
"Amanda Gilrnour said, “but ifhe’s the kind .
thinking rebel who would watch such aVhip,~ sub», 
versive show and then ‘buy a_‘mass‘rnarl§eted't- 
shirt to let‘ everyone 'éIse know hevwatciiesthé..
show, like,Imean, howVco_i'ol!”    F  “
Phelps has not yet decided whether he will buy .1 
the “Beefcake, BEEFCAKE?’  shirt or the . )
“Oh my God, you killed Kenny! You bastards!’?;;“
shirt. “I’m currently leaning towards the Kenny t- ,  .
shirt as wearing a mild profanity to class will make V
me even cooler,” Phelps said. I .» '

El Niiio blamed for failure.
of “The Magic Hour” 
Los Angeles, CA — Fox network executives‘
are blaming the weather phenomenon known as . 4
El Niﬁo for the failure of their short-lived, ill-con- ,
ceived summer talk travesty “The Magic Hour.”
“High pressure cold fronts in the South Paciﬁc v
caused the light-headedness of our programmers
and clouded their reasoning, allowing them to think
that a man like Magic Johnson, so utterly devoid
of media savvy or the slightest hint of comic tal-
ent, would be successful in hosting his own
Carson-rip-off talk show,” Fox head Rupert
Murdoch said.
Fox execs claim that El Nifio also affected the
comicsphere, a layer of the atmosphere through
I which television comedy is transmitted. “El Nifio’ s
storms ‘managed to block the transmission of
Magic’s biting wit, his suave charm and his subtle
satiric nuances,” Murdoch said. “Unfortunately,
the uncomfortable interviews, the dim-witted
sketches and the embarrassing monologues were
transmitted just ﬁne.” .
Inside sources say producers are regretting not
trying their original NBA talk show ideas, such as
‘ “The Vlade Divac Show,” ‘”Ihe Gheorghe Muresan
Hour” and “LateNight with Mookie Blaylock.”

daddy dollar fall in love . . .
WHERE THE MONEY REALLY
CAME FROM

ter two months of the D-hall. The na-
tional debt is all due to one singular
historical development: the credit card.

Throughout the 80s and 90s, the gov-
ernment simply charged everything. “Is
there a war with Iraq? We’l1 charge it.
Welfare mothers can’t afford crack on
their own? Here,just put it on our Visa.”
The “buy now, pay later” mentality
fostered by credit cards workedjust ﬁne
for America; until of course that fateful
day when “now” became “later.” Sud-
denly, like so many college students
who spent the whole term charging beer,
beer and beer to their cards, the govem-
ment got a bill it couldn’t possibly pay
and shit its collective pants.
Currently, the nation has advanced
beyond the “concerned” stage of debt
and into the “complete and utter apa-
thy” stage. The debt is now so stag-
geringly large we know we’ll never pay
it off, so we’ve stopped caring.
Adding to the apathy is the fact
that this whole thing doesn’t make
much sense to most non-economics
majors (or the clinical term, “cool
people”). Really, how can a nation
even be in debt, who the hell had a
couple trillion dollars lying around to
lend us, and do they honestly expect
us to pay it back? 4
How THE BUDGET WILL AFFECT YOU
The funny thing about our coun-
try passing laws not even the lawmak-

ers have read is that no one is really
sure what they’ll do. However, based
on the general theory that modern poli-

tics is of minimal importance to every-
one except politicians‘ lives, I
wouldn’t lose any sleep over it.

“Urban Legend” gets ax

by Brian Prisco
PHI MOVIE GUY

 

W 3 4 5
(WAIT UNTIL ITCOMES OUT ON HBO)

I love horror movies. A bunch of nubile teenagers run-
ning around having sex and drinking beer only to be slaugh-
tered by some hatchet-wielding maniac dressed up like a
lumberjack or plumber. Who doesn’t love that? However,
“Urban Legend,” the Hollywood machine’s latest attempt
at the fonnulaic Neo-Horror movement, falls ﬂat on its face
and starts digging.

Now, the current trend in horror movies is fresh and
provocative. It follows what I call the “Scream” formula,
created by Kevin Williamson (who also wrote this movie).
The cast, a bunch of attractive teenagers, are assaulted
by the killer, a faceless entity who wears an outﬁt that

 

11 12 13
29 so
33 34
so 51 52
5
lss so 61

Crossword Puzzle

(answers on page 5)

ACROSS DOWN

1 Record I Bugle call

5 Waste conduit 2 J ai —

10 Sea eagles 3 Love of country
14 King of comedy 4 Vane dir.

15 Came I0 light 5 Caustic wit

16 Flood survivor 6 Blow up

17 Party snack 7 Sported

18 Purring bird 8 NYC’s time: abbr.
20 Knight’s title 9 Set free

21 Ready to pick I0 Put up with

22 Exhibited in abundance 1 1 Cruciﬁx

23 Inactive 12 Hub

25 So-so I3 Outbuilding

26 Settled routine I9 Leaves

28 Most speedy 21 Guns an engine
31 Bank posting 24 Actor Coward
32 Takes it easy 25 Disconcerts

33 Hitched 26 Jane or Zane

35 Corrupt 27 Flattering reviews
36 Encrusted 28 Deceptive one
37 “From — to Eternity” 29 Honey

38 Okay 30 Pithy

39 Augurs 32 Burdened

40 Singer Della 34 Forest denizen
41 Tinler 36 Mammoth

43 Hub 37 Barnyard fowl
44 Jungle king 39 Russian pancakes
45 Saucy 40 Kind of admiral
46 Tints 42 “- Restaurant”
49 Animal’s place 43 Felonies

50 Pitcher handle 45 Bowl

53 Love of self 46 Break suddenly
55 El —, Tex. 47 Yarn

56 Out of the wind 48 Sector

57 High mountain nest 49 Italian money
58 Opera solo 51 Continent

59 Vegetable dish 52 Chestnut color
60 Tilts 54 Understand

62 Musial or Freberg 55 _ de deux

© 1994 Tribune Media Services

everyone in town possesses (i.e. a Halloween mask, a
ﬁsherman’s raincoat). The killer turns out to be after only
one of the cast members, usually because they did some-
thing terrible involving the death ofa loved one. Simple
enough, right? Not for this one, kiddies.

The plot is . . . well, okay. Horror movies don’t really
NEED a plot. Someone gets killed, everyone gets sad, they
drink a bunch of beer and have sex, someone gets killed
again. Lather rinse repeat, blah blah blah. This movie hinges
its story on urban legends: modern folklore stories that
are supposed to be true and everyone has heard before
(the baby-sitter who puts the baby in the oven, the killer
who hides in the back seat ofthe car, ifyou rub President
Elrod’s head you’ll get three wishes, etc.).

The killer in this movie runs around killing people a la
urban folklore. He hides in the back seat of one girl’s car
with an ax and when she ﬁnally turns around, swish swish
she’s minus a head. Nice twist, and the legends chosen are
well-known and appropriate to the story. So the plot is

virtually an urban legend himself. They might want to
give the man more than 15 minutes screen time. Key to movie
making: if you have brilliant professionals, USE THEM.

So we’ve got a half-assed story being acted out by people
no one knows. I think in realizing this, the ﬁlmmakers sort of
got bored and tried to put the story out of its misery with the
hideous ending. It’s contrived, it’s asinine, it’s boring— let’s
not mince words, it f"‘ * * ing blows. Let’s end a pitiful attempt
at a horror movie with an even worse ending that will leave
the audience crying . . . for their money back.

Perhaps most confusing of all, this movie is just not
scary. I’m a chickenshit when it comes to horror movies —
I cover my eyes, I look away, and ljump four feet in the air.
But this moviejust doesn’t scare you. The killer isn’t fright-
ening and they might as welljust write a telegraphed mes-
sage across the bottom of the screen letting you know
when people arejumping out.

Don’t waste time or money watching this ﬂick. Go to
the video store and rent “Halloween” or “Nightmare on
Elm Street” if you want to be scared. Wait until “Scream 3,” or
“I Still Know What You Did Last Summer’ ’ comes out (which
consequently I can’t wait for because the trailer gave me a
heart attack). This Urban Legend should be forgotten.

  

If you loolt hero to solve
your problems...

thing you'll find
is an empty glass.

loin the 55% of Vlél. students who manaéc college life
without relying} on alcohol to solve their problems

TAKE CONTROL.

Low-risk drinking is as easy as 1, 1, 3...
D No more thanl drinlt per hour
D No more than 1 times per wcclt
D No more than 3 drinks per occasion

AECOIIOE AWARENESS WEEK

     
 

 

 

R

0112 '4L’»ittg-111111 light

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

VOLUME 101, No. 7

by Polly Doig

NEWS EDITOR

Though there are still two months
left before Christmas, Washington and
Lee University came out with an ambi-
tious wish list today of which any kid
would be proud of.

The W&L Board of Trustees ap-
proved a strategic plan that addresses
a variety of university aspects, includ-
ing student life, curriculum, facility
planning and athletics at a recent meet-
ing. The strategic plan will be pre-
sented to the faculty in a meeting to-
day.

“The heart of the university is the
conversation that occurs daily in many
different ways among its faculty and
students,” W&L President John Elrod
said. “The more reﬁned the conversa-
tion, the more likely it will be that our
graduates will become leaders in their
professions and in their communities.”

The strategic plan calls for such
things as a review of the general edu-
cation program, developing further in-
terdisciplinary programs, adding three
new intercollegiate sports for women,
increasing numbers of student-ath-
letes, reducing alcohol abuse and
“enhanc[ing] Greek life so it is consis-

tent with the overall mission of the
university.”

Other goals included have to do
with facility planning, and were cov-
ered in some part by the master plan.
Extensive renovations are planned for
the freshmen dorms, the law school,
Reid Hall, Doremus Gym and the prac-
tice ﬁelds. A new University Com-
mons will be built, as well as a new art
and music building, a lighted artiﬁ-
cial turf ﬁeld, and a ﬁeld house with
an indoor swimming pool.

According to director of communi-
cations Brian Shaw, the plan is some-
what ambiguous in places. “A lot of it
is vague, intentionally so, so that we
can prioritize things as we go.”

Over the next months, the adminis-
tration will begin the prioritization pro-
cess, developing speciﬁc designs and
methods of execution. Money Will not
be drawn from the endowment, rather
fund-raising will take place to cover
costs.

Strengthening the endowment is
another goal listed, with the intent of
increasing ﬁnancial aid so as to attract
high quality students. According to
Elrod, W&L will continue to admit “the
most able students who exhibit sound-
ness of character and show promise

Faculty to vote on
new pledgeship
guidelines

by Eszter Pados

STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee University is
taking the ‘high road’ to a fraternity
pledgeship program that will reﬂect the
core values of the University.

The new fraternity pledgeship pro-
gram will be presented to the faculty
on today. If approved, the program
will be implemented in January 1999.

At its May 1998 meeting, the
Board of Trustees called on the Stu-
dent Affairs Commitee to develop a
new program. After discussion with
the IFC and fraternity members, Ex-
ecutive Committee President and SAC
member Beth F ormidoni, as well as
EC Vice President and SAC member
Wen Hutchinson presented a model
for a value-based pledgeship pro-
gram.

“Their idea was enthusiastically
supported by the Board of Trustees,”
David Howison. dean of Students,
said. After the board meeting last
week, the SAC unanimously approved
the program.

According to Howison, the univer-
sity has a rule-based pledgeship pro-
gram now.

But, he said, “a rule-based society
is not the way to go.”

In 1987, the university adopted
rule-based standards for fraternity life
and pledgeship programs. Rules, such
as curfews for pledges, and the fre-
quency of pledge programs each week
will be replaced by value standards, if

the program is approved. While until
now the program comprised of clear-
cut rules, the new program has very
few speciﬁc rules.

Junior Rob Baldwin, a Lambda Chi
Alpha brother, said that until now, there
were distinct rules. He sees the new
program as “vague and open to inter-
pretation.”

Howison said that the SAC antici-
pates a lot of questions about speciﬁc
cases. He said, however, that they
have to pull fraternities up to the uni-
versity value standards.

The new program says that any
pledge activity that is found to com-
promise a student’s “honor, academic
performance, or personal dignity” will
result in the suspension of the pledge
program and immediate initiation of the
pledges. Placing a pledge in a situa-
tion where he or she might feel the need
to lie, steal or cheat is an example of a
pledge activity that may jeopardize a
student’s honor.

According to the new fraternity
pledgeship program, “The remaining
weeks of pledgeship will be the length
of pledgeship for the following year.”
For example, if a pledge program is
suspended in the ﬁfth week of the al-
lotted pledgeship period, it will result
in a three-week pledge program the
following year.

Among the few speciﬁc rules in the
new guidelines would be one limiting
pledgeship to eight weeks.

Fraternities take collective respon-
sibility for any violation of the program.

According to Howison, any pro-

A

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

Administration outlines strategic plan

as potential leaders among their
peers.”

In addition, the plan also calls for
an in-depth periodic review of majors
offered at W&L. This will include ana-
lyzing trends, and increasing or declin-
ing demands in certain majors. The

strategic plan also calls for unspeci-
ﬂed faculty additions, including addi-
tional professorships in both the un-
dergraduate and law school.

The board of trustees is currently
working to develop a strategy for ex-
ecution of the strategic plan. Details

will be made available over the next
months and years as priorities and
funding are established.

An overview of the plan and the
executive summary are available in both
the Leybum and Law School libraries.

“I believe this plan with its inte-

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 1998

grated goals and aspirations is of a
single piece,” Elrod told trustees. “If
we will embrace it today and actualize
it tomorrow, we will have lifted the
university to a special place among the
nation’s premier educational institu-
tions.”

B00-STER CLUB

Some W&L students had some strange visitors rapping on their doors
Saturday night. The goblins, spooks and witches were out in force this
Halloween. Traditional Halloween Night candy collection started on early
Thursday evening for Lexington’s younger children during which about 70
downtown merchants were handing out candy.

photo by Hollister Hovey/Executive Editor

gram and pledgeship related honor
violations will be turned over to the
Interfratemity Council for fraternities,
and the Panhellenic Council for sorori-
ties. “The penalties for a violation of
pledgeship standards are designed to
provide immediate and future conse-
quences,” he said.

If the violation is so serious that
the suspension of the pledgeship pro-
gram is an insufﬁcient penalty, the
councils may recommend an additional
penalty, including critical probation or
suspension of the fraternity. Howison
said the SAC will review and deal with
the recommendations.

Howison said that the IFC should
not be policemen, but “responsive and
realistic.” A pledge’s academic perfor-
mance, for example, may suffer due to
factors other than pledgeship.

According to Howison, this pro-
gram will be better than the one in the
past.

“I’m optimistic,” Howison said.
“But I am also a realist,” he added,
keeping the possibility of difﬁculties
with the new program in mind.

Lambda Chi
brothers shoot
up frat house

by Eszter Pados

STA FF WRITER

Two BB guns were conﬁscated from thin I aml-aria (‘hi
Alpha fraternity house at Washington and Lee University
last weekend after they were used to shoot at empty beer
cans within the house, causing damage to university prop-
erty.

Physical Plant employees noticed the chipped paint
and holes in the house’s walls. They informed campus
security of the damages. Thomas Bane, trafﬁc control
ofﬁcer at W&L, confronted the brothers and conﬁscated
the guns.

If caught by police ofﬁcers, the brothers would have
been taken to court. Since security conﬁscated the guns,
it is a civil matter. The two brothers who admitted to pos-
sessing the guns will attend a hearing by the Student Judi-
ciary Council. So far, one other brother admitted to shoot-
ing the gun.

This is a civil, as well as a criminal matter, said Sgt.
Torben Pedersen of the Lexington Police Department.

W&L administrative rules prohibit the possession of a
ﬁrearm on campus. The city of Lexington has made it ille-
gal to shoot a ﬁrearm within city limits, although it allows
possession” of a ﬁrearm.

The laws of Virginia and Lexington, as well as the rules
of W&L, classify any weapon that uses pressure to propel
a bullet as a ﬁrearm. BB guns‘, as well as paint guns, are in
this category, according to Pedersen.

“No dangerous weapons are allowed on campus,” W&L
director of security Michael Young said. “Someone can do
serious damage with them.”

According to Pedersen, W&L security may conﬁscate
arms even if they are not used. Police officials will only do
so if a weapon is shot or illegally concealed.

See GUNS, Page 2

Ruse offers cup of culture

by Hollister Hovey

EXECUTIVE EDITOR

A little bit of java ﬁnally hit Lexington.

The Ruse coffee house opened on Halloween night to a
crowd of costumed coffee drinkers.

Owners Dow Harris ’98 and Rich Walter ’98 estimate
that about 100 people came to consume on Saturday
night.

“It was ‘a huge success,” Harris said.

The Ruse ﬁnancier, Valerie Alessi bet Harris and Walter
that they would not open by their Oct. 31 goal.

“Originally, if we were open by Halloween we bet that
we’d get to dress her up, and if we weren’t ready, she’d
dress us up,” Walter said. “We weren’t going to lose that
bet.”

The coffee house is located at the comer of Nelson and
Randolph Streets, a new hub for late-night entertainment.
The Volcano, B.J.’s Oasis and the Ruse are all located at
this intersection.

“The whole trafﬁc pattern of town might shift this way,”
Walter said.

See RUSE, Page 2

W&L students teach Espaﬁol
Waddell Elementary style

  

by Charlotte Graham

STA FF WRITER

Spanish majors from Washington
and Lee University are lending a mano
in Waddell Elementary School’s after-
school enrichment program.

The tutoring program, which is in
its ﬁrst year, has gotten a positive re-
sponse from parents and students
alike, according to Mary Atthowe,
principal of Waddell Elementary
School. The school decided to add the

photo by Emily Barnes/Photo Editor
Enid Dean and Colleen Calvey practice
a hymn for their upcoming concert on.....
For more on the university music
groups, see W&Life on page 4.

program when it saw that parents and
teachers were both supportive.
Waddell Elementary School takes
surveys from parents and teachers
every year, according to Atthowe. For
the past two years, a foreign language

program has been suggested, and was
ﬁnally approved.

Keri Dunphy, a senior at W&L, vol-
unteers with the children on Tuesday
aﬁemoons. She helps part-time teacher
Lisa D’Amelio to teach Spanish to kin-
dergarten through ﬁfth-graders.

“I’m just another teacher,” Dunphy
said. “I help them out with appropri-
ate responses and pronunciation.”

Dunphy said that she and
D’Amelio have conversations with a
puppet to teach vocabulary. They re-
peat the conversation several times
and then ask the kids what they think
they are saying.

Dunphy said that it was funny to
watch the children try to ﬁgure ou_t
what they were saying. Apparently the

method worked, however. Dunphy
said that the kids remember the vo-
cabulary from week to week.

“It’s fun,” Dunphy said. “The kids
seem really excited about it and they
want to learn, which is exciting for us.”

Dunphy heard about the opportu-
nity to volunteer from her professor.
She is considering teaching Spanish.

“I hope this experience will help me
ﬁgure that out,” she said, “but mostly
Ijust like to speak Spanish. It’s fun to
share that with little kids that are ea-
ger to learn.”

Junior Ellen Reynolds also helps at
Waddell Elementary. She works with

kindergarten and ﬁrst grade students

see SPANISH, Page 2

,~ﬂ

photo by Hollister Hovey/Executive Editor
Junior Collin Gleason gulps down his “Big
Daddy” at the Halloween Night grand opening
of the Ruse. Coffee drinks are served in “Big
Daddy” or “Little Mama” sizes, and baked items
such as cheesecake and pie are offered.

Ellie ﬂing-tum iﬂlit

November 2,1998

OPINION:
Problems with online registration, letter
from dateless girls and Talk Back.
PAGE 3
W&LII;E:
W&L music: WLUR shows, a cappella
groups, University Chorus and more . . .
PAGE 4-5
SPORTS: ‘
Football wins third straight, volleyball
wins ODACs and soccers lose.
PAGE 6-7

 

 

/

PAGE 2

Ellie ﬁling-tum iﬂhi

NEWS

NOVEMBER 2, 1998 

SPANISH

continued from page 1

on Wednesday afternoons.

“It’s fun,” Reynolds said. “I think
it’s really a good community service
for me to be involved in because I
know Spanish. lt’s also great to be
around little kids.”

Senior Heather Bradley and junior
Suzie Blum also participate in the pro-

gram

as

he student helpers are great,”
D’Ame1io said. “Thank goodness is
all I can say.”

Waddell Elemantary advertised in
search of a Spanish teacher. D’Amelio,
a certified elementary education
teacher and the director of the
Montessori Center for Children, re-
sponded.

“I didn’t even know Spanish until
this past summer,” she said. She and
her husband were in Spanish speak-
ing countries from July until March.
She taught English as a second lan-
guage to adults at a community col-
lege in Chetumal, Mexico.

“I learned Spanish there,” D’Amelio
said. “It was a great experience.”

There are about 25 to 30 kids in the
3 p.m. class and 10 to 15 in the 4pm.
class, according to D’Amelio. The
second time slot had to be added be-
cause of the overwhelming response
to the course.

Waddell Elementary offers the pro-
gram after school because it cannot
fit a non-mandated course into an al-
ready heavy academic load. Virginia
already requires high standards in

schools, so an extra course is not pos-
sible. The course is optional for the
students.

The school board pays for supplies
and the teacher’s salary so that par-
ents do not have to pay for the pro-
gram. The student helpers are not paid.

“We’ve had a foreign language pro-
gram in years past, but the parents
paid,” Atthowe said. “I did not like that.”

Other Virginia elementary schools,
mostly in northern Virginia, have for-
eign language programs.

Dunphy, Reynolds and D’Amelio
agree that they enjoy the program, and
the students do too.

“They really seem to like it,”
D’Amelio agreed. “Other teachers tell
me that they go around school saying
‘Buenos dias, como esta?’”

GUNS

continued from page 1

Students who live off campus are
not bound by this administrative rule.
They may possess guns, as long as
they are not used within the city lim-
its. Security ofﬁcers from W&L have
no authority off-campus to conﬁscate
ﬁrearms.

Using a firearm inside Lexington is
a serious matter. “We would press
charges and take them to court,”
Pedersen said.

W&L, as an institution of higher
education, and states and other juris-
dictions have the right to prohibit the
possession and/or shooting of weap-
ons within its limits despite the Sec-
ond Amendment, which gives every
citizen a right to bear arms, Pedersen
said.

According to Young, a total of four
BB guns were conﬁscated from cam-
pus housing in the last couple of
years, along with slingshots, one bal-
loon shooter and knives. The conﬁs-
cated weapons are kept in Young’s of-
ﬁce and will not be returned.

In the Lambda Chi incident, the
house walls were damaged as the BB
gun’s bullets hit the walls, leaving
holes and chipped paint.

“Security came in and took the two
guns,” a Lambda Chi brother, respon-
sible for possessing a BB gun, said.
“We will have to pay for the damages.”

According to the two fraternity
brothers whose guns were conﬁs-
cated, BB guns are available at Wal-
Mart. Pedersen said that one has to
be 18 years or older to buy BB guns.

In Virginia, a record is kept of every

individual who purchases a ﬁrearm,
Pedersen said.

A concealed weapon permit is
given to individuals who have a good
reason for it. Security guards, for ex-
ample, sometimes request a concealed
weapon permit for the purpose of self-
defense.

To purchase a BB gun, a purchase
record is not required.

“It’s marketed for kids,” Pedersen
said. “It looks like the real thing. They
play with it . . . [although] it can cause
just as much damage as any other ﬁre-
arm.”

Young said that the consequences
for such behaviors rarely exceed pay-
ing for the damages.

The case of the Lambda Chi frater-
nity brothers has been handed over
to the SJC.

RUSE

continued from page 1

“The businesses all compliment
each other because they meet differ-
ent needs,” Harris said.

The Ruse will offer culture to the
Lexington community.

They plan to host open mic nights
where anyone can perform. The own-

ers want it to beta forum for student’

expression.

Groups can reserve the Ruse for their
own cultural events for $50. W&L So-
ciety for the Arts is hosting a
cappuccino mug painting session there
next Saturday from 1 p.m. to 4 p.m.

“I think the Ruse ﬁlls a void in the
Lexington community,” Society for the
Arts cochair Ashley Marano said.
“SFA really wants to work with the
Ruse to bring cultural activities to Lex-
ington. It’s the perfect forum.”

The Ruse is a product of local out-

cry for more late-night social alterna‘-P ‘
‘ tives to fraternities or the bar scene.

The coffeeshop will also give stu-
dents a place to go when the Co-op
closes.

The Ruse is open every night from
6 p.m. to 2 a.m.

    

Co-owners Harris and Walter

Writer’s Harvest $ for hunger

by Charlotte Graham

STAFF WRITER

the organization, according to Smith.

“A lot of the money we raised is due to a donation from

the IFC,” Smith said. “We can’t thank them enough.”

 

Literary readings took place at universities and book-
stores all over the United States at the same time on Thurs-
day night. Washington and Lee University was no excep-
tion.

“The camaraderie of the evening is that hundreds and
thousands of people are all reading simultaneously,” said
Rod Smith, editor of “Shenandoah,” who organized the
reading at W&L.

The Writer’s Harvest readings are part of Share Our
Strength, a Washington, D.C.-based organization that
raises money for hunger.

“The idea behind it is that they choose a night in the
fall, and we all have readings,” Smith said.

Share Our Strength gave $45 million last year to state
agencies to support school breakfasts, childcare and food
stamps.

They published a book to raise money. The writers in it
gave their royalties to the organization.

Washington and Lee raised about $1,000 this year for

Beth Perry, a senior broadcast journalism major, read
her poetry about growing up in the South at the Writer’s
Harvest.

“I think last night was great, because it was for a good
cause,” Perry said. “It was a really good opportunity for
me to present some of my work.”

Chris Camuto, Assistant Professor of English, read
about trout and wolves from his book, titled “Another
Country.”

English Professor Lesley Wheeler, sophomore geology
major Christine Metzger and sophomore English major Su-
san Slim also read their poetry.

“I was pleasantly surprised,” Smith said. “I didn’t know
any of the work of the students.”

About 50 people came to the reading in Northen Audi-
torium.

“The audience seemed to have a good time, if the ap-
plause and people coming up to talk at the end is any
sign,” Smith said.

E-mail General Notes to 
u

., 3%

 

Stop Pegasus from eating e-mail

University Computing is urging students to take steps
to prevent the loss of Pegasus e-mail. Some combination
of circumstances is causing some users to lose e-mail from
the Pegasus “main” folder, and while the causes are in-
vestigated, UC recommends that users change a simple
setting in Pegasus, as described in a document on the
HelpDesk Web page: http://jeﬂersorz.w1u.edu/~helpdesk.

This document also explains steps to recover lost e-mail,
which will no longer be possible after Nov. 3, when changes
will be made to the university’s servers.

Sexual assault support group meets

A conﬁdential support group sponsored by the Uni-
versity Counseling Service will begin to meet weekly for
Washington and Lee women who have experienced sexual
assault or abuse at any time in their lives. Each member will
sign an agreement of conﬁdentiality at the first meeting.

Please call Carol Calkins, the Counseling Service secre-
tary or the University Health Service at x8401 to learn of
times and locations.

Sullivan named Vice President

Barry Sullivan, dean of the Law School at Washington
and Lee University, has been promoted to vice president
and dean of the Law School. Sullivan’s new position was
announced at the recent meeting of the University's Board
of Trustees in Alexandria, Va.

Sullivan received his A.B. degree from Middlebury Col-
lege and his J .D. degree from the University of Chicago.
He served as law clerk to John Minor Wisdom of the United
States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit before joining
the ﬁrm of Jenner & Block in Chicago. He was assistant to
the solicitor general of the U.S. from 1980 to 1981 before
returning to Jenner & Block where he was named partner.

Sullivan became dean of the Washington and Lee Law
School in 1994.

IPS presents classical Indian dance

The International Performing Arts Series at Washing-
ton and Lee University will present an evening of classical
Indian dance in Washington and Lee’s Lenfest Center on
Nov. 10 at 7:30 p.m., featuring Padmarani Rasiah.

Bharatha Natyam, the ancient classical dance form of
India that showcases Indian mythology, has existed for
more than 4,000 years. Colorful costumes, sparkling jew-.
elry and specially woven ankle bells complement the tradi-
tional Bharatha Natyam presentation. ‘

This concert is sponsored by W&L’s Ofﬁce of Intema-
tional Education and is free and open to the public.

Conference explores issues of honor

Washington and Lee University will host the Eighth
Annual Conference for the Center for Academic Integrity,
Nov. 6-8.

The weekend will also include a Mock Academic Integ-
rity Trial presented by the Executive Committee.

The conference is expected to attract more than 200
people to discuss honor and responsibility in the class-
room and on campus. Participants will explore what sanc-
tions are effective and sensible and what their college or
university community can do to promote academic honesty.

Society shows “The Last Days of Disco”

The next presentation of the Film Society will be Whit
Stillman’s witty comedy “The Last Days of Disco” (USA,
1998). Screenings will be at 7:30 p.m. this Friday and Satur-
day in the Troubadour Cinema.

It is only fair to warn viewers that “The Last Days of
Disco” has little feel for the period, the clothes, or the
music of that lurid, druggy early ’80s moment in New York
City night life.

Stillman’s focus is two Hampshire College grads who
share an apartment but have little else in common. By day
they work in publishing jobs; at night they go out club-
bing with guys who used to go to Harvard. What Stillman
captures what it feels like "to start your adult life in a big
city, to ﬁnd yourself rooming with people you don’t really
like, to rush into relationships without quite knowing why.

W&L broadcasts UVA conference

W&L will broadcast the Nobel Peace Laureates Confer-
ence, sponsored by the University of Virginia and the
Washington, D.C.-based Institute for Asian Democracy,
on Thursday and Friday in Northen Auditorium. The con-
ference will be held at the University of Virginia.

The nine laureates will individually present topics of
concern that are central to their ongoing work and will
discuss these topics in an open forum. The Laureates in-
clude Betty Williams (1976-77, N. Ireland), Archbishop
Desmond Tutu (1984, South Africa), His Holiness the Dalai
Lama (1989, Tibet), Rigoberta Menchu Tum (1992, Guate-
mala) and Jody Williams (1997, U.S.).

Everyone is invited to Northern Auditorium to watch
the live proceedings of the conference on both days.

Hackett lectures on Christianity

Rosalind 1.J. Hackett will give a lecture on Tuesday,
Nov. 10 at 7 p.m. in Room A214 of the new Science Addi-
tion. The title of her talk is “Africa: A New Power Base for
Christianity.”

Hackett, the Lindsay Young Professor of the Humani-
ties at the University of Tennessee, teaches in the depart-
ment of religious studies and is an adjunct professor in the
department of anthropology. She has published many ar-
ticles and three books on different aspects of religion in Af-
rica— new religious movements, gender, an and human rights.

Ogletree presents integrity lecture

Charles J. Ogletree Jr.. the Jesse Climenko Professor of 9

Law and faculty director of Clinical Programs at Harvard
Law School, will present the Order of the Coif lecture on
Nov. 10 at noon in the Moot Courtroom of Sydney Lewis
Hall. The public is invited to attend.

Ogletree’s lecture is titled, “Personal and Professional
Integrity in the Legal Profession: Lessons from President
Clinton and Kenneth Starr.”

Ogletree is the founder and director of the Criminal Jus-

tice Institute. He is the author of many works in the ﬁelds I

of criminal justice and professional responsibility. Ogletree
earned his bachelor’s and master’s degrees from Stanford
University and his J .D. degree from Harvard Law School.
The Order of the Coif is a national organization that
recognizes distinguished scholarship among law students.

Potato casserole wins D-hall contest

In its continuing effort to make students “feel at home,” i
the school's dining services department recently spon--

sored its second annual “Recipes From Home” contest.
More than 50 recipes were collected from the parents of
students during student orientation in September.

The recipes were then prepared by W&L’s dining ser-
vices staff and went through two rounds of testing. The
ﬁrst round was done by the dining service staff to narrow
the ﬁeld to eight ﬁnalists and the ﬁnal round of testing was

done by a group of administrators, including President '

John Elrod, and his wife, Mimi.

The winning entry was a sweet potato casserole dish
turned in by the parents of freshman Emily Rose Whitmire.
The recipe was featured during the Parents Weekend pic-

nic on the Front Lawn and all of the winning entries from ‘

the four categories (entree, vegetable, side dish and des- '

sert) will be served in a special dinner for the students
during the spring.

Other top entries included North Carolina shrimp cre- 3

ole, oven beef stew, fried okra, potatoes royale, raspberry
Jell-O salad, fudge pie and chocolate chess pie.

Woodrow Wilson Fellow visits W&L 4

Peter D. Hart, one of the leading analysts of public opin- :

ion in the United States, will visit W&L next week as part
of the Woodrow Wilson Visiting Fellow program.

Hart will present a public lecture titled “The Election: 
What it Means and Where We Go From Here,” at 4 p.m. *

Nov. 10 in Northen Auditorium. Hart will also meet with the
Mock Convention executive and steering committees and
will take part in classes in politics andjoumalism.

Under his direction, Peter D. Hart Research Associates ‘

has conducted more than 3,500 public opinion surveys
that have included interviews with more than two million

indiygjduals. Hart Research clients include current Senate 9

members Jay Rockefeller, Robert Byrd and Bill Bradley.

The Woodrow Wilson Visiting Fellows program brings
national leaders to the campuses of small liberal arts col-
leges for a week of classes, informal discussions with stu-
dents and faculty and career counseling.

 

selltrinsearn cash.  C 
uairee!!!

SIS is nawnirintl campus
lowestratestolamaica.
Mexicaarlariaa
1-300-548-4849 0|‘
wvnu.ststraueI.com

Econo Lodge

Spender nlglmuota fortnnn.

540-463-7371

* Parents Discount *
* Newly Renovated *
* Free HBO W/Remote *
* No Smoking Rooms *
* Free Continental Breakfast *

JAMES G. LEYBURN LIBRARY
wasnmorow & LEE umvensmr
uzxmeron. VA 24450

 

Shear Timing
Hair Salon

Mondays-Haircuts $2.00 Off
When You Mention This Ad

‘IM 464-1145 4‘°”‘*'

snnnc  

   

Book now and receive a tree meal clan!!!

Cancun & lamaica $399
Bahamas $459

Panama Bill 399

Cancun lliahls tram Washinalan, Dulles, Baltimore and

Charlotte.

I-illll-234-llllll
www.endlesssummenaamcam

NOV 0 3 1998

 

 

,. NOVEMBER 2, 1998

@112 {King-tum iﬂhi

OPINION

 

PAGE 3

,A|l-night hoopla
ends with web
‘ registration

It’s winter term registration time again. We all know
14 what that means — get the sleeping bags and snack foods
and head to the academic building of your most desired
class. Oh wait — that's last year‘s freshman class before
there was online registration.

I can talk trash about last year’s freshmen because I am
one of them, not one of those who actually camped out,
but one who laughed and slept for a full eight hours that
night.

I even went to
Newcomb to
bring extra blan-
kets to my friends.
But not once was
I tempted by the
‘ hoards of people in the halls to pull up my own pillow.

I

  
  

Sir Isaac Lines
hanie Bianoo ’01

 

.ttersto The

  
  
  

 

 

Dear

at-v~°»  ?  

Ball. These girls are not necessarily  bya boy-

friend or even a good friend, butjust‘ by some] random ’
guy who needed a date. Well, newsﬂashfellas -4 there _ H
are random girls-here whofneed dates, too. These girls‘ .

pretty much rely on trier w&L'».,gays; Ifga.-W&L guy

doesn’t ask a girl, then the ~cha.nc'es argejthatishe will not  L
be going; It’sisad but true, Iﬂgjet annoyed when I hear.-":
that guys tdecide norm askgirlsito _e,vents".3:B‘oys need  g 

to suck it up and ask: W&L} _ g,
tions! Mostiimportantly, they need ‘I
possible. _ j_. V"  ‘~

W0uldn’f‘iti1I$t‘5¢:

  

I -wantto goltojth Brcetiq mquag 
  ' it

.erY3i¢aP
.. iffy

  

'.Ido'r_1ft. 

~.Ci*“b   

  know Spanky’s

What can I say? I have priorities. I managed to get into
the classes I wanted and needed. I did fine, in spite of the
fact that I got some of those tough professors you hear

¢ warnings about. I even learned more and worked harder
in those classes. Some of my friends who wisely decided
to sleep, like myself, even lucked out and got into the
history class of their choice with a certain unnamed pro-
fessor who warms every student’s heart.

4 I like to sleep. It’s plain and simple. So do many others.
We all turned out okay. I guess it’s part of the “freshman
experience” to go to the extreme trying to ﬁt-in and take

   

x». I . c’

the upperclassmen’s advice of “doing anything for an

awesome class.” Unfortunately this year these fun festivi-
ties known as registration will not take place.
As a sophomore, I cannot mislead any freshmen. I can-

not tell them just how much I
benefited from camping out for .
p: the best classes. Of course, I
would stay away from the truths
of “I never slept out” and “Ev-
ery class and professor at
Washington and Lee is super.”
‘‘ Why can I not have a little fun
with inexperienced minds? Two
words: online registration.
I’ll admit that it is time for
R W&L to catch up to other
schools, but why now? Because
of this change in procedure, this
year we don’t get to ﬁnd out who
the gullible fools are, who is will-

I even went to Newcomb

friends. But not once was I
tempted by the hoards of

to bring extra blankets to my

people in the halls to pull up

my own pillow. What can I
say? Ihave priorities; H

' ~u1ri~1 .1

77

In order to ensure that no one abuses the new system,
W&L abandoned a system of extremes that added to the
charm of a small school. Students used to actually talk to

professors about upcoming
classes and get to know the
secretaries in the various de-
partments. Now we can poten-
tially interact with only a com-
puter screen and a web page.
Now we have to learn multiple
technicalities about a new sys-
tem that is sure to present its
own faults. Even then the only
interaction will be via tele-
phone with the computer help
desk.

No extra spots will be
available in the classes. The
only difference is that stu-

K ing to waste a precious night’s sleep to get a class that, in dents won’t be able to abuse the system and act like

the humble opinion of some upperclassman (a truly defini-
tive source), is easy or fun or rewarding.

the computer lab.

fools. unless someone gets the bright idea to sleep in

..l

W
4
\\
\;I}',_:'. .‘> wlislf \
W iL‘j\.’:i'Y3.l.')/I l
'?—l(';L 'l’o"L1l-
4 \
l
l
.L__
\_.
\.
l‘ \
\
\ ‘\~' ?
I
I
SSI; J

    

STAFF EDITORIAL

my first experience with

     
  
 
  
  
  
   

 %«‘

Online registration pros, cons

Most of us came to a small school
because we thought we’d probably
be able to take all the courses we
wanted. We wouldn’t fear being
closed out of classes, thus needing
seven years to graduate.

But some of us got the late time
slots for the new online registra-
tion. Now we’re screwed.

If your registration time is 2:30

. pm. or 3 p.m.,.good luck getting

your first choice —-— or your sec-
ond or third.

Back in the good old days of
stumbling in a predawn stupor to
the Hill, at least we knew that by
toughing it out, we’d get the privi-
lege of taking that pain-in-the-ass-
required-for-your-major class with
the 523 page weekly paper. Or
better yet, we could pick up a six-
pack (maybe splurge on Natty
Light bottles) and a sleepingvbag,

or may not just predetermine your
destiny as a ﬁfth-year senior.

Well this online registration thing
has its good and bad. We’re no
longer forced to go through late-
night bonding with our fellow ma-
jors, but you just know that there’s
going to be a stampede of anal-
retentive nerd-herd leaders push-
ing and shoving innocents out of
the way in their, rush to get to the
fastest computer on campus.

Yeah, we like to complain, but
it doesn’t take Stephen Hawking
to work some of the quirks out of
the system.

Registration should not have
gone online until University
Computing’s servers had the ca-
pability to handle everybody at
once without crashing. There
shouldn’t even be time slots where
students get randomly screwed.

should be asking is “What the hell
is preregistration for.”

It seems like we’ ll get locked out
of the classes we want anyway.
Really, what do the professors do
when they see the preregistration
results? V

We doubt that many actually
take on more sections. They prob-
ably look at the numbers and get
all excited when they realize how
popular they are. Then the vein on
their neck starts to bulge and their
hemorrhoids start to itch when they
realize all the papers they might
have to grade. They probably tear
the preregistration results up like a
fourth grader hiding a progress re-
port. Then they forget they ever
saw the numbers.

What do you think about online
registration? Write to phi@wlu.edu
and let everyone know.

and naughtily get sauced and sub- We need
ject our fellow majors to a round quicker ma-
of burps and other bodily functions chines with
as they were attempting to sleep. more memory.
Now, some little ﬁend in the Besides time

Registrar’s Office is randomly as-
signing you to a time slot that may

slots, the ques-
tion everyone

{{

  

Tex, you’d better
start doing some drinkin’.
—Thomas Bane, “Baner,” to a cowboy who

couldn’t take his full bottle of wine on the univer-
sity van aﬁer Friday’ s Halloween costume party at

Zollman’s

iuote of the week:

 

“Some guy was a shower.”

——-Tiffany Friedel ’02

“Ike and Tina Turner”

—MikeRiley’O2

saw this Weekend?

 

“Natty Light”

—Rob Policelli ’02

What was the best costume you

}}

  

“Marilyn Monroe (it was a guy)”

@112 itiing-tum iﬂlri

Executive Editors
News Editors
W&Life Editors
Opinions Editors
Sports Editors

Last Word Editor
Copy Editors

Photo Editors

Online Editor
Assistant Online Editor

Business Manager
Advertising Directors

Circulation Director

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editors, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Saturday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters, columns and "Talkback" do not
reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

Washington and Lee University

Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Ofﬁce: (540) 462-4049

Tarah Grant
Hollister Hovey
Polly Doig

John Stewart
Ginger Phillips
Erica Prosser
Stephanie Bianco
Stephen Pesce
Frances Groberg
Brendan Harrington
Kevin McManemin
Sarah Meldrurn
Meredith Mlynar
Emily Barnes
Mike Crittenden
Tom Wadlow
Lionel Brown

Jason Williams
John Costello
Matt Lorber
Lionel Brown

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center

Lexington, VA 24450
Fax: (540) 462-4059

E-mail: phi@w1u.edu
http://wlu. edu/~phi

—Amanda Fischer ’02

Annual subsription rate: $30

 

 

PAGE 4

W&L students have lots of musical

by Elianna Marziani
STAFF WRITER

Think of Washington and Lee University for a mo-
ment. What comes to mind? White columns? Pristine
lawns? Academics? Certainly, the academic scene is up
there among the most noted aspects of the university.

W&L is so often noted for its academics, though, that
people sometimes forget to look at the other aspects
that make W&L such a special place. With all the won-
derful music groups on campus, such an oversight

would deﬁnitely be a mistake.
W&L has a capella

gl‘OUpS,

  
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
   
  
 
  
  
   
     
       
       
 
   
 
 
  
  

.. “Ma.
choral

groups and
ensembles; these groups pro-
vide fun-ﬁlled and entertaining accom-
paniment to the otherwise stuffy halls of
academia.

Southern Comfort is the oldest a capella group on
campus. It was created in the early 1970s and is now
what the group’s music director and W&L senior
Chris Edwards calls “an all-male a capella group at
W&L with a wide variety of music, from 505’ and
60s’ doowap to more modern stuff.”

This 13-member group includes men from all
classes who meet twice a week for two hours to
sing and have fun together.

What makes them different from other a capella
groups?

“A lot [of other groups] are technically really
good, but they’re just not that exciting to watch. It’s
the show you can put on with it, not being afraid to
make a fool out of yourself a little,” Edwards ex-
plained.

Anyone who has witnessed a Southern Com-
fort concert can attest to the fact that these men
do not have that fear; rather, they love per-
forming.

“It’s almost like having our own little frater-
nity,” Edwards said.

The diversity of the men in the group makes the
group special. The down side?

“The only down side, if there is one, is all the
work to maintain the quality we want to have,”
Edwards asserted.

All the hard work dcfinitcly pays off, however.

The next opportunity to hear Southern Com-
fort sing will be at a Christmas carol event at The
Homestead, where the agenda includes what
Edwards calls “a messed up ‘Twelve Days of
Christmas’ and more traditional stuff.”

Southern Comfort also has two CDs in the
bookstore available for students to buy:
“Everybody Wants Some” and “250

Proof,” released in spring 1995 and 1998
respectively.

The guys don’t have the monopoly on
great voices, though. JubiLee, the female a
capella group on campus, is also going

I strong.

JubiLee was created in 1985, the first
year that women came to W&L, and is now

I a talented I2-member group.

I The group practices twice a week and

. even more during conceit weeks, but they have

I a good time doing it.

“We’re very laid back, it’s got a nice phi-

: losophy to it. We practice a lot. We really have

j a good time together,” Ashley Smith, W&L

I senior and JuliLee music director, said.

‘ The women span decades in their

jchoice of music, running the gamut of

T Gershwin to Enya.

: These women love more than just their
music, however; they also love just spend-
ing time with each other.

“The best part is the other girls in the
group,” Smith said. “We’re a really cohesive unit.
We get such a kick out of each other.”

Smith went on to add, “There’s nothing bad about
it at all. I love it!” _

The only hard part for the girls is scheduling a time for
all of them to meet, since they are all so busy. Still, they
make time for JubiLee.

Though the women cannot go on their big tour this

so "

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Edito_r
Members of the University Chorus review the
new music for their upcoming concert.

year, they are planning some shorter trips and perfor-
mances at alumni parties and similar functions.

They are going to perform at a Christmas concert with
the University Chorus, and they also just released a 10-
song CD, “Last Call,” which is available in the bookstore.

With all the great womens’ and mens’ voices on
campus, it makes sense to put them together.

General Admission, the student-run co-ed a capella
group on campus, did just that when it was started in
1992. It is now a 12-member group that performs at
concerts and other on— and off—campus events. The
group sings all kinds of music.

“We try to pick songs not so ‘choir-y.’ They’re sort of
more popular songs,” explained senior Mollie Harmon,
describing the 60s’, 70s’ and 80s’ music that the group
enjoys singing.

“I think the best part is getting together with
people you have fun with and singing together,”
Harmon added.

The only bad thing she could come up with?
“The worst part is the time crunch between‘
concerts when you realize that the songs

aren’t as good as they should be, and there’s
no time.”

Like most of the other musical groups on
campus, General Admission has a lot of busy
members, so time conﬂicts can also be prob-

lems for the group.

ing at a basketball banquet and Christ-
mas caroling at retirement homes. While
the group does not have any CD5 out
yet, it plans to make its first one dur-
ing winter term.
Two larger choral groups also exist on
campus: University Chorus and Univer-
sity Chamber Singers.
The University Chorus is what con-
ductor Scott Williamson calls “the larg-
est performing organization in the
W&L community.”

The group has more than 80 mem-
bers, including mostly under-
classmen, but also mem-
bers of the faculty, law

school and commu-
nity. The

group
prac-
t i c e s
two to
f o u r
hours ev-
ery week
and per-
forms three
or four con-
certs per
term. Cho-
rus earns
participants
one aca-
demic credit
perterm.
They per-
form a wide
range of mu-
sic, including
jazz, mainstream
classical reper-
toire, new con-
temporary and
more.
“Our purpose is to
communicate, to share and
t o have fun,” Williamson said. “Making
music with a community of people is the best part of chorus.
The message of many people speaking is greater than one
person.”

Freshman Kristin Herman also enjoys the commu-
nity aspect of chorus.

“Singing with Scott is great, and getting to know ev-
eryone, getting to meet people I otherwise wouldn’t get
to meet is great.”

Williamson believes that the hardest part of chorus is
the scheduling, but Herman declared, “I haven’t had a worst
part yet. I really haven’t. Practice for me is a stress relief It
gives me time to wind down. I kind of look forward to it.”

Though chorus is definitely a lot of work and a time
commitment, it can be humorous, too. Williamson thinks
that a good plan for the future might be “a fashion show
with a variety of ways chorus dresses could be used.”

Anyone who has seen the chorus dresses can appreci-
ate what he is talking about.

Then again, this comment came from the man who, as
Herman explained, went to the faculty recital and “came
out dressed as a woman, with a wig and heels, and sat on
this guy’s lap.”

When can you hear this zany group perform? They
will be part of the Opera Gala that the University-
Shenandoah Symphony Orchestra is performing on Sat-
urday, Nov. 7 at 8 p.m. On Dec. 8 at 7 p.m., they will host
their holiday concert.

Though chorus does not have a CD out yet, they look
forward to making one in the future.

 

NOVEMBER 2, 1998

Their upcoming events include sing- _

  

talent, fun

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

Senior Nathan Hager (front) and Rob Baldwin ’00 play some jany tunes during practice for Jazz Ensemble.

After spending a year in chorus, students are eli-
gible to apply for a spot in University Chamber Singers,
which is directed by Gordon Spice.

“Chamber Singers is a small mixed vocal ensemble that
sings primarily a capella music,” Spice said. “The group
tries to perform the best choral literature that [it] can find
for the ensemble.”

This organization was created in its present form in 1992
and consists of only upperclassmen.

The group takes tours, too; its last tour was to the Czech
Republic last spring, and its next one most likely will be to
southern Spain in the coming year.

Spice said that it is the students who make Chamber

Singers so great, and “the fact that they’re so tal-

ented to start with, that they learn
quickly and work hard.”

The students --
also attribute the group’s success to the
director.

“Dr. Spice is a great director; he picks great music.
[Chamber Singers] is a great way to spend an hour, it’s
a great break,” Harmon said. “That’s my favorite part of
the day.”

She couldn’t think of a bad thing about the group, say-
ing, “I love everything about it, honestly.”

The only possible negative Spice could think of was
the fact that the group is very busy, but he added, “I’m
glad the university thinks it’s important to call on the group
to sing at [various university] functions.”

The student body will get its next chance to hear this
elite group at the annual Lessons and Carols service to be
held at Lee Chapel on Dec. 10.

Also, their CD, “W&L Chamber Singers: European Tour
1998,” recorded live in Jaromeice last spring, is available
for $1 0 in the bookstore or from Spice. A

Though the university definitely has talented singers,

 

Allen said that his favorite part of jazz was learning
through playing, since, as he put it, “Jazz is music that was

. meant to be played.”

The only negative Allen could come up with?

“It gets really, really hot when I play drums. I have to
keep my clothes on, that’s the negative part!”

The Jazz Ensemble will be playing at the Nov. 12 beneﬁt
concert for the Montessori School at 8 p.m. at the Lenfest
Center for the performing arts.

On Nov. 17, the group will perform its first solo concert
at 8 p.m. at Lenfest. Finally, Dec. 3, Vosbein warns us to “be
prepared for holiday numbers played a la jazz” as the Jazz
and Wind Ensembles kick off their annual holiday concert.

The University Wind Ensemble, created by Barry
Kolman in 1987, “was formed to give the students a more
w e I l -
'  r o u n d e d

musical ex-

perience,”
Kolman said.
W h e n
Kolman ar-
rived, there was
no large ensemble, merely
chamber _ groups. Byjoining these small
groups to- gether, he created the large Wind Ensemble
here today.

“The experience of watching this group grow so expo-
nentially has been a most gratifying one,” Kolman said.

He went on to say that Wind Ensemble is “a high qual-
ity musical ensemble that plays only the finest wind
literature there is.”

The group practices three hours every Monday night,
with extra practices before concerts.

Freshman Abby Montgomery said, “There’s a variety
[of music played], some more standard band literature,
some more contemporary stuff.”

She said that the best part of Ensemble is “perfonning,
because it means that it is all worth it!”

The group is planning a tour for the spring of 2000 and
hopes it will be as successful as its recent tour to Las

  
   

Vegas and
Disneyland.
Their next

concert is Nov. 3
at 8 p.m. in
Lenfest. Also, the
group plans to re-
lease its first CD
this spring.

The Univer-
sity-Shenandoah
Symphony Or-
chestra was cre-
ated between 25
and 30 years ago.

The group
now boasts 75
members, includ-
ing student per-
cussionists and
wind and string

The women of JubiLee serenade a lucky W&L dad in Lee Chapel during
the Parents’ Weekend A Capella Concert, which also featured the all
male group Southern Comfort and the co-ed group General Admission.

W&L’s wealth of talented musicians is not limited to vocal-
ists. The Jazz Ensemble, University Wind Ensemble and
University-Shenandoah Symphony Orchestra also have
many talented members.

The Jazz Ensemble is celebrating its third year at W&L,
since Terry Vosbein founded it in the fall of 1996. It now
boasts 14 musicians who meet twice a week to practice.

Vosbein said the group’s purpose is “to give the stu-
dents the opportunity to play the wealth of repertoire avail-
able for big bands, from early swing era compositions to
new works and even world premieres.”

The band plays all kinds ofjazz.

Drummer and W&Ljunior Anthony Allen said, “Most
ofthe music we play is old standardjazz tunes, but we also
throw in Brazilian tunes, Latin songs, and on top of that
songs that everyone knows. We like to mix it up a lot, with
songs that really drive the band and really get the audi-
ence into what we’re playing.”

players, as well
as professional
musicians, fac-
ulty members and
talented high
_ school students.

Kolman said, “[The Orchestra’s purpose is to] provide
important and high quality cultural events for the Univer-
sity and Lexington-Rockbridge Community.”

The group performs three or four concerts per year.

For those eager to hear this talented group, the Or-
chestra will serve as the pit orchestra for the production of
Bemstein’s (‘umlidu in the spring.

Obviously. the Waisliington and Lee community has a
wealth of niusicul mlcnl behind the academic scenes that
its members are li;lpp_\' to learn with and from.

Thesc groiips tlcfinitely add to the cultural and even
academic environments, but best of all, both perform-
ers and listeners Iiave a really good time with the per-
formanccs.

As llzins Christian Andersen said, “When words fail,
music speaks."

W&L is lucky to have such wonderful music to speak
to it and its students.

Photo by Emily Bames/Plioto Editor

0

 

 

NOVEMBER 2, 1998

&U

{Ring-tum iﬁhi

IFE 

PAGE 5

* Junior explores colors of music

by Jonathan Barker

STA FF WRITER

From a music scene dominated by Satur-
day night band parties and a town that is, well,
Lexington, a performance art duo has appeared
that is, at the very least, something different.
This duo consists of Josh Harvey on piano
and Virginia Lloyd Davies on the easel.

Yes, easel, as in paint. This improvisational
group combines music and art to create a per-
formance that appeals to two senses at once.
According to Harvey, his participation in this
duo has verged on the surreal.

Harvey, a Washington and Lee University
junior who grew up in Lexington, has been per-

forming in this area for 12 years.
He has recorded and performed
extensively with Agents of Good
Roots and their side project,
River.

In fact, he will be featured on
that “Dylan-esque poppy-jazz”
band’s upcoming album. He also
plays with the Washington and
Lee Jazz Band and accompanies
the chorus.

For the past several months, however, his
main work has been with Davies, an innovator in
the ﬁeld of Chinese brush art. Harvey, a former
skeptic about performance art, was originally
hesitant to accompany a painter. It took two
hours of simply watching Davies paint to con-

 

only thing that Harvey can
compare it to is the spiritual feel-
ing he gets while playing in
church. Yet he says this has an
intellectual facet to it that is
completely unique.

“lt’s kind of snobbish in a
way, but also really stimulating,
serene and meditative,” he said.
Harvey said he can only hope
the audience is half as affected
by the art as he is.

It is Harvey’s hope that Lexington will expe-
rience a cultural renaissance, in which he will
get to play a small part. With the introduction
of the Ruse, the new coffee shop in town, and

s.

Harvey

 

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor
Josh Harvey accompanies the University Chorus on piano.

WLUR radio,
campus voice

by Ken J ackman

STAFF WRITER

How many times have you turned on a radio station and
thought, “This music is horrible. I wish I couldmntrol what is
being played.” With your own radio sh, w, you could. i

That is exactly what WLUR-Flvl 91. offers students: a chance
to be creative and learn what it is like to fill two hours of airtime
with your own music and opinions. If Washington and Lee Uni-
versity has one voice that is truly available to every student, it is
WLUR, the campus radio station.

This student—run station plays all sorts of music every day start-
ing as early as 7 a.m. and ending at midnight. The station offers a
great mix of music, which the student disc jockeys are able to
control themselves.

WLUR makes sure
that its music stays di-
verse by designating
certain time slots for cer-
tain types of music.

For example, there is a
jazz & blues slot from 8
p.m. to 10 p.m., and there
is a classical slot from 6
p.m. to 8 p.m. Both slots
offer students a chance
to expand their knowl-

   

   

edge of music.  _

Freshmen Jesse 
R0 C k 0 ff a_n d. M an Photo by Hollister Hovey/Executive Editor
Conner are disc jockeys

Sophomore Kathie Soroka pumps

for the Wednesday upthejamatWLUR

show from 7 a.m. to 9
a.m. They nicknamed their show “The Yankee Hour” and are very
enthusiastic about their job at WLUR.

“The best part is to have two hours to play things that you
like, to experiment andto introduce music to people that maybe
they have never heard before,” Rockoff and Conner said.

Not only do they enjoy playing their music, but they also find
that they like to discuss, and even make fun of, certain things that
are going on around campus. Most importantly, however, is that
they enjoy themselves even while making amateur mistakes with
the unfamiliar equipment.

Rockoff and Conner said that they usually get about two re-
quests per show, which unfortunately suggests that not many
students are listening to the different radio shows.

Many students have the opinion of Dustin Olson, who said,
“I only listen to my friends.” Students who don’t know anyone
with a radio show often don’t listen at all.

This is a shame because, as former WLUR DJ Frank Steams
describes it, “College radio is a good way for people to get ex-
posed to different styles of music and lesser-known bands.”

It is also a good way to learn about the trials and tribulations
that come along with being a disc jockey and a voice on campus,
something that can be fun, tiring and memorable all at once.

SUBSCRIBE

Subscribe to Eh:
King-tum ﬂirt."
Send a check for

$30toJason\VH-
liams, Business

Manager, The

Ring-tum Phi,

lhﬁversﬂy Cen-

ter, Lexington, VA

24450

Solution to crossword puzzle on page 8

C1
>

>

3

mmzo ozma
z>: 2mFm<>aH

E
L
I

rrI:>=
26-Irn
-IZHIE

PH

=>z—3mw
—iri-icnwrngcam urn:
l'ﬂl'-SH’!

v-com >rI'I|§-19¢‘!

——=v >b>p
3|-n<D mu-I<D3 g"""l—
m:>: 4zmgmm>z>§
-<61-vgrn

mar-:u en-U3
>a>§ :mz>n no
F>2l'fI'§

EFHISHI
tn-<>2 Uavarn-A

>§>§

—ozrng>z:u¢:o—I

H'I"II'7'I—'
9Z—-l=s.J1I
o>§
=¢'I-1|'l'|

GZQO

with more musicians being invited to play in
the area, he says that the art scene in Lexington
is deﬁnitely improving.

‘‘I’d rather play in front of 50 people in
Lenfest that care about the art than 6,000 some-
where else that don’t,” he said.

He believes that with more opportunities to
perform in town, the talent on campus will be
not only recognized, but also nurtured.

While the duo’s art has taken them to lo-
cales including New York, and will take them to
the National Heart Association Conference in
Dallas next weekend, the pair has also performed
on campus and plans to do so again.

The next performance will take place in the
Law School on Nov. 14 from 4 p.m. until 6 p.m.
All are invited to attend. For skeptics and en-
thusiasts alike, this promises to be a perfor-
mance like no other.

vince him that the act

could work.
‘ _ Once he began to “jam”

with her, he found they had
a “subconscious and pre-
cognitive connection.”
Often, while practicing,
, both artists would get “in
a zone.” Afterward, he
says they would both
simply stare for up to half
an hour at the painting
that had been created.
“Neither of us could
speak, but we each knew
that the other person was
experiencing the exact
same thing,” he said. The

ANNOUNCING AN EVENING OF STORYTELLING_;AND.;:
19TH ‘CENTURY MUSIC. THAT INSPIRED .Tnz-,s‘r;;\TIonj1i.
. NOV. 6 AND 7vAT 7 P.M. 

FAIRFIELD FIRE STATION HALL, " 
U.s. ROUTE 11, FAIRFIELD, -'vA
OPEN HOUSE A1="rra:RwARr5s AT 
OAK spams FARM BED, SC BREAKFAST“
TICKETS: $5.00 PER PERSON», _
CALL (540) 377-—2398 r-‘on QUESTIONS,

 

 THE ARMY CAN HELP YOU
GETA $lI0,000 EDGE
ON COLLEGE.

The Army can help you get an edge on life and earn up to

$40,000 for college through the Montgomery GI Bill plus the Army
, College Fund.

Here’s how it works. Enlist
for four years. You then con-
tribute $100 a month for the
ﬁrst year from your $11,100
ﬁrst year salary. The Army
then contributes the remain-
der. Enlist for three years and
"‘ you earn $33,000 or enlist for
two years and earn $26,500.

— Army opportunities get
0 « ‘~ better every day. Ifyou
qualify, you could train in one of over 200 challenging and reward-
ing high-tech skills in ﬁelds like avionics and electronics, satellites
and microwave communications, computer and radar operations-
just to name a few.

T It makes sense to earn while you learn. For more information
about getting money for college, call your Army Recruiter today.

703-886-2651
ARMY. BE ALL You CAN BE?

www.goarmy.com

  

Photo courtesy of E. Hilton Hines
The University-Shenandoah Symphony Orchestra is a semiprofes—
sional musical group composed of members from both the Washing-
ton and Lee student body and the Shenandoah Valley community.
The group is directed by Barry Kolman, and has hosted such guests
as The Netherlands Wind Ensemble. This talented orchestra also
presents many student, family and classical concerts in the Lenfest
Center. The USSO has performed such themes as music from film
classics like fWest Side Story’ and ‘Treasure of the Sierra Madre.’

 

Presentation

Morgan means more
career opportunities

J.P. Morgan is a leading global financial firm that provides strategic
advice, raises capital, trades financial instruments, and manages assets
for corporations, governments, Financial institutions, and private clients.

Please plan to attend our information presentation for
Washington & Lee students interested in

Investment Banking
Monday, November 2

7:00 - 9:00 pm
University Center — Room l l4

J P Morgan

www.ipmorgan.com

J.P. Morgan is an equal opportunity employer.

  
 
    
     

  

g car in history, base
“ fig9.r.es..———-—’
.,.,

l
l

 ad“  P Wm Equippi

    

__..

 

 *6 ,_L.  » Than Last Yearll
. - .--~—-~ ,1 e99 Corolla Pot L955 _ .. 

_,.............--

 

1

~—.

1

PAGE 6

 

@112 Tiling-tum 13111

SPORTS

NOVEMBER 2, 1998

by Steele Cooper

STAFF WRITER

Saturday the Generals defeated Roanoke College
in their ﬁnal ODAC and regular season match (15-
10, 15-1, 15-7). Washington and Lee’s overall record
stands at 23-2 and 10-0 ODAC for the regular sea-
son. This has placed W&L at the top of the stand-
ings going into the ODAC tournament this week-
end.

With the end of the regular season came a list of
new individual and team records. Junior Nancy
Reinhart, 1997 ODAC player of the year, broke the
record she set last year for the most digs in a sea-
son, 353. Her nine digs against Roanoke brought
her l998 digs total to 361.

Reinhart now also has the career digs record
for W&L with 1,041. Another new season record
was set on Tuesday when the Generals faced
Eastern Mennonite. W&L totaled 13 aces against
EMU, which brought the 1998 season total to 237,
breaking the 1990 record of 225 aces.

Against Roanoke, senior Megan Snodgrass,
playing the ﬁnal home of her career, set a new record
for the most career games played (3 86).

“[Saturday’s game] was a little sad and emo-
tional. It was also exciting because we had a chance
to win our fourth consecutive ODAC regularsea-

the new record for most games played felt great be-
cause it made me feel like 1 had really contributed
over the last four years.” Snodgrass totaled seven
kills against Roanoke.

Saturday’s win was the ﬁnal home match for se-
nior setter Lee Ann Gschwind. “I wasn’t really think-
ing about the fact that it was my last home game
during the match itself. We still have ODACs to play.
This has been one of the successful seasons 1 think
we’ve had,” Gschwind said. She led the setters with
a team high of 18 assists against Roanoke. Fresh-
man Lindsay Ruckert ﬁnished the match with nine
kills.

On Tuesday, W&L defeated Eastern Mennonite
University at the Warner Center (9-15, 15-6, 1 1-15,
15-5, 15-6). EMU was ranked ﬁrst in the ODAC at

son title, and we did it,” Snodgrass said. “Settings

V-ball buries ’Noke to go perfect in ODAC

Give me another “n”! Friends of senior Lee Ann Gschwind show their support at the volley-
ball game on Saturday. The Generals defeated the Roanoke Maroons 3-0.

the beginning of the season and has proved to be the
Generals’ toughest ODAC competition. This win im-
proved the Generals’ overall record to 22-2 and 9-0
ODAC.

Reinhart and freshman Ricka Hildebrand led W&L’s
offence with 16 kills each. “We were up and down
against Eastern Mennonite. In the three games that we
won, we played really well,” Hildebrand said. “We’re
still working on our consistency and playing our level
of volleyball, not down to the level of our opponent.”

Reinhart also had 3 aces and 23 digs against EMU.
Sophomore setter Pam Saulsbury led the setters with a
team high 30 assists.

   

 

Photo y o ister ovey/Execu we Edito

On Friday, November 6, the Generals will travel
to Bridgewater College for the first round of the
ODAC tournament. W&L is the first seed and fa-
vorite to repeat as ODAC tournament champions. If
the Generals do win the ODAC tournament, they
will be almost assured of their first ever NCAA
tournament birth.

After already defeating every ODAC team dur-
ing the regular season, the Generals are confident
and optimistic about the tournament.

“Right now, we’re concentrating on our first
match of the tournament,” Hildebrand said. “But
we’re gonna be the team to beat.”

Men’s soccersuffers from overtime blues

by Tod Williams

STAFF WRITER

After a week’s play, the men’s soccer team faces some
good news and some bad news.

The bad news ﬁrst: the Generals lost on Saturday to
Salisbury State, their ﬁrst loss in their last 1 1 outings, and
only their third loss on the year.

There are actually two pieces of good news. First,
Salisbury State University is not an Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference member, so the game will have no ef-
fect on the conference playoffs, which begin Tuesday.
Second, the Generals didn’t lose to arch-rival Roanoke,
but tied the Maroons.

The 2-1 loss to the Sea Gulls came in the ﬁrst sudden-
death overtime after a 1-1 tie stood at the end of regulation.
Washington and Lee freshman midﬁelder Paul Wallace
scored an unassisted goal 31:34 minutes into the game,
giving the Generals a 1-0 lead, which they would hold until
85:56 mark. Wallace’s goal was his third on the year.

With only 14:04 minutes remaining in the game, Sea
Gull freshman midﬁelder Paul Kelly scored on an unas-
sisted shot, evening the game at 1-1 . Neither team scored
in the remainder of regulation, sending the game to sud-
den-death overtime.

Again, both teams failed to score in overtime until 14:56,

This Week

Tuesday
Men’s soccer 1st round ODAC vs.
Harnpden-Sydney TBA

Friday
Men’s soccer ODAC semiﬁnals TBA*

Volleyball ODAC tournament @
Bridgewater TBA

Saturday
Football vs. Emory and Henry 1 :30

Men’s soccer ODAC ﬁnals TBA*

Men’s and Women’s Cross Country
ODAC Championships @ Hampden-
Sydney

Men’s and Women’s Swimming @ Centre
and Transylvania

Volleyball ODAC toumament@ ‘
Bridgewater TBA*

*Provided the team wins in the
previous round

with just four seconds remaining in the period, when
Salisbury sophomore Steve Ritchie scored on a pass from
teammate Darren LaRocque, giving the Gulls the 2-1 win.

Jordan Ginsberg, a sophomore who
marmed the net for the Generals in only C ‘
his second start on the season, posted
seven saves.

“It was great to get in there and get
the experience and help the team,”
Ginsberg said. “It was a game we
should have won, but luck just didn’t
go our way.”

On Wednesday, the Generals
failed to score in two hours of play
against the Roanoke College Ma-
roons. Luckily, the Maroons also
failed to score, resulting in the Gen- V
erals’ third tie of the season.

The tie, Roanoke’s second of the year, sent the Ma-
roons, who had been ranked seventh, to the 18th spot in
NCAA Division 111 national rankings.

The 0-0 game was a wild match plagued by an array of
interruptions. Just three minutes into the game, the sprin-
kler system on the ﬁeld in Salem, Va., came on, causing a
delay. Play was also stopped for several injuries, as well
as for an abundance of penalties.

It was a game
we should have
won, but luck
just didn’t go
our way.

—JORDAN GINSBERG

Roanoke received ﬁve yellow cards, and the Gener-
als were issued another four yellow cards, two of which
resulted in a red card for senior keeper E. J. Murphy.

Murphy’s two yellow cards, which
came within the ﬁrst 37 minutes of play,
brought in Ginsberg for relief. The
sophomore came up big for the Gener-
als, making nine saves in his 83 min-
utes of play.

The red card forced the Generals to
play one man down for the remainder of
the game. Ginsberg called both of the yel-
low cards “questionable calls.”

“The ref lost control of the game, and
that was his way of trying to get it back,”
Ginsberg said. “But we worked hard, and
9 7 we salvaged the tie.”

The Maroons outshot W&L 19-1 1.
Two Roanoke goals were negated because of fouls. In the
game’s second sudden death, overtime, the Maroons
outshot the Generals 5- 1.

W&L’s next action will come on Tuesday in the first round
of the ODAC playoffs at Liberty Hall Fields against the
Hampden-Sydney Tigers. Regardless of the outcome,
Tuesday’s ODAC tournament game will most likely be their
last home game of the year.

Women’s soccer loses semiﬁnal

by Frances Groberg

SPORTS EDITOR

You win some, you lose some, right? Let’s face it; That’s
not much consolation.

The women’s soccer tearn’s season ended on Friday
with its loss to Roanoke College in the semiﬁnals of the
ODAC tournament. The Generals, who were seeded ﬁrst
for the tournament, failed to beat the fourth seeded Ma-
roons for the second time this season.

“I think it does hurt a little more because it was
Roanoke,” senior captain Karin Treese said. “We didn’t
play at our level for the full 90 minutes, and they took
advantage of that.”

Roanoke junior Katie Slane started the scoring for the
game at the 3:09 mark, sliding a goal past junior goalie
Stephanie McKnight.

“We were out there on the ﬁeld, but not really ready to
play yet, and Roanoke took advantage of that,” sopho-
more midﬁelder Shana Levine said. '

Sophomore forward Margaret Hunter-Tumer retaliated
for Washington and Lee in the 14th minute, rocketing a
shot into the upper right hand comer of the net. The 1-1 tie
stood at halftime.

“Hunter-Tumer was in a position to cross, but she
shot the ball instead, and it rocketed over the goalie,”
Levine said. “1t was a really sweet goal.”

Just as W&L had dominated the ﬁrst half of play,
Roanoke took control of the second. The Generals held off
Roanoke for as long as possible, but freshman defender
Corri Grant scored with just over six minutes left in the half
to put the Maroons up 2-1 for the game.

“We didn’t have the chemistry we’d been experiencing

for the last couple of weeks,” Head Coach Jan Hathom
said. “I’m sure they wanted it very much, and I’m very
proud of them. It just didn’t happen on Friday.”

See SOCCER, Page 7

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor
Get off my back! Senior Elizabeth Richey
dribbles up the ﬁeld in the ODAC semiﬁnals.

Generals nab
400th victory

RB Marc Watson rushes to
record-breaking day leading
Generals to victory 20-12

by Brendan Harrington

SPORTS EDITOR

Marc Watson has been the most valuable player for the
Washington and Lee football team all season long and
Saturday afternoon was no different. The sophomore
tailback ran for a career high 160 yards and one touch-
down to lead the Generals to a 20-12 Halloween victory
over Bridgewater, giving the Generals their 400th victory
in the history of the program. I

With 210 total yards on Saturday, Watson broke the
W&L single-season all-purpose yards record of 1251 yards
previously held by Chris Leiser since the 1979 season.
Watson now has 1,380 all-purpose yards with two games
left to play.

“He’s a good one, that’s for sure,” head coach Frank ‘

Miriello said describing Watson. “ He’s been big for us all
season long.”

The Generals (3-5, 1-3 ODAC) scored first for only the
second time all season to take an early 7-0 lead on a 1-yard
touchdown pass from junior quarterback Christian
Batcheller to senior tight end David Ritchey of a nice play-
action fake on third and goal with 6:23 remaining in the
first quarter. The Generals struck again with 10:18 left in

the second quarter when sophomore wide receiver Wes-

Hardy caught a 12-yard touchdown pass from Batcheller.
Brad Wiginton’s extra point was blocked, and the Generals
led 13-0.

Batcheller ﬁnished the day 14-23 for 122 yards, two
touchdowns and no interceptions.

“Christian really showed ﬂashes of great quarterback
play today,” Miriello said. “ When he has time to throw
the ball he looks like a professional.”

The Eagles (0-8, 0-4 ODAC) got on the board using an
awesome display of kicking power as senior place kicker
Mike Pageant booted a 51-yard ﬁeld goal with 6:45 left in
the half that would have been good from 70-yards out.
Pageant is no stranger to drilling long ﬁeld goals as he has
hit four out of ﬁve from beyond 50 yards this season,
which is almost unheard of in Division 111.

With 51 seconds left in the half the Eagles blocked a
W&L punt and recovered on the Generals ﬁve-yard line.
The Generals defense stepped it up and kept the Eagles
out of the endzone and Pageant kicked a 19-yard ﬁeld goal
to make the score 13-6 at the half.

With 6:07 left in the third quarter, freshman quarterback
Jason Lutz ran it in from 14-yard yards out on a we1l-de-
signed quarterback draw following a Marc Watson fumble.

Pageant’s extra point attempt was blocked by senior
defensive lineman Ben Middendorf, and the Eagles still
trailed 13-12.

Both teams battled for ﬁeld position until the Generals
ﬁnally got back on the board on a 12-yard touchdown run
by Watson with 4:57 left in the fourth quarter, making the
score 20-12.

See FOOTBALL, Page 7

Game Statistics

SCORE av QUARTERS 1 2 3 4
W&L (3-5) 7 6 0 7 — 20
Bridgewater (0-8) 0 6 6 0 — 12
W&L BC
First Downs 18 13
Rushes-Yds (Net) 43-162 48-176
Passing Yds (Net) 122 50
Passes Att-Com-Int 23-14-0 14-6-0
Total Offensive Plays-Yds 66-284 62-226

Fumble Returns-Yds 1-0 ‘ 1-0
Punt Retums-Yds 3-7 '3 3-39
Kickoff Retums-Yds 3-34 3-67
Interception Retums-Yds 0-0 0-0
Punts (No. Average) S-32.0 4-39.8
Fumbles-Lost 1-1 3- 1
Penalties-Yds 6-43 3-23
Possession Time 30:27 29:33
Sacks By Number-Yds 2-9 2-16

RUSHING: W&L —— Watson 28-160,
Hanley Sayers 7-14, Kyle Overstreet 2-5,
Scott Moses 1-2, C. Batcheller 5—minus 19.
BC — Jason Lutz 21-95, Mario Webb 15-45,
Earl Payton 9-29, Davon Cruz 2-5, Josh

Shank 1-2.

PASSING: W&L — Batcheller 14-23-0-
122. BC——~ Jason Lutz 6-14-0-50.
RECEIVING: W&L —— J.T. Malatesta 5-51,
Watson 2-22, Hardy 2-20, David Ritchey 2-10,
Scott Moses 1-12, Hanley Sayers 1-6, Kyle
Overstreet 1-1. BC — Antiquine Parks 1-17,
Mario Webb 1-12, Doug Shirley 1-10, R.
Ziegenfuss 1-5, Davon Cruz 1-3, Earl Payton
1-3.

INTERCEPTIONS: W&L —~ None. BC —
None.

 

l

 

1' NOVEMBER 2, 1998

 

@112 Ring-tum iﬁhi

SPORTS

PAGE 7

by Brendan Harrington

Spams EDITOR

The Washington and Lee 4

men’s and women’s cross coun-

I try teams are having successful
: seasons and are now preparing

for the ODAC Championships,

which will take place on Satur-
, day, Nov. 7 at Hampden Sydney.
’ «Both teams ran well at the

Gettysburg (Pa.) Invitational on
October 24. The men’s team ﬁn-
ished 22nd of 36 teams and was
paced by senior Darrick Alford,
who finished in 49th place.

The women’s team finished

20th of 32 competing schools and
was paced by sophomore Wendy
Case, who came in 64th place.

The men’s team lost to Mary Wash-
ington 39-18, finished 6th of 13 teams
at the Davis and Elkins Invitational,
22nd of 31 teams at the Dickinson In-
vitational, sixth of 11 teams at the

State Division II and III Champion- »
ships, and second of three teams at

the Southern Virginia Invitational.
Senior Josh Beckham ﬁnished
17th at the Davis and Elkins Invita-
tional and 80th at the Dickinson In-
vitational. Alford ﬁnished ﬁrst at
Southern Virginia, sixth at the state
meet, and 49th at the Gettysburg In-

Cross Country season
running along at great pace

vitational.

The women lost to Mary
Washington 50-15,. finished 6th of
eight teams at the Davis and
Elkins Invitational, 21st of 25
teams at Dickinson, third of nine
teams at the State Champion-
ships, and first among four teams
at Southern _Virginia. _

Freshman Gretchen Tenzca fin-

. . ished 18th at the Davis and Elkins

Invitational and second at

Southern’ Virginia. Case finished A

sixth at the Virginia State Cham-
pionships, 64th at Gettysburg,
and 110th at the Dickinson Invi-
tational.

FOOTBALL

continued from page 6

The Generals weren’t out of the woods yet as
Bridgewater could still tie the game with a touchdown and
two—point conversion. The Eagles drove all the way down
to the W&L 23-yard line before they fumbled a hand-off,
which was recovered by W&L defensiveend Ross Kester
with 1:14 left in game. With the Eagles out oftime—outs,
Batcheller took a knee and the Generals hung on for their
second straight victory.

Middendorf and senior linebacker Brad Baker were
named by the Generals coaching staff as the defensive
players of the game. Baker had a season-high 18 tackles
while also picking up a sack. Middendorf had 13 tackles,
0.5 sacks, and a blocked kick. The Generals defense held
Bridgewater to only 226 total yards and only 50 passing
yards. The last two weeks the defense has only allowed a
combined total of only 58 passing yards.

Watson was named by the coaches as the offensive
player of the game for his stellar performance while senior
Lee Swomley was named the special teams player of the
game.

“ The defense came up big when they had too,” Miriello
said. “ We’ve really improved our play against the option
this year, we’ve worked very hard.”

The Generals host Emory and Henry next Saturday at
Wilson Field and finish at Swarthmore on Nov. 14.

SOCCER

continued from page 6

In the previous meeting of these two rivals at the begin-
ning of October, the Maroons were also able to come out
on top by a score of 2-1.

At least on paper, that game looked very similar to
Friday’s match. Roanoke scored ﬁrst, forcing W&L to tie

things up, and then took the final goal of the game for a 3

similar 2-1 victory.
The October game against the Maroons was W&L’s
first loss of the season. Friday’s contest was their last.
To reach the semiﬁnals, the Generals defeated Emory

.~

‘1;

and Henry in the first round of the ODAC tournament by a 

score of 7-0.

In the one-sided contest, both Treese and freshman 
midﬁelder Kate Bidwell scored two goals apiece, and W&L -

outshot E&H 39- 1.
“It was a great season,” Treese said. “We accomplished

a lot of our goals, and the team has some great freshman '

and sophomores who will carry the program for the next 2

couple of years.”

Hathom agreed. “It was a great year. ljust hope that 
some of the sting [from the loss] will last to next year, and I

will help ﬁre us up for the next season.”

If the go—get-’em attitude ofthis year’s team is any
indication of the future, Hathom will have nothing to
worry about.

 

24 S. Jefferson Street
Lexington, VA 24450
Between The Palms
& Domino's Pizza

- Co.

464-4050

 

Open 10 a.m. ‘til 9 p.ni.
Monday-Friday

11 am. - 5 p.ni.
Saturday

WE FIND IT FOR

BELOW LIST

.°.AY

I2 pHT'_:.'

PRICE  

xogmn and
°3° ,,'\n¢i“3geo%{o

at Alvin-Dennis

§b'

0..
w

Alvin-Dennis, Inc.
102 W. Washington St.

Tuxedo Rentals & Sales for
the 250"‘ Ball

250"‘ Shirts, Hats & T ies

Visa, MC, Student Charge
463-5383

  

e-t"‘V'

“£5

     

  

 ° be

     
   

 

Tired of Bein
   Guaranteed $10,000 In Credit!

Guaranteed Credit Cards with Credit Limits
Up To $10,000 Within Days!

N O CREDIT, NO J OB, NO PARENT SIGNER, NO SECURITY DEPOSIT!

d credit - no income?

If You Think You
Can't Get A Credit
Card, Think Again.

Thrned Down?

I 

;       ORDER FORM

} ' I want Credit Cards immediately. GUARANIEED APPROVAL

: i I  I . CRA, PO BOX 16662, ATLANTA, GA 30321

I Name ...................................................................................................................................................................... ., .................................................................. ..
I Address ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ..
I City ..........................................  ............................................................... .; ....... .. State .............................................  Zip... ................ .. ................................ ..

: Signature .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ..
I

I

I

I

I

 
  
 
     

-.~.o- ~

 

 

Humor Page

PAGE 8

A message for
the thieving
townie who
stole my CDs

by Kevin McManemin

ANOTHER BRICK IN MY WALL

I usually don’t use my column for personal purposes,
(no, I’m just in it for the money and prestige) but this time
l’ve got an important message that must be delivered.
This message is for you, the thieving townie who stole a
handful of CDs from my room last week: give them back
before I find you.

Either that or pray the police find you first.

You see, it’s not just that you stole from me. I under-
stand that thieving little rat bastards have to make a living
too. lt’sjust that . . . well . . . couldn’t you have stolen my
text books instead?

lfyou had to take a Led Zeppelin album, couldn’t you
have taken “Presence” instead of “II” and “III”? And if
you needed a Beatles album, couldn’t you have swiped
“Yellow Submarine” instead of “Sgt. Pepper’s Lonely
Hearts Club Band”?

But it wasn’t enough to stop there, was it? No, no no
no. You had to go ahead and help yourself to not one, but
_tv_v_q ofmy Pink Floyd albums.

Bad move. Very bad move.

Look, you didn’t pay for those. That was my hard-
earned money that went to Rick Wright’s coke dealer and
Roger Waters’ legal bills.

I’m going to break this down into language so simplis-
tic even a worthless piece of human debris like you can
understand it: if my copy of “The Wall” is not back in my
room by tomorrow I am going hunt you down, dress you
up like a goat and drop you off in a certain fratemity’s
basement.

Capisce?

And if my CDs aren’t back within a week, I may have
to break every last kneecap in town until I start getting
some answers. Don’t think I’m above it —- I am from Jer-
sev.
So Mr. Burglar, as they say in my MC5 album which is
now your MC5 album, “It takes five seconds of decision
to decide how you’re going to live the rest of your life.”
Are you going to live with my CDS or with your knees?

Time’s up, dude. What’s it gonna be? »

 

Crossword Puzzle

(answers on page 5)

ACROSS 53 Males

I Coins 56 Racetrack

6 Wagon 57 Author O’Casey
l0 Masticate 58 “— man with

14 “— of Two Cities” seven...”

15 USA word; abbr_ 60 Peter of the piano

l6 Appraise 61 Singer James

17 Strong fabric 62 Mrs. Reagan

18 — Lisa 63 Writer Zane

19 Press 64 A blue

20 Drs.’ gp. 65 Invaders of Rome
21 Headway

24 Kelly and Hackman DOWN

26 B€f0f€ 1 Art school

27 Ante-bellum 2 Short article

29 Assemble and compare 3 supervision

33 Folmbagger 4 Yale student

34 Ra}-ah’5 Consort 5 College course

35  for  6 Vacation spots

37 CUITICF and— 7 God oflove

38 More rational 3 Nevada city

39 Cemiln 9 Tourist

40 Author Deighton 10 Black Sea penin- ‘
41 Community folkways Sula

42 Skin °Penl“g5 l l Long-eared jumper
43 Ship 12 College on the

45 Boxing bout peroids Thames

46 Feminine title: abbr. 13 Leﬁ

47  Of SOI'lg  Debu55y’5 "La —”
48 Separate chamber  Pen'y’s creator

Ellie lliing-tum iﬁhi

LAST WORD

NOVEMBER 2, 1998

25 Sheep 49 Finished

27 Donahue 50 Horse

28 Wanders 51 Head: Fr.

29 Rattan worker 52 — Hari

30 Small bills 54 Design with

31 Knightly sport, acid

32 Went wrong 55 Some votes

34 Unusual 59 Name in China

36 Hardy heroine

33 Wfltﬁr © 1994 Tribune Media Services
Maugham

39 Essence

41 “I ~ ~ . .
Remembe, tﬁtmmrklg apraktng
-—” by Justine Moncrief

42 Showing

Sulklness J/al/aweea M a  once a {fed/1-,
 W//zmeé¢'<{2.ﬁL¢Za[«JlZ[e2o¢ac'Z/Llfean.
4, of n/gram Z/ze la/Lé

punishment WMWJ we” “ ‘"444

48Lawmak— 
"lg gp-

 

COME DESIGN YOUR OWN BIG DADDY
CAPPUCCINO MUG THIS SATURDAY AT
THE RUSE
1 P.M. TO 4 P.M.
~FREE COFFEE«~

$2 CHARGE FOR SUPPLIES

SFA WILL FIRE THE MUGS AND GET THEM BACK
To YOU IN TIME FOR HOLIDAY GIFT GIVING.

 

In jail? Dead?

At American Excess, we'll give our credit
card to anybody!

Now American Excess is announcing a new
card designed especially for the impulsive
college student with little or no
understanding of ﬁnance: The Premium
Consumer card.

American Excess understands that college
life is busy. You don't have time to sit

down and think about your money. That's I
why we're betting you won't sit down to

Hey, you're on your own now. Isn't it time I

[NEE GASH?

Bad credit? No credit? In debt?

NOT A PROBLEM.

'.,{futnre today!’
think about our 740% interest rate. :3 A  ’ 9‘
I IIRIIIC3
Iaddress:

 

;‘e”‘m:"‘t
‘Eh: I "-I '
/’%¢J

    

gm

   

es‘l;.I’tn§ ready to start‘ mortgaging away my

And for our truly discerning spendthrifts,

So come on. Be a good little American
consumer and buy, buy, buy to your
greedy little heart's content.
We've got you covered.

American Excess:
Don’t leave home

without debt.

a Last Word fake ad

you started accumulating debt on your :t""'°l"H"‘."° #‘( '1 
own? :[ ] sign me up for
: the Premium’

n Consumer card

_ : designed just for I d0n’t mind Paying
we offer our special Gold Card — available - irresponsible roots double the price for a
only to those select few individuals who : like me Stat“-°* SYmb°'
bother to fill out the application. 5 signature;

[ ]'sign me up for the
Gold Card —— as a
social climbing snob

Clip this out and mail it to American Excess,
11 11th Street, Madison, WI 53715 and let
the capricious capitalism begin!

ﬁne print: American Excess is not affiliated in any way with
any other credit card companies, despite similarities in name
and/or motto. American Excess is legally required to inform you
that our 740% interest rate is almost twice as high as our
nearest competitor, Master Card. Of course we're mentioning
that down here in the line print because studies show that
surprisingly few people actually read the line print. People just
read the short words in big fonts and look at all the nice
graphics and don't bother with the words down here. Watch, I
could write anything I wanted. Blip. Blip blip blip blip. Snarg.
Snarg. Weeeewog. See? Anyway, uh . . . don‘t mix credit cards
with other medications, and if a rash occurs See your doctor, bla
bla bla. You know the rest of that ﬁne print stuff.

1.

Off the Wire

ﬁctitously compiled by Kevin McManemin

Surgeon General’s Warning halts

purchase of cigarettes

Clearfield, PA —-— Forty-year smoker Irene
Schaumbauer recently declined to purchase a pack
of Marlboro Ultra Lights after reading the Surgeon
General’s Warning on the side. “Wait a minute . . .
these things may be hazardous to my health? Jesus!
I had no idea!” Schambauer said.

The Surgeon General’s Warning has been instru-
mental in thwarting cigarette purchases, usually
among hertnits, coma patients or others who have
lived in a total media blackout for the last 50 years.

Statistics show that the warning that pregnant
women should not smoke has been especially effec-
tive in cutting down on smoking among teenage girls.

Latest Serb aggression met with
international display of apathy

Sarajevo —~ The international community re-
sponded with a resounding shrug of apathy after

V Serbian forces slaughtered the town of Gzynksxnvy.

“I am so God damn tired of hearing about their
problems,” President Clinton said. “I say, let ‘em solve
their own mess for once.” V .

The United Nations Security Council passed a
resolution stating that if it sees any more evidence of
Serb aggression in the news they’re going to turn
the channel, or barring a nearby remote control, will
put their ﬁngers in their ears and close their eyes.

This latest aggression comes only weeks after

Bosnian rebels bombed a . ‘. .5 no, wait, maybe that

was in Northern Ireland. Or was it Israel? Frankly it’s
not worth our time to do the research. '

Study shows studies on the rise
Chicago —- A study conducted by the Univer-
sity of Chicago found that more studies are currently
being conducted than at any other time in history.
The number of studies has increased eightfold in
the last 50 years, due mainly to larger numbers of
grad students with thesis papers to write. If the cur-
rent trends continue, by 201 5 there will be more stud-
ies conducted than there will be people to conduct
them. By 2035 the nation’s thesis reserves will be
used up, with every last remotely interesting topic
already taken.‘The academic world would then find

"itselfsin a full-scale tenurewar with little hope for

sabbatical. ,

. _ . , . , .

    

UNDERGRADUATE STUDY ABROAD

GREAT BRITAIN
AUSTRALIA
IRELAND
NEW ZEALAN D

Date:

Location:

BUTLER

ARGENTINA
CHILE
COSTA RICA

Fall, Spring or Full Year. Scholarships Available.

Study Abroad Information Session:
Representative: SteV€ Se8W0I"Ch

Monday, November 2

11:00 a.m. — 1:00 p.m.
Union Center (outside GHQ)
at Information Table

For further information contact the Institute for Study Abroad. Butler University,

4600 Sunset Avenue, Indianapolis. IN 46208, Tel: 800/858-0229 Fax: 317/940-9704

INSTITUTE FOR STUDY ABROAD
U N 1 v E R S I T Y

 

ﬂ

H

at

 

U112 ﬂing-tum

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsIrv’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

i

VOLUME 101, No. 8

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

.Students rock vote,
«W&L stays home

Though many W&L student voters chose to stay ,
‘ away from voting booths, general turnout was high

By Polly Doig

NEWS EDITOR

Last Tuesday’s elections brought
more than a few surprises: a former
professional wrestler assumed the title
of Governor in Minnesota, incumbent
Sen. Al D’Amato of New York was ﬁ-
nally unseated, and the “Lost Genera-

tion” turned out in record numbers.
According to an election night poll

conducted by the National Student
Campaign for Voter Registration
(N SCVR), about 60 percent of Ameri-
can students turned out to exercise
their right to vote.

“Students have smashed the
slacker myth,” NSCVR president Ivan
Frishberg said. “Counter to the con-
ventional wisdom, students are regis-
tered and voting in greater numbers
than the population as a whole.”

The poll found that 72 percent of
students are registered to vote, com-
pared to 63.8 percent of the general
population. An estimated 48 percent
of these voted in this year’s election,
compared to 36.6 percent of the gen-
eral population during the 1994 mid-
term election.

These numbers are unusually high
for an age group that has been known
for its apathy and low participation in
elections.

At Washington and Lee University,
however, national student voting
trends did not seem to hold much wa-
ter. In very unofﬁcial “polls” taken by
professors in class, only a handful of

people had voted.
“We’re a national school, and I

think that kind of hurts us,” said Young
Democrats President Jason Hahn.
“Students come from all over the coun-
try, but are not permitted to vote here,
so they have to vote by absentee bal-
lot at home.”

Admittedly, contacting the county
board of elections at home and ﬁlling out
an absentee ballot can be less than thrill-
ing, and numbers suffer because of this.

When various professors asked
their classes who had voted, very few
hands went up.

“Just a few students raised their
hands,” Professor of Politics William
Connelly said. “A number hadn’t got-
ten absentee ballots in time or hadn’t
sent away for them . . . A lot of people
have other priorities, and college stu-

dents certainly fall within that range.”

Although this election was touted
as the nation’s response to the Con-
gress’ handling of the Clinton im-
peachment proceedings, Republicans
did not receive the strong endorse-
ment or disapproval expected.‘

The NSCVR poll reported that 81
percent of student voters said their
votes were not affected by the events
involving President Clinton and
Monica Lewinsky.

Instead, student voters nationwide
said that education and student aid
were their most important issues. Sev-
enty-four percent felt that candidates
“somewhat adequately” or “ad-
equately” addressed their issues.

In terms of party afﬁliation, students
appeared closely divided. Among
those surveyed, 37 percent were reg-
istered Democrats, 33 percent were Re-
publicans, 14 percent were indepen-
dent, and 16 percent classiﬁed them-
selves as other.

“I think it’s your duty to vote, and
I wish that all students would vote,”
Connelly said. However, “It does not
altogether surprise me that voter par-
ticipation may have been low.”

Online registration
works well, more or‘ less

By Charlotte Graham

STAFF WRITER

Although students began to regis-
ter last Friday, you would not know it
from looking at the Washington and
Lee campus. The usual flutter of stu-
dents bouncing all over campus was
absent as the University Registrar
went to an online system for registra-
tion.

“It’s working more smoothly than
anyone dreamed,” philosophy profes-
sor Lad Sessions said on the
registrar’s discussion web page, “and
the only question is why we didn’t do
this years ago.”

But some people are more reluctant
to the change. Senior George Urban
wrote a lengthy letter to University
Registrar Scott Dittman expressing the
frustrations of some members of the
senior class.

“I have seen more unhappy stu-
dents today than during any other
registration in my four years,” Urban
said in the letter.

Starting times were one source of
frustration. Students with early start
times could ﬁll classes before students
with late times could even begin.

“This inequity of opportunity is a
serious problem in the minds of many,”
Urban said.

Start times were assigned accord-

ing to class schedules, so that no one
would have to miss class to register,
Dittman explained. The starting time
also punished students who did not
preregister, because they received later
starttimes.

The start time is necessary because
if everyone registered at the same time,
it would crash the system.

“We are going to average out the
start times to 50 percent over the next
four terms,” Dittman said.

But seniors will not be on campus
for four terms.

“We only have one more registra-
tion,” senior Beth Arthur said. “Are the
people that had late times for this term
going to get early times for spring tenn?”

Even with an early time for spring
term, the balance is not the same be-
cause there are fewer classes in a stu-
dent’s schedule, she said.

“The first time through we’re learn-
ing a lot about this,” Dittman said. “But
I think the basic structure of it is ﬁne.”

The W&L system is different from
many other electronic registering sys-
tems because it allows students to sign
up for a class, but not for a time slot.

“Our priorities are for the teach-
ers and students,” Dittman said.
“We want it to be fair to the entire
campus.”

The need for the system became
apparent during last fall’ s registration,

when more than half the freshman
class was camping out to get a class.

“We designed it so students could
stand in four lines at once,” Dittman
said.

Jeffrey Knudson, network and sys-
tems analyst, and John Hellmuth, sys-
tems analyst, actually put the program
together. Knudson, who began work-
ing for W&L last year, knows HTML,
a graphical web language, and PERL,
a logic programming language, while
Hellmuth works with Augusta, the
administration’s system.

The programmers designed the
program to comply with the requests
of the Web Registration Development
Subcommittee, which consists of two
students, ﬁve faculty members and
several members of the staff.

The registrar tried online registra-
tion in 1987, but it was unsuccessful.

A lot of pieces had to ﬁt together
on this project in order for it to work,
according to Dittman.

“You have to go with what works,”
Dittman said. “We are going to bend
the tool to it to do what we want it to
do. If it doesn’t, we won’t use it.”

Dittman encourages students to
give feedback on the new system at a
online forum that he established. There
is a link to the forum on the Registrar’s
homepage at http://www.wlu.edu/

. ~registra/.

Frosh set new GPA record

Class of 2002 continuesrecent ‘cream of crop’ tradition

By Eszter Pados

S TA FF WRITER

Washington and Lee University
once again admitted the “cream of the
crop.” On average, this year’ s
freshmen’s midterm grades were even
higher than last year’s.

Last year, the overall average
was 2.788. This year, freshmen
scored higher, settling at a 2.851
overall average.

According to Mark Dalhouse, Dean
of Freshmen at W&L, the scores were
fairly evenly distributed among fresh-
men. There were some 4.05, as well as
scores “at the other extreme” of the
scale, he said.

Dalhouse said that the biggest chal-
lenge for freshmen is the academic
standards of this university. Most stu-
dents here have successful academic
backgrounds, and receive their ﬁrst
bad grade in college. This can be
shocking and discouraging, Dalhouse
said.

“The same thing happened to me
my freshman year in college,”
Dalhouse said. “My midterm grades
were horrible!”

Dalhouse said that it is hard to pre-
dict what will happen to the grades
next term with rush and pledgeship
programs coming up.

“We have 400 individual students,”
he said. “It depends on each indi-

vidual” how these and other activities
will affect his or her academic perfor-
mance.

According to Dalhouse, some
freshmen had a hard start. Dalhouse
said that he believes that nine out of
10 kids who got bad midterrns will work
harder, and improve their grades by
the end of this term.

Midtenn grades are designed to
give students a measure of how they
are doing and adjust study habits if
necessary, Dalhouse said. They are not
designed to scare freshmen.

Overall, Dalhouse is proud.

“I feel gratiﬁed that midterm grades
are so high,” Dalhouse said. “I’m very
proud of [the freshmen].”

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 1998

Habitat For Humanity’s annual Barndance gave students such as senior Richard Burrice and
junior Megan Mazour (center) a chance to dance the night away for a worthy cause.

Habitat’s Barndance
expands Project Horizon

By Polly Doig

NEWS EDITOR

For the third year in a row, Habitat
for Humanity and the Catholic Cam-
pus Ministry joined forces to hold
their annual Barndance to benefit
Project Horizon.

‘ This time, the event raised more
than $1,400 through ticket sales and
donations.

“Thi>r2,year was deﬁnitely the best
year, both turnout wise and in how
much we made,” Habitat President
David Sugerman said. “The money
was raised for Project Horizon. Even
though we’ve already raised the
money for the shelter, this was for them
to use at their discretion.”

The Barndance was held at
Rockbridge Vineyards, about a half an
hour away in Raphine. W&L alumnus
Shep Rouse is the owner and volun-

teered his bam for use.

Entertainment was provided by
Burr Datz, the Catholic Campus Min-
ister, whose band Wildgrass played
for free.

Kappa Sigma, Kappa Kappa
Gamma, Phi Kappa Psi and Kappa Al-
pha Theta all sponsored the event,
and each made a contribution of at
least $200.

“It’s one of those things that
sounds corny, no one wants to come,
but when you get Greek organizations
to pledge their support, especially so-
rorities, then you know you’ll have
people there,” Sugerman said.
Sugerman estimates that about 250
people attended, including students
from both Washington and Lee and
Virginia Military Institute.

“Habitat ran shuttles so that we
could safely get people to and from
the event since it was BYOB,”

Sugerman said. Brian Richardson,
W&L professor of journalism, also
chauffeured students throughout the
evening.

Habitat plans to begin construction
on Project Horizon’s shelter for vic-
tims of domestic violence and sexual
assault early next term. The shelter will
be constructed March 1 1-21 with the
help of VMI and the Timber Framers
Guild of America.

“Through our hard work we helped
raise $35,000 for the shelter and will
now direct our focus toward raising
the same amount for a completely stu-
dent-sponsored house,” Sugerman
said.

For those interested in getting in-
volved in Habitat For Humanity, meet-
ings are on Thursday at 6:30 p.m. in
Room H4 in the University Center.
Fundraising workshops are held from

10 am. to 1 pm. on Saturday.

Bambi cruises Colonnade

By Charlotte Graham

STA FF WRITER

Students are not walking ‘on the
grass, but apparently deer are. They
have visited the Front Lawn several
times and the area near Doremus Gym-
nasium, probably in search of food.

“A doe and two fawns were in front
of the Lee House about midnight,” said
senior Nate Tencza, who saw the deer
about two weeks ago. “They ran
across the Front Lawn toward VMI.”

Senior Drew Higgs was with Tencza
and saw the deer also. “They didn’t
even cross the brick path to Lee
Chapel,” he said. “They just jumped
right over it.”

Tencza saw the deer twice on the Front
Lawn and once near Doremus Gym.

Physical Plant personnel have seen
deer only in the back part of campus
near the law school and Woods Creek.
The presence of the deer has not been
a problem, Randolph Hare, Associate
Director of Physical Plant said. “As far
as ﬂower beds and mulched areas are
concerned, we’ve not seen a problem,”
Hare said.

When the grass dies this year, deer
will start to eat bark and twigs, though
they normally eat leaves and acorns.

The deer may also be on campus now
because the middle of October to the end
of November is their mating season.

“This is the time of year when they
are really active because it is their
breeding season,” Helmick said. “They
are traveling because the males are
chasing the females, and the females
are running away.”

But Hare said that so far the high
number of deer has not been. a prob-
lem. “If they become a problem, we would
probably contact the animal control de--
partment and seek guidance,” he said.

Both campus security and the
Physical Plant warn people who are

driving in the back part of campus to
be especially cautious.

If you freeze deer in your highlights,
you should ﬂash your lights to break
their gaze, suggested Nick Tatar, Out-
ing Club ﬁeld coordinator.

Jessica Helm, a junior, can attest to
the danger of a late night encounter
with a deer. She received an estimated
$2,050 worth of damages when she hit
a deer after leaving Zollman’ s Pavilion
on Oct. 30. She hit the deer as she was
coming around a curve.

“One was jumping down an em-
bankment and I swerved to try to avoid
him. I skidded off the road, but still hit
the back of him,” she said.

Director of Security Mike Young
advises students to call a law enforce-
ment ofﬁcer if they are involved in a
accident involving a deer.

Other than hurting your car, deer
are not dangerous animals. “They are
very shy animals,” Helmick said “If you
lunge at them they are going to run
away from you.”

@112 ﬂting-tum ilﬁhi

November 9, 1998

     
 

-..w..«..:...~».-,..-4-.«..-.._,,,u _

OPINION:

W&L1EE:

SPORTS:

Junior Hillary Everest bought t
Panic tickets, which sold out after two days.

Election reaction, registration and an angry letter

Prep :21 Porter: what students wear and where
they shop for their clothes

Volleyball wins ODACS,

 
   

I V Phoo by Mie Crittendonn r

he last three Widespread

PAGE 2

PAGE 3&4

football falls hard
PAGE 5

 

 

Elie filing-tum lﬂlii

  OPINION

Vote Shrub (Little Bush)
for President 2000

When the shocking (and sicken-
ing) resurgence of the Democratic
Party and the demise of Newt Gingrich
ﬁnally sank into my
pachyderrnic heart, I

got to thinking 

ﬁlvvv

3 .
9 * a»
t .

 
   

about possible solu— 

tions. its

In a very short
interval, 1 had one:
my governor, George W. Bush, better
known to fellow Texas Republicans as
“W” or “Shrub.”

The party needs a new leader with
the savvy, personality, know-how and
dedication of Gingrich minus the
mouth. Shrub is the perfect man to pull
the party together. He is a Washing-
ton outsider, far removed from the ig-
nominious scandal in Washington
and the often inappropriate partisan
response that sickened the general
public.

He is blessed with his father’s old-
line Yankee Republican ideology and
a uniquely pragmatic Texan character
and personality that many people can
appreciate. .

He might bring about a Republi-

&l\/likeAgr1elloU2

 

can revolution by bringing in minor-

ity groups; he can comfortably con-

duct an interview in Spanish and sup-
ports bilingual educa-
tion, provided proof of
higher test scores re-

, sult. He is a fervent
Chris-

avoids the Christian
lobby and refuses to
moralize and impose
his faith on others.

Bush admits im-
perfection, saying
that “when I was
young and irrespon-
sible, I was young
and irresponsible.”
He admits to being a
hard drinker at one
time, though he has not taken a drink
in 12 years. Telling the truth unsolic-
ited and not covering it up or lying
about it -— what an interesting con-
cept!

I know what all you whiny, candy-
ass skeptics are saying: “He’s only

2'1“; cc ——
When I was
young and
irresponsible, I
was young and
irresponsible.

—— George W. Bush

where he is because of his name.”
With the exception of“I did not have
a relationship with that woman,” a
more untrue statement has never been
uttered.

The family name and connections
certainly have not hurt him, but his
own ambition has kept
him on top.

Under his ever—watch-
ful eye, Texas has en-
joyed the lowest unem-
ployment rate, the largest
economic growth and the
lowest crime rate in years.
Shrub himself sums it up
best when he says, “I’m
not the [presidential
front-runner] because of
9 ’ ’ my name, I’m the [front-

runner] because I’m the
governor of the great
state ofTexas and I have a famous mother!”

So I appeal to all voters, Republi-
can and Democrat, to cast your vote
in the year 2000 in a responsible and
practical manner — vote Shrub 2000.
I mean, who else are you going to vote
for, Dick Gephardt?

Republicans face difﬁcult future

So, Newt is out. Who will be in? That
is a question plaguing political watch-
ers around the nation. For those of you
who may not spend your Friday eve-
nings watching C-span and CNN Head-
line News, Newt Gingrich ofﬁcially re-
linquished his
Speaker of the 
House position. 

Effective at  
the end of the ‘°

 

    
     

V.
9?.»
N-'

.5‘

Just Plain Right
 Jan Rowan 01

gress for the first time in more than
40 years. He has given the party unity
and was the force behind a speciﬁc
and well-organized party platform.
The Republicans knew what they
wanted and Gingrich’ s leadership pro-
vided the struc-
ture for getting
their legislation
passed. Gingrich
did the right

 

term in January, H . ‘ . . .
the House will be under new leader-
ship. Gingrich will also be leaving Con-
gress altogether, leaving an open spot
for Georgia Representative.
Following the elections this past
Tuesday and the failure of the Repub-
licans to capitalize on the Democratic
shortcomings (Clinton), there has
been much talk amongst other Repub-
licans that new leadership is needed.
It is clear that Gingrich has been
an effective leader. He managed to
lead the incredibly successful Repub-
lican Revolution of 1994 when the Re-
publicans regained control of Con-

.  .1?‘ thing.‘ for the

E   natioii  steippirigiidown.

His power was signiﬁ-
cantly reduced and he re- C C
alized that remaining in of— '

ate will be Majority Leader no more.
And how will this affect the impeach-
ment hearings? I don’t think I would
be going too far out on a limb to say
that Bill Clinton is a happy camper this
weekend. His job security is so much
greater following these elections.

Oh well, maybe this means a new
Speaker will be elected and even the
liberals will love him or her, then the
President will see how good a leader
can really be, realize the error of his
ways, resign from ofﬁce, somehow re-

move Al “The Bore”
Gore, the American
people will demand

ﬁce would  not only So’ Newt is a respectable leader
his own political career , (Gingrich maybe?),a
but would also hurt the out Who W111 new administration
Republican Party. Who be in? willtake over, every-

knows what he will do
now, and who knows who
the Republicans will
choose, but it will certainly be a dif-
ferent Congress this term.

There are also some convincing
rumors that Dick Armey in the Sen-

one will stop com-
9’ plaining about the
government, and the
world will become ‘a happy place in
which we alljust get along.
That is a reasonable and likely ﬂow,
right? It could happen, couldn’t it?

“It's a helluva lot better than camping out in
front of a teacher’s classroom. It took
forever, but it’s great.”

—-Micah Tolman ’02

“It was convenient because I could do it
from my room. It was kind of frustrating
because it was slow.”

 

—Hillaiy Lockemer ’02

“It’s a lot easier on the old bones.”

—Robert Marrnorstein ’0l

 TO
Elie ﬁling-tum iﬂlii

Phi article upsets
Lexington reader

Dear‘Phz', - L . , V
This letter is in response to Mr. McManemins’
Last Word article on Monday. It's just a hunch, ,
1 but 1 think one of your frat brothers borrowed .
, your discs to make, a tape. Anybody with half a“
. brain knows, thalzithieving townies don't listen to p
. goodfrnusic‘; If you-had lost your Hank Jr. or some
, Cyprus Hill, then perhaps a townie is toblaine. »
‘.‘As for you breaking lmeeeapsiiiny address is 106
N Main, I amthe’.big’aiigry1:ooking guy in the ,
kitchen. Bring afiiendl “ o ...«   "
.  ; Hard earned money? iIlxos_e“checks from daddy :
 "‘surefare hard to get! : ~  2   ~ -.9 j  j 2
Check with your drunken BB buddies before
angering the threevtownies that read your cheesey I
 Iittlerag. You know wlierel am, bigguy,‘vand'rny
kne6S feel fine. I o’ "   .

, Sincerely, _ _
;;J_ess6McGuire 

The-Ririg-turnfhi irivltes,Letters to the Editor
I A from our readers. If youhave thoughts, ‘com-1 L ‘
plaints or ideas, please send them to us. I 1'

 

3»;
s


 

 

NOVEMBER 9, 1998
registratio n

lt’s the day of sophomore registration. I walked up to my
first class today thinking, I kinda miss the old registration. As
much as we com-
plained about it, at V,;‘.};.;I,,\“  
least we knew it  g “'3;
worked. What if this I‘ ,,,,.I-Ieatlier McDonald '01
doesn't work? ‘ :?____.———

What if the system -
crashes? What if I can't get my classes? I was randomly
assigned a mediocre time — at least I could sleep out last year
and be guaranteed at least one class . . .

I get back a little before I p.m., my login time for registra-
tion. Okay. I'm abit nervous. The clock turns one and I type
in my passwords. I point and click and point and click for the
classes I want, and then press "go to next step." I wait a few
minutes for the system to respond, as I begin to fear the worst.

No sore back from sleeping on the ﬂoor of Newcomb or
sharing a J-School couch or a drafty science center. None of
the “Hey, I was in line ﬁrst! What happened to the list started
last night?” No running between Payne, the C-School and
Tucker. In under 13 minutes . . . 1 AM FINISHED WITH

' WINTER TERM REGISTRATION. I stare at my computer

screen in wonderous, pious awe. IT WORKED!

Perhaps nexttime I won’t be so lucky. Perhaps I'll be in the
last time slot and I'll get royally screwed for classes and I won't
graduate on time because I can't ﬁnish my majors . . . But right
now, I don't think that's going to be the case.

To Mr. Dittman, University Computing and to all of those
who were involved in this gigantic step forward for W&L, I
say thank you a hundred times over. You have made my life
that much easier.

Small like rah,
nishl the whols
wul: llwrovglll 5.-,<

 

“It's better than sleeping out for classes.”

—Liz Borges ‘O1

Cilia iliing-tum iﬂlii

E-mail General Notes to .5
~‘,‘phi@wlu.edu m

mm... ,

 

Group for sexual assault victims meets
A confidential support group sponsored by the Uni-
versity Counseling Service will begin meeting weekly for
Washington and Lee women who have experienced sexual
assault or abuse at any time in their lives. Each member will

first meeting.

sign an agreement of conﬁdentiality. Please call Carol

Calkins, the Counseling Service secretary, or the Univer-

Eating problems support group meets
A confidential support group sponsored by the Uni-
versity Counseling Service will begin meeting weekly for
women who are dealing with binge eating, binge/purge
eating or very restricted eating.
If you are facing any of these problems in your daily
life, you are invited tojoin this confidential group. Each
member will sign an agreement of conﬁdentiality at the

Please call Carol Calkins, the Counseling Service secre-

tary, or the University Health Service at X8401 to learn of
times and locations.

Hodges speaks on accountability

sity Health Service at x8401 to learn of times and locations.

Bacon’s guitar sizzles in Lee Chapel

Classic guitarist Guy Bacon will perfonn a recital in Lee
Chapel next Tuesday at 7:30 p.m.

Grandson of American composer Ernst Bacon and son
of classical guitarist Joseph Bacon, Guy comes from a
long established family tradition ofquality music making.

His recital in Lee Chapel will feature works by Bach, Sor,
Mareno—Torroba and Britten. There is no charge for the con-
cert, which is sponsored by Catholic Campus Ministry.

JAMES G. LE‘./I3 .

WASHINGTON 8: LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXlNGTON. VA 24450

Louis W. Hodges, the Knight Professor oflournalism
at Washington and Lee University, will present a talk on
“Joumalism Accountability and Emerging Strategies by
Plaintiffs,” on Friday at4:30 p.m. in Room 327 in the Will-
iams School.

The respondent to his presentation is Brian C.
Murchison, professor oflaw at W&L, who will provide a
legal framework on this issue.

This lecture is part of W&L’s 26th Annual Institute on
the Ethics of Journalism, sponsored by the Knight Pro-
gram. The public is invited to attend.

q NOV 10 1.995

,,‘»-in"v‘

Alumnus reads poems in Northen

The Glasgow Endowment Committee will sponsor
a reading by Washington and Lee alumnus Christian
Wiman on Wednesday at 4 p.m. in Northen Audito-
rium.

Wiman will read from his recently published collec-
tion of poems, “The Long Home” (Story Line Press),
which won the 1998 Nicholas Roerich Poetry Prize.

Born and raised in West Texas, Wiman received his
B.A. in English from W&L in 1988 and is currently the
Jones Lecturer in Poetry at Stanford University, where he
was a Wallace Stegner Fellow. His poems and critical
essays have appeared in “The Threepenny Review,” “Po-
etry,” “The Sewanee Review,” “Shenandoah” and
“TriQuarterly.”

Wiman has lived in England, Mexico, Guatemala and
the Czech Republic. He held a Dobie-Paisano Fellowship
at the University of Texas at Austin and a Ruth Lilly
Fellowship from the Modern Poetry Association.

Afﬁrmative action admissions argued

The ﬁnal round ofthe Washington and Lee School of
Law’s 19th annual John W. Davis Moot Court Competi-
tion will be held in the Moot Courtroom on Thursday at 4
p.m. The public is invited to attend.

Executive Editors
News Editors
W&Life Editors
Opinions Editors
Sports Editors

Last Word Editor
Copy Editors

Photo Editors
Online Editor
Assistant Online Editor

Business Manager
Advertising Directors

Circulation Director

Tarah Grant
Hollister Hovey
Polly Doig

John Stewart
Ginger Phillips
Erica Prosser
Stephanie Bianco
Stephen Pesce
Frances Groberg
Brendan Harrington
Kevin McManemin
Sarah Meldrum
Meredith Mlynar
Emily Barnes
Scott Cameron
Mike Crittenden
Tom Wadlow
Lionel Brown

Jason Williams
John Costello
Matt Lorber
Lionel Brown

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editors, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi ofﬁce, room 208 ofthe University Center, by noon
on Saturday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters, columns and “Talkback” do not
reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reflect the opinions of The Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current

court deﬁnitions oflibel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center

Washington and Lee University

Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060

Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049

Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wIu.edu
http://wIu.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

.43,

 

 

NOVEMBER 9, 1998

&

G112 {King-Gum iﬁht

IF E

PAGE 3

by Elianna Marziani
STAFF WRITER

“There’s not a lot of diversity in
the way people dress [at W&L],”
freshman Laura Sigismund said.

This comment is considered a ma-
jor understatement to many visitors to
the W&L campus, who all remark about
how all the students here look the same.

The very fact that
everyone talks about
the way all W&L stu-
dents dress “preppy”
makes one wonder:
Has it always been this
way? Everyone knows
how the student body
looks now, but how has
W&L fashion devel-
oped over the years‘?

From the begin-
ning ofthe University
until the mid-1960s,
“conventional dress”
was the norm for
campus fashion.

Frank Parsons, Co-
ordinator for Facilities
Planning and a 1954
graduate of W&L, ex-
plained that “conven-
tional dress equated
wearing a dress shirt
and a tie and a jacket,
or in some cases, the
guys in the law school
would wear suits.”

Earlier than that,
conventional dress
was a three-piece
suit. By the 1960s,
conventional dress
referred to a coat
and tie. This tradi-
tional dress code
was very important
on campus.

“It was taken for granted. It was
enforced by the Student Assimi-
lation Committee by fines,” Pro-
fessor J. Davis Futch said.

The Student Assimilation Commit-
tee was a group devoted to enforcing
traditions at W&L — from conventional
dress to the speaking tradition.

They took theirjob seriously and
did a good job of it, as evidenced
by Professor J. Holt
Merchant’s (’6l) re-
mark: “We all
looked remark-
ably alike.”

He then cat-
egorized the items
that made up a
W&L student’s daily
attire in the late 1950s
and early
1960s. ‘‘It
was loaf-
ers with
athletic
socks
a n d
khaki
Pants,
but-
ton-
down
shirts
they
were usually
white then —
and coats and
ties, frequently
with blue blazers.”

Photo counesy of “Come Cheer”

W&L students have
traditionally been
considered stylish
dressers. This W&L
“dandy” was prob-
ably a member of the
class of 1919 and
proves that the coat
and tie are as much a
part of the campus as
the white columns
and green grass.

 
  
  
  
   
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 

Until 1965, freshmen were also re-
quired to wear beanies. They were
required to wear these traditional
caps from the start of school until
the end of the first term in mid-
January, unless the football team
won its homecoming game.

Sound like a fashion statement you
would NOTmake? If a freshman were
caught without his beanie on, he was
punished by having to
wear a yellow beanie
in place of the regu-
lar one. A yellow
beanie also served
as punishment for
walking on the grass.

If a student were
caught without his
coat, the Student As-
similation Committee
ﬁned him. Such punish-
ments for improper
dress abounded.

These punish-
ments were usually
unnecessary, how-
ever, because the stu-
dents dressed accord-
ing to convention. It
was expected of them,
and they followed it
unquestioningly for
the most part.

“W&L students al-
ways came off as sort
of dandies and took
considerable "pride in
the fact that they did
that,” Parsons said.“‘l
liked wearing a coat
and tie.” Students
dressed like young
professionals and
seemed to enjoy it.

As everything does
with time, this attitude
changed. “It went away
during the student rebellions of the
’60s,” Merchant said.

This deterioration of conventional
dress began in 1965 or 1966.

“it’s funny how it began,” Parsons
said. “First it was socks. Socks began
to disappear.” These sockless men still
wore coats and ties, amazingly enough.

Then they began to carry their
coats over their shoulders, and
eventually they would bring their
coats to class only to leave them

hanging outside the door all day.
As if that weren’t enough, they
began loosening their ties and un-
buttoning their shirts. Things be-
gan to deteriorate rapidly from there.

Dean Laurent Boetsch, who at-

M tended W&L from ’65 to ’69, stated it

most aptly: “I was here when fash-
ion changed dramatically.”
Futch described how
the fashion changed.
“A student body
president was
elected around 1966
who was opposed
to conventional
dress, so he sent
the Assimilation
Committee run-
ning off into the
sunset.”

With the dis-
integration of
the Assimila-
tion Committee,

no one really en-
T-‘it forced the conven-

Sound famil- tional dress code on
iar? Story has it the students.
thatthekhaki pants “One of the
came in style as a things I think has been

result of WWII.
Men came back
home from the war
and wore their khaki
army pants with a
jacket, thus creating a
new outfit for post-war
America and a new style
that remains popular to this
day at W&L. Just look
at the guys going in
and out of Lee Chapel.

  
  
    
   
 

strongest at W&L over
the years is the accep-
tance that these student
traditions are student tra-
ditions,” Parsons said.
Thus, “because [conven-
tional dress] was a student
tradition, nothing was
done” when the students
began dressing down.
And dress down they did.
“People looked like walking

garbage dumps,” Merchant said. “It

was very fashionable to wear rags, es-

pecially if you had a lot of money.”
Futch agreed, describing a young

"man he knew who, “though already

a tycoon in the making, indulged in
the whim of deliberate sloppy
dress, and, in warm weather, very
skimpy dress.”

Futch went on to give what he
perceives as the reason for this
change in the students’ preferred
way of dressing. “It was because
student radicalism was in vogue
on big campuses in the Northeast.
Our students played the game of
monkey see, monkey do,” he said.
“Those four years of ’69 to ’73

were the period when an extremely
rapid and disturbing change took
place.”

The change was disturbing to ad-
ministrators at the time too. Frank
Gilliam, Dean of the College at the time,
did not see the deterioration of con-
ventional dress itself of as much of a
problem as the precedent that it set
for the breaking of traditions.

He worried that the honor sys-
tem might disappear in this great up-
heaval going on in the school. For-
tunately, that did not happen. The
conventional dress did disapp-.ir for
a while, however.

Boetsch said that under the sys-
tem of conventional dress, “you would

 

dress up conventional dress or dress
down conventional dress. By the late
’60s, it was just dress down.”

When Professor Brian Richardson
(’73) arrived as a freshman in 1969,
“there were a few freaks running
around without a coat and tie, but they
were real anomalies.”

Alter 1970, however, radical changes
began taking place on campus.

Parsons explained that the students
in this period were rebelling against
the military industrial establishment.
Members of that establishment wore
coats and ties, so students deter-
mined they would not.

Richardson included as popular
styles of the time the buckskin look:
suede moccasins, suede fringe jack-
ets, embroidery and beads; the blue
collar look: denim work shirts,
workman’s boots and even con-
struction hats; and the general sloppy
look: jeans with patches, some of
which had bumper sticker slogans on
them, and abundant facial and head
hair. Dreadlocks and afros for men of
all races were quite popular, as well.

“Fashion at W&L hasn’t devel-
oped that much,” agreed freshman
Blair Manning. “The guys still wear
ties to tailgate and stick to tradition.
But I like it. I like the tradition. I
think it’s one thing that makes the
school attractive.”

Dressing up for tailgating? “I think
it makes it more fun,” she said. “It’s
almost a way of showing your spirit
and showing you care.”

Dean Boestch agreed that dress-
ing up for the game was a great tradi-
tion and asserted that “many visitors
go to the homecoming football game
only to see the fashion!”

Everyone at W&L does seem to
dress alike and dress up all the time,
whether it be for class, for tailgating
or for a concert at Lee Chapel.

“I think everyone pretty much
dresses the same, but I think every-
one looks nice for the most part,”

junior Tyler Bates remarked. “I think
[dressing up] is fun, actually.”

Dean Boetsch added that while it
does seem like all W&L students dress
alike, all students at every college

    

l.’ .
Phi File Photo

T-shirts and shorts at a football game? Not at W&L. Dressing
up for tailgating and the big game is a W&L tradition that always
makes those Saturdays during football season so much fun.

Walking around campus these .

days, one does not encounter too
many students with dreadlocks,
construction hats or suede moc-
casins. This may cause one to
wonder what inspired the change
back to more traditional dress, and
when it occurred.

After the 1970s, dress gradually be-
came more “normal.” Pants began
shrinking down to normal size, and hair
grew less abundantly. Some young
men even began going back to coats
and ties in the late ’70s.

“I understand that by the mid-
’80s, however, it was [still] kind of
an animal house around here,”
Richarson said. .

Merchant offered a theory as to
the reason for the final change of
fashion at W&L. “The first co-eds

came in ’84, and things really turned I ‘

around. The guys didn’t want to

   

dress alike; he merely alleges that at
W&L, students’ way of dressing
alike is dressing nicely.

Fashion at W&L has gone through
many changes over the centuries.
Yet, throughout all these changes,
the concepts of tradition have
emerged victorious.

Every time a W&L woman
wears a sundress to a tailgate, ev-
ery time a W&L man wears his
khakis and blue blazer to a Lee

"

look like imbeciles in front of the 

young women in class.”

Parsons agreed, citing the example
of a young man who grumbled about
the arrival of coeducation on campus,
because “he had to be a little cleaner,

a little more presentable now that he ‘

an

had young women around.”

Since the 1980s, W&L students
have been known for their neat,
clean-cut style of dressing.

“I think we have the best look-
ing student body in the country,”
Boetsch declared.

Richardson agreed, saying that
especially “most ofthe women are
careful about the way they dress
all the time.” He added, “If it’s
just because of who they are, their
pride, that’s fine.”

Parsons believes that W&L has
gone back to a system of conventional
dress. “Even though they don’t dress
in coats and ties, everyone looks
pretty good. I think we have conven-
tional dress right now.”

    

Photob Emily Bames/Photd Ed oi‘
Seniors Cory Mettee and
Elizabeth Meloy prove that
dressing up can be great
but that sometimes it’s
just fun to be comfortable!

Chapel event, and every time a stu-
dent takes off his baseball cap
when entering a classroom, one
sees that convention and tradition
are still very much a part of the
W&L community.

*Historical photographs are cour-
tesy of the commemorative book
“Come Cheer for Washington and
Lee: The University at 250 Years.”

 

 

PAGE 4

W&

  

@112 ﬁling-Gum iﬂlii

IFE

 

NOVEMBER 9, 1998

Dressing your best when conﬁned to Lex

by Erica Prosser
F EA TURES EDITOR

Some things about the Washing-
ton and Lee University fashion scene
never change.

Wearing khaki pants with blue blaz-
ers and dressing up for class and foot-
ball games arejust two such fashion
traditions.

But where do W&L students find
their togs? Do they shop here in town,
or do they go elsewhere to assemble
that personal state —
ment?

“I never buy
clothes in Lex-
ington,” senior
Sarah McCrone
said. “My sister
goes to Longwood .
College in Farmville,
VA, and goes to my
home in Richmond almost
every weekend. She and my
mom buy me clothes when they go
shopping.”

Sarah said that she goes home to
find new clothes in her closet from
those shopping excursions. If she ab-

  
 

These stu-
dents show
that no matter
what the W&L
student wears,
from khakis to
jeans, he "
always looks
stylish. Pic-

tured are Wes
Hoke ’o0 
Leonard
Rorrer ’99, 2
Susan Groves .9 ‘
’0l, Pat *
Renton ’01
and Evan .

 

¢

96°”

9&5 Guaran

NO CRED1T,N 1  
no credit - bad credit - no income?

YES!

     

solutely has to buy something her-
self, she goes to Roanoke to do it.
Other students were of a similar

   
  
   

people with no hips,” she said. She too,
never shops for clothing in Lexington.
So maybe some of the women ofW&L

mind. find better options elsewhere.
‘‘I don ’t What about the men?

shop in Lex— Junior Steven Klotz admitted
in gton,” that his favorite piece of cloth-
j u n i or ing is a W&L baseball cap he
Meredith purchased at the W&L Book-
Welch store and

said. “I l  “lost on

get the multiple oc- 1

hell outta casions.”

dodge and “I don’tcur-

go to Roanoke rently own one

or just wait un- 9' [a W&L base-
til I get back ball cap], but I
home.” think it's high time

Senior Suzanne Scott favors Eddie
Bauer, either the store or the catalog.
“Their clothes are reasonably
priced, comfortable, and hold up
well,” she said. Her favorite item of
clothing is a pair ofbutton-fly jeans
she got there two months ago.

An anonymous senior girl prefers
to do her shopping at Lemer’s or the
Gap because of the selection and the
reasonable sizes. 1

“[The clothes] are not made for

  
   
 

 
 
 

  

Tird of Bein

I get another
from the Book-
store,” he said.

Beyond that,
he thinks very
rarely about
clothes and
doesn7t shop
for new
clothes in Lex—
ington.

Junior William Kanner also avoids

. Pioto by Emily Barnes 100

 
  
 
 
 
 

shopping in Lex.

“I have not found a place around
here,” Kanner said. “However, I
have not looked too hard either. I
have been doing my clothes
shopping in Roanoke

The fact that these students
don’t shop in downtown Lexington
doesn’t mean that the local

shops aren’t worth

visiting. When you
find a clothing

 
  
   
  
  
  
  
    
 

and a little in shop that you
Charlottesville.” consistently

“I think that 1 1 k e ,
is because though,
in Roanoke y 0 u ’ 1 1
there is a wamto go
mall, so it is all back, even if
there and that shop is

in a mall in

Roanoke, in a catalog,

. back home or right
around the comer.

easy,” he said. “I
guess I prefer simplic-
ity in ﬁnding clothes, which I
have not found in Lexington.”

 

ginning in the early 1900s W&L
gathered four times every year for
formals, also known as sets.

The Fancy Dress Ball consisted
of one formal dance and a second
themed costume ball.

In 1953, the ball was televised
live on NBC 's Dance Party. In the
spring, there were two formals and
numerous fraternity lawn parties.

The last set of the year was Fi-

nals, when seniors gave their
farewell to the W &L social scene.
It was also a special occasion for
an all-male school. The women
did not have chaperones.’

  

Just because Washington and Lee did not admit women into its academic ranks
until 1984 does not mean that they were not around. W&L has always been
surrounded by many private woman’s colleges including Mary Baldwin College,
Hollins University, and Randolph-Macon Woman’s College. These stylish W&L
men are shown here with the “fair daughters” from neighboring schools.

Photo courtesy of “Come Cheer”

INSTAN CREDIT    .
teed Credit Cards with Credit Limits
Up To $10,000 Within Days!
O JOB, NO PARENT SIGNER, NO SECURITY DEPOSITl

If You Think You_
Can't Get A Crec_lIt
Card, Think Again.

  

     ORDER FORM, I  
1 want Credit Cards immediately.

CRA, PO Box 16662, ATLANTA, GA 30321

. - - . . . . . - - . . . . . . . . . . ¢ . . u . a - - c - - a o - o o . - - o . - ..
, . . . . . . . n . u o - - - - o o o ~ - - - o - - - o . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . o o o - - o - - - . - . . . . . o . . . . . - o o o u . . a . o o o - - o - o . . . . . . . . . . . . - - o < - - o - - - - o o . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . - o o . o a - --
. . . . . . o o n - - u o - - - - o - - o - u o - o - o ¢ . . . . . . . . . . . . - . u o . . o a - o u - - on .

l - . ¢ - c u w . u a . . . o - o n n o o c n o n o o o o o u - - o no
.............................................................................................................................................. ..
................................................... ..
.
. .
. State . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Z1 ......  ............................................ ..
.................................................................................. . .
..................................................... .. .

................................................................................................................................................................................. ..
ZIIUTC ................................................. ..

  ‘urned Down?
Guaranteed $10,000In Credit! 1

 
 
     

 

 

3‘

NOVEMBER 9, 1998

_ . _.._-.....-u..-».m.v.i.....A..AL 6-A£tAus.—...«n£nr:InJ.'1.’Li\.‘.'4.¢.I..tE.lb..E,_1a...LL.u;ln5ﬁidn.. ..£.»l-l:'v...£..'.‘....4.

S

Volleyball captures ODACS

For’ the second straight year, the Generals dominated the
conference. Now the team has to wonder whether the NCAAs
will recognize their dominance with a bid to the tournament.

by Steele Cooper

STA FF WRITER

Washington and Lee entered Friday’s ODAC Touma-
ment at Bridgewater College as the ﬁrst seed and reigning
champions. On the heels of the powerful combination of
freshmen and veteran talent, the Generals captured their
second straight ODAC Tournament
Championship.

Friday, the Generals won their open-
ing match against Hollins College to ad-
vance to the semiﬁnals (15-2, 15-4, 15-
11). Saturday, W&L defeated fourth-
seeded Roanoke College in the semiﬁ-
nals (15-13, 15-7, 15-8) and third-seeded
Eastern Mennonite University in the ﬁ-
na1s(9-15,15-13,17-15, 15-9).

Leading the offense for the Gener-
als once again against Roanoke was
freshman Lindsay Ruckert. Ruckert totaled 14 kills,
seven blocks, and 14 digs. On Saturday, Ruckert to-
taled 21 kills and ﬁve blocks in leading W&L to victory
against EMU. Ruckert was named tournament MVP, and
all-conference rookie ofthe year. “It was all really ex-
citing. It felt great knowing that I had made a contribu-
tion to this team,” Ruckert said.

Fellow freshmen Lee Charbonnet and Ricka
Hildebrand were,also strong offensive forces for the
Generals. Charbonnet had 12 kills, four aces, and 13

It was the
perfect ending
to the season.

— Ricka Hildebrand

digs against Roanoke. Hildebrand posted nine kills and
two blocks against Hollins, and 15 kills, four blocks,
and 13 digs against Eastern Mennonite on her way to
earning all-tournament team honors.

“It was the perfect ending to the season,”
Hildebrand said. “It’s hard being the team to beat be-
cause they all come out really fired up to beat you, but
we didn’t let them.”

Junior outside hitter Nancy
Reinhart posted five kills and nine
digs against Hollins on Friday.
Reinhart was named to the all-con-
ference second team.

Sophomore Pam Saulsbury led the
setting for W&L during the tourna-
ment. Against Roanoke, Saulsbury
totaled 27 assists, and against EMU
she posted 55 assists. Her total of55
assists against EMU is the second
highest for a setter in school history.

These three wins extended the Generals’ consecutive
winning streak to 16, a new school record. W&L has not
dropped a match since September 26.

The top six teams in the Southern Region will advance
to the NCAA tournament, and the Generals are currently
ranked eighth. The ﬁnal rankings, however, have not been
posted. W&L must now wait to see if it receives a bid for
the NCAA tournament. If so, it will be yet another school
ﬁrst to come from the 1998 season.

Emory & Henry does it again

by Brendan Harrington

SPORTS EDITOR

It’s hard enough for Washington and Lee Football to deal
with losing to Emory and Henry the past 16 seasons, but it
becomes even harder when you take into account some of
the ways in which the team has lost. Case in point: Saturday
aﬁemoon at Wilson Field. The Generals led 20-6 with 6:08 left
in the fourth quarter before Emory and Hemy (9-0, 5-0 ODAC)
scored 17 unanswered points to pull off an amazing come-
from-behind victory to remain undefeated.

“We had a great effort out there today,” head coach Frank
Miriello said. “Our kids really played hard, but we need a
victory against Emory and Henry, not a moral victory.”

Saturday marked the 16th straight time that the Wasps
have defeated the Generals who last lost to W&L 21-15 on
Sept. 18, 1982. The Generals (3-6, 1-4 ODAC) have had a
history of heartbreaking losses to E&H during the streak,
including last season’s game at Emory which saw the Gen-
erals commit four turnovers in the ﬁnal quarter to blow a
17-6 fourth quarter lead.

“Obviously it’s very disappointing,” senior tight end
David Ritchey said after appearing in his ﬁnal game at Wil-
son Field. “I feel like we outplayed them, we deserved to
win. It was a 100% effort by everyone on this team.”

The Generals led 20-6 with 6:08 left in the fourth quarter
and faced fourth and 1 1 from their own two-yard line. Fearing
a blocked punt in the end zone, Miriello decided to have
punter Doug Williams walk it out of the back of the end zone
and take the intentional safety, making the score 20-8.

Emory and Henry got the ball on their own 20-yard line
with 5:54 remaining and quickly drove into Generals’ terri-
tory, wherejunior quarterback Tom Crigger threw a 41-yard
touchdown pass to junior wide receiver David Miller to
make the score 20-15 with 3 :28 remaining.

The Generals picked up one ﬁrst down before they were
forced to punt and the Wasps got the ball back on their

W&L’s long, choking
history against E&H

No team has ever plagued the Generals like Emory
and Henry. The Wasps have beaten the Generals 16
straight times and leads the overall series 22-6. But
it’s not just the losses that deﬁne the Generals’ 16-
game losing streak against Emory and Henry, it’s the
way they’ve lost those games. Here is a quick look a
just a few of those heartbreaking losses.
Sept. 8, 1990 — E&H 22, W&L 21

W&L trailed the Wasps 14-6 early in the fourth
quarter before the Generals stonned back to take a
21-14 lead in the ﬁnal minutes of the game. Like this
year, the Generals decided to take an intentional
safety when facing a punt from their own end zone,
cutting the W&L lead to 21-16 with 37 second left to
play. Emory and Henry got the ball back following
the safety and on the last play of the game, wide
receiver Pat Walker somehow got away from three
Generals defensive backs in the end zone and caught
a 26-yard game-winning touchdown as time expired.
Nov. 9, 1996 — E&H 43, W&Lee 27

The Generals stormed out to an early 14-0 lead
with the help of some trick plays before the wheels
came off in the second quarter. E&H scored 29 con-
secutive points in the second and third quarters to
cruise to an easy 43-27 victory over the Generals.
Nov. 8,1997 — W&L 17, E&H 27

The Generals took a 17-6 lead into the fourth quar-
ter after J .T. Malatesta caught a 78-yard touchdown
pass from Christian Batcheller late in third quarter.
In the fourth quarter, the Generals committed four
turnovers, which led to 21 points by the Wasps, who
held on for the 10-point victory.

Photo by Scott Cameron/Photo Editor
All alone: Senior Christian Batcheller gets

tackled on Saturday vs. Emory and Henry.

own 20-yard line with 1:36 left in the fourth quarter and two
time-outs. The Wasps advanced the ball all the way to the
Generals 34-yard line on a couple of big pass plays, but
faced fourth and 10 with 40 seconds left in the game.

On the fourth down play, Crigger saw a streaking Miller
open on the near sideline and aired it out. Crigger caught
the ball on the two-yard line and fell into the end zone for
the touchdown. The Wasps added the two—point conver-
sion to make the score 23-20.

The Generals got the ball back one last time but Senior
Christian Batcheller was intercepted and the Wasps held on
for the victory.

“I’m really too shocked to put into words how I feel and
how the team feels about this loss,” Batcheller said follow-
ing the game. “In one regard it’s good to feel like you can
play one of the best teams in the country, but to not come
through with the win is tremendously depressing.”

The Generals used six Emory and Henry turnovers to
jump out to the 14-point lead as the defense bent but didn’t
break against Oliver Jordan and the Wasps’ high power
running game.

“The defense is what put us in position to win the game,”
Ritchey said. “To stop their running game the way we did
was amazing.” 

The Generals broke a 6-6 tie with 10:40 left in the ﬁnal
quarter when Batcheller threw a 32-yard touchdown pass
to Ritchey to give the Generals a 13-6 lead. Ritchey ﬁn-
ished the game with ﬁve catches for 86 yards and a touch-
down to lead all receivers.

“I’m very disappointed in the loss, but I’m proud of
how I played and how the team played, the way we came
together, and gave it everything we had,” Ritchey said.

The Generals scored again 26 seconds later when E&H
quarterback Matt Olexy was drilled by W&L safety John
McAllister, forcing a fumble that sophomore defensive back
Will Baker recovered and ran back 21 yards for the touch-
down to make it 20-6 with 10:14 left in the game. Baker
added tackles and an interception to go along with his
fumble recovery and touchdown.

Offensively for the Generals, Batcheller ﬁnished the day
19-29 for 207 yards, one touchdown and one interception
whilejunior tailback Marc Watson ﬁnished with 96 yards
on 20 carries.

“We always get up for E&H and play up to their level,”
Batcheller added. “We need to win a few games earlier in
the season to get our conﬁdence up, and maybe then we’ll
start pulling out games like this in the end.”

...-1 A\5L>n..L . A...-.._..1...... . ....r.. .....  .. .

@112 Ring-tum lﬂlit

PORTS

 

all-ODAC and Rob Naftel and Ken Jackman

On your marks, get set . . . The women’s cross country team line up Saturday at Hampden-
Sydney to compete in the ODAC championships. Both the women’s and men’s teams com-
peted, earning second and ﬁfth places, respectively. On the women’s side, sophomore Wendy
Case was named ﬁrst team all-ODAC, and freshman Gretchen Tencza and sophomore Jessica
Parrillo were named second team all-ODAC. For the men, Darrik Alford was named first team
were named second team all-ODAC.

Rhoto by Emil) Bariies"l’lioto Ed

 

Men’s soccer ends in heartbreak

by Tod Williams M.

STAFF WRITER

The men’s soccer team ﬁnished its season on Tuesday
with a streak that most teams would be proud of— only
two losses in its last 12 games.

Unfortunately, that statistic doesn’t tell the whole story.
The two losses came at the worst time, the last two games
of the season.

The Generals dropped a 1-2 decision in double over-
time to quarterﬁnal ODAC playoff opponent Hampden-
Sydney at Liberty Hall Fields.

The toumey’s fourth—ranked Generals took the lead early
in the game, at 23:05, when senior forward Sam Chase found
the back of the net with a header off a corner kick. Wash-
ington and Lee then carried the 1-0 lead for the majority of
the game, until only 5:24 remained in regulationplay.

When the Tigers’ sophomore defender Trip Jendron
scored at 5:24 off a corner kick, he tied the score at 1-1, and
eventually sent the game into sudden-death overtime.

After 27:01 of scoreless overtime play, freshman de-
fender Josh Dickens scored off a header from fellow fresh-
man Rob Comegys. The game-winning goal was Dickens
third on the season and his second in the last two games.

Tiger keeper Mike Bizon made a season high eight saves
in the game, including two crucial saves that thwarted the
Generals’ chance for the win. With under a minute left in
regulation,junior Jamie Parker’s shot was narrowly knocked
aside by a diving Bizon. Fifteen seconds later, Bizon also
pulled the ball out after it had only partially crossed the

Karin Treese’s
magical feet

by Frances Groberg

SPOR7LS‘ EDITOR

Senior Karin Treese has certainly left her mark here at
Washington and Lee. Most people know that she’s a great
player. Most know that she holds the record for most ca-
reer goals here, with 72. What most people don’t know is
that she broke the record her sophomore year.

There are a few things that make Treese such a standout,
both on and off the ﬁeld. “Shejust loves soccer. It oozes
out of every pore,” head soccer coach Jan Hathom said.
“She has a ‘put it in the goal out ofmy way’ attitude. It’s a
mindset that really stands out.”

Treese began playing soccer at age six, when she and
friend Peter Quin played out in the backyard. She names
Quin, who plays rnen’s soccer at Johns Hopkins University,
as one of her inﬂuences. “I was on his teams in the rec league
until they made me play on the girls’ teams,” Treese said.

Treese continued to play throughout her school career,
meeting her mentor and coach Chuck Nichols in high
school. “I look up to him very much. He taught me a lot,”
she said. Throughout this time, she was reﬁning her skills
and learning about the workings ofthe game.

“When her ﬁeld sense and skills come together, it’s like
there’s no one else out there. She has incredible control
and touch,” Hathorn said. -

When asked if she had considered playing in a Divi-
sion I program, Treese admitted that it had been a dream of
hers since she was small. “I thought I’d be more happy
here, and I have been. I chose W&L for the school, and
the soccer program came with it.”

Yet as incredible as Treese is individually, it is what she
brings to the team effort that really makes her a standout.
“She doesn’t ask of anyone what she wouldn’t do herself,”
sophomore Shana Levine said. “If she’s on the field with
you, you’re a better player than when she’s on the sideline.”

Indeed, Treese’s role as one ofthree captains has en-
abled her to lead in the way she feels most comfortable, by
example. “She’s what every player wants to be,” junior
Ginny Jemigan exclaimed. “She is highly respected, yet so
modest and unselﬁsh that her brilliance never takes away
from the team, but builds it up.”

Hathom believes that Treese’s initiative drives her suc-

goal line, accordingto the referees, thus disbarring a pos-
sible General win.

Hampden—Sydney ﬁnished with a 14-3 advantage in
corner kicks over the Generals.

Chase, who ﬁnished his career as a General with 1 17
total points, a new W&L record, said that the team was
deﬁnitely surprised with the loss. “They were a good team,
but we were favored, and we did dominate play for about
85 minutes," he said.

“We had some unbelievable opportunities, but it was
the kind of good game you expect in the ODAC." Chase
said. “We would’ve liked the chance to have played for
the championship, but I’m proud ofthe team.”

Chase called the team a tight-knit group, and said the
thing he would take most away from the season was how
the team was “always on the same level ~- never too high
or too low.” He continued to say he was proud of the
team’s improvement over the last four years.

“When I got here, we were a below average team, now
we’re not only among the top in the ODAC but in the
South as well,’’ Chase said.

“We were in line for a national bid for the first time in the
team’s history, as far as I know,” he ‘said. “I’m proud ofall
we’ve accomplished here.”

In the Generals 1-0 win over the ligers at Hampden-
Sydney less than a month ago. Chase was the game’s lone
scorer on the day.

Historically, the Generals have dominated in the series.
W&L has knocked Hampden—Sydney out of the ODAC tour-
nament in each of the last ﬁve meetings in the past 10 years.

s"

l’liotov<:miitcs} of Kllllll lrcese
Senior Karin Treese: an asset to the program

cess. “I didn’t teach her anything she didn't already know.
Over the years, she’s improved her foot speed. deﬁned her
role on the team, and made lierscifwliat we needed. She’ll
do whatever it takes.”

Treese led the 1998 Generals to a very successful sea-
son. The team ended the season with an overall record of
11-3, capturing the regular season O1)/\C title. Unfortu-
nately, the Generals could not overcome Roanoke College,
and lost 2-1 in the semiﬁnals of the ODAC tournament.
Still, Treese was extremely optimistic.

“It was the best season talent-wise since 1’ve been here.
The soccer program has improved for the better in the last
four years, and it willjust keep improving," she said.

Treese does not see her soccer career ending at W&L.
“I’ll always be active in the game whether it‘ 11 be playing in
the backyard with my kids or coaching on a regular basis.
lcan’t imagine my life without soccer.”

Hathom had the highest praises for 'l’ree.<c. “livery once
in a while you get an exceptional player in your program. It
has been a privilege to know and work with her, and she
has left W&L soccer better than when she arrived."

‘a

    

 

 

PAGE 6

by Brian Prisco

PH] MOVIE GUY

 

(Wait until it comes out
on video)

“The Siege” is the latest Hollywood
attempt at pissing off militant factions.
An Arabic fanatical group starts
exploding New York City hotspots in
effort to get their “wrongfully
imprisoned” leader back from the U.S.
government, which denies his capture.
The FBI is pitted against the military
when martial law is declared, and the
CIA seems to be playing everyone’s
side. It should have just been called
“Crimson New York.” ’

“The Siege” features a dynamic cast
that is probably its only hope for
drawing any semblance of a crowd.
Denzel Washington (“Courage Under
Fire,” “Crimson Tide”) is back at it
again, playing his typical character: the
civil servant who gives impassioned
speeches and looks good posing with
a gun and covered in blood. It’d be
easy to criticize Washington for being
so carbon copied if not for one small
factor: the man is really damn good at
it. He shines as the boy scout trying
to uphold American ideals against a,
crazed military high—ranking officer
bent on following orders and getting

However,
Hackman, we have Bruce Willis (“Filth
Element,” “Die Hard”) as General
Devereaux, a crazed military high-
ranking officer bent on following
orders and gettingjustice. Willis plays
against Washington extremely well.
His performance isn’t extraordinary;
it’sjust typical Willis. He gets thejob The
done, and he does it efficiently.

Annette Bening (“The American

instead of Gene

LAST

Hollywood lays “Siege” on theater near you

Humor Page

President,” “Mars Attacks!”) acts as
the CIA spook, playing everyone
against everyone else. She manages
to complete the little triangle of talent
5 quite nicely. It’s not as easy to buy
her performance as a government
operative as it is with Willis and
Washington, but her acting is strong
enough to make you not care.

The story is pretty much cut and
paste. Bomb goes off; people get mad;
they kill some bad guys; bomb goes
off again; they get mad; people get
scared; riots ensue. When you have a
movie about terrorism, they pretty
much hit all the clichés and hit them
hard-core. You don’t expect anything
less. The key is having talented and
ﬁin-to-watch actors and a competent
directing angle. I think we’ve found
the problem. »

Edward “please Denzel I need you
in my movie” Zwick directed this movie
and also helped co-write the script. He
worked with Washington in “Glory”
and “Courage Under Fire,” and —— let’s
face it— the man cannot make a movie
without Washington. Zwick’s sort of
been on downslide since his first
movie, and he’s not picking up.
Fortunately, he started off on such a
high note that he hasn’t quite reached
the Mel Brooks range of “Dracula:
Dead and Loving It.” Yet.

Zwick moves the action in the
movie like driving a taxi across a typical
New York street. It’s patchy and full of
holes; it moves far too slowly while
maintaining what is supposed to be a
speedy plot pace, only to stop for
occasional points of interest. The
actors are far too talented to be working
with such piss
poor materials. It’s
like bowling with
a Faberge egg.

received some
harsh criticism

 

464-5800

24 Nprtli Main Street
Lexington, ‘Virginia

Econo Lodge

Spend on nIgM,uo9 a fortune.
IIIIII IIIIIII

540-463-7371

* Parents Discount *
* Newly Renovated *

* Free HBO w/Remote *

* No Smoking Rooms *

* Free Continental Breakfast *

@112 Bing-Gum lﬂhi

l

  WORD

NOVEMBER 9, 1998

from Arab protestors about its unfair
depiction of Arabs and their religion.
This is one point for which Zwick
deserves no nasty comments. If
anything, this movie makes people
more sympathetic toward Arabs. Hey,
let’s face it, there are some Arabs who
are fanatical enough to walk into a
crowded symphony hall with a metric
ton of C-4 strapped to their asses and
kill hundreds in the name of their

by Kevin McManemin

FIT TO BE T150

I didn’t vote in the recent
elections, (I might have lost my
license as an lazy, jaded twenty-
something stereotype) but let me tell
you about someone who did ‘

A recent 

have been one

of those heartwarming, touchy-feely,
flag-waving “yay for America” kind
of stories if it wasn’t for one simple
fact: the president wasn’t up for
election this year.

  

e{z‘teusLi'z ampizedby Kevin Mciranemza if
,bertarians.‘b6astfb_ig? _   ‘
{W "$§in..T98»'.electioris . Q

   
 
 
   
  
  
 
  
  
   
 
   
   

.0 “to? pro,,eiithat as third    
’ ' ineiitly as?-tth,§.i.Democrats’,and
 ' .§pb.kesmaI!§iSai<i;: 

   
 
  

  

 

X, polio..announce ‘
omebae ‘    _  
idesartenheir jcateers.wer¢e::ded ;.
aecineg; the :epid,e,micsi,.srna1lpb an‘ ‘
plans to ‘make ’a/icon ba, /nth
t.°l1r,;     I
gs‘; cjonferencelield earlier today, the 1;
y es rfeponed being. ‘.‘very "e'xcited’_’;—bfy» the :5,
of “returning "to the."g‘lobal"diseaseiisceneéi 
been working on'severa1i..i1ew syxnptomsi f
ypiaiito highlight on tlréworld tour;":alot13g4';<‘\

     

        

e dftheir classic symptoms; . I . — . .
if idernics 2 also respon,c1ed:,_to persistent O

that they ]W°u1dn*’tbe4b1e'.;.to. ha¢1S~itii1‘ii“W<5t1$3 .
'¢d.wiﬂ1 ilberéiiandanics like. Aﬂ3‘S”and 
was Wiph1g’out entire villages before»AIDS“§
. was ven“a'lboil_on‘a gay miinkey7s,butt,” smauppg. A

I‘ Revlonto release potent.  ‘ , — ‘

_   f  * F'~beau.ty‘preduct M V  ‘

Paris  Toutingii its latest ‘products as “the. .

est  ,ft:he.liistoi'y of the feminine 

2: for eaiity,’?»’Rev1on‘relemeditsiiew line of‘m'ake- :‘,;.

2 ii‘ ‘ _aiidfperﬁiInes. amidst, a’ media frenzy; “This ,

‘fproyduct canifmakeyeven the most homely,‘ plain,“ 7‘

‘ unattractive, sunken-chested, pimpIe~faced, bald_,%jg

;=”gari‘gren”ous,‘ foul smelling,  . f}
hideouswoman appear desireable and Aappealingtof 
Ithe/average. ’man,"' a Revlon spokesman "said, later
adding “butieii°ough'about my wife.” ‘ . 6

‘ ' The secret ingredient? Alcohol.

V The fumes in islcentslike “Bau de Beam” and
“Essence de Budweiser” travel through the nasal
cavity and intothe brain where they block a man’s
senseof common decency while simultaneously
inflatinghis libido. Studies have proven that this
patented “dual standard-lowering” technology
increases the‘ chance of male pants-droppage by
almost 85 percent.

Revlon’s newest spokesmodels, Roseanne Barr
and Whoopi Goldberg, ended the press conference
with a chilling threat. “Buy this @!#*$%" product or
I’ 11 bring my sitcom back on the air,” Roseanne said.

  
  

   

 

      
  

cause. This movie makes you feel bad
for the Arabs who aren’t doing these
things and the unfair, racist treatment
they receive. Some of the characters
are blamed because they are Arabic,
not because they did anything wrong.

This movie is frightening because
it makes you wonder: what if it were
me? What if it weren’t an Arab, but a
black person, or a Southern person, 01‘
a Christian? That is the message the

That little incident casts some nasty
clouds over this church picnic we call
democracy. Our beloved system is
based on the ideal of the
conscientious, informed voter. Hey
Founding Fathers, have you boys
been to Wal-Mart lately? Cuz let me
tell ou, it ain’t exactly a brain trust

"‘ out there.

article in The  Theproblem
Roanoke Times  isn’t that
reported that an " I there’s too
old lady showed  - much apathyin
up at the polls " this country.
last Tuesday to  The problem is
do her civic that there isn’t
duty and vote nearly enough.
for president for , "lheproblem
the first time in is that people
herlife. like that dim-

This might photo by Emily Bames/photo editor witted old lady

have had their
heads pumped full of this ridiculous
high school civics class claptrap about
our responsibility — nay —— our duty
to vote. They’re subjecting us to their
half-assed attempts at citizenship,
making poorly-formed decisions
based entirely on an interesting mix
of media soundbites and their own
personal prejudices. We should not
be encouraging Americans to get out
and vote. We should be locking the
voting booths.
The 62 percent of Americans who
abstained from voting in this election

movie gets across. It could be anybody
next, so stop pointing fingers. It
doesn’t single out the Arab cause or
the factions. It says there are crazy
people everywhere, it just so happens
that this time they are Arabs. Next time
it could be you.

However, in making that stunning .

point, it fails to run smoothly. The
movie manages to open and close
strongly, but the rest of it just sort of

(and about 80 percent of my generation)
are maligned by those who largely
misunderstand the doctrine of apathy.
Let me try and elucidate the apathetic
mind set (or lack thereof).

First of all, we realize that our
individual vote doesn’»t,_matter. Yeah
yeah, I’m aware of how bad it is in
theory for everyone to think this way,
but on the individual level, it’s always
true. Your vote really doesn’t matter.
Major elections are not won or lost by
one vote. So, if you can have the same
impact going out and voting or sitting
at home playing video games, what’s
the problem here?

Secondly, many people don’t vote
because they have no real choice.
Lately the eternal battle between the
Dems and Repubs has been about as
hotly contested as a game between the
New Jersey Nets and the Dallas
Mavericks. No matter who wins, they’re
both still losers.

All political races are the same —
two smiley white guys with bland
names like “Bob” or “Dan” talking
about how much they care about me
and how my life would be better if I
vote for them. Yeah. Sign me up.

Finally, and most importantly,
apathy is just easier. It’s much easier
to live happily in this world if you
don’t think about it so much.

Currently we’re wasting far too
much of our national energy on

jumbles around. It’s thoroughly
enjoyable, well worth watching the
acting of Willis, Washington and
Bening, and it has an important
message. It’s just not worth shelling
out seven bucks to see it in a movie
theater. When it comes out on video,
be there.

Or hell, rent “Crimson Tide.” You’ ll
get the same effect and hey, it’s on
boat! '

In defense of political apathy

worrying and we’re giving ourselves a
huge collective ulcer. » _ -

The source of all this tension is
the mass media, which feel the need
to frame every issue in black and
white, as two polar opposite sides
competing against one another. The
ideologues, demagogues and media
hogs have broken our country into
more pieces than the Rolling Stones’
hotel room. 7

The problem isn’t that no one
cares; the problem is that everyone
cares about everything, and no one is
willing to change their opinions.
Americans today have more
unwarranted self-assured attitude than
a “Ricki Lake” guest.

For voters, pundits, politicians and
smaimy columnists like me, the problem
remains the same: no one wants to
admit they may be wrong.

Well I’ll be the first columnist to go
on record and admit that I don’t know
a damn thing about anything. I am no
smarter than anyone else, with the
possible exceptions of Bill Belamy, the
cast of “Friends” and the state of
Tennessee.

So stop speaking of apathy as a
challenge to overcome and do your
part to improve our national mental
health by doing absolutely nothing.
It’s time we all started caring about
apathy.

Or not. Like, whatever, dude.

Get More Out of LIFE...

  

. ° Alcohol °
° EllEI'GlSB '
' lllllflllllll °

° Mental Health -

' Sﬂllllallw '

V ° SIIBSS Management '

Make a Difference at W&L

Pick up an application form and sign-up for
an interview by Thursday, November 19, at the
University Center in front of Carol Calkins’ office.
Training begins in January.

Questions?

Call the Health Education Office

at 462-4501

 

art o

Become a Trained Peer Health Educator
on Health and Wellness Issues.

f It?

 

1

§

1

‘Q

5

¢

I

K

I‘.

V

W

I

‘.1

1

‘X

 

U112 ﬂing-tum {ﬂirt

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsITv’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

VOLUME 101, NO. 9

SPJ sponsors

public forum

on disclosure

By Polly Doig

NEWS EDITOR

The issue ofwhether or not to pub-
lish the names of those convicted in
campus disciplinary hearings went up
for debate in a forum sponsored by
the Society of Professional Journalists
last Thursday.

The recently passed Higher Edu-
cation Amendments suggest that col-
leges make results of disciplinary hear-
ings available to student media, but
leaves the subject of naming those
convicted up to individual schools’
discretion.

Knight Professor of Journalism
Louis Hodges, Dean of Students David
Howison, Student Faculty Hearing
Board Chair Barbara Brown, Student
Judicial Council Chair Greta Richter,
and Executive Committee President
Beth Formidoni all served as members
of the panel.

“We need to recognize that any-
time you have disciplinary hearings
that are essentially held in private and
are kept secret, you have a potentially

dangerous situation on your hands 
secrecy generally allows corrupt
people to reveal their corruption un-
checked,” Hodges said. “Therefore the
bias, in my opinion, ought to be on the
side of openness rather than secrecy.”

“I want to believe that if you do
something, it’s going to be judged in
accordance with the extremity of what-
ever it is that you do,” senior Nadiyah
Howard said. “And I think that if you
publish these things, then the student
body is going to have a better idea of
what’s going on, and be able tojudge
for itself what’s right.”

Hodges called for openness based
on a two—fold argument.

“First, we really need a watchdog
to watch over even our best disciplin-
ary bodies,” Hodges said. “And sec-
ond, to do so, and to publish the re-
sults, to reveal the issues at stake and
the actions taken, would have a major
educational impact on the everybody
in the student body.”

Howison is in favor of letting the

See FORUM, Page 2

LPD limits public
access on weekends

By J ennifer Agiesta

STA FF WRITER

On Oct. 14, 1998, the Lexington po-
lice department joined the new central
dispatch station in Buena Vista. Since
then, no officer has manned Lexington
Headquarters on the weekend, and no
one has access to police reports from
Friday night, Saturday and Sunday un-
til Monday morning. I

Police Chief Bruce Beard seems un-
concerned about the possible effects
on public access to police records. His
main concern is that police will be avail-
able to anyone who needs them, and in
his opinion, this system works better.

With emergency calls directed first
through the 91 1 number, and non-emer-
gencies handled by the same number
that was always used, 463-9177, more

efficient service is available.

In addition, an emergency phone has
been installed in Lexington Headquar-
ters for people who need immediate as-
sistance.

They can go in and lock the door
behind them and get someone at Cen-
tral Dispatch without dialing if, for ex-
ample, they are being chased or can’t
get to another phone.

Tom Snead, head of Central Dis-
patch, -aid it’s up to the Lexington de-
partment to detemrine how they will
make information available.

For the most part, the Central Dis-
patch center only has information on
the initial call. Police reports and arrest
records never reach their database.
According to their policy, no informa-
tion will be released from the Central
Dispatch office.

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1998

Swingin’ sophomore Stephen Pesce ﬂips and dips
Bicenquenquagenary Ball on Saturday night. Man
co-chair Nate Tencza: “It was absolutely wonderful. Erin McGrain,
hard. It went off without a bitch. I don’t know if it could have been done any better.”

Bicenquenquagenary Ball swings wonderfully

his date to the music of Chairmen of the Board during the P
y students agreed that the Ball was an amazing success, including 250'“
Mandy Stallard and the steering committee worked so

Photo y llister Hoey/Exertive Eitr

Peter Hart dissects Election ’98

By Polly Doig

News EDITOR

“Ten percent of Americans think
that pollsters can predict the future 
that puts us well ahead of the Ouija
board and the Magic 8 Ball.”

So spoke Democratic pollster Peter
Hart during a lecture that analyzed the
1998 election at Washington and Lee
University last week.

Hart, the founder of Peter D. Hart
Research Associates and a consult-
ant for NBC News, was a Woodrow
Wilson Visiting Fellow at W&L and
addressed several classes in addition
to his lecture. Hart demonstrated the
intricacies of polling to students by
tracking the Maryland gubernatorial
race over a period of months, and
asked students to pick a winner based
on popularity. Hart himself did polling

in several races this year, including that
of incumbent Sen. Patrick Leahy of
Vermont and that of Charles Schumer,
who upset incumbent Sen. Alfonse
D’Amato in New York.

According to Hart, the major les-
son of the 1998 election is that, out of
the 455 races nationwide in which in-
cumbents were running, only 1 1 lost.
“When 444 incumbents get re-elected,
[the voter are] telling us something:
‘I’m not unhappy,” Hart said. “1998
was a great election because the pub-
lic was more positive than in any other
period we’ve seen in the last 15 years.”

According to Hart, more than 75
percent of the American public said
they were happy with the direction of
their personal finances, and 86 percent
were happy with the economy overall.

Hart also analyzed reasons behind
the Republicans’ inability to make the

I-Club organizes hurricane relief

By Eszter Pados

STAFF WRITER

While several Central American
countries cope with one of the big-
gest natural disasters in their modern
histories, members of the Washington
and Lee University community estab-
lished relief funds to support nation-
wide efforts to help the countries re-
cover from Hurricane Mitch’s devas-
tation.

The International Club at Washing-
ton and Lee University set up a relief
fund specifically to help Nicaragua.

Bill Overbaugh, president of the
International Club, said that the fund
is concentrated on Nicaragua because
that country has been the most heavily
hit. The fund was proposed by fresh-
man Silvana Flinn, who is a native
Nicaraguan. Furthermore, Flinn’s inﬂu-
ence made the club look more closely
at Nicaragua.

Hurricane Mitch hit northern South
America, with Nicaragua, Honduras,
El Salvador and Guatemala among the
most heavily hit. As of Wednesday,
the disaster had killed more than
1 1,000 across Central America and
more than 3,800 in Nicaragua alone.
Furthermore, epidemics such as chol-
era, malaria and dengue are expected
to break out shortly. In addition to
Hurricane Mitch, Nicaragua was hit by
an eruption of Cerro Negro, which cre-

ated a mudslde that destroyed five vil-
lages. “The greatest tragedy of this
particular event was that it wiped out
whole extended families and some of
the children that have survived have
nothing and no one in this world,” Ena
Flinn, Silvana’s mother said.
Nicaraguans are pleading for help.
Flinn said that her efforts are a re-
sponse to an e-mail she received from
her cousin in Georgetown, who told
her that universities such as
Georgetown University and James
Madison University have organized
funds in support of the relief effort.
Nicaraguan students studying in the
United States were asked to make ef-

forts for this cause.

“I presented the idea to the Inter-
national Club,” Flinn said. “I wanted
to do something. We need all the help
we can get.” ‘

Overbaugh said that members of
the club unanimously supported the
fund. Donation boxes were set up last
Monday. As of Friday, the club had
collected more than $700.

James Casey, visiting professor of
economics, has also set up a relief pro-
gram; his focuses on Honduras. He is
collecting donations, mostly clothing,
from University of Virginia students
and Lexington residents.

“Besides my own, I have clothes

from the Lexington community,” Casey
said. “Also, the athletic department
has donated a lot of clothes.”

The donation fund is set up in
Charlottesville.

“I’m going to Charlottesville this
weekend,” Casey said, “to take some
clothes over to the American Red
Cross.”

Overbaugh said the International
Club was initially uncertain which relief
organization would receive the col-
lected donations. It had planned to use
the Nicaraguan Relief Fund. Overbaugh
said, however, that this organization is

See HURRICANE, Page 2

Recycling progresses slowly

By Eszter Pados

7 STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee University's
Recycling Committee passed a pro-
posal last year to expand and enhance
the recycling program on campus.
They still have not made much
progress.

President Elrod “is in favor of the
improvement of the program; however,
due to other commitments, could not
approve the proposal,” Recycling
Committee Chair Steve McAllister said.

If approved, the new recycling pro-
gram would require the addition of two
positions at the University to handle
the collection and transfer of recycled
materials to a recycler, Steve

A McAllister said.

“I would not say that [President
Elrod] denied funding of the program,
but instead asked us to look at alter-
natives," he said. '

Junior Ashley Penkava, a member
of the Recycling Committee, took mat-
ters into her own hands her freshman
year

“There were no recycling bins
around freshman year,” Penkava said.
“So I went to [University Treasurer]
Larry Broomall, and he gave us money
for some bins.” ’

Penkava said the committee made
extensive efforts to provide recycling
bins for fundamental materials, such
as glass, paper and aluminum. Their
proposal was rejected, she said. The
Board of Trustees passed a regulation
that the school could not hire any more

See RECYCLING, Page 2

substantial gains expected in light of
the Monica Lewinsky scandal.

“The American public had no in-
tention of voting for impeachment in
this election; [many] Repub.licans_ ran
on this platform, and I think they were
faulted for not doing the people’s busi-
ness,” Hart said.

Only 31 percent of voters said that
the issues most important to them were
moral standards or Monica Lewinsky,
while 52 percent said they cared more
about education, health care, Social
Security or jobs. Nationwide, President
Clinton’s job approval rating remains
an overwhelming 68 percent.

“If Republicans move this [im-
peachment] through the House and
the Senate, I think they will do it in a
way that will ire the public,” Hart said.

In his explanation of the art of poll-
ing, Hart pointed out the weaknesses

of the system.

“We’re only as good as our respon-
dents. And our respondents, in part, always
thinkthatthey’re going to do the rightthing.
Typically, they think that they’re going to
vote, and in reality, a lot of people don’t,”
Hart said.

In this past election, however, Hart’s
polls proved to be extremely accurate.

“The highest count we did said that voter
turnout should be about 39 to 40 percent. It
turned out to be 38 percent,” Hart said.

And tumout, according to Hart, was the
most important factor for Democrats in the

1998 election. He cited an increased num-
berof minorities and Union-aﬂiliated work-
ers as crucial to the Democrats ability to
hang on.

“The single most important thing in
democratic society is voting  the most
important thing in an election is who’s go-
ing to vote,” said Hart.

11 at 8 p.m. in Lenfest.

November 16, 1998
OPINION:

Speaking Tradition
W&LrFE:

SPORTS:

    

Professor Emeritus Severn Duvall, senior Drew
Higgs and sophomore Ryan Truax rehearse for
“Secret Service,” which will beperformed on Dec.

@112 {King-tum lﬁlri

Letter on alcoholism, getting involved and the

Top 100 things to do at W&L before graduating

Football closes with dignity and two fall stars

Photo courtesy of Susan Wager

PAGE 3

PAGES 4&5

PAGES 6&7

 

/Z
I-

    

1” g(,‘_,'..(,

-x‘,

7   ,/to

D  . .

t“'7
"WK
Jig

;%
» 2/
PAGE 2

 

'\S\

N

HURRICANE

continued from page 1

associated with the government.

“We are afraid that the donations will go to political par-
ties, not to the people who need it,” Overbaugh said.

Lydia Ellena, Nicaraguan Embassy representative, encourages
the club to send the fund to the embassy. According to Ellena, the
embassy has set up three ﬁmds, one with the Red Cross, one with
the Nicaraguan Foundation and one with Catholic Relief Services.
“It’s guaranteed that the donations will get to the Nicaraguan
people,” Ellena said. “We will send [all the donations] to the Emer-
gency Committee in Nicaragua” She added that the Committee
guarantees direct delivery of the donations to the people. “We
guarantee that they will get [them] as soon as possible.”

The lntemational Club decided to work with Casey by
sending its donations through the American Red Cross. Dona-

tions collected by the lntemational Club will go on to Nicaragua.

Donations, including money, blankets, canned goods and
clothes, can be made through the lntemational Club. The
lntemational Club will continue to accept donations, even
though the collection boxes have been removed. Students
can contact Overbaugh or Flinn to make donations.

“There is still a great need for medicine. Nicaragua at the
moment needs antibiotics in many forms, fungicides, con-
struction materials, insecticides, food like milk and anything
people want to donate,” said Flinn.

She is very grateful for the tremendous support of the
lntemational Club and the community overall.

“Members were all interested  everyone has been so
wonderful,” she said. ‘‘I’m amazed at the positive response.”

FORUM

continued from page 1

student body make the decision. “l’ve sensed in the last year
or so a shift in student opinion . . . toward a greater willingness
to ask for the release of names of those who are found guilty
in hearings of the SJC and the SFHB,” he said.

Richter agrees. “Right now we’re trying to decide which
way to go, and I think that the best way to do that is to let
students have a voice,” she said.

Differences in the nature of trials handled by the three
disciplinary bodies were recognized as important factors in
the necessity of naming the convicted. The EC addresses
honor-related questions, the SJC handles criminal cases, and
the SFHB primarily deals with questions of sexual assault.
The consensus of the forum seemed to be that those con-
victed by the SABand the SFHB represent a greater physical
threat to members of the student body, thereby making dis-
closure by those bodies a higher priority to promote

awareness and self-protection.

“In an SFHB trial, a [convicted] person is a menace. Re-
gardless of what kind of sexual assault they committed, they
hurt someone really badly . . . we deserve to know who they
are so we can protect ourselves and our friends,” junior
Meredith Welch said.

However, others argued that the same standards should
apply on-campus as elsewhere.

“Once you’re in the real world and you commit a violent or
even a non-violent crime, as long as you’re over age 18, your
name is published . . . to be lulled into a false sense of security
within our realm of W&L is not necessarily a good thing,”
sophomore Heather McDonald said.

The Ring-tum Phi and The Trident will be conducting a
joint survey in coming weeks to determine student opinion
on the issue. Commentary is welcome. 1

RECYCLING

continued from page 1

people, Penkava said.

The university cannot have Physical Plant employees
deal with the recycling. “They have too much work anyway,”
Penkava said.

The committee’s greatest concern, Penkava said, is big
events such as the Fancy Dress Ball and Alumni Weekend
every year. She said that FD decorations were passed on to
area high schools for their prom decorations, but some of the
decorations are too large for the high school gyms, she said.

‘ “We end up throwing the decorations away.” Penkava said.

Alumni weekends are a problem too. Dinners during
Alumni weekends take place on the Front Lawn. Canned
drinks are served at these events, and the cans are thrown
away,” Penkava said.

McAllister said the university recycles aluminum and card- .

board in addition to mixed paper. The campus has recycling
containers for mixed paper and aluminum cans carnpus-wide.
“There are a number of areas where cardboard is collected,”
he said. “They tend to be the areas where the most signiﬁcant
amount of cardboard is processed, such as the Co-op.”

But some have been unable to find the bins. Tiffany
Cummings, lntemational Student Advisor, has noticed the
lack of recycling bins on campus.

“I wonder why food services don’t have recycling bins,”
Cummings said. “That’s where they are most needed. I feel
bad about throwing my bottles and cans away.”

According to Penkava, food services are “just put off by
the extra work  food services are already wasteful, so much
packaging is thrown away,” she said.

McAllister said the Recycling Committee has begun an
exploration of recycling of newspapers and glass.

“We are hopeful that we can develop a test program this
year to begin an evaluation of the feasibility of recycling these
items campus-wide,” McAllister said
. . . For now, tbecommittee  working with Physical Plant work-

‘ ers to ensure that recycling containers» are at major events such

as Homecoming, Alumni Weekend and Fancy Dress. The com-
mittee has begun recycling aluminum at football games.

“We will be working during the winter and spring to make
certain that this program moves forward,” McAllister said.

Secret Service

A Drama of the
Southern Confederacy

by William Gillette

directed by J. D. Martinez

Dec. 4, 5, 7, 1998 - 8pm
Dec. 6, 1998 ~ 2pm
Dec. 8, 1998 - 9pm
Lenfest Center

Johnson Theatre

Box Ojfice Information

540/ 463-8000

 
 

Ellie ﬂing-tum lﬁlti

EWS

E-mail General Notes to 

 

D-Hall celebrates Thanksgiving

Washington and Lee Dining Service will present a gour-
met Thanksgiving buffet dinner Wednesday from 5:30 p.m.
until 6: 15 p.m.

The menu will include young roasted turkey with pecan
stufﬁng, fresh tidewater crab cakes, roast prime rib with
Yorkshire pudding, baked glazed Virginia ham, mashed
potatoes with giblet gravy, candied sweet potatoes, bran-
died peaches, fresh fruit, cranberry sauce, salads and an
assortment of gourmet breads.

For those who still might have room left after such a
plentiful repast, the pastry crew will have prepared Martha
Washington cake, assorted homemade pies and other gour-
met pastries.

The annual Thanksgiving feast is open to all members
of the W&L community. For University Card-holders, the
cost is $6.50; the cash price is $7.50.

Economics expert gives lecture

Rebecca Blank, director of the Joint Center for Poverty
Research at Northwestern University and a member of the
President’ s Council of Economic Advisors, will speak
Monday at 8 p.m. in Northen Auditorium. Her lecture is
titled “The Current Economy and Welfare Reform.”

Blank conducts research on the interaction among the
macroeconomy, government anti—poverty programs and the
behavior and well-being of low-income families.

Blank has also published extensively in economics and
policy-related journals and serves on a variety of profes-
sional and advisory boards. In 1993, she received the David
Kershaw award, given biannually to a young scholar whose
work has had the most impact on policy.

Jazz Ensemble holds concert

The Washington and Lee University Jazz Ensemble will
present its first annual fall concert Tuesday at 8 pm. in the
Lenfest Center. 7 r 

This performance fea- _
tures several special guest 5
soloists, including clari-
netist Barry Kolman, saxo-
phonist Tom Artwick and
five student vocalists.
Joshua Chamberlain,
Brooke deRosa, Lee Dun-
ham, Jady Koch and
Mollie Harmon will each
sing a solo, and then all
join forces on the old
Johnny Mercer classic
“Dream.”

Kolman will assume

Photo by Emily Barnes/Photo Editor

Senior Marshall Sutton

Benny Goodman’s role in
a swinging rendition of Prepares for the
"sing sing sing" that W111 upcoming concert.

also feature solos by
tenor saxophonist Mark Slomiany and trumpet player Scott
Meister and extended work by drummer Anthony Allen.

Composers featured on the concert include .Duke
Ellington, Henry Mancini, Antonio Carlos J obirn, Irving Ber-
lin, Cole Porter and Hank Williams.

Group for sexual assault victims meets

A conﬁdential support group sponsored by the Uni-
versity Counseling Service will begin meeting weekly for
Washington and Lee women who have experienced sexual
assault or abuse at any time in their lives. Each member will
sign an agreement of conﬁdentiality at the ﬁrst meeting.

Please call Carol Calkins, the Counseling Service secre-
tary, or the University Health Service at X8401 to learn of
times and locations.

LIFE recruits new members

Applications for the peer health organization LIFE,
Lifestyle lnforrnation for Everyone, are due Thursday. For
more information, contact Jan Kaufman at x450 1.

 

 

NOVEMBER 16, 1998

I-Hsiung Ju exhibits work in duPont

I-Hsiung Ju, artist in residence at W&L from 1969 to
1998, and his brothers Tan-ru and Hao-ru Ju will exhibit
their works of calligraphy and painting at W&L’s duPont
Gallery from Nov. 17 through Dec. 1 1. There will be a gal-
lery talk and a reception at 5:30 p.m. Tuesday.

All three brothers are natives of Jiang-yin, Jiang-su,
China.

I-Hsiung Ju, who founded the Art Farm Galleryjust out-
side of Lexington, has worked in many different painting
styles and many different media. His work has been exhibited
in more than 200 art shows in Australia, China, Japan, the
Philippines, Canada, England and the United States.

Tan-ru Ju, the oldest brother, paints in what has been
described as a lyrical and delicate style. He has painted
many scrolls depicting Biblical stories using traditional
Chinese painting methods and materials.

The youngest brother, Hao-ru Ju, is an expert in making
silk scrolls, carving Chops (signature seals) and the resto-
ration of scroll paintings. He is also a versatile calligrapher.

Responsibility series continues

— Vivian-Lee Nyitray will speak in the Responsibility Sym-
posium lecture series today at 7:30 p.m. in Room A214 of
the Science Addition.

Nyitray's lecture is titled “The Single Thread of a New
Confucianism: Public Responsibility and Private Virtue.”
Confucius spoke of a single thread that bound his thoughts
together, namely, an interweaving of the ideas of loyalty
and reciprocity.

Nyitray will examine how these core Confucian ideas
are evolving over and against post-Enlightenment notions
of public responsibility and the way in which a new Confu-
cianism may emerge.

Nyitray teaches at the University of California.

Bacon’s guitar sizzles in Lee Chapel

Classic guitarist Guy Bacon will perform a recital in Lee
Chapel on Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. This may be his last con-
cert in this area because he is planning to return to his
native home, Great Britain, to continue his studies.

Grandson of the American composer Ernst Bacon
and son ofclassical guitarist Joseph Bacon, Guy comes
from a long established family tradition of quality mu-
sic making.

His recital in Lee Chapel will feature works by Bach,
Sor, Mareno—Torroba, Ravel and Britten.

There is no charge for the concert, which is sponsored
by Catholic Campus Ministry, and all members of the gen-
eral public are welcome to attend.

 

F|lAN|('S PIZZA
Ilalivery spacial

4.53-7575

Hot and Cold Subs - Salads — Dinners — Calzones

 

30 Minute Delivery
10 Minute Pick-Up
Please Mention This Ad When Calling In
An Order

Last week, Washington and Lee
Security Officer Ken Hoeffel
learned that his 11-year-old
daughter, Teel, has a tumor on her
spine.

When Teel was ﬁve years old,
she was treated for cancer of the
lung and kidney. She lost a kidney
at that time, but since then she has
been doing well. «

Her teachers at Waddell El-
ementary noticed that Teel was trip-
ping and falling down, more and
more often. Suddenly, last week-

__.end, Teel was unable to walk or
stand without assistance.

Teel underwent surgery at the
University of Virginia hospital on
Tuesday. The surgery went better than expected.

Although the tumor was growing on the spine,
doctors did not have to remove any bone and be-
lieve that the tumor was benign. Test results are
due back today and her parents will learn more about
Teel’s condition.

Teel is out ofintensive care and in a regular room
at UVA Hospital (UVA 7 West, Room 7172B, UVA
Hospital, Charlottesville, VA). She is expected to
be in the hospital for five to seven days and out of

 

Get in the holiday spirit, help a W&L family

  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Teel Hoeffel .7

school for a month.
, Doctors also discovered last
week that Teel has scoliosis, so she
A_ will face further treatments in the
coming months——physical therapy,
probably a back brace, possibly
I back surgery.

Teel’s mother, Delia Hoeffel,
works in the VMI Conference Of-
. ﬁce, but neither Delia nor Ken has
3 employee benefits. They have no
medical insurance because Teel and
Delia have both had cancer in the
past 10 years and the insurance
rates became unaffordable. Teel’s
recent medical expenses are now
an added problem.

St. Paul's Anglican Church has set
up a “Special Fund for Teel” to help with expenses.

Anyone wishing to contribute a tax deductible do-
nation to this cause may send a check to:

St Paul's Anglican Church

Father William Crites, Rector

(check marked: "For Special Fund for Teel")
P.O. Box 1273

Lexington, VA 24450

JAMES  l.EYBLlRN l.lF.lPi>.P.Y
WASHtN.G.T{)l\l at  urw 3
-LEXLNGTON, \./A :.-.ws;r)

  
 

 NOV 161909”

 
 

V

 

 

NOVEMBER 16, 1998

@112 ﬁling-tum lﬂhi

OPINION

 

PAGE 3

STAFF EDITORIAL

Give something back to W&L

Washington and Lee provides its students with
countless beneﬁts. Students love the university for
the beauty of its campus, the intelligence of its fac-
ulty, the smallness of its size, and the honor and integ-
rity that surround its existence.

What, however, do W&L students give back to the
institution that so many of them admire? True, tuition
does count for something, but certain gifts are more
important than those that come from the pocketbook.

Even at a place as small as W&L there are many
opportunities to become involved in campus life. Look-
ing through this year’s campus organization manual,
one can read the same names over and over again.
Unfortunately this shows that many students are
choosing to avoid the inherit responsibility that ac-
companies being a W&L student, which is to contrib-
ute to this university and our fellow students.

W&L’s many great attributes are a direct result of
the fact that preceding generations ensured that they

left the university a better place than when they had
come. Each individual student should try to do some-
thing to improve the campus. Ifyou are unhappy with
a particular aspect of W&L, you should make an ef-
fort to do something about that.

Play a sport, become more involved with fraterni-
ties or sororities, orjoin a campus organization that
piques your interest. When was the last time you sup-
ported the efforts ofyour classmates? Try going to a
concert or a play in Lenfest or cheering on the Gen-
erals at a sports event that isn’t preceded by tailgat-
ing. OK, so the Responsibility Symposium lectures
aren’t the most exciting events in the world, but nu-
merous groups on campus work hard to bring inter-
esting speakers to W&L.

Become more active on campus, either by directly
getting involved or by supporting the efforts of oth-
ers. Don’t expect to take so much from the univer-
sity and give nothing back in return.

Dwight Bitz spices up D-Hall

The other day I had yet another
wonderful experience in the Evans
Dining Hall. The marvelous scent of
those fabulous hot wings greeted me
from across the street, and I knew that,
yes siree bob, this was deﬁnitely go-
ing to be a D-Hall
day. My mouth wa-
tered as I contem-
plated the tantaliz-
ing taste ofa truly
special treat.

Well, let me tell
you, Evans did not disappoint me. Hot
wings were indeed the put-a-little—zing-
in-your-dinnzinger dujour. With a little
wink and smile to the cutie serving
the tasty delights, I secured a hefty
portion for myself. The afternoon was
well on its way to being one to re-
member.

But Evansjust wouldn’t stop lift-
ing my spirits. That gorgeous smor-

. gasbord we,knoyy~,z_:/s “T_he Del,i_Bar}}-.;,

provided my wings with the delectable
culinary accompaniment they so de-
served. And from there, oh the won-
derful choices! Do I want turkey?
ham? rosbif? Do I want cheddar?
American? Swiss? The day I see
Gouda is the day Heaven visits Lex-

 .ﬁ.*~g,Off His Rocker
 Stephen Pesoe ’O1

ington. Now, should I grill the master-
piece? Or is the toaster calling my
name? Stephen Pesce, come on down.
You’re the next contestant to play with
the Big Toaster. So I toasted it. Add a
kiss of mustard embraced by a piece
of lettuce, and my
mouth is thanking
me all the way to the
table.

Here’s where I
get a bit fuzzy. The
actual meal wasjust
a whirlwind of gustatory glee, al-
though I do remember a talking lion
and some ﬂying monkeys. I think we
had a good time. In any case, Mr.
Tummy decided it was time for some-
thing magically delicious (despite
the new funkedelic shapes that give
me nightmares). So I dashed to the
cereal dispensers, and upon ﬁnding
no bowls I let out a large “Doh.”.,.

_- -  l.might,,a_s, well have rubbed amagic,
lamp because that super guy whgmg

never ceases to amaze me appeared in
a ﬂash. Yep, Mr. Bitz, the fabulous
manager of Evans Dining Hall, came
to the rescue. Within seconds I had a
bowl for my Lucky Charms.

Now I may joke about a lot of

things, but when it comes to the
charm and dedication of Mr. Bitz,
there’s nojoke involved. Joking with
Mr. Bitz, however, proves much fun.
Anyone with his spunk and jovial
character is a recipe for success, yet
another to add to Evans’s many. Some-
times you want to go where every-
body knows your name; but ifthat’s
not possible, you can at least count
on Mr. Bitz. Introduce yourselfonce,
and you’ve found yourself a friend
for life.

I would like to thank Mr. Bitz for
the cereal bowl and for making the D-
Hall experience truly special. What a
wonderful world we would live in if
everyone treated hisjob, life and oth-
ers the way Dwight Bitz does.

Ii

Stephen Pesce,
 come‘ on down.
You’re the next
contestant to
play with the
Big Toaster.

1}

Speak, but speak from the heart

One ofthe most revered traditions here at W&L is our
speaking tradition. The tradition of civility and general
friendliness manifests itself fully here. Though some stu-
dents seem slow to pick up on it, most students practice it
and are happy to do so. Some carry it a step further by
engaging in brief conver-
sations with people they
greet. This is where the
problem occurs.

Don’t get me wrong,
it’s great that students
actually go the extra mile
to be civil toward those they might no even know. Many
students, however, feel compelled to engage in small talk
with people they either do not like or do not want to be
around. Both sides suffer: one student suffers through a
conversation that he/she doesn’t necessarily want to par-

. ticipate in, and the other might be misled into thinking

that he/she is on good terms with the other, a dangerous
misconception. The result is a mounting tension.

Don’t misunderstand me; anybody who ﬁnds it too
painful to say, “Hey, what’s up?” to someone they might
not like is ajerk, and anybody who believes that this greet-
ing suddenly spurns a friendship is naive. But the burn-
ing question — should students pretend to like someone

  
  
  
     

flhiﬁ‘ .is?<La1ﬁ9?nuswi
f<.1igniiy'WIﬂ1:énéVI.i13Ii*l5uI In
, ait2ithpr;,st1o’ckixfg;~.tii  “
gfutilge  hi‘s,h¢’é‘n;.~ ’ 

’ ‘I I I ’?tellihg:you.all:this A

 

      
 
  

  

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
     
   
  
     
       
    
  
 
 
 
 
  

Via (Sim; ,VVithial1the:atteritiant baggageithatidiseaséiioar

i'®unt;«Those who like to rationalize say that marijiranagls

 

ii‘ under the mantraof brotherhood and also,be' if A
: cause “fc[a\ndy’s dandy, but liquor is quicl<er.’.’;i' ’ A

4 the  not evehzdescrfpe a safe do'sage:
 on campus_chug-a-lagged a ﬁﬁ11?of“ru‘m

/ ctzlilceligentlerrten and make our grades;

ta pa; attended Yale Medical School, aridis new 

; twwofniy ‘pledge brothers are alcoholics. "
Urinstmiéfoftifyééré as 73.11 ﬁttoméyil have wi11_1e$§¢
_q a }of\thispdiisease:.iti islresponsiwhletf I ' 4‘
tfﬁc‘»and’igenera_1,a,viation deaths;?itis respousi ,
25% of;a1l mental hospital admission
oyed the economic viability of more friends th ‘ I-can‘

htmseds ‘itl- , . . A _ . , .. ,
femories’ like these come back to yotﬂwhile you 
fotinfoningvthe fbéwtingwidow in a privaitegroornthi "
degoif aihospital, emergency room. Air/nongst’_her,te ,
d, bereavement, Igheard her say, f‘Darnn you, Philf’. It

ore dangerous thanalcohol.  ﬁgures like 

-7.IThe.lottg-jterrn‘ effects of ale ,ho1f\vere=notparttoit‘our~ 
liberal,arts3education;t.We usedga drug-from a’? ‘

.All that was" expected of usaby dre’Uni_ye ty ,

yaszappropriate, strangely, bccause what he didfto his _‘
‘ iigwas ,a“vo11,1ntary_act, and thatis whatmade anger at , V, 

ftriponenti ofihisideath. If you /drive a car while you are  ii 4 S
 and kill ,siomeone,«it isn’tan accident; it is voluiitary . ., é

1 tAt7a_ seminar recently atyW8;L,.your'presiderii told us? .   

  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
 

,, am,in°my sixth.decade, looking b‘ack’3ai ,e   
. cries oftlieirearly deathyofmypfriend yartdwhat oi11‘so'- , ' "
ial inningsyat  have wrought. I look new ,at’OI}¢.  ‘

.0 imyotlier classmates from Oklahoma who ,wa§71a_Phi‘

 

“It was an enjoyable weekend, but not as
extravagant as FD.”

——Matt Herman ‘OI

“It seemed like senior prom at my high

school.” movie."

—Elizabeth Doenies ’0l

“It felt like a scene from a cheesy ’80s

wlason Giffen ’0l

“It was well done and very cheesy.”

—Virginia Whitney ’O0

when they are around even if they say horrible things
about them behind their back? — must be addressed here
at W&L as well as every other social sphere that exists.
The buildup of tension that results is counterproductive
to what this university is trying to accomplish by keeping
the tradition sacred.

No, I’m not suggesting the administration waste its
valuable time on this issue. Rather, each individual stu-
dent must re-evaluate his/her behavior towards other
people. Forthrightness is a major part of civility. Got a
problem with someone? TELL THEM! You don’t have to
be hostile about it, but be honest. In the long run, both
parties will beneﬁt. Most importantly, W&L will be a bet-
ter place.

QUOTE OF THE WEEK:
{I

It’s going to be a disaster the
ﬁrst time I have sex. I won’t
have any idea what to do!

— Anonymous junior to friend
Oh, don’t worry. I was a virgin

the ﬁrst time I had sex.
—— Friend offering support

J}
Ellie Tiling-tum lﬂhi

Tarah Grant
Hollister Hovey
Polly Doig

John Stewart
Ginger Phillips
Erica Prosscr
Stephanie Bianco
Stephen Pesce
Frances Groberg
Brendan Harrington
Kevin McManemin
Sarah Meldrum
Meredith Mlynar
Emily Barnes
Scott Cameron
Tom Wadlow
Lionel Brown

Executive Editors
News Editors
W&Life Editors
Opinions Editors
Sports Editors

Last Word Editor
Copy Editors

Photo Editors

Online Editor
Assistant Online Editor

Jason Williams
Matt Lorber
Lionel Brown

Business Manager
Advertising Director
Circulation Director

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editors. but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Saturday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters, columns and “Talkback” do not
reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reflect the opinions of The Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
coun deﬁnitions oflibel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington. VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: p/1i@wlu.cdu
http://rrlu.edit/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

 

 

 

PAGE 4

&

@112 ilttng-Eﬂum ilﬂlti

IFE

NOVEMBER 16, 1998

By Erica Prosser and Ginger Phillips

FE/1 TURES EDITORS

We all have graduation requirements: ﬁve P.E. classes,
121 academic credits, you get the idea. But you might not
realize that there are graduation re-
quirements not as explicitly spelled out
in the course catalog. These are the
extracurriculars, events and other
things that you must do to be a true
graduate of Washington and Lee Uni-
versity. These are in no particular or-
der, except for number one (you RE-
ALLY won’t graduate without this
one). Work your way down the list,
and best of luck getting everything
done!

1. Actually fulﬁll your academic gradu-
ation requirements

2. Go to an all—night party at Zollman’s
3. Go see the races at Foxﬁeld

4. Streak the Colonnade

5. Pig out at Sweet Things

6. Chat with Wayne at Night Owl Mu-
sic

7. Have a drink at the Palms (when
you’re 21, of course, and not a mo-
ment before)

8. Have a sandwich at Spanky’s

9. Tour the Lee Chapel museum (we really should take ad-
vantage of all this history right at our ﬁngertips)

10. Fail a test (or a ﬁnal), but preferably not ifyour grade is
already in jeopardy

1 1. Read The Ring-tum Phi every week

12. Go see Professor Futch""s bust ofBismarck

13. Get a midnight snack from the Co-Op

14. Go to a con-
cert in Lenfest
(playing in one is
better)

1 5. Cheer the
W&L football
team on to victory
(or defeat)

16. Take a class
with Dr. Novak
17. Go to dinner
at the Elrods’
(you have to be

invited first,
though)

18. Put a sugar
cube on

Traveller’s grave
19. Go an entire
term without
walking on the
front lawn grass
20. Party at as
many frat func-
tions as possible
2l.GetanAona
paper from Pro-
fessor Ray

22. Pause and
wave at the Col-
onnade cam (you
only have to
stand there for 15
seconds)

23. Have a computer problem solved by the HelpDesk
24. Start an e-mail chain letter around campus (NOT a
virus)

25. Have a coffee break at one of Lex’sjava spots

26. Go crazy over ﬁnding living arrangements offcampus
(this is deﬁnitely a W&L rite of passage)

27. Dress up the Cyrus McCormick statue _

28. Play with a dog on the front lawn (itdoesn’t have to be
yours!)

29. Get a ﬂu shot in the infirmary

30. Become an honorary member of the Breakfast Club
31. Go eat greasy food at Lee—Hi

32. Have a pancake breakfast at Aunt Sarah’s (order the
whole menu; we recommend it)

33. Get your parents drunk on Parent Weekend (then make
them give you lots ofmoney)

34. Drink with the alums on Alumni Weekend (also known
as schmoozing)

35. Have security drive you somewhere (like to your car,
where it’s parked in No Man’s Land)

36. Memorize the “W&L Yell” \

37. Spend an afternoon hanging out in the GHQ Bistro
2000

38. Buy Swedish ﬁsh from the GHQ

39. Go an entire weekend without charging anything home V

40. Buy a gray W&L sweatshirt

41 . Tell the registrar how much you like online registration
(the tradition of sleeping in Newcomb had to end some-
time)

42. Watch the leaves change on the Blue Ridge Parkway

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor
Number 5: Sweet Things has the perfect thing
for every student’s sweet tooth

TOP 100

43. Take a road trip to Washington, D.C.

44. Spend spring break somewhere exotic

45. Have your car towed by Baner

46. Have your car chalked by Special Enforcement Ofﬁcer
Clark

  

47. Throw yourself into your Mock Con delegation (“Go
Nebraska! Go Nebraska!”)

48. Get takeout from Hong Kong

49. Spend an evening browsing the Super Wal-Mart

50. Attend at least one Responsibility Symposium

A Lecture

51. Stay sober enough to remember an entire FD weekend
52. Order enough Domino’s pizza to
feed a small third-world country

53. Say ajaunty hello to Dr. Uffelman
when you pass him on campus

54. Go to Kabuki in Roanoke (yes, they
burned down, but they rebuilt! Go
check it out!)

55. Write a 20-page paper in a single
night (gotta love that Water Joe)

56. Order something from one ofthe
eight million J—Crew catalogs ﬂoating
around _

57. Participate in Lip Sync

58. Make the Dean’s List (at least once,
if only to please the folks)

59. Take Professor Jennings’ contem-
porary motion picture (flix) class
(you’ll be glad you did)

60. Get to know your department sec-
retary on a ﬁrst-name basis

61. Start a ﬁve—page paper an hour be-
fore it’s due, and turn it in on time
62. Play an intramural sport

63. Have a snowball ﬁght in the Baker-
Davis-Gilliam Quad

64. Take someone on a campus tour
65. Do your laundry at 3 a.m. (when
the machines are the least crowded!)
66. Be a sober driver (and earn money
in the process!)

67. Go out and play in the waves at
Goshen Pass

68. See the local tourist attractions
(Natural Bridge, the Ghost Tour, Stonewall Jackson house,
etc)

69. Do your fair-weather studying out on the lawn (gotta
work on that tan)

70. Have something retrieved for you through Interlibrary
Loan

Number 55: The laundry room is often blissfully empty and quiet at 3 a.m.

71. Attend a lecture in Northen Auditorium

72. Have a study carrel in the library (and actually use it)
73. Explore the VMI campus

74. Catch the Cadaver Society in the act of putting up those
papers all over the place —
75. Try one of the vegetarian dishes
in the D-Hall

76. Spend a day encouraging the
speaking tradition by saying a bois-
terous hello to everybody you pass
on campus (random hugs optional)
77. Write at least one letter to the
Phi about something important to
you (campus issues, national is-
sues, how great the editors are, you
name it)

78. Be on an EC committee (alter-
nates count), or run for ofﬁce (EC,
SJC, etc)

79. Ace a test (especially good dur-

things turn have to
[In nature will
graduate trom
Washington & lee

have to do before you graduate from W&L.

Those include getting your stomach pumped, having a
car accident (regardless of your blood alcohol level),
committing an HV (even ifyou don’t get caught), send-
ing a campus-wide computer virus that wipes out
everybody’s term papers the week before finals, and so
on.

Basically, don’t do anything that could signiﬁcantly
jeopardize your chances ofgraduating from here, oth-
erwise anything else you do from this list will be point-
less (and make you look like a fool).

Remember: the registrar may not require these things
before you can get your degree, but we felt it our duty to
inform you that, in order to be able to tell people that you
really are from W&L, you must at least attempt to complete
this list. Some of these constitute rites of passage for W&L
students (streaking is fast becoming a popular tradition).
Some of these are just plain fun. But before you leave
Lexington forever for the far comers of the globe, take a
moment and get this stuff done. You’ll be glad you did.

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor
Number 7: The Palms is one of the most popular watering holes in Lexington

ing Finals Week)
80. Convince a

prof to have
class outside
on a nice day
81. Go see a
W&L music or
dance recital
82, Listen to
WLUR radio (having your own show

  

is bonus points)

83. Play a piano in DuPont when no
one’s around (even if you can’t actu-
ally play the piano)

84.Shop downtown in the nifty stores
85. Have your hair cut somewhere in
town (really, there’s nothing to be
afraid of)

86. Go to Valley View Mall in Roanoke
(a “real mall,” for those in mall with-
drawal)

87. Go to a class even ifyou don’t re-
ally feel like it (we know, it’s tough,
but you’ll thank us for it later)

88. Learn a foreign language (or at
least a few words of one)

89. Send a stat to a VMI cadet

90. Go watch a sporting event other
than football (this does not include idly
watching a soccer game in progress
while you tailgate)

91. Have dinner with a professor

92. Take advantage of the nighttime
munchies the D-Hall prepares during
Finals Week

93. Go hiking, backpacking or camp-
ing on House Mountain

94. See a movie at the Troubadour
Theatre (it’s free, and they get some
good pictures)

95. Explore Buena Vista (it’s bigger
than you think, we swear)

96. Actually sleep through the sounds
of the garbage trucks crushing trash
at 6 a.m.

97. Camp out for classes anyway,just
for the hell ofit

98. Vote in campus elections

99. Jog the Woods Creek Trail

100. Bring a friend from out oftown
to visit W&L (bonus points if your
friend is a prospective and you con-
vince him or her to come here)

Of course, there are also some
things that you definitely DO NOT

 
   

i V  Emily‘ 1-iiic-s/Pli

By Elianna Marziani
STAFF WRITER

One of the deﬁning characteris-

« tics of Washington and Lee Univer- 1

sity. isthe way that professors inter-
act with their students. Professors
are available for extra academic help
and genuinely care about their stu-
dents’ studies, but they often also
want to get to know their students
better as people.

8 One of the ways that professors
do this is by inviting students to their
homes for dinner.

Professor Michael Smitka is one
of these professors who enjoys in-
viting students to his house to, as
he puts it, “get to know [them] and
be in a situation that is not con-
strained to talking about class-
room topics.”

He asserts that many professors
chose teaching as a career because
they wanted interaction with stu-
dents. -

(“Office hours aren’t always the
best forum for doing that,” he said.

The solution? Invite students
over.

“How students view a professor
is part of how students learn,” he
said;

So for better classroom relation-
ships, students and faculty should
develop better out-of-class relation-
ships.

,Also, he noted, “It’s probably
nice for students to see once in a
while that there is such a thing as a
family, not just D-hall.”

Faculty-student dinners seem
like a great idea, right? Problems
sometimes arise, though, and they
usually turn out to be logistical.

' “lt’s really a challenge for faculty
with families, so it’s a challenge get-
ting students over for me,” Smitka
said.

Finding a night when an entire
class or an entire group of advisees
can come over proves quite a chal-
lenge, as well.

It is worth it, however. Smitka is
disappointed with what he perceives
as “small interaction between fac-
ulty and students” and hopes that
faculty will continue to overcome
these challenges and host such din-
ners.

Also, he hopes that students will
begin taking the initiative them-
selves.

“Students need to think of recip-
rocating and getting faculty over.
Students are very shy about seek-
ing out this kind of interaction,” he
said.

While students may be shy in
seeking out the interaction, they deﬁ-
nitely enjoy it when it happens.

No.91; have dinner
with a professor a

Freshman Amy Burke enjoyed go-
ing to Professor Michael Pleva’s
home for dimer when he hosted
his advisees at the beginning of
the year.

“His wife made us dinner,” ‘she. V
said, “and we just sat around in 1

his living room, talking and eat-
ing.”

Burke believes that going to a
professor’s house for a meal is a
good experience because it gives
a student “an automatic connec-
tion with a professor before
classes [get] started.”

Going to a professor’s house,
petting his dog and chatting with
him about non-school related top-
ics allow students to realize that
professors are real people, not just
graders-of-papers.

“You get to see the professor
in his own personal environment
instead of the chemistry lab. You
get to see what kinds of things he
likes, how he decorates his
house,” Burke said. Dinners in pro-
fessors’ homes add a personal di-
mension to the student-faculty re-
lationship.

Professor Linda Hooks also
thinks that this personal dimen-
sion is very important and one that
should be cultivated.

‘‘I get to see [students] in their
natural setting and they get to see
me in my natural home setting. It
helps in the classroom because we
get more comfortable with each
other and‘ can communicate bet-
ter,” she said.

The best part about these din-
ners?

“What 1 like best about it is that

it’s avery informal setting,” Hooks -

said.
In this informal setting, stu-
dents and professors can get to

, know and respect each other as

individuals and form deeper rela-
tionships than those formed in the
classroom alone.

W&L is very supportive of fac-
ulty-student relationships and en-
courages these get-togethers. In
fact, the University actually has a
small fund that helps professors
ﬁnance these events.

Students should not be afraid
to return the favor, either; stu-
dents can invite professors tojoin
them at home, or even at the Co-
Op, in order to cultivate these re-
lationships. If a student can cook,
all the better, but if not, take-out,
pizza or evenjust sandwiches can
make for a cozy and conducive
atmosphere for getting to know a
professor even better.

So remember: for a true W&L
experience, eat with a professor!

it

?

 

 

HAVING A BALL!

« ' ABICENQUINQUAGENARY BALLGPHOTO ESSAY

 
  

    
    

lloto by Emily iaairns/Piozo Eitor
Chairmen of the Board rock the crowd with their brand of

soul. The band has,toured internationally, in such places as
London’s Hammer-Smith Odeon Theater and New York City’s
Apollo Theater.

“eﬁl

Photo by l-lollister Hovey/Executive Editor
Amidst a sea of black satin and velvet,
Christine Metzger stands out in vintage style.
“I wore a vintage 40s gown I got at the
Stonewall Jackson Thrift Store for $20,”
Metzger said. “It was itchy and strapless, so it
was very hard to deal with.”

Photo by Enil Bashot Eit
Bicenquenquagenary Mania strikes the Warner Center. After

   
  
  
   

it Photo by Hollister Hovey/Executive Editor a year of planning, the event went off with a bang. Ball
Sophomore Stephen Pesce shows everyone that he deﬁnitely can jump, attendees daneed and mingied among images from the
jive and wail. “Last summer, my date Lynne got a bunch of our high university’s past. “Everyone keeps telling me it was better
school friends together and taught us how to dance,” Pesce said. “A ‘few than FD,” 250"‘ Bali Steering Cemmiiiee Ciiaii‘ Mandy Siaiiard
9. of the girls got dropped on their heads a few times, but after a while, we S3id- “We Wel'en’t trying t0 make it 51 e0lnPeiiii0na but We’l'e

got better.” Pesce and his friends used to go to Swing Night at a club at‘ giad eVei'y°ne had Such a g°0d time-” The committee Soid
home in New.0.r|eahs_ . , , ,, i , . , . around $30,000 in tickets and estimates that about 1,500
people attended the ball.

’     y      ii  ROBERT E. LEE SIGNATURES
FOR SALE

Many students took their tired feet outside of
the Warner Center to relax during the ball.

   

Clipped signature with closing w/ CDV ’ 353000
Document signed "R. E. Lee, Lt. Engrs" $4000
1
Letter Signed, Lexington, VA, 1870 $6500
Lee Signed CDV $5500
, AND
Washington College Diploma, 1867 $4500
Photo by Hollister Hovey/Execuive _
Sophomores Pat Renton and Susan Groves , _ _ _ _ 4 -
I dance the night away at the Bicenquenquag_ I I I Photo b Hllister l-lovey/Executive Editor
They started the evening in a more intimate Junior Martha Pettyjohn and sophomore Ruth
setting. “We went to the Inn at Union‘Run for Caldwell leave their dates for a short dance.
dinner,” Renton said. “It’s a little bed and .“I thought [the ball] was very elegant,”
1: breakfast with about 10 tables. Everyone Pettyjohn said. “I like the smaller gym other Leeis: Fitzhugh’  "Rooney" & Lee's Father_In_Law
there was from W&L.” because it made it look like the old days.”

Also Available: Lincoln, Grant, Mosby, Longstreet, Ashby,
Beauregard, Early, A.P. Hiu, Imoben, etc.

Great Framing, Great Service, Great History

Original Frameworks

, t          O 1 North Main St. Lexington, 464-6464
ii Photo by'£iiiiII1lly  ' Ptotu 1y 0 lster ovey ‘xectlllve - itor M‘F /l.0‘6,  9“4,  

4 The mad singer of Chairmen Decked out in tails, senior Whit Morriss grabs for his date,
of the Board gets S0u|fu] with Childs Cantey (not seen). Earlier in the evening, senior Sean
the crowd_ McManus made them dinner by the Maury River.

 

 

PAGE 6

S

@112 iKing—tum lﬁhi

PORTS

NOVEMBER 16, 1998

Football
crushes  

Swarthmore

Generals pound out greatest
offensive output of the season
with 422 offensive yards.

By Brendan Harrington
SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee football team ended its
1998 season with a 37-7 thrashing of Swarthmore Col-
lege on Saturday afternoon in Swarthmore, Pa. to ﬁn-
ish the season at 4-6.

The Generals picked up a season-high 422 yards
oftotal offense and scored a season-high 37 points
to hand the Garnet Tide its 28th consecutive loss.

“It was a good way to end the season with a deci-
sive win like that,” junior quarterback Christian
Batcheller said. “We didn’t want to take these guys
lightly and wanted to send our seniors out with a bang.”

The Generals scored early and often and opened up
a 3 I-O half-tirne lead. The Generals struck just 1:56 into
the game when Batcheller hit senior wide receiver Chas
Chastain for a 29-yard touchdown pass. Chastain, ap-
pearing in his ﬁnal game, caught four passes for 70
yards and one touchdown.

Andy Vendig nailed a 28-yard ﬁeld goal at the end
of the first quarter to make the score 10-0, and then the
Generals blew the game wide open with three touch-
downs in the second quarter.

CC

Sophomore
tailback Hanley
Sayers, starting
for the injured
Marc Watson,

Each and every
senior has made '3" it in “Vi”
from three yards

a big impact. out and
Batcheller scored

—— Christian Batcheller 0“ 3 quarterback
sneak on the goal

—’“'"””-"7—  line.

The Generals made it 37-0 when Batcheller threw‘
his second touchdown pass of the day, a two-yard
strike to junior wide receiver J.T. Malatesta with 4:28
left in the third quarter. The extra point attempt failed,
however. Malatesta caught six passes for 73 yards
and one touchdown.

The Garnet Tide (0-8) scored its only points of
the game with just 1:59 left in the game when Joe
Alefﬁ ran it in from three yards out to make the ﬁnal
score 37-7. ‘

Batcheller ﬁnished the day 16-26 for 226 yards and
has now thrown for at least 200 yards nine times in his
career at W&L.

Despite the solid performance by the Generals
that day, Batcheller was relatively disappointed with
the season, as thejunior tri-captain is always striv-
ing to improve.

“We ﬁnished real strong, we won three out our last
ﬁve, but the season was deﬁnitely a disappointment,”
Batcheller said. “We didn’t live up to expectations.
You look back at what could have been e we very well
could have been 7-3. We should have beaten Guilford,
Emory and Henry and Hampden-Sydney.”

Defensively for W&L, freshman lineman Jeff
Mclntyre had six tackles and senior safety John
McAllister and sophomore comerback Will Baker both
had ﬁve.

Brad Baker led the team in both interceptions (four)
and tackles (84) for the season and also scored the
Generals’ lone defensive touchdown of the season last
week against Emory and Henry.

Saturday was the last time the W&L seniors will
dress up in the white and blue as the Generals say
good-bye to a number of key players.

Seniors include captains Chastain and David
Ritchey, who had another fantastic year at tight end for
the Generals.

Also leaving will be defensive end Ben Middendorf,
linebacker Baker, safety McAllister, offensive lineman
Marc Granger, special teams man Lee Swomley, and
wide receiver Geoff Gober.

“If you think about all the seniors and all they’ve
done for the program, you realize each and every one
of them has made large contributions to this team,”
Batcheller said. “They put up some big numbers and
fought through some tough injuries.”

See STATISTICS, Page 7

  

-ofth<?'Ye.r.«a‘  , .
,c:os:i‘¢h:&ir>,tti¢‘“Yeair,l Find:,out<lt<Sw your 2  
, friend;s:.on’.the soccer and volleyball» _ I
- teams’ fared <i1i. the. selections on Page 7.-[ 

   
       

 

Photo by Patrick Hinely/University Photographer

As he did all season, senior forward Sam Chase easily dribbles the ball around the defender.

Chasing

By Tod Williams

STA FF WRITER

Like most athletes who have mastered their trade, Sam
Chase has been playing soccer for a long time. The Gener-
als’ senior standout began when he was ﬁve and has been
playing ever since. But not until college did he become a
strictly soccer junkie.

“Soccer wasn’t my main focus in high school because
of basketball,” Chase said. “The ﬁrst time I concentrated
only on soccer was in college.”

Chase said basketball kept him from playing as much
club ball in high school as most others. Obviously, that did
not hurt his abilities. Chase considered playing basketball
in college instead of playing soccer, but he knew he could
only play one sport. “Soccer was my ﬁrst choice,” he said,
“so basketball just went to the wayward.”

He was sure he did not want soccer to be the only
aspect of his college life, which turned him away from the

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 

Photo by Patrick I-{inely/University Photographer
Even though he sported number 13, his perfor-

mance proved that luck was not an issue.

He had a great career as
a General. Now what?

dreams

Division I schools toward W&L. Chase talked Mikel Parker,
his teammate from high school, into coming with him to
college at Washington and Lee.

“Parker and I were teammates for eight years, and I
couldn’t have been happier,” he said.

A fruitful career has certainly ensued for Chase here in
Lexington. In his junior year he tied the-record for career
goals at 40, and he set the new record for total points with
90. Chase did not quit after his junior year, though.

Chase’ s career numbers, which were ﬁnalized after the
Generals’ 1-2 loss to Hampden-Sydney on Nov. 3 in the
ODAC quarterfinals, are impressive, to say the least. Marks
of 52 career goals and 1 17 total points will stand for quite
some time.

W&L freshman defender/midﬁelder Ricky Schnatz saw
many of Chase’s goals this season ﬁrsthand, and he knows
many of them are not ordinary. “He really pulls some goals
out of [nowhere],” Schnatz said.

But Chase keeps the records in context. “I hope they
stand ﬁve or ten years, long enough for me to enjoy them,”
he said. “But records are made to be broken.”

The records don’t seem to be the most important thing
to Chase. “I mean, they’re pretty neat,” he said. “But in
the long run they won’t matter. You have to playjust for
the love of the game.”

Chase certainly has a love for the game. “What I’ll miss
most are my teammates and the camaraderie,” he said. “Tak-
ing the long road trips with the team and stuff like that is
what I’ll carry with me forever.”

You_wiIl not ﬁnd Chase on the ﬁeld any longer. Well,
not the way most people at W&L are used to seeing him.

“My focus isn’t soccer anymore. I know it’s time to
move on,” he said. ‘‘You’ll see me coaching some club ball
— and maybe playing some amateur ball,” Chase added.

Does Chase’s departure leave the Generals high and
dry? Probably not. Chase said that when he came, soccer
was more or less hit or miss, but that “now W&L soccer is
here to stay.”

“I know they’re going to be good,” he said. “They’ve
got some young talent, and they’re gonna have some great
senior leadership next year. Paul Wallace [W&L’s fresh-
man midﬁelder] is a hell ofa player,” Chase said.

How does Wallace feel about Chase’s graduation?
“He’s a real spark,” Wallace said. “Everyone is really go-
ing to step it up next year.”

Snodgrass ﬁlls
tall order for
volleyball

By Steele Cooper

STAFF WRITER

Standing only 5’6" alongside some of the tallest ath-
letes around, senior Megan Snodgrass has established
herself as a big force for W&L volleyball. Snodgrass is a
middle blocker for the Generals, a position that is tradition-
ally ﬁlled by the tallest of volleyball players. Through smart
playing and a strong commitment to her sport, Snodgrass,

a

as captain, helped lead her team to itssecond straight
ODAC championship last week
Snodgrass began playing volleyball when she was in-
troduced to it in her seventh grade gym class. “One day I
had a choice between
running track and
“ playing volleyball,
Sh - t and volleyball was
3 can Jump just more fun,” said
Snodgrass.
out of the  Snodgrass grew
_ Coach Dadl.0_ up as a basketball
player. She was able to
Campbell maintaina balance be-
9 9 tween her two sports,
and played both bas-
ketball and volleyball for W&L her freshman year.

During high school, Snodgrass’ father served as her
biggest inﬂuence. “He has always been a coach and a
mentor for me,” she said. “He has encouraged me to pur-
sue my goals, and was always very positive for me.”

After several years of volleyball with her school and
her local Junior Olympic program, it was clear to Snodgrass
that she could compete in college. “I had several offers to
play [volleyball] at other schools,” she said, “but I really
wanted to come to W&L. Volleyball was something that
came along with the school.”

At W&L, Snodgrass made a tremendous impact on the
volleyball team with many factors of a successful player.
“She is an all around solid and consistent player,” said
Terri Dadio-Campbell, women’s head volleyball coach.

“At 5’6" it is an amazing accomplishment for her to take
us to ODAC’s,” Dadio-Campbell said. “She is a very smart
player that has the ability to read the defense very well,
and place the ball where she has to.”

Apparently smart play is not the only factor that has
led to Snodgrass’ success on the court. “She has an in-
credible standing vertical and a huge block,” Dadio-
Campbell said. “She can jump out of the gym.” These at-
tributes have added to the Generals’ competitive edge over
the past several successful seasons.

Snodgrass’ leadership skills as captain on and off of
the court have inﬂuenced the other members of the team.
“She’s an excellent captain who sets a good example by
working hard all the time with a good attitude,” freshman
Ricka Hildebrand said.

“I’ve learned from Megan how to be a really strong
team player and get the most from practice,” Hildebrand
said.

That team camaraderie is what Snodgrass identiﬁes as
the most important thing she has gained from four years
on the team. “The friends I have made through. athletics
are the closest because of the team aspect of the sport,”
she said. “That’s probably the main reason why I’ve stuck
with it.” _

Snodgrass is unsure what the future holds for her after
she leaves W&L, but she is certain that she will still be
playing volleyball. “I can see myself teaching and coach-
ing down the line,” she said, “because [volleyball] is some-
thing that I’ll always enjoy.”

~--.~.,.;;;;;.1 " '

Senior Megan Snodgrass spiked her team to‘
two consecutive ODAC championships.

Photo courtesy of Pam Salisbury

 

y.

 

 

 

NOVEMBER 16, 1998

SiF‘“O”RT s

PAGE 7

W&L scores big in ODACS

Players and coaches alike honored in soccer and volleyball.

MEN’s SOCCER

Two Washington & Lee student-athletes highlight the
Old Dominion Athletic Conference (ODAC) men's soccer
all-conference selections. The all—ODAC squads were an-
nounced following the league's coaches meeting on Mon-
day afternoon.

W&L senior back Mikel Parker was voted the league's
Player of the Year. Parker, a native of Marietta, Ga., an-
chored the Generals defense which allowed just six goals
in conference play. W&L advanced to the league touma-

_ ment seeded fourth with a 10-4-3 overall record.

W&L freshman sensation Paul Wallace was voted the

, league's top rookie. Wallace, a native of Roanoke, Va., was

selected as the Rookie of the Year following a season in

which he scored 11 points (three goals and ﬁve assists) ,

and was voted a first team all-ODAC midﬁelder.

lst team all-ODAC

Senior forward Sam Chase
Senior defenseman Mikel Parker
Junior midﬁelder Jamie Parker
Freshman midﬁelder Paul Wallace

All-ODAC honorable mention
Senior goalkeeper E]. Murphy
ODAC Player of the Year
Senior defensman Mikel Parker

ODAC Rookie of the Year
Freshman midﬁelder Paul Wallace

WOMEN’s SOCCER
The women’s team was also honored extensively at the

. ODAC meeting. The team captured the ODAC regular sea-

son championship, but lost to Roanoke in the semiﬁnals of

, the tournament. Here are the individual awards earned by

 

the team.

!st team all-ODAC

Senior forward Karin Treese
Senior defenseman Nicole Johnson
Freshman midﬁelder Kate Bidwell

2nd team all-ODAC

Senior forward Ginny J emigan ‘ ‘
Sophomore midﬁelder Shana Levine
Sophomore midﬁelder Margaret Hunter-Tumer

   

eﬂw  

SW3

  
   
 
     

  

YES!

 ° be

VOLLEYBALL

The Washington & Lee Generals took home the
Coach of the Year and Rookie of the Year conference
volleyball honors.

Terri Dadio-Campbell took home the Coach of the Year
hardware for the second straight year, third time in the last
four. In 1998, Dadio-Campbell led W&L to a 23-2 season,
which also marked the third time in four years that she has
accomplished such a feat as the Generals leader. However,
W&L has never made an NCAA Tournament appearance,
but things could change this season as the Generals cur-
rently sit in the eighth slot of the South Region.

In the ﬁrst year for the ODAC Rookie of the Year award,
the Generals‘ Lindsay Ruckert earned the inaugural honor.
Heading into the ODAC Tournament, Ruckert was second
in the conference in hitting percentage (.344) and ﬁfth in
kills per game (3 .01). In addition, Lindsay is tied for ﬁrst on
the team in blocks with 0.7 blocks per game.

lst team all-ODAC

Freshman Lindsay Ruckert
Junior Nancy Reinhart

ODAC Rookie of the Year
Freshman Lindsay Ruckert

ODAC Coach of the Year
Terri Dadio-Campbell

Van: OIDQRTO
non TIIE

ﬂing-tum
iﬂlti

I .
 A is --¢atr~-Ghana! on   
Emilee: 4.\'l M-O60

STATS FROM PAGE 6

Game Statistics

SCORE BY QUARTERS 1 2
Swarthmore (0-8) 0 0
Washington & Lee (4-6) 10 21
WLU
First Downs 22
Rushes-Yds (Net) 40-136
Passing Yds (Net) 286

Passes Att-Com-Int 27-17-3
Total Offensive Plays-Yds 67-422

Fumble Returns-Yds 1-0
Punt Returns-Yds 2-2
Kickoff Returns-Yds 2-27
Interception Returns-Yds 5-48
Punts (No. Average) 1-22.0
Fumbles-Lost 2-1
Penalties-Yds 7-94
Possession Time 32:53

3

0
6

4

7—7
0--37

SC

17
28-39
294
49-22-5
77-333
1-0
0-0
5-52
3-42
2-31.5
1-1
8-68
27:07

RUSHING: WLU — Hanley Sayers 26-97, Kyle
Overstreet 2- 16, Carter Lee 6- 1 1 , Roman Koshkin
2-6, Chas Chastain 1-4, Christian Batcheller 2-2,
Russell Wrenn 1-0. SC — Joe Aleﬁi 9-23, J.P.
Harris 9-18, Donovan Goodly 8-1 1, Prince Achime
1-2, Mason Tootell 1-minus 15.
PASSING: WLU —— Batcheller 16-26-3-266,
Wrenn 1- 1 -0-20. SC — J.P. Harris 21-46-4-268,
Adam Booth 0-1-O-0, Donovan Goodly 0-1-1-
0, Mason Tootell 1-1-0-26.
RECEIVING: WLU -— J .T. Malatesta 6-73,
Chastain 4-70, David Ritchey 3-53, Sayers 2-64,
Geoff Gober 2-26. SC —— Brian Bell 7-80, Blake
Atkins 6-81 , Donovan Goodly 3-66, Mason Tootell
3-33, Joe Alefﬁ 2-28, Charlie Ellis 1-6.
INTERCEPTIONS: WLU — Tom Monaco
1-8, Will Baker 1-12, .IeffBahI 1-9, Brad Baker
1-0, Harry Brookby 1-19. SC — Adam Booth
1-28, Axel Neff 1-14, Tony Hillery 1-0.

1

Now offerin

-Sushi Bar - made

Harris

Teeter

gresh daily.

-Natural and Organic Foods.

-One of the largest import and micro brew
beer selections.

...:...1..Q°_/¢2.,COS€. dis.co.unt.. on wine purrchases

- ATM

Up TO $10,000 Within Days!

  CRITI

Guaranteed Credit Cards with Credit Limits

NO CREDIT, NO J OB, NO PARENT SIGNER, NO SECURITY DEPOSIT!

d credit - no income?

If You Think You
Can't Get A Credit
Card, Think Again.

    

D 4 Pp
l

 

l'““""'"'""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""'”""""""""""‘l

     ORDER FORM

I want Credit Cards immediately. GUARANTEED APPROVAL-

CRA, PO BOX 16662, ATLANTA, GA 30321

   

Turned Down?

NZIIIIC .......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,,

S -

I Address ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... .. i
C‘ I S '

| ity .................................................................................................................... .. tate ............................................... .. Zip .................................................... .. I

.
Signature .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ..

Tired of Bei
  Guaranteed $10,000 In Credit!

 

 

@112 iliing-tum iﬂhi

LAST WORD   

Let’s face it: there's an easy way to

Humor Page

PAGE 8

V
C C
. . ls: ' l‘ l t  " t ' " « .
n  nmmmc a w&L AAUAIACHCCA nsteid of hoping to ( law peop e 0 conuits Why no consider giissying up our campus A
by highlighting the crappy bands that come events to pull in -.1 little more of the local

here, why not highlight the bands they cover? crowd? .

 A Friday, December 11 Sunday ‘
  ‘   ’jet Mwtlier iﬂisterin 1 Sunday

mediocre SA'E concert event:

By Kevin McManemin FRIDAY’ NOv€MB€R '7 ' A RicJ’¢::aT(:yC?i:ii:/ :'::::r.

AN EMPOWERED AND INFORMED MEMBER OF SOCIETY SCl€NC€ ADDITION ROOM A313

Theyire everywhere you go on campuSA NOA lam not] Geology disseitation:“ThAe t'ornA1ation ofigneouslime- A.»   '"~ ».    A no-holds-barred  af
talkin about white on s" I’m talkin about osters Post- Stone plateaus on the alluvial mam of the upper Mekong Z i A i I I H P W I -
dg , _ P] y ’ I g  ‘ Valley in the late Cenozoic era,” Prof. Dr. Humphrey .. .. : ~ Po rest 'ng and
CTS 8 vertising S0010 Ogy CCKUFCS, I'CSp0l’lSl l lty sympo- PA S d k PhAD UCLAA AA A. . . - ' A ‘
siums, math colloquiums, and all manner of dull campus P0 we er’ ' . A. _ y A A L'ngu'5t.'c  earl’-

events. Or rather, posters doing a very poorjob of adver-

 

tising all manner ofdull campus events.A A A A A , AAA Hover the Hills and Far Away" and a lot of
Students rarely forgo their usual enriching activity of . . »  ‘ ~
. . ,. . . . . . ,  other songs as played by Jersey Jake ,
drinking heavily to attend these activities. I witnessed this . I h . C . Y
ﬁrsthand the other day when our English class went to a andt e E/ecmc Ontrapnon
poetry reading by some poet no one’s ever heard of and 7 _
the place was about as packed as a “Quayle in 2000” rally. I A A  ~  _ , _A _ Tlckets
Frankly, I blamethe posters. Most of them are just bor- ’ . P3Vll110I1- A.-  '- T $9 HOW; "
ing, blandly giving you the who, what, and the where.  I  Rain site: A  _'_A'A slightly
Some of them have pictures of the speakers. OK, this is ’ * . A the I ' A‘  more at
just a bad idea. I’m sure a lot of these Princeton profs have ‘AA b d h_ A1 AA Pavﬂhon _  A ,.AA A  . the doon
it where it counts upstairs, but in some act of divine kannic (wl not 6 serve a” ‘S ecture) A
alignment, the Man Upstairs compensated by giving them . '
facegthatresemb|etwo.month—o1droadkill, Above all, we must always remember the four cardinal laws of Madison Avenue:
Example: the other day I was shocked at the lack of 1) appeal to the hip urban youth demographic 2) sex sells 3) sex sells‘4)Asex sells.
decorum one of the speakers displayed by including a pic-
ture of them mooning the camera. Then I ﬁgured out it was I . M ‘
a face shot. m 1,1 C  5 F
We must learn from the men who control our collective  ©  U l U m I JUST Conn]. 981. enough of §  F‘
consciousness from the ad agencies of Madison Avenue. » i . 0
They know that successful advertising has nothing to do Wassup’ yo? Wad We 2 fdegreg llnfegmis alnd E  
with presenting the truth and everything to do with selling got‘; "5 anut/7f? d0pe'35A'-5" X +2y=c00li I erentia equations. E A‘.
people what they want. With that in mind, I’ve created a mat/7 C0//‘7‘7""”’7 00'7"” ?_
few posters to show how to pack in the crowds at your atc/73: Y0” k/70W W/755 /777
next campus event. saying? 0/: "/V1.6’. "  2' I
MacDouga/ be in da A A A Sunday Dec. 6, 8- I O Na sftirt ‘A
/7/zz/'o’y-/rouse, doing the ' AA p.m. Tickets $5 at the Na 5;we5A
A mat/7 ti/vang, you know ’ door. «M, tegtfh
what I m say/ng? “Come for the blood — Game an in/»
Robinson Hall Room 6, be stay for the po|emics."
. up in this piece 6 p.m. . I A _ ..  ‘
- F/7'a’ay da 20th fo .9 plzatty ‘*  ,  e r '
~ phat time. A  e e e I
.463.l37l   I   s
, l
I J I . society. “The Lord told me so himself,” he said. are slated to play at the National Depression Preven- if
i‘     ii    The conservative Christians also take umbragc with a tion Fund’s beneﬁt concert next month in Chicago. The
i , A  , V — Bible verse in which Jesus urges people to ‘love thy money raised inthe concertwill go to research and treat-
_ , , neighbor’ without making provisions for if your neighbor ment of clinically depressed teens.
, ﬁcmously reported by "e_”"’ McManemm is ahomosexual, a foreigner or Jewish. . s ’ Depression is an issue that deeply concerns Cotgan.
iii  Y   ii . " “Scripture shows that Jesus was soiton prostitution,” “It’s a shame that in today’s world, this bleak, festering l
’ ‘ ' Christian Right condemns outraged mother oftwelve  Jo Dinwiddy ofOgIetree, hole of notliingness and disgust, this ffempty s:AvirIing
AAA F H B R t AAA B ibl e as blasphemous , (C)}Aerc:Ag:1ds::AciA.AAA Is this the kind of role model we want for :Ai)01AiAiAAcA>t”(§i(::As;)aaAiAr,AAArA1A1A2A1ny young people su er from epres-
 .. W   Tupelo’ MS "" Several conservative Christian “The Bible is an abomination before the eyes of the “Existence is dark and meaningless,” Corgan added. ,
, group? have °f’m° t°g°the_r.t° Sign a _Pr°°l‘_‘mati°" Lord, and I urge all God—fearing followers of Jesus to join The Pumpkins, whose album “Mellon Collie and the
7i     m is decrying the Bib‘: as “too liberal’ “a'1‘An'fam1ly ’ and us in burning this blasphemous book,” Rev. Scrodwattle Inﬁnite Sadness” is the highest—grossing double album
“a poor exam 6 °r°"F.nat'°n’Sy0ut  ‘d. i I f ii t' , ttih I ‘ t t h ld eceiit
9 V “There’s that one line about ‘judge not lest ye be Sal :e:eﬁt“;fn::t:o e on y music 5 ms 0 0 r
1 I judged} Whatkind °f5“bV"’5iVePi“k° .am°’a1°r3P is Smashin pum kinsrheadline Industrial shock-rocker Marilyn Manson donated "~
35:     is ﬂ1at?”ReV;HImmP- S°r_°dWat“°§a*d- S°r.°dW§“1°>PaSt°r g . I p. halfofthe proﬁts ofhis latest tour to Catholic charities.
. . _ , . y , ofFirst United Church uiamaniio, Texas, said that true A depression and concert , Rap Sm Wu Tang Clan held a beneﬁtconcm form,
Ch’"5"a“5 belle“ that 3J“d8m°“‘a‘ 5°°‘e‘>’ *5 a3°‘“>’ Chicago-Billy Corgan and the Smashing Pumpkins local Police Athletic League last month.
. , . a t
I The Ring Tum Phi
N“"‘“°“F”°‘s BACKSTREET
Serving Size: 1 page _ , ll
Servings Per Container: 8
Amount per serving . " (
Calories 40 A
 zg TATTOOS
% U.S. RDA
Saturated Fat 1% ' ' . ' ~'   ,l  I S I    9 P .
Total Fat 0% A A  A ' I a  iA- AAA ‘
Unsaturated Fat 3% The areas first tattoo studio COIISISICIIU} creating the best . 9 Will   lee A
Partially Saturated IA7at 2% tattoos in the area! Lexingtom   4  M0ndaVlIFrida\z A ,»
'1 . . .
Vitamin A 0% ‘ V " ' ' ' _
Vitamin p.14 0% New needles every customer, Clean comfortable B ,  P A  r e
Vitamin P 0% . Th d 1. d . I .131“ C A Cllleell ll: 3 Ills illll. '  pill.
Foiic Acid 0% CIWIKIIIIIICIII, 0118.111 53 0 ES1gIlS Elli 81 C, OW!‘ llp ‘
Tin 20% - . , .   S
Folic Add A 45% , or inst Iii. up an old tattoo. . I ommgg 1213 any 3).
Not a signiﬁcant source of    .
dietary ﬁber. I
~ PARTYII I  
Ingredients: wood pulp, , . . .
inks, com syrup, partially Having it party’? Make it a tattoo party. * That's right we can setup in A
"Y‘"°g°“a‘°d PY”"°‘i“° your home, into: sorority house with our
hydrochloride zinc extract ' ' _ A ,A .
#12s freshness Preserved "TRAVELING TATTOO STUDIO" 
by BHT  A
. * F A A  A
ion of 4 or more mu the booked in advance
Distributed by Phi Foods, Ml ' , Pam d , 5  l 3
Battle Creek, Michigan_ cntioiit 5 a and i1:ccive$10.(Xl off ol your tattoo

 

 

)

 

Q

0112 ‘ilting-tum Iﬂlti

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsIrv’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

‘ VOLUME 101, No. 10

By Jenn Agiesta

.~ STAFF WRITER

Who is “Hot Shot?”

According to the e-mail Security Chief Mike Young sent
to the Washington and Lee University community this

3 week, he’s “a black male, early twenties, [with] an engag-
ing manner . . . He is a suspect in recent thefts of property
both on and off campus.”

The e-mail urged students to report his presence on
campus to either University Security or the Lexington po-

" lice department.

“He has no legitimate business here and we can tres-
pass him just for that,” Young said.

Hot Shot’s real name is William Hood. He is a 24-year-

. old Lexington resident with a bad reputation among
Lexingtonians young and old.

“If you close your eyes, he’ll steal the shirt off your
back,” one teenaged resident said.

Senior Doug Peddle says that Hood came to his apart-

" ment several weeks ago, and acted as if he was an old friend.

“He pretended like we’d met a thousand times before,
and it was obvious that he’d been in my apartment be-
fore,” Peddle said. “It was very unnerving. I didn’t know if
he was casing my apartment.”

Hood has never been arrested or charged for theft, yet
many ﬁnd it easy to understand Young’s warnings. He
has previously been charged in Rockbridge County with
two counts of assault and battery, possession of cocaine,

I as well as a probation violation.

Of various residents asked about him, none could ﬁnd

anything positive to say, and none wanted to go on record. '

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

  .W&L students on
y ‘Hot Shot’ hit list

According to these folks, his typical scam is subtle. “He
won’t reach into your pocket and steal your wallet,” one
woman said.

Young agreed, “He doesn’t come across as being very
threatening. He has a very engaging manner.”

Hood gets to know his victims ﬁrst. According to
Peddle, he’s very friendly and uses W&L lingo. He seems
like a nice guy, but he’s really surveying the scene and
trying to ﬁgure out what he can take. In early November, it
was reported that he took $140 from the car of a friend
giving him a ride home.

' But why the sudden notice from W&L security?

Recently, a person matching Hood’s description has
been caught wandering around the dorms and has also
been spotted entering off-campus student residences.

Young feels the friendly nature of Washington and Lee
students lulls them into a false safety. Most will let strang-
ers follow them into the dorms and leave their doors un-
locked.

“We are so nice here that we don’t challenge people
that we should,” he said.

W&L Junior Nancy Reinhart was watching television
with her roommates earlier this week when Hood wandered
into her house.

“It was scary,” she said. “We couldn’t get him to leave.”

Young advises students who live off campus to call the
police if they encounter him.

“The police already know about this guy’s activities,”
he said. “He’s just not somebody you want to get to know
real well.” 9 '

Peddle agrees.

“Be on the lookout,” he said.

‘Theater professor’s ﬁlm
makes CBS prime time

By Tarah Grant

EXECUTIVE EDITOR

Washington and Lee theater professor Tom Ziegler’s

8 “Grace and Glorie” will be the 199th presentation of the
Hallmark Hall of Fame,
television’s highly acclaimed
showcase of drama specials,
when it airs 9 p.m. Sunday on

" CBS.

Two—time Academy Award
nominee Gena Rowlands (“A
Woman Under the Influence,”
“Gloria”) and Diane Lane
(“Judge Dredd,” “Murder at
1600”) star as two completely
different women — in age,
background, ambition and at-
‘ titude — who end up forging
a life-affirming bond.

Grace (Rowlands) and
Glorie (Lane) meet when
Glorie becomes a hospice
volunteer assigned to Grace,
a feisty, ﬁercely independent
woman who. is recovering
from a broken hip. The
I women give each other help,

support — and a whole lot of
understanding and love.
Their story is a heart-tugging
~ reminder that, even in diffi-
cult times, it is always better
to embrace life than to live in

the past.
In an interview on the ﬁlm’s set, Rowlands said that she

‘ hopes “Grace and Glorie” will give the audience a “new
appreciation for the fact that we’re not alone in this world.
Loneliness is, oh, it’s the hardest thing. And you just
shouldn’t do that to yourself,” she said.

R The television version of “Grace and Glorie” is a Hall-
mark Hall of Fame production. Hallmark Hall of Fame is
television’s longest—running and most-honored series of
drama specials, having received 77 Emmy awards. The se-
ries presents four plays annually by acclaimed writers.

1 “Grace and Glorie” was born in Ziegler’s playwriting
class, Theater 220, in 1989. He asked his students to write
a scene with two characters. To provide an example, he did

the assignment, too.
“I had been knocking these two ladies around in my

'l head for a few weeks so I wrote the opening ten pages and
brought them to class,” Ziegler said. “Then every week
after that I wrote another ten pages and by the end of the
tenn I had a rough, but ﬁnished, draft.”

4, The play, which was inspired by a local woman who
was involved with Rockbridge Area Hospice, ﬁrst pre-
miered at Lexington’s Lime Kiln Theatre under the title
“Apple Dreams.” In 1996, it was produced Off Broadway
at the Laura Pells Theatre in Times Square. Starring Estelle

‘Parsons and Lucy Amez, the play had a successful run
but had to close in October because of Parsons’ prior com-

Q

Diane Lane and Gena Rowlands star as
Glorie and Grace respectively in Hallmark
Hall of Fame’s adaptation of Professor
Tom Ziegler’s play “Grace and Glorie.”

 Hallmark presents ‘Grace and Glorie’

mitment to the television show “Roseanne,” where Par-
sons played Roseanne’s mother.

Ziegler sold the ﬁlm rights to Hallmark in October of
1996 for “a pretty big chunk of money” that he had to
share with the people responsible for opening the play in
New York. Ziegler admits that,
in the end, he “did okay.”

Transforming the theater
script into a screenplay was
“exhilarating,” according to
Ziegler. This past summer
Ziegler worked for almost eight
weeks on the screenplay with
professional television writer
Grace McKeaney (“Last
Looks”). “The entire play takes
place in the single setting of a
tiny cabin with just two char-
acters,” he said. “In the ﬁlm I
was able to go anywhere, in-
troduce as many characters as
I pleased.”

The ﬁlm was shot later in the
summer near Waterbury, Conn.
Ziegler has already seen the
preview tape. “It’s very Hall-
mark and, at least thematically,
faithful to the play,” he said.

Ziegler plans to watch
Sunday’s television premiere at
his home in Glasgow. “I’ve in-
vited a bunch of friends to help
me cheer and jeer,” he said.

MONDAY, DECEMBER 7, 1998

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

IT’S BEGINNING TO LOOK A LOT LIKE CHRISTMAS... Girls Scouts march in the Lexing-
ton Christmas Parade, which was held Friday, December 4.

Lex crime wave ebbs

By Jenn Agiesta

STA FF WRITER

A November surge in CD and car stereo thefts seems to
be coming to an end, according to Lexington’s Chief of
Police Bruce Beard.

An investigation into the November thefts is ongoing
and the police have several suspects.

“It started a little bit before the end of October,” Beard
said. “Picked up in November, and it seems to have died
down now:” '

The crime wave began over Halloween weekend. Two
thefts on the Washington and Lee University campus
were reported to police that weekend, one in Graham-
Lees Dormitory, the other at the Lambda Chi Alpha house.
On Nov. 1, W&L freshman Amy Burke had her discman
and CDs stolen from the ﬁrst floor smoking lounge of the
library.

“They were in my bag underneath my carrel,” Burke
said. “Someone had to have seen me using it, and waited
until 1 left.”

Burke’s theft was not reported to police. Instead, she
turned over lists of CDs to local stores that accept used
CDs, in the hoped that they might be returned. They have
not yet turned up.

Unreported incidents make it harder for police or secu-
rity to ﬁnd the culprits.

“I’ve heard that a lot of students have had CD’s stolen,
but not all of them have been reported,” Mike Young, W&L
Chief of Security said. “If they don’t report it, I can’t do
anything.”

Young feels certain that whoever did this is not a
W&L student. This theory is supported by the in-
creased number of thefts off campus as well. Several
cars were robbed in the parking lot of Stonewall Jack-
son Hospital during mid-November, another was robbed
while parked on the street. Car stereos and CD’s were
taken in these robberies.

Beard hopes that someone will be caught in connection
with these thefts.

“The investigation is moving along, and we have sev-
eral suspects,” Beard said.

Racking up the tickets

 

By Eszter Pados

STAFF WRITER

With construction ofa new,park-
ing garage looming, Johnny Bubb,
like many off-campus Washington
and Lee students, faced a parking
problem at the beginning of the
school year.

He was not sure if he would be
able to park his truck in the Corral or
if he would have to ﬁnd his own park-
ing. Until the problem was resolved,
about a week after his arrival at
school, Bubb parked in the lot be-
hind his apartment. A lot in which
all the spots are either reserved or
have two hour time limits. So, Bubb
faced yet another parking problem:
tickets.

“I would go to class or to eat,
wherever, and come back to tickets
on my car, constantly,” Bubb said.
“The most I got in one day was four.”

Bubb built up a stack of seven or
eight tickets, and did not pay them.
He assumed that the late notices had
been sent to his parents, and that
they had taken care of the tickets.
He never received any notiﬁcation
of additional ﬁnes at his Lexington
address. As a result, the tickets were
unpaid for so long that a subpoena
was issued, and he had to go before
ajudge.

The subpoena was not mailed to
him, however. Instead, the police
department and W&L security
searched for him. The police showed
up at his fraternity house, in his pro-

fessors’ offices and talked to his
friends. Bubb ﬁnally called security,
and went to court.

Judge Joseph E. Hess, who
handles all parking ticket problems,
brought Bubb’s fine down to the
minimum after hearing his story.
Miscommunication by the police led
to a breakdown of procedure, and
saved Bubb a lot of money.

The problem is that Bubb’s situa-
tion is not a singular one. In the
month ofNovember, eight W&L stu-
dents were arrested for non-payment
of parking ﬁnes. Most were sought
by the police working with univer-
sity security, and led to a court ap-
pearance. Chief of Security Mike

See TICKETS, Page 2

W&L ‘Bulgarians’ impress model UN

By Eszter Pados

STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee University was one of 34 schools
to attend the annual Southern Regional Model United
Nations in Atlanta a few weeks. As delegates representing
Bulgaria, ﬁve members of W&L’s Foreign Affairs Club “did
a spectacular job,” senior club member Lizzie Perkins said.

“We were a tiny delegation compared to most schools,’
Perkins said. “But despite this, we as a team and a school
were recognized.”

Not only did W&L [Bulgaria] stand out in individual
committees, but also in the three-day conference at large.

‘The Secretary General [Mike Richardson] did indeed
comment on our performance indicating, that we did do a
greatjob,” Perkins said. “Not to be boastful, but we were
impressive.” Richardson personally requested that W&L
return next year, with a larger delegation if possible.

The delegates left Nov. 18, fully informed about Bulgar-
ian foreign-policy, ready to act and think as Bulgarian del-
egates. According to Perkins, the issues that they ad-
dressed at the conference varied from nuclear proliferation
to peaceful uses of outer space.

“I was in the World Trade Organizations and we dealt
with the recent telecommunications treaty and with intel-
lectual property,” Perkins said. “Each [of the ﬁve] del-
egates prepared for three potential topics to debate within

pare with a brieﬁng seminar on Bulgaria and Internet links,”
Perkins said. “He was key in our overall performance.”
Giannakos taught at the American University in Bul-

the committees ofthe UN.”

The club had three choices for
countries to represent. This year, the
club picked India, England and Bul-
garia. The ideas were sent in to the
MUN coordinator in Atlanta, and he
assigned Bulgaria to the club.

“The assignment depends on how
many people you have in a group,”
William Overbaugh, senior club mem-
ber said, “We only have ﬁve, so we
got a smaller country.”

Club members did not have any for-
mal instruction prior to departure, but
professor Symeon S. Giannakos, vis-
iting associate professor of politics at
W&L was a great asset to the club.

‘‘I must give Professor Giannakos
tremendous credit for helping us pre-

See UN, Page 2

December 7, 1998
OPINION:

aren’t all bad

W&LIFE:

SPORTS:

@112 ﬁling-tum iﬁlti

X-mas spirit, Senior does student poll, frats

Christmas shopping in Lex, and got Stress?

250th Basketball: Boys rule, girls...

PAGE 3&4

PAGES 5, 6, 7

PAGES 8&9

 

 

PAGE 5 f

N

@112 iﬁing-tum lﬂhi

EWS

DECEMBER 7, 1998

    

Photo by Hollister Hovey/Executive Eitor

Professor Ellen Mayock recites a Spanish
poem at “La Noche de Poesia,” held at the
Ruse last Tuesday.

UN

continued from page 1

garia, and he shared his knowledge
about Bulgarian foreign policy with
club members, Overbaugh said.

Furthermore, the club received fi-
nancial support from both Laurent
Boetsch, dean of the college, and
Larry C. Peppers, dean of the Will-
iams School, while William
Klingelhofer, director of International
Education, served as an advocate for
the group.

“This aid was crucial as the trip is
not inexpensive,” Perkins said. “For
the upcoming Harvard Conference we
will again need much financial assis-
tance.”

Upon their return on Nov. 22, the
ﬁve participants felt good about their
performance. Overbaugh and Perkins
both said that the delegates were very
well prepared, but the only disadvan-

tage they had is that, while other
schools have courses designed to pre-
pare students for events like the MUN,
W&L only has a club.

Founded in 1994, the Foriegn Af-
fairs Club is a recent addition to the
university. The members now have a
chance to attend prestigious events
such as the SRMUN, which is the most
prestigious MUN in the South.

Plans for the future include the up-
coming Harvard Conference in Febru-
ary. According to Overbaugh, the club
took part in the SRMUN to be better
prepared for the MUN at Harvard.
Similar to the SRMUN, the event at
Harvard is the most prestigious MUN
in the Northeast, Overbaugh said. The
events are held every year, and most
club members have been to at least
one before, Overbaugh said.

“We also hope to go to an intema-
tional conference in the near future,”
Perkins said, “but that would require
strong financial support. The MUN is
a large undertaking, but thoroughly
worth it in the end!”

Perkins said that a higher number
of delegates at future events would
qualify W&L students to win awards
and trips to international conferences.
For example, the SRMUN is sponsor-
ing a team comprised often outstand-
ing schools that choose one represen-
tative. They will send them to Den
Haag, Netherlands in the spring of next
year, she said.

“What a way to let W&L prove it-
self to the world!”

The Foreign Affairs club meets
once a week on Tuesdays at 9 p.m, in
room 8 of Newcomb Hall.

TICKETS

continued from page 1

Young feels that security helping the police is not a
problem.

“We assist the police department whenever we can,”
he said. “We depend upon the police to help us when we
need them.”

Chief of Police Bruce Beard outlined nonnal procedure
for an unpaid parking ticket. If the ticket is not paid within
seven days of the issue date, a late notice is mailed. If
there is no response to the late notice, a subpoena is is-
sued for the violator’s arrest, and a court appearance fol-
lows. Judge Hess nonnally enforces the cost of the ticket(s),
whatever late ﬁnes were assessed, and court costs.

Young said, “A lot of times our students neglect retum-
ing phone calls from the Police Department for whatever
reason, and a lot of the time, we are able to convince them
that it is in their best interest to contact the police.”

Security’s facilitation of the police procedures seems
unlikely to stop anytime soon. Students who do not pay

their parking tickets should not necessarily expect a visit.

from your friendly neighborhood officer, but, be warned,
they know where you live.

  

E-mail General Notes to 
i@wlu:edu '! p

 

Turn off your computer

University Computing is asking for assistance from all
members of the Washington and Lee community in main-
taining network reliability in the coming weeks. As many
are aware, the current network hardware can keep track of
no more that 1,024 computers at a time. This causes prob-
lems because there are more than 2,000 computers con-
nected to the ca mpus network. The ever—increasing num-
ber of networked computers causes frequent networking
interruptions on a large scale, requiring reboots of the net-
working hardware. Each reboot interrupts all network con-
nections campus-wide for a period of as much as thirty
minutes, which disrupts everyone’s work.

Unfortunately, the problem will only worsen as use in-
creases leading up to exams. To help avoid the problem,
students are asked to turn off their computers when they
go to class, and faculty and staff should shut down their
computers when they leave for the day. Please note that
computers must actually be turned off to release their place
in the overloaded memory of the network hardware. UC
hopes that this measure will avoid excessive network down-

time in the weeks to come, Foryfurther details, please see‘:
http://www.wll1;le,di1/cornppting/news/netl 198.wluf  ‘ 

' l

     

Talk about alcohol on campus

Attend an On Campus Talking About Alcohol program
Wednesday from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. in room 1 14 of the Univer-
sity Center. ’

OCTAA teaches students how alcohol affects their
body based on quantity/frequency choices. Attendees will
learn to estimate their biological risks for alcohol related
problems and to make low-risk drinking choices.

Call the Health Education Office at 462-4501 to sign-up
for this nonjudgmental, research-based program.

Lee Chapel holds Candlelight service

Washington and Lee University's annual Christmas
Candlelight Service will be held Thursday at 8 p.m. in Lee
Chapel. The public is invited to attend.

The Service of Nine Lessons and Carols is an ancient
form of corporate worship during the Christmas season.
The prayers, lessons and hymns tell the story of sacred
history from the Creation to the Incarnation.

Music for the traditional service will be provided by the
University Chamber Singers, conducted by Gordon Spice,
W&L professor of music. Timothy Gaylard, W&L profes-
sor of music, will be the organist for the service and, as is
customary, readers for the service will be chosen from the
University community. Thomas Litzenburg Jr., acting uni-
versity chaplain will preside over the service.

The annual Christmas Candlelight Service is sponsored
by the University Federation, a nondenominational stu-

dent group that sponsors religious and,.community.vqlun-,

teer"serVlceaict'rvitie_s;, ’ ' *  V _ ‘_” t~ rt

Olson Exhibit at Blue Heron

Kathleen Olson-Janjic, associate professor of art at
W&L, will have her work exhibited at the Blue Heron Cafe
on East Washington Street starting Dec. 13.

The paintings are based on Olson-Janjic’s trip to Greece.
The public is invited to an opening reception Sunday from 5
p.m. to 7pm. ‘

D-hall serves edible study aids

Exam monotony breakers for d—hall patrons will be
served in Evans Dining Hall Dec. 1 1-16. The treats will add
a little extra zip to regular d—hall meals, and are guaranteed
to relieve some of the stress of studying. I

The Snack Bar will also help alleviate the monotony of
studying by offering free coffee and soft drinks. The spe-
cial study aids will be served from 6 p.m. until closing each
night preceding an exam day.

Croatian writer lectures at W&L

Dubravka Ugresic, a Croatian writer will present a lec-
ture entitled “The Culture of Gingerbread Hearts” today at
6 p.m. in Washington and Lee’s duPont Auditorium.

Ugresic is a writer of international acclaim. Four of her books
have been translated into English, most recently “The Mu-
seum of Unconditional Surrender” and “The Culture of Lies.”

Ugresic has been one of the brave voices who dared to
denounce the political and cultural situation in present-
day Croatia. As a result, she was forced to leave Croatia.

 Since ‘I 993, she-has been living in exile in Amsterdamand -iv

frequently lecti1res“initheTllnited States‘. 5.. I  . ‘.5   7..

D-hall dishes out Midnight Breakfast

One of the most popular Dining Service events of the
year is fast approaching. The annual Midnight Breakfast
willl be held in the Evans Dining Hall next Tuesday 1 1 p.m.
to 12:15 a.m. Faculty members will be on hand to dish up
your favorite breakfast entree.

The breakfast is open to all W&L students. For meal
plan holders, the cost is one meal, for University Card hold-
ers the cost is $4 and the cash price is $5.

Buffet dinner takes students to NY

Evans Dining Hall will be transformed into New York
City for the Dining Service’s annual holiday buffet. The
hustle and bustle of the streets, the elaborate decorations
in the store windows and the giant tree at Rockefeller Cen-
ter will all be part of the display.

Southern Comfort and Jubilee will perform carols for
diners. The nationally recognized gospel group Karis will
also appear. l

The buffet will include roast rack of lamb, braised sir-
loin of beef, breast of duckling paulette, red pesto couscous
with shallots, crab meat salads, marinated hearts of palm
and gounnet bread.

This buffet dinner menu will be submitted to the Na-
tional Association of College and University Food Ser-
vices for an award in the annual Horton Dining Awards.
W&L’s 1997 Holiday Dinner won Second Place for Theme
Dinner for a small university or college in this national
contest.I(_

.<._.:'u1-:s!:.!_ 4!"; H5» .‘r,I.~ivl.l t .
..».\»-5&1 .....,.A ..,4

-. ,.y ‘4 .. ... ._,.3. ,.»...» .. ....,.‘ ......u

      
 

Fat-Burning Cardiovascular Equip.

Aver

week.

That's ver"25% off
College Normal Rates

OMEGA FITNESS

Expansion Extravaganza
LAST CHANCE

  

Energizing Aerobics

Give Yourself he Gift of Health

*Friendly professional staff
*Fat burning cardiovascular

Steppers, Bikes, Rowers,
Precor X-Trainer + NUSTEP

* Instruction by a personal trainer

equipment. Including: Treadmills,

Your 24 Month Membership Includes:

*Individualized programs (beginners to advanced)
*Open 7 days per week

*Over 20 energizing aerobic classes per week
*Exceptional1y clean facility

*and much, much more...

*Muscle building free weights + hammer strength

.1/was G. ievéorm us'aA.nv
wAsHr~eroN & use uwvsnsirv
LEXINGTON. VA 24450

ti "3

 - Members%ips Le
},Offer Expires Mon 12/14/98

CALL 463-6054

NOW!

3

' A

 

I

 

DECEMBER 7, 1998

 2 ﬁling-tum lﬁhi ‘

 

PAGE 3

It’s the most
wonderful time
of the year

I start listening to Christmas music as soon as the trick-
or-treaters disappear. Jingle Cats is my favorite Christmas
CD. A Siamese, a tabby and a calico whaling out “Up on
the Rooftop” always makes me chuckle. Well, someone
pass the plum pudding. It’s time to hang the stockings
and pick out that perfect Christmas tree.

(Usually I go with my dad to pick out the Christmas
tree. We always get the best one on the lot. Dad calls the
place, asking when they are getting fresh shipments. We
bring a knife to cut the fresh ones open ourselves. Some-
times the service can leave much to be desired. Don’t
worry, Dad brings gloves so we don’t get sap on our
hands. Last year we went the Saturday after Thanksgiv-
ing, but this year I
went to do research
at the library so that
I would be ﬁnished
with all my work
and enjoy one ﬁnal
evening of the New
Orleans social scene. Well, I wish I had gone with paw to
get a tree. Thinking about it, the whole excursion reveals
typical family hostilities. The two of us yell awful ob-
scenities at one another’s choice in tannenbaums. How
we ever leave in agreement completely eludes me. Then
when we ﬁnally get home, we each claim total responsibil-
ity for the wonderful choice, unless someone notices a
dreaded “hole” in the foliage, then we pin the blame on
the other guy. “You should have seen the tree Dad wanted.
You remember Charlie Brown’s Christmas tree, a real
LOSER.” Or, “I thought I raised my son to have better
taste in trees. Sometime children really have a way of break-
ing a father’s heart.” I won’t even get into the disputes
over decorating the damn thing. Well, maybe just a little.
You know that ornament you made in kindergarten with
your beautiful face on it. It goes in the front! No matter
what the old man says. And when from his comfortable
chair in the other room Dad repeatedly warns my brother,
Doug, to put one piece of tinsel on the tree at a time,
aluminum icicles ﬂy through the house in rebellion. In
any case, I wish I had gone with him this year, and I really
miss the decorating festivities. Mom serves eggnog.)

Well, the hip hop happiest season of all is again upon
us. I am very excited, I must say. This glorious season
always gives me warm, toasty feelings of hope, love and
joy. (Maybe the toasty feeling comes from the fact that in
third grade, I made the words “hope,” “love” and “joy”

3‘-,,orf His Rocker
jM..f?i Stephen Pesoe ’O1

  
 

out of dough. Then ve put them in the oven and toasted
them until golden brown. Mom still hangs them in the
kitchen at this time of year. At least, she better. Mrs.
Kilgarlen always had the best craft ideas. We decorated
the words with red and green ribbons. They are pretty.)
Oh well, I promise to stop digressing. I hope everyone
enjoys this great time of year, a true festival of lights and
excitement. Let the spirits past, present, future or the ones
added to that heavenly eggnog, move you. Wandering
aimlessly around campus (yep, I’m that guy), I noticed
some fantastic decorations. Lights and holly and wreaths
and bows — well HO HO HO, on Dasher, on Dancer, slap
me silly and call me Rudolph. The sensation of itty-bitty
snowmen running up and down my spine rushed upon
me.
The D-hall’s midnight breakfast study break during
exam week ranks high on the list of consolations for not
being home for the holidays. But the Lee House’s holiday
decorations remain the greatest consolation. I feel obliged
to compliment the Elrods and all involved in the decora-
tion process foru a wonderful, heart-warming job. And to
all those students in the dorms, seeing a luminescent glow
of holiday spirit emanating from windows touches my
foolish heart. I noticed some students took the time to

STAFF EDITORIAL



C)

deck Gaines Hall with boughs of all sorts — toy soldiers,
stained glass, chloroﬂuorocarbons snow.
While the seasonal joys of Washington and Lee prove

quite acceptable,
(I

there truly is no
Lights and holly

place like home for
the holidays. In
and wreaths and

less than two

geeks-g11"Cehb?°tk bows — well HO
ome. n I'lS —

mas morning, I’ll HO H09 on

compliment Dad’s Dasher, on

choice of a tree.
He’ ll tell me what a
great job I did deco-
rating it. We’ll both
tell Doug how the

Dancer, slap me
silly and call me
tinsel really adds

Rudolph.
J}
the ﬁnal sparkling

touch to the masterpiece. And everyone praises Mom’s
fabulous Christmas cookies. ~ ,

Well, I’m going to decorate a gingerbread house.
Merry Christmas everyone. Happy Holidays, and Sea-
sons Greetings.

Wake up and smell the coffee, not the Kahlua

‘Twas the night before Christmas
And all through the land

All the students were merry
And too drunk to stand.

They were screaming at SAE
While Betas passed out

And the bottles were shattering
On the ﬂoor of Phi Kap’ s house.

Let us make a simple connection for
those of you who just won’t get it: alco-
hol impairs judgement. Hence, drunk
people do stupid things. Most of the time,
it’s funny to laugh about how you spent
the night on intimate terms with the toilet
talking to monsters, but how many of us
wake up The Morning After in shame?

How about some facts: Of the multiple
cases before the SJC every year, the ma-
jority are alcohol related. One of the two
rape cases tried before the SFHB last year
was alcohol related. At least three of the
withdrawals in the face of an EC hearing
during the last three years have been al-
cohol related. How many of you can agree
that getting kicked out of school over some
beef j erky you were too drunk to pay for
is stupid? But of course it wasn’t his fault,

TALKbacl<:: What do you want from Santa this year?

 

“A GPA abovea2.0thistetm.”

«—-James Person ’0l~

 

because he was drunk. Out of all the lame
excuses we use to justify our asinine ac-
tions, how many times does that one see
daylight?

The fact is that the student body of
Washington and Lee just won’t leam. We
haven’t learned one damn thing from the
deaths of Jack Bowden and David Thomp-
son. Wejust toasted them the ﬁrst Friday
night after we put them in the ground.
They are dead. And we’d give a million to
one odds that they wouldn’t be if they
hadn’t had anything to drink on the nights
of their respective deaths.

An alumnus just sent a disturbing let-
ter to the editors of both papers, detailing
the death of his alcoholic friend, and trac-
ing the beginning of the problem back to
Washington and Lee University. We shake
our heads, and say how tragic, and go
out and get drink a bottle of Jim Beam in
his name.

When will we consider the possible
consequences of our actions? When will
this stop being something that happens to
other people, and become our turn? Our
turn to get arrested, our turn to have a
terrible feeling about what might have hap-
pened the night before, our turn to die?

When it is your turn, be sure to a lot

“Two and a half weeks of sleep.”

~——Maggie Fagan ’02

about how you’re a victim, and how it
wasn’t your fault because you were
drunk. Everybody will carejust as much
as they have in the past.

The solution is not to call for an end to
drinking, and it certainly isn’t BYOB
(cheers to the brain trust that came up
with that one). While the administration
gets up and preaches every year on
Parent’s Weekend about what a big prob-
lem alcohol is and details all the noble
things being done to combat it, the ad-
ministration hasn’t done anything. It has
not attacked the problem in an effective
manner, and the chances that it’ll get a
clue anytime soon are, um, dubious at
best.

But the fact remains that it’s not nec-
essarily a problem of the administration.
There’s a major element that has to come
from the student body. After all, there’s
only so much of the way that Johnny and
Dave can hold my hand before I have to
make my own decisions. And then comes
the hard part: accepting responsibility for
them.

It’s just not that hard to drink respon-
sibly, W&L. Cut the apathetic alcoholic
bullshit and get a clue. You can’t ﬁnd your
honor in your alcohol.

“Free tuition.”

-——Wade Hess ’02

I  ‘iesrsircgreiy,
 KennethHoeffeI '

“A TV and VCR for my dorm room.”

—Alana Ovsepian ’02

Fraternities

get a bad rap 

Today I take a break from my self-proclaimed moniker
and instead focus on the positive aspects of the fraternity
system, integral part of life here at W&L.

The prevalence of the Greek system was something I
worried about when I applied to this school. I saw fratemi-
ties as bastions of booze, debauchery and altogether a
poor investment of money and time. I dreaded the pres-
sure to join one and the possible social stigma if I decided
not to.

It didn’t take me long on campus, however, to change
my mind. Fraternities here are what they were originally
meant to be: groups of guys who share a brotherhood that
goes beyond alcohol or the opposite sex. Time after time I

hear stories about pledge classes vacationing together,_

house mothers making
cookies, and a serious,
old-fashioned loyalty
to fellow frat brothers.
The little, friendly in-
tricacies of fraternity
life seldom get pub-
lished; granted, it would be a difﬁcult task. The positive
aspects far outweigh the negative ones, however.

Most houses perform some service work at various
points during the academic year. Campus publications do
the frats a great disservice by not reporting them. Both
Chi Psi and Sigma Nu have annual blood drives. Chi Psi
and Phi Delta Theta, along with two sororities, helped clean
up Goshen Pass. Kappa Sigma and Phi Kappa Psi, once
again along with two sororities, sponsored a barn dance
with Catholic Campus Ministry and Habitat for Humanity;
proceeds went to the Habitat’s building fund. Out of curi-
osity, who remembers this? Even though I knew I would
be writing this article weeks ago, I really had to dig to ﬁnd
this information.

Time after time, the student body and the administra-
tion have put the negative aspects of fraternity life under a
ridiculously powerful microscope. True, shorter, more civil
pledging periods and more individual responsibility on the
part of every student would help, but these people for-
get that 130 years of fraternity tradition simply don’t
evaporate overnight. I have full conﬁdence that the
majority of houses are trying to adjust accordingly.
Besides, anyone stupid enough not to say no and al-
low his genitals to be electro-shocked deserves any
negative feedback he might get. Several people are being
punished for the actions of a few irresponsible others,
and frankly, that sucks. Given no other option, these
things will change; however, a degree of patience is re-
quired.

What members of the W&L community must ask them-
selves before they open their mouths regarding the Greek
system is this: Am I actually accomplishing anything by
saying this, or merely shooting my mouth off? Will the
way in which I present this information be received in a
positive manner? The Greek system might need to
change, but the best way to do that is a change of
attitude among individual students, not ridiculous sanc-
tions that are inconsistent with General Lee’s idea of a
value-based (not rule-based) community. Only when this
occurs will there be any tangible results.

 

Executive Editors
News Editors
W&Life Editors
Opinions Editors
Sports Editors

Last Word Editor
Copy Editors

@112 ‘tiling-tum ilﬂlti j

Tarah Grant
Hollister Hovey
Polly Doig

John Stewart
Ginger Phillips
Erica Prosser
Stephanie Bianco
Stephen Pesce

Frances Groberg

Kevin McManemin
Sarah Meldrum

  

Meredith Mlynar
Emily Barnes
Scott Cameron
Tom Wadlow
Cliff Woolley

Photo Editors

Online Editor
Production Assistant

Jason Williams
Matt Lorber
Lionel Brown

Business Manager
Advertising Directors
Circulation Director

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editors, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters, columns and “Talkback” do not
reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington. VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: p/1i@wlu.edu
http.'//wIu.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

 

 

PAGE 4

 2 ﬂing-tum lﬂhi

 

DECEMBER 7, 1998

Senior launches

review of student

government  

Student governance at Wash-
ington and Lee University has al-
ways-proven to be an interesting

 

 

While I was unable to make
enough time to attain his assis-
tance for interpreting my poll re-

phenomena. sults, I do be-
Steeped in tra- lieve that my
dition,’ often  5 results should
cited as one of ~ . , S be considered
the unique  Nkﬁbmak 99 more accurate
characteristics than most of

of our univer-
sity, our system has, until recently,

suffered ﬁ'om an attitude of benign _

neglect. So long as it didn’t inter-
fere with or disrupt the lives of “the
most contented student body in
the nation,” most students were
more than happy to ignore it.

Until recently.

Within the last several years, a
quiet revolution of sorts has taken
place within our governing insti-
tutions. While students generally
may have been apathetic toward
the changes, you may recall some
of the more drastic changes: the
Student Conduct Committee
changed’ to the Student Judicial
Council, the University Hazing
Board was created, fraternity rush

. moved to the whiter term despite

the nearly _unanimous opposition
of Greek students and so on.
Noticing that the judicial sys-

' tern once heralded for the simplic- I

ity and effectiveness of the “single
sanction” had become far too com-
plicated, the Board of Trustees
“took action to examine the prob-
lem and make recommendations
for solving it. A preliminary re-
port was issued, and now, after
some two years of meetings, a com-

mission is irearing the completion «

of its work. Within a few months a
ﬁnal report will be sent to the Stu-
dent Affairs Committee and the fac-
' ulty, and another minor revolution
. may take place.
These recommendations, how-
, ever, will only pertain to the stu-
dent judicial system; any critical
review of the larger governing
structure must necessarily come
from the general student body.
Having been an active participant
in student government for the last
four years, and having become
somewhat disaffected in the pro-
cess, I began to wonder whether
or not now might not be the time
to make such a review. After all, if
we’ll be altering such an important
aspect of our system as the judi-
cial process, might not the whole
thing be in need of reform?

As I say, I’ve been very active
in student government —— work-
ing on the White Book Review
Committee, serving on the Student
Judicial Council and attending
SAC meetings and occasional

open forums. Despite this experi- .

ence, I knew that my opinions alone
would be worthless if contrary to
the general student opinion.

With this in mind, I proposed
the idea of holding a student body
convention. I abandoned the idea
once convinced that it would not
be practical. Lacking any other
means of canvassing a large num-
ber of students, I turned to the
notion of taking a poll.

I remain ﬁilly aware of the criti-
cism that inevitably follows when
someone conducts a poll. The
sample size may be too small or
unrepresentative, or the questions
may be biased. I tried to limit these
inevitable objections by conduct-
ing the poll as responsibly as I
could. I obtained a randomly se-
lected list of students from the reg-
istrar and conferred with Profes-
sor Robert McAhren , an expert in
polling.

A the polls con-
ducted on campus. I include a sec-
tion detailing my methods at the
end of this article.

The 13 questions I chose can
be divided into three categories:
those that seek to gauge how fa-
miliar students are with our cur-
rent govemment (questions 1, 2, 3
and 4), those that try to determine
how conﬁdent they are in the sys-
tem (questions 5, 7, 8 and 9), and

3 those that reflect how willing stu-

dents would be to consider alter-
natives to the current govemm ent
(questions 6, 30, 1 1, 12 and 13).

I was surprised by a number of

A the results, but a few general trends

emerged. First of all, students are
not at all familiar with the current
system. The majority cannot
name any of the Big Five Ofﬁcers,
and practically none have read the
Student Body Constitution.

Secondly, students are fairly ,

conﬁdent in the major judicial
boards. Although I wonder what
the source of this conﬁdence is,
given how little we collectively
know about our system, I was not
surprised at this result.

Finally, students are very will-
ing to consider some significant

3 changes to our current plan —- es-

pecially if they are viewed as in-
creasing the democratic nature of
our system.

The difficulty lies in the fact
that, whereas students are willing
to consider changes in theory,

» there may not be any particular al-

temative which could gain the
support of a majority.

Nevertheless, I plan to set forth ‘

several amendments to the Stu-
dent Body Constitution within the
next few weeks that will attempt to
ﬁx what I view as the most glaring
flaws to the current system. It
seems that something must be
done with that document, if only
for the fact that it has seriously
fallen behind the times (it still re-
fers to the SCC, for example).

I understand that there is a con-
siderable amount of institutional
inertia which will oppose any
change to the status quo, but I be-
lieve that, should you approach
these proposals with an open
mind, most of them will appeal to
your common sense.

, I also want to make it clear that
I have no hope for personal gain
from this process. l’1l be graduat-
ing in a few months and, having
already incurred the indemnity of
several student leaders, I have
even considered dropping the
matter altogether. I continue for
the sole reason that I believe much
can be done to improve our uni-
versity (at least as far as student
government is concerned), and as
an elected officer it is my duty not
to ignore this fact.

I hope that you find the results

_ of my poll to be as thought-provok-

ing as I have. I encourage you to
watch this paper in the next sev-
eral weeks to learn the reasoning
behind my positions, and also to
watch for the signs that will ad-
vertise the student body referenda
by which we will determine, once
and for all, what the student body
government should be.

 

Methodology:

I conducted the poll by telephone with the assistance ofa fellow stu-
dent, calling students at all hours ofthe day trying to get their responses.
Of the 80 undergraduates originally selected by the registrar, I polled 69.
Ofthe 30 law students, I spoke with 24.

If there was a student who was unavailable (either out of the country or
with an unlisted phone number), I substituted the student of the same
gender and class year closest to the original name in the student directory.

Question 1: Can you name the Big Five Officers? (Here I listed
the office, and waited to see if the student could name the officer.)

None Correct: Undergrad— 55.1% Law- 37.5%

One Correct: U— 25% L— 45.8%

Two Correct: U- 10.1% L- 12.5%

Three Correct: U- 5.8% L- 8.3%

Four Correct: U— 2.9% L- 0.0%

Five Correct: U- 2.9% L- 0.0%

General Observation: Beth Formidoni is the most well-known of the ofﬁc—
ers, followed by Greta Richter. Practically none of the students can name the
EC and SJC Secretaries.

Question 2: Can you name your class officers, EC representa-
tives, and SJC justice? (Although I didn’t ask the students to name
these people Individually, I was curious to see ifthey were more familiar
with their class officers than with the school-wide ofﬁcers).

Yes: U- 47.8% L- 70.8%

No: U- 52.2% L- 29.2%

General Observation: Law students and freshmen were most likely to recall
their ofﬁcers. My explanation‘? Law students have smaller classes, and are
more likely to know their ofﬁcers, while freshmen elected their ofﬁcers only a
few weeks ago.

Question 3: Have you read any of the following?

 Undergraduate I Law

um

 

85.5 83.3

 

Constitution White Book Blue Book of Student
of the Student of the the Student Handbook
Body Executive Judicial
3 Committee Council

General Observation: Despite the fact that the EC tries to ensure that ev-
eryone reads the White Book (remember the pledge you signed in your first
year?), a surprisingly large number have not. Students cite the fact that the
Handbook is available every year during matriculation for their familiarity with
that document.

Question 4: Overall, do you consider yourself well-informed
about current student government issues? (I did not specify any
particular Issue, relying on the student’s own estimation of his or her
knowledge.)

Yes: U- 29% L- 29.2%

No: U—71%L- 70.8% .

General Observation: Students at Washington and Lee don’t know much
about the issues their leaders face. Whether this is through a lack of commu-
nication on behalf of the leaders or a lack of interest from students, I can not
judge.

Question 5: How effective do you think our current student gov-
ernment is in representing general student opinion to the admin-
istration? (Here I asked the students to rate their answers on a scale of
1-5, 1 being Not Effective, 3 being Neutral, and 5 being Completely Effec-
tive.)

Not Effective: U- 2.9% L- 0.0%

Barely Effective: U- 8.7% L- 8.3%

Neutral/No Opinion: U— 42% L- 58.3%

Somewhat Effective: U- 44.9% L- 33.3%

Completely Effective: U- 1 .4% L- 0.0%

General Observation: Students don’t seem to have strong opinions about
how effective our current leaders are at representing student interests to the
administration, but if they do have an opinion, it tends to be positive.

Question 6: Would you be willing to support a ballot initiative
to reorganize our current system of government if such a reorga-
nization made it more reflective of the general student body’s
views? (Here I didn’t specify any particular Initiative, but was curious to
see if students were willing to consider a change. Despite the yes/no
nature of the question, some students refused to form an opinion without
more Information.)

Yes: U- 85.5% L- 83.3%

No: U- 8.7% L- 0.0%

No Opinion/Need More Info: U-5.8% L-16.7%

General Observation: Although students are generally conﬁdent in their
government, they are very interested in proposals that would make it more
responsive to student interests.

Question 7: How confident are you in the ability of the EC to
adjudicate honor violations? (Here I asked students to rate their
conﬁdence on a scale of 1-5, 1 being Not Confident, 3 being Neutral, 5
being Very Conﬁdent.)

Not Conﬁdent: U— 1.4% L- 0.0%

Barely Conﬁdent: U— 14.5% L- 12.5%

Neutral/No Opinion: U— 10.1% L- 12.5%

Somewhat Conﬁdent: U— 39.1% L— 58.3%

Very Conﬁdent: U- 34.8% L- 16.7%

General Observation: Undergraduates have stronger feelings about the
EC on both extremes than do Law students.

Student government at W&L:

TIME FOR
REFORM?

Question 8: How confident are you in the ability of the SJC to
adjudicate conduct violations? (Here I used the same answer scale
as in question 7).

Not Confident: U— 2.9% L- 0.0%

Barely Conﬁdent: U- 8.7% L- 16.7%

Neutral/No Opinion: U- 21.7% L— 41.7%

Somewhat Conﬁdent: U— 40.6% L- 29.2%

Very Conﬁdent: U— 26.1% L- 12.5%

S

X

I

General Observation; Law Students aren’t as concerned with the SJC as 

Undergraduates, and both groups are less conﬁdent in the SJC than the EC.

Question 9: How confident are you in the ability of the Student
Faculty Hearing Board to adjudicate cases of sexual misconduct?
(Again I used the same scale as In question 7).

Undergraduate I Law

406 41./

   
   

Not Barely Neutral/No Somewhat
Conﬁdent Conﬁdent Opinion

Very
Conﬁdent Conﬁdent

General Observation." Although still fairly confident in the SFHB, that opin-
ion. signiﬁcantly trails both the EC and the SJ C.

Question 10: Do you favor disclosing the names of convicted
“students from any of the previously mentioned judicial boards?
(Students could choose any combination of the three or none of the three.)
None: U— 47.8% L- 70.8%
SFHB: U- 46.4% L— 25%
SJC: U- 33.3% L- 25%
EC: 23.2% L- 29.2%
General Observation: Students generally support the current rules govem—
ing conﬁdentiality in judicial cases. Women, at least among the undergradu-
ates, are more willing to support disclosure of names than men.

Question 11: Do you think the goal of the EC should be to over-
see the Honor System or to represent and administer the student
body? (I asked this question to see which of the EC's main functions
were considered to be its primary purpose. A few students refused to
rank the two alternatives.)

Oversee the Honor System: U- 72.5% L- 87.5%

Administer the Student Body: U- 23.2% L- 12.5%

No Answer: U—4.3% L— 0.0%

Question 12: Currently the annual student budget appropriations
are made by the members of the EC in closed-door sessions. Would
you support a ballot initiative to involve a wider representation of
the student body in these decisions?

Law Undergraduate

   

87.5% 94.2%

General Observation: Students seem to want more influence over, or at
least more knowledge about, how their activities fees are spent.

Question 13: Currently the annual appointments to student/fac-
ulty committees are made by the members of the EC in closed-

door sessions. Would you support a ballot initiative to Involve a ‘

wider representation of the student body in these decisions?

Yes: U- 826% L- 95.8%

No: U— 17.4% L- 4.2%

General Observation: Students are about as willing to open up the appoint-
ment process as the budget process.

What do you think?

What do you think about McCormack’s poll? Should student govem-
ment at Washington and Lee University be reformed? Write a Letter to the
Editor. E-mail us at phi@w1u.edu.

In January, the campus chapter of the Society of Professional Joumal-
ists will seek to ﬁnd out if students want more openness in government
proceedings. In a university-wide poll, SPJ will ask students to vote on
whether student judiciary bodies should disclose the names of students
who are found guilty. The results of the poll will be published in both
university newspapers.

 

 

DECEMBER 7, 1998

W&

Elli: iﬂing-Gum lﬂlii

IFE

PAGE 5

R
By Eliarma Marziani
STAFF WRITER
Christmas: a time for family, talks by a ﬁreplace, gingerbread men and sugar
'4

cookies, Christmas caroling, hot chocolate with lots of marshmallows, snow-
ﬂakes . . . and a mad rush to the mall and other stores to ﬁnd Christmas presents
for everyone from your mom to your best friend to your dog.

The Christmas season is a very busy time for everyone, full of decorating,
“ baking, shopping and planning. Though it is a very busy (and sometimes
stressful) time ofyear, it can
be a lot of fun. There is noth-
ing like finding the perfect
gift for someone special in
your life, the gift you know
~ he or she will absolutely love.

Sometimes this task is

harder for a college student,
since students are greatly lim-
ited in time, money and shop-
ping locations. Washington
and Lee University students
are lucky, though. Since Lexing-
ton is a tourist attraction, it has
many fun places to shop, most
within ﬁve or ten minutes of
, campus.
' These shops offer students
a way out of the where-to-buy-
what-for~whom dilemma, and
the result is a crazy boom of ac-
tivity for shopkeepers and stu-
dents alike.

In between helping custom-
ers, answering phones, gift-
wrapping items and offering
snacks to her customers, Patti
Neofotis found time to say that
at Christmas, “it’s busier than
the rest of the year” at the Cor-
ner of Lexington Gift Shop, lo-
cated (appropriately) at the cor-
. ner of Nelson Street and Main
' Street.

The Comer is a small gift shop
that sells all sorts of items, in-
cluding stuffed animals and
Beanie Babies, picture frames,
scented and decorative candles,
lamps, cards, figurines and

, g ,_ V _ ,  dishes. Students enjoy coming
Photos by Emily Bames/P oto Editor to this shop to buy fgr 
Christmas is coming soon, but friends and boyfriends or girl-
where do you go to buy 3]] those friends typically,Neofotis said.
presents? Lexington stores have a She Said: “When they ha“?
’: huge variety of gift items. Some reasfms to 5h°p’We _getag",f’d
examples are dainty teacups from pomon of students In here‘
. . What do students prefer to
the Victorian Parlour, snowman 9 “J 1 th 11 1.k
figures from Hamilton - Robbins buy‘ ewe ry ey rea y 1 e’
they buy a lot of candles . . .
., and a giant chocolate basket from

around Christmas they buy
C0903 Mlll Cl10¢0lateS- more things for mom: casse-

   
 
   
   

 

   

. Stressin’ your way through exams?
Help is just a deep breath away

By Ginger Phillips

F EA TURES EDITOR

I 3 There are only 18 short days until Christ-
’ mas. Before they can open the presents
jand chug the eggnog, however,
5 Washington and Lee students
’ musts face the less exciting
i task of taking ﬁnal exams. 
Along with exams there in—, '
A evitably comes stress, and "
lots of it.
h‘  “Everybody’s really

* freaked this week,” senior
Kelley Joy said. “All every-
one pretty much talks about
, during the last few weeks of
i the term is exams and how

stressed they are.”
_ Stress, despite what
many people think, can
y ‘be caused by both
good and bad changes
that occur to the body.
It can safely be said,

,..-V.

Make your list, check it twice and
start Christmas shopping in Lex

“I feel extremely stressed out right now,” junior Susan man class will
Terzian said. “There just isn’t enough time to do all of my have its first en-

 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
   

roles, glasses, wine,” she explained. She is expecting a lot
of Beanie Baby sales this year, yet she said that one can-
not be sure what product will sell best any year.

She defended student planning, too, saying, “[Stu—
dents] are pretty well planned out . . . I’d say 95% of them
are planned out,” not last minute shoppers.

Junior Lee Dunham, who shops at the Comer of Lex-
ington, is in the minority then. She has done none of her
Christmas shopping yet and does not know when she will
ﬁnd the time to do it.

“I don’t know what I’m buying anybody. I think I’m
going to have to do it all at home in the mall over Christ-
mas break,” she said. For her friends at W&L, she said,
“I’m going to buy some pretty nice gifts for my close
friends and then just get cards for everybody else.”

She likes shopping at the Comer, saying, “I think they
have cute things . . . little girly gifts.” For gifts for other
people, she offered Wal-Mart as a solution. “If it’s not
there, you don’t need it!”

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor
Freshmen Selen Okcuoglu and Amanda Fischer explore the fashionable gift
options at Papagallo on downtown Main Street.

She said that she plans to get things that people can actually use. “Christ— pretty busy all year long in her store, at Christmas, “It’s wild. W-I—L-D, exclama-
mas ornaments are nice,” she said, “but if you don’t have a tree . . .” As for tion point!” Hockaday found that students were not necessarily last minute
what she wants herself? “I usually go for useful things . . . either useful or shoppers in her shop.

really expensive.” she said.

Poppet Nelson ofthe Cocoa-Mill Chocolate Company on Nelson Street

Virginia Born and Bred, located on Washington Street, is another of said that Christmas is the busiest time of year for the shop. Cocoa Mill

the popular stores student shop-
pers enjoy visiting. It is a gift shop
with a special emphasis on Virgin-
ian products. It sells all sorts of
knick-knack gifts, including Robert
E. Lee paraphernalia, collector
books, t-shirts with Virginia slo-
gans, Virginia souvenirs, little
stuffed animals, Christmas orna-
ments, figurines, picture frames,
plaques, candy, nuts, coffee, jellies,
scented candles and soap, dishes
and other goodies.

Ginger McNeese, who works at the
shop, said that a lot of students come
in to buy Christmas presents, mainly
for their families. “A lot of them buy
W&L things, but it’s sort of across
the board [as for what people tend to
buy]. Everything is pretty popular,”
she said.

“Around the end of the Christ-
mas season, [students] come in to
take things home,” she said. Before
students start panicking about the
fact that they haven’t even thought
about what to get their families yet,
they should realize that they are not

alone. McNeese said that the ma- Sophomore Liz Powers and her ‘‘little sister”
jority of student shopping at Vir- Rachel Lynch browse the goodies in Hamilton-

glnla BOT" and Bred l3 “deﬁnitely Robbins on MainvStreet downtown.
more last minute” than planned.

Photo by Emily Bames/Pli

offers all sorts ofgourmet chocolate, from truffles and
nonpareils to fudge and specially shaped chocolates.

Nelson said, “Truffles are popular, fudge is popular with
the students, but [student purchasing trends] depend on
the time of year.” Students come in to buy gifts for all sorts
of people, but Nelson noted that they very often come in
to buy “hostess gifts” for the parents of friends they will
spend break with.

There is no “best time to buy” at this shop, and
Nelson said, “Once you get into the real Christmas sea-
son it always stays pretty constant, busy all day long.”
She is expecting an onslaught of students over the
next two weeks, as her experience has been that for
student shoppers, “it doesn’t matter what it is, it’s al-
ways last minute.”

Freshman Veronica Griffith enjoys Christmas and
the shopping that goes along with it.

“It’s fun when you’re not rushed for time, because
you get to think about what you want to get for each
person, what they want,” she said.

She has not yet experienced this “fun,” though,
since she, too, has not even begun to shop. She plans
to buy for W&L friends next week in the downtown
Lexington shops, and then she will shop for family and
other friends the first week she gets back home for
break.

She does not know exactly what she will buy people.
“It depends on the person . . . I like to shop for indi-
viduals,” she said.

Mass shopping may be easier, but shopping with one
person in mind is always much more personal. Unfortu-
nately, it takes a lot more time. Observers will probably

Some students searching for a special gift for a mother, sister or girlfriend see many students splitting time between the Colonnade and the downtown
are happy with what they ﬁnd at the Victorian Parlour Gift Boutique on Main Lexington shopping area within the next week or so.

Street. This shop is devoted to items from the Victorian era, offering oil lamps,
crafted candlesticks, Victorian cards, decorations and other items for sale.

The Christmas shopping season has ofﬁcially begun, but with alf the fun
little shops in Lexington, W&L students should have no problem ﬁnding great

Ernestine Hockaday, owner of the Victorian Parlour, said that, although it is gifts for everyone on their lists, even if they wait until the last minute.

work and still get some sleep. It counter with
feels like I work con- those large manila
stantly and only envelopes with
stop to eat-that’s the blue books
..the..only way I hidden inside,
get it all and many of
done.” these newcomers
O t h e r s are beginning to
are more feel a little
—w o r r i e d stressed.
«\ a b, o u t “The fact that
V.‘ projects I’mhereintheli-
‘ » “and papers brary on a Satur-
 than the ex- day afternoon
ams them- should prove that

sors as- have to do Ijust get more nervous."
s i g n

 that are me.”

selves. I’m stressed,” freshman Matt Brill said. “I’m trying to ﬁn-
“A lot ish a paper now so that I can study for exams, but basically
ofprofes- I’m trying to block it all out. Ifl think about everything I

“I don’t feel too worried about exams yet,” freshman
p r oj e c t 5 Kate Mobley said, “but I’m just waiting for the stress to hit

V however, that the high

due at the
end of the se-

 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 

"‘ stress level prevalent on mester, and it’s
campus is due not to wor- really hard to fin-
; rying over what to buy your mom ish all of that and
' for Christmas, but what to tell her study for ﬁnals at
~- if you don’t pass multivariable the same time,”
calculus. «W _ sophomore Faniry
During this week and exam week 2 Rakotoarisoa

itself, the carrels and ﬁsh bowls in the X ‘ said.
library will be ﬁlled with students attempt-  The exam ex-
! ing to survive the stress of ﬁnals without "iﬁ perience is new
killing their roommates or jumping off of the :v ah to quite a few
footbridge.  Fa W&L Stu-
One of the biggest causes of stress for 7% dents this
. many students is that they think that they  year. Next
simply don’t have enough time to get ev— , -   week the
erything done.   ‘ fresh-

 

If the freshmen arejust becoming familiar with the exam
period, the seniors are inveterate exam takers and many
have ﬁnally learned how to overcome all the worries.

“I’m really not very stressed, and I definitely have things
under control,” senior Stephen Guenther said. “Ofcourse
I’m a little more bogged down than usual. but you can’t
avoid that.” .

“After you’ve been here for four years you learn how to
deal with stress,” Joy said. “Exam week is still really hectic
and stressful, but you’re used to it by the time you’re a
senior.”

What can those students whose nerves have not been
calmed by time and experience do when the stress of ex-
ams begins to weigh them down?

Making a plan of action and not procrastinating can
only make studying that much easier.

“I don’t feel fully prepared for ﬁnals. but I’m getting
ready for them by being organized and making time sched-

Photo by mily Bames/Photo Editor

Junior Khriss Stone hits the books in the quiet atmosphere of Leyburn Li-
brary. A great way to reduce stress is to begin studying for those exams early!

ules,” Rakotoarisoa said.

“You just have to sit down and do it,” sophomore Bisrat
Hailemichael said. “You” ll never feel prepared if you pro-
crastinate.”

By following this advice it is possible to keep your body
on a regular time clock. If the normal functions of your
body are disrupted by too little sleep or changes in diet,
you are more likely to become over—stressed.

Ifyou feel fatigued or over—anxious, then you need a
break.

“When I’m feeling too stressed out I’ll go rent a
movie or go out oftown for dinner," Terzian said. “You
should try to do something so that you’re not working
constantly."

“I just go to the Palms for a break,” Joy said. “Some-
times my friends and I will watch a movie or do something
relaxing to relieve a little stress.”

Final exams are a stressful burden for most students.
but there are ways to deal with them. When it’s four o’clock
in the morning and you’re still in the library writing a twenty
page paper and studying for tomorrow’s physics ﬁnal, take
a few deep breaths and remember that in the long run,
everything will be all right.

Or you can just try that age old cure that junior Riley
Greene says relieves all worries - “Sex.”

 

 

PAGE 6

5 : If ﬁling-@1111: lﬂlii

DECEMBER 7, 1998

Century-old message: yes, Virginia, there is a Santa Claus

In the spirit of the holiday season, The Ring-tum
Phi is pleased to bring you a reprint of one of the most
famous editorials of all time. This editorial appeared
in The New York Sun in 1897. It caused an immediate
sensation and was reprinted annually until 1949,
when the paper went out of business.

This piece and explanations of the editorial ’s back-
ground can be found online at http://
www. barricksinsurance. com/virginia. htm l. Enjoy, and
may you and yours have a very merry Christmas.

—— Erica Prosser and Ginger Phillips

We take pleasure in answering thus prominently the
communication below, expressing at the same time our great
gratiﬁcation that its faithful author is numbered among the
friends of The Sun:

I am 8 years old. Some of my little friends say there is
no Santa Claus. Papa says, “If you see it in The Sun, it ’s

so.” Please tell me the truth, is there a Santa Claus?
signed, Virginia 0 ’Hanlon

Virginia, your little friends are wrong. They have
been affected by the skepticism of a skeptical age. They
do not believe except they see. They think that nothing
can be which is not comprehensible by their little minds.
All minds, Virginia, whether they be men’s or children’s,
are little. In this great universe of ours, man is a mere
insect, an ant, in his intellect as compared with the
boundless world about him, as measured by the intelli-
gence capable of grasping the whole of truth and knowl-
edge.

Yes, Virginia, there is a Santa Claus.
He exists as certainly as love and generosity and devo-

tion exist, and you know that they abound and give to
your life its highest beauty andjoy.

Alas! how dreary would be the world if there were no
Santa Claus! It would be as dreary as ifthere were no
Virginias. There would be no childlike faith then, no
poetry, no romance to make tolerable this existence.
We should have no enjoyment, except in sense and
sight. The external light with which childhood fills the
world would be extinguished.

Not believe in Santa Claus! You might as well not
believe in fairies. You might get your papa to hire men
to watch in all the chimneys on Christmas Eve to catch
Santa Claus, but even if you did not see Santa Claus
coming down, what would that prove? Nobody sees
Santa Claus, but that is no sign that there is no Santa
Claus.

The most real things in the world are those that nei-
ther children nor men can see. Did you ever see fairies
dancing on the lawn? Of course not, but that’s no proof

that they are not there. Nobody can conceive or imag-
ine all the wonders there are unseen and unseeable in
the world.

You tear apart the baby’s rattle and see what makes
the noise inside, but there is a veil covering the unseen
world which not the strongest man, nor even the united
strength of all the strongest men that ever lived, could
tear apart. Only faith, poetry, love, romance, can push
aside that curtain and view and picture the supernal
beauty and glory beyond. .15 it all real? Ah, Virginia, in
all this world there is nothing else real and abiding.

No Santa Claus? Thank God he lives and lives for-
ever. A thousand years from now, Virginia, nay ten times
10,000 years from now, he will continue to make glad
the heart of childhood.

Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year!

Econolodge
540.463.7371

* Parents Discount *
* Newly Renovated *

* Free HBO w/ Remote *
* No Smoking Rooms *
* Free Continental *
Breakfast

Ceftic
Connection t

‘Unique imports .
from Irehmd, Scotfand, & the British ISLE:

 

Find That Special Holiday Gift! 0

(jive {Mom an elegant Beffeeh or Donegat”
China vase from Irefancffor under $40.00!
. Or sefect a tartan woof tie or scarf for
Dacfunzfer $25.oo—-wrapyecfantfreacfy to
put under the tree!

Be sure to see our gold. sterling. & pewter
Celtic knot jewelry—and don't miss our
exclusive line of Heathercems jewelry
handcrafted in Scotland from highland
heather!
(jewefry starting at 310.95)

_ We have hoohs, Cris, artworlé, ﬂlran
sweaters, capes & scarves, t-shirts, sweat-
yshirts, tweed hats, foocfs, crystaﬂperfumes,
tea toweﬁs, and much more—something for
every 5ucfget—alT giftwrapyecf for free!

Open daily 10-5:30PM and Sundays
through Christmas, noon-4PM

19 W. Nelson St. inxington
464-6545

Position: Assistant Business Manager
Time Commitment: 2-4 hours per week

Jason Williams at williamsjj'@wlu.edu.

Position: Online Editor
Time Commitment: 1 hour per week

is rrés ’ alittle lea .

Fatten it up by working on The Ring-tum Phi.

Requirements: Must be very organized and like to work with numbers

Our current Business Manager will train you to take over the Phi Business Office, and you will become the
Business Manager at the end of Winter Term. You will handle advertising accounts, invoices, and all financial
matters. Business Manager is a paid position — you ’ll earn cash through commissions. To apply, contact

Requirements: Must like working with computers; no HTML experience necessary

Our current Online Editor will teach you how to use a program that he wrote to convert the Phi ’s paper
edition to the online edition. All you have to do is “cut" and “paste” text — no web page experience is
necessary. To apply, contact Tom Waa'l‘ow at rwadlow@wlu.edu.

Lee Signed CDV

ROBERT E. LEE SIGNATURES
FOR SALE

 

Clipped signature with closing W/ CDV
Document signed "R. E. Lee, Lt. Engrs"
Letter Signed, Lexington, VA, 1870

AND
Washington College Diploma, 1867

Other Lees: Fitzhugh, G.\X/.C., "Rooney" & Lee's Father—In—Law

Also Available: Lincoln, Grant, Mosby, Longstreet, Ashby,
Beauregard, Early, A.P. Hiu, Imoben, etc., etc.

Great Framing, Great Service, Great History

Original Frameworks

1 North Main St. Lexington, 464-6464
M—F 10-6, Sat 9-4, New Manager

$3000
$4000
$6500
$5500

$4500

Thursday
3:00PM,

Tucker hall 318

  Seniors!
Thinking about
next year?
Come to meeting
to find out
about teaching
overseas.

 

WASI-IINGTONAND LEE
UNIVERSITY

,V‘u-glnh 24450

,Dec. 10

 

 

DECEMBER 7, 1998

W&

@112 iﬂing-Gum iﬂhi

IFE

PAGE 7

at

1

This year, avoid crowds, lines with click of computer musei

By Erica Prosser
FEA TURES EDITOR

It’s the most wonderful time of the year, a time of mistletoe and snow and
Santa Claus . . .

And it’s also a time of circling parking lots to ﬁnd a space, ﬁghting your way
through the crowded malls and racing from store to store before the other
customers beat you to the last available Furby in the entire tri-state area.

There’s a reason why shopping in malls has recently been linked to in-
creased heart rate and blood pressure in men.

Still, there’s hope. It’s the ‘90s, after all, and with today’s technology, a new
means of shopping has emerged: online shopping.

Before you shriek and bury your head at the thought of trying to buy things
over the Internet, consider this: online shopping has become
easier and safer than ever before. You never have to deal with
other customers or salespeople. And as for parking spaces? Don’t
bother. If you have an Internet browser and a credit card, you’re
all set.

But how to go about this new and exciting adventure in shop-
ping? Never fear. Just a few quick lessons and you’ll soon be on
your meny way.

First, the ways you go about this process can vary. If, for
example, you know for sure that you want to get your little sister
a Cinderella Barbie doll, go to www.toysrus.com and look under
“dolls.” It’s there, along with a huge selection of other toys sold
by the Toys ‘R’ Us chain. Do you think you want to get Uncle
Irving a Hickory Farms gift set? Head to www.hickoryfarms.com
and select what you like. Or how about a nice new mystery thriller
for Dad? Your one-stop source for books is www.amazon.com.

See a pattern? Most major chain stores have online ordering
on their web sites, and other services specialize in a wide selec-
tion of similar items, such as books, ﬂowers and CDs.

What if you don’t have a particular store in mind, or what if
you have no idea what to get that special someone this year?

Rejoice, for there is help for you, too. Many online services
provide shopping help and “mall” store selections for the unde-
cided shopper. Try out shopping.yahoo.com, www.irnall.com and
www.santa.com for help.

Have something speciﬁc but outrageous in mind and don’t
know where to look? Go to a search engine like www.yahoo.com,
enter your idea in the search window and let the list of related
web sites come to you. Yes, that collectible Star Wars Yoda ﬁgu-
rine is out there somewhere, just waiting to be purchased.

Which brings up another point: be careful of online auctions
and trading sites. Beanie Babies, Furbies and other hard-to-ﬁnd
items can be purchased for a (usually exorbitant) price at these
places, but there’s usually no way to tell if the sites are legiti-
mate. You would often be buying from other individuals who are
trying to unload the stuff, and you are each pretty much on your
honor to fulﬁll your parts of the business contract.

Most of the time, these sites are fine and no. one has any
complaints. When in doubt, though, stick with the more reliable

  

Get Home!

 

111 W. Nelson St.

<  

o
Q  
I-

    
  

@li1lP'll§llZl‘l‘lCll§
ﬁliopping

. E

Don't Wait Until You

We Have Gifts For
Dad, Mom, Brother,
Sister And "Best Girl"

Free Gift Wrapping - MasterCard - VISA - ANIEX

(Next To The Palms!)

shopping spots.

So you’ve arrived at the Disney Store online through disney.com, you’ve
selected the plush Mickey Mouse Santa Christmas ornament you want. and
you’re ready to check out. How do you know that your credit card number is
safe?

Online order forms that are safe use an encryption process to protect your
precious numbers. To see whether or not the order form is secure, look for
security information on the browser you use.

With Netscape, for example, the open “security” padlock on the toolbar at
the top of the browser will close and become surrounded by a yellow aura. The
tiny little padlock in the lower left hand comer ofthe window will do the same
thing. This is your indication that the site is safe (most online order forms won‘t
become secure until the page that asks for your mailing and credit card inforrna—
tion comes up, so don’t worry ifyou don’t see the padlocks close right away).

If you still don‘t feel safe entering your credit card number online, relax.
Most sites offer phone numbers that you can call to order merchandise if
you’re still squeamish.

Finally. online ordering can be fun for those who don’t have any money to
spend. You can send e-cards, e—kisses and e-flowers for Christmas to other
people who have e—mail accounts. You ﬁll out the information, and the recipient
will get an e-mail message featuring an electronic greeting from you. Dozens of
sites offer these free services: check out Yahoo! or another search engine to
find web sites that provide these features.

_ There you have it. a basic guide to Internet shopping! See, that wasn’t so V
awful. Now you have alternatives to battling your way through malls and outlet 1

stores. You can save both your sanity and your shoe leather at the same time.
Sit back, relax andjust click the mouse.
You might decide you like it.

   

age» -
, oyot 5 t.Y9u
'. oyot. ‘Dealer

* vingsba a on comparison of ‘Q9
Corolla equ ped with options a_cl<_ag§_y

   

comparably. uipped*‘98‘C6’r'6l a. Corolla
IS the best s l g car in history, based on
worldwide 5 $ i

 

 

 

55 0 11d In C   _.
N a In C

  
    
     
     
   

A Story Of Keégs, Da.m::es, Padd.Ii.ngs,
And A Hell Night Tliat Will LeadVYi;3u ’I‘t;3
Tlie.....

cx:npy( ﬁes) (inf H ELLMASTER

      
   
 
   
 
 

M /was

han l.215l Yeafl. .

g   ls\3all<e:-r

Add rttss

ZIP

Sir") per l‘)cml~: plm;  L"

Picttaarr ﬁt:-ii-it‘ n;*?‘i-;;r.*i>:a 

  
 

 

 

PAGE 8

@112 iﬁtng-tum iﬂlti

PORTS

DECEMBER 7, 1998 I »,

250*“ Basketball Tournament Highlghs

Men ’s team loses in ﬁnal minutes

By Brendan Harrington
STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s basketball team has
made some tremendous strides since they posted a 2-22
record in the 1996-1997 season. The Generals took another
step in the right direction this weekend at the Warner Cen-
ter, playing some excellent basketball in the 250th Celebra-
tion Tournament. ~

Aﬁer defeating Middlebury College 74-61on Saturday,
the Generals (2-4, 1-1 ODAC) lost a heartbreaker to an excel-
lent Washington University team 66-64 as

C (

sophomore Will Ballard missed a three-
pointer at the buzzer.

“Whenever you have host your own
tournament you want to win it,” W&L head
coach Kevin Moore said following the
tough loss. “But except for a couple
stretches we played great basketball this
weekend. We’ve come a long way since
our first two games in Sewanee.”

“It was a tough loss, a couple of
things didn’t go our way down the
stretch, but we are starting to come together,” added sopho-
more guard Chad Braley. “It’s been a good weekend, we’ve
really turned it around since Sewanee, we’re playing twice
as good now as we did then.”

The Generals led 26-24, but the Bears (3-4) went on a 17-
6 run to take a 41-32 lead with 14:16 left to play. The Bears
took their biggest lead of the game at 50-40 with 10:29 left
in the game before the Generals went on a 10-2 run to cut
the lead to 52-50 with 7 :42 left in regulation.

With 5:34 leﬁ in the game and the Bears up 58-52, junior
Rich Peterson was called for his fourth personal foul and
then threw his mouth guard on the ﬂoor because of the
call, prompting the referee to call a technical foul on
Peterson. Not only did the Bears get four foul shots and
possession, but the technical foul also counted as
Peterson’s ﬁfth personal foul, sending the Generals’ best
player to the sidelines.

“Rich’s technical is disturbing,” Moore said. “It was a
good foul call and for Rich to react like that you have to
expect that the ofﬁcial is going to do something . . . Rich
knows he made a big mistake.”

Fortunately for the Generals, the Bears only scored three
points as a result of the play after they made three of the
four foul shots but turned it over on the awarded posses-
sion, making the score 61-52.

 

We’ve come a
long way since
Sewanee.

— coach Kevin Moore

 

The Generals trailed by nine with 4:21leﬁ and three-
pointer looked to be in serious trouble, but W&L scored
six straight points to cut the lead to 65-62 after Ballard
nailed a three-pointer with 1:22 to go.

The Generals got the ball back with 52 seconds left after
a Washington University turnover but Bears guard Ryan
Patton stole the ball from Braley on an excellent defensive
play and the Generals were forced to foul him.

Patton, who was 7-7 from the line at the time, made
this first free throw but missed the second, giving the
Generals the ball back trailing 66-62 with 30 seconds left
to go. Senior point guard Kevin Cobbin
scored a bucket on the other end to cut
the lead to two and then quickly fouled
Patton, sending him to the line with only.
8 ticks left on the clock.

Patton missed both of the‘ shots and
the Generals got the rebound. They had
no time outs remaining, so they quickly
dribbled it up into the front court where
9 9 Ballard attempted a three pointer but was

blocked by Washington University stu-
dent Dave DeCreff. He got his own re-
bound and then fired up one more three-pointer at the buzzer.
The last-second shot hit the backboard and front rim and
then fell to the ﬂoor, giving the Bears the two point victory.

“In a game like that there is about ten different things
that if you do them differently then maybe you win the
game, but I’m really proud of the way the kids battled back.”

“We wanted the big trophy, but we played hard all week-
end,” Cobbin said. “ It doesn’t feel good right now, but we
showed a lot of heart coming back from nine points down
with only four minutes left.”

Senior center David Cerven scored a game-high 20
points to go along with nine rebounds and was named the
toumament’s most valuable player. Sophomore forward
Chris Alexander added 14 for the Bears and was named to
the all-toumament team along with Cerven.

For the Generals, Braley led the way with 17 points and
Peterson and Cobbin each had 10. Braley and Peterson
were selected to the all-toumament team.

The Generals shot 39% from the ﬁeld compared to 49%
for the Bears. The Generals won the battle of the boards
35-27 while the Bears led in turnovers 22-21.

“It was a heck of a Division III basketball game,” Bears
head coach Mark Edwards said. “Both teams played with a
lot of intensity and a lot of heart.”

W&L host Emory and Henry on Wednesday at 7:30 p.m.

IT ’S BOOK BUYBACK TIME!
EAST SIDE OF EVANS DINING I-IALL

(TOWARD THE UNIVERSITY CENTER)

DEC. I5, I6 6179-400
DEC. 18 93:00

SPONSORED BY THE UNIVERSITY BOOKSTORE

 

it‘

?a

eekend 

Photo by Emily Bames/‘Photo Editor

Members of the W&L and Skidmore teams fight fora loose ball at the 250"’ Tournament.

Women ’s team loses consolation »

By Tod Williams

STAFF WRITER

Last week, the Generals hosted its first tournament in
the team’s six years of existence, the Washington and Lee
250"‘ Celebration Basketball Tournament. Before this year,
the team held a 7-4 record in invitational tournaments, in-
cluding the championship at at Carnegie Melon Touma-
ment last year.

From now on, the Generals should stick to being guests
at such tournaments.

The team lost its consolation game to Skidmore College
65-52 early Saturday evening, just after the team had lost
its first round game in the tourney on Friday night to
Middlebury College 52-40. W&L also lost to Randolph-
Macon 65-59 on Tuesday, in its only ODAC game sofar
this year. '

The Generals, off to a 1-4 start this year, had a rough
time in the tournament, losing the consolation round game
to Skidmore. W&L saw the lead only once in the game, and

the Thoroughbreds led by double digits four times in the
first half.

The Generals players were very much in the game going
into the locker room, down only four, 36-32. The Generals
did pull within two points with a little more than eight min-
utes to go in the game, but the run was quickly ended.
Skidmore went on a 15-2 scoring run to end the game.

The Thoroughbreds had three ladies in doubie digits, a
as All-Toumament selection sophomore forward Sarah
McEachron led the team with 17 points. Senior guard
Heather Mitchell dropped in 13, and Heather Martin added
11 points on the day.

Junior guard Ansley Miller led W&L in the scoring col-
umn with 15 points. Miller was also 8-8 at the foul line.
Senior forward Chrissy Burghardt, W&L’s sole All-Tour-
nament selection, pulled down eight boards for the Gener-
als. Freshman Alison Kudlacik was 2-4 from behind the ;,
arc.

Kudlacik paced herself to double digits in each of this
week’s three games, coming off the bench twice to do so.

  
   

Take a breath of fresh air . . .

. . . and find out how the women’s swim team did on page 9.

Photo by Emily Bames/Pl ditor

 

 

DECEMBER 7, 1998

Sii3"E)““RT S

PAGE 9

'1 By Steele Cooper

STA FF WRITER

The Washington and Lee women’s swim team won its
first ODAC meet on Tuesday against Randolph—Macon
‘ Woman’s College. W&L took first in 10 ofthe 12 events
with strong performances from returning veterans and a
solid freshman class.

Three freshman women finished first in their individual
events. Freshman Kristen Bonnema won the 200 free. Fel-
low class mates Laura Ingoldsby and Maggie Fagan ﬁn-
ished first in their events. Ingoldsby swam her 100 free

  ‘Swim team wins ODAC meet

with the winning time of 59.46 seconds, and Fagan posted
a 1:08.83 to win the 100 ﬂy.

Junior Lauren Beckenhauer totaled two first place fin-
ishes on Tuesday. Beckenhauer won the 100 back with a
time of 1 :05 and the 500 free with a 5:45.01.

Junior Lauren McKeever won the 100 back with a time
of 1 2 16.00. Fellowjunior Lezael Haynes came in first in the
200 back with her time of2:27.28.

Seniors Margaret Hoehl and Laura Goodwin also posted
wins in their events. l-loehl led the pack in the 200 fly with
a 2: 19.09, and Goodwin took the 200 breast with her 2:50.69.

W&L swims today at Sweet Briar at 7 p.m.

As of Thanksgiving, the Washington and Lee
Mounted Generals are ranked second in the region,
' a few points behind Ferrum College and far ahead of
Hollins University, which holds third place. Senior
Lydia Nichols leads the team with her 7th place rank-
ing, and seniors Christine Starer and Sarah Rector,
as well asjunior Lindsay Gatling are also ranked in
the top 50 for high point riding. Several riders have
already qualified for individual Regionals.

On Nov. 18, W&L defeated 15 schools for the
Team Championship at Southern Virginia. These are
'1 the results of the show.

Open Equitation on the Flat

First —— Senior Lydia Nichols

Third -— Senior Sarah Rector
. Fourth a Senior Christine Starer

' Mounted Generals ride to top of class

Open Equitation Over Fences
Second —— Junior Lindsay Gatling
Fourth — Senior Lydia Nichols
Fourth —— Senior Sarah Rector

Intermediate Equitation Over Fences
First — Sophomore Annabelle Wirth

Novice Equitation on the Flat
Second — Freshman Staunton Binstead

Novice Equitation Over Fences
Sixth — Freshman Staunton Binstead

Advanced Walk Trot Canter
First — Senior Wendy Kimble

 
 

stoaﬁpté Guaran

C ONSOLATION

continued from page 8

She earned the start in Saturday evenings game. “1’ve
really learned a lot this year from the coaches and the team."
she said, “and I’m just playing the best I can.”

“lt’s nice to start, but it’s a real team effort every time we
play and practice,” Kudlacik said. “Everyone contributes
and works really hard.” .

Kudlacik has contributed seven of the
team’s ten three pointers. Last
season, the Generals
scored only a total of 19
three pointers, all of
which came from
Miller, who has

  
  
   
 
  

then a minute to play against Randolph-Macon. Unfortu-

nately, the Yellow Jackets scored the last four points in the
game to clench the 65-59 game.

W&L had produced an exciting late second half come-
back. scoring 12, as the team chopped down the Jackets’
14-point lead.

The game stayed close the entire first half, as Macon
took a 35-30 lead into the break. But the Jackets came out

to play in the second halfby starting with a 15-6 run,
which gave W&L a 50-36 lead.
The Generals then abolished what ap-
peared to be Macon’s domination as they
went on a 23-1 1 run to come within two,

at 6 1 -59.

The Jackets then put the game _
out of reach with four points

scored the other in the game’s final minute.
three this year, A pair of seniors and J
Head coach a pair of freshmen led the
Terri Dadio Generals both on the
Campbell knows court and in the scoring
that the freshmen Column in the game.
will have a major im— Burghardt led the team as

pact on the season.
She said that a fresh-
man will be on the ﬂoor

at all times during the sea-
son, as has happened
thus far.

Four freshmen have
comprised seven of the 15
starting positions in the last
three games.

On Friday, W&L actually I’;
led Middlebury College at
the break, but the Panthers
eventually pulled away for the
52-40 win.

The first half was definitely dominated by scoring runs.
Middlebury took quite a while to get warmed up in the
game. The Generals led off with an 8-0 run, holding the
Panthers scoreless for the first six minutes. Middlebury
then went on an 18-8 run to steal the lead from the Gener-
als. W&L ended the halfon a 7-0 run to take a 26-23 lead
into the locker room.

The second half was not as bright for the Generals,
however. The Panthers began with an 8-0 run to recapture
the lead at 26-23 with 17:23 left in the game. And from then
on, it was the Panthers’ game. The Generals were held to
only 17 points in the half while the Panthers came away
with 34. Kudlacik led the Generals with 12, while Burgh ardt
added 11 and seven boards.

Senior forward Kelly McCarthy led the Panthers with a
double-double. She had 13 points and 12 rebounds.

In the tournament’s championship game, Washington
University of St. Louis, the defending national champions,
fought off Middlebury for the 79-68 win. In Friday’s other
game, Washington defeated Skidmore to advance to the
championship.

Last Tuesday, the Generals came to within two with less

 

teed Credit Cards with Credit Limis
Up To $10,000 Within Days!

No CREDIT, N o J OB, No PARENT SIGNER, No SECURITY DEPOSIT!

 

  

  
        
  
    
 
  

 

she posted her first double-
double of the year with 16 points and ten
rebounds.

Freshman Jessica Mentz was not too far be- I
hind with 14 points and eight boards on the .
night. Kudlacik added 1 1 and Miller dropped in
ten.

Senior guard Aimee Beightol led Macon with

16, while junior center Renee Zando con-
tributed a double-double performance. .

The Generals currently sit at 1-4

overall, and 0-1 in the ODAC. Winless

so far in December, the only win came

from a game at Villa Julie, which was ac-

tually four days before Thanksgiving.

On Tuesday, the W&L team will look for a win as it
travels to Randolph—Macon Women’s College for a 7
p.m. game. V

t1ie200-meter,(iashwith,a‘ti1ﬁi,§ , 9,82
Nicola  ) ed  pla
of33.65 inthe 200-tneteridaslil Britt Shaft?
in 14th place in the the 55‘ , p u
timeof10.31. .:*  
’ Boththemen’s andwoiﬁ   , ,
Lebanon Valley on January 23 for their 11,

—‘:.‘.«’r.

 

 

GI/A194 M55
1

 
 
 
   

-« no credit ° bad credit ° no income?
     lfYouThinkYou    
' Can't Get A Credit Mastercard
Card, Think Again. ’     3
Want VISA & MasterCard Credit Cards?  
~ i--------------—----———-—-—--—-—----—————_...._......-...._..-.._..._..,
* 5     ORDER FORM 1
l  S ' I want Credit Cards immediately. N..TE,£D:-iAPP.RovAL :
, 1 . CRA, PO Box 16662, ATLANTA, GA 30321 1
I ame ................................................................................................................................................. ..
1 :ClCll’€SS ............................................................................. ..................................................................fffff.ffffIfIIffffIf:fffffffifIIf:ff.if::.::!.::!::!!I:::::Z """"" " l
 . City .................................................................................................................... .. State ............................................... .. Zip .................. 
E : Signature ...............................................................................................................................  .................................................................................................. 
‘ l Tired of Bein Turned Down? 1
3  I
‘ L Guaranteed $10,000 In Credit!    1
  —----—--—--————----—----———----————....._——_.......__-________..i

 

 

Humor Page

PAGE 10

 

DECEMBER 7, 1998 ’

Holiday gifts for spoiled rich W&L brats »

By Kevin McManemin

M Y COLUMN, BERNIE

Brush aside the mounds of 250'“ crap in the bookstore
and you’ll discover a treasure trove of W&L Christmas gifts.
You’re sure to ﬁnd the perfect gift for everybody on your
list.

Dean “Leroy” Buddy Atkins plush doll

Huggable, lovable, squeezably soft, this doll is the per-
fect gift for all ages, with the sole exception of women over
12 and men of any age. Comes with fun interchangeable
bow ties in eight designer colors.

The Computer Help Desk Home Game

Roll the dice. Move the pieces. Move them back. Clum-
sily ﬁddle around with them for an hour. Break the board.
Don’t bother keeping score because everyone who plays is
a loser.

English Department action ﬁgures

Now your hyperactive little brother can reenact all the
fun and excitement of college English courses with these
awesome new action ﬁgures, based on the hit cartoon se-
ries!

Here comes Professor Ray complete with battle axe and
Laser Death Blaster®. ZAP! ZAP! 'Ihere’s Professor Miller,
Warrior Princess, with real Kung Fu kickboxing action.

Uh oh, evil Warlord Jim Warren and his brutish hench-
men Smout and Craun are up to no good again, hoarding all
the Emily Dickinson books in the library.

But look out! Crashing through the brick wall is Profes-
sor Wheeler in the battle-ready Wheeler-mobile® with
Dabney Stuart in the machine gun turret. BLAM BLAM
BLAM! Warren and his thugs are torn to shreds like a poor
thesis.

(Castle Payne Hall Action Playset® sold separately)

The Abortion of the Month Club

The perfect gift for that irresponsible yet irrepressibly
popular girl on your hall. It’s the gift that keeps on giving
for the girl who keeps on giving!

W&L dress-up book

What should Chad and Wescott wear today? Should
they wear their khakis and blue polo shirts or khakis and
dark blue polo shirts? It’s up for you to decide in this 42-
page, 4-item dress-up book. Minutes of fun!

Virtual pledge

From the makers of the electronic toy sensation

Tamagotchi comes Virtual Pledge, the frat-tacular new game

that’s sweeping the Greek world. Be sure to force feed your‘

virtual pledge beer and dip and heap abuse on him daily so
that one day he’ll grow into a brother — but feed him too
much and he’ll go to the inﬁrmary. Play fun games with
Virtual Pledge including Clean-the-Puke, Paddleass and
Lineup (the game they won’t tell you about at the rush
dinner).

    
    
  
  
     
  

  

;   _bl
.,/,.elf,workersiathi ‘
~  ¢“Iihad,fnoc _ ~ .
:{fo1;fall the cliildre, 1n;thi World ‘ 
I hadVtq3lay.oii7,the.élvestogremai co
,.~riiarketplace:’
7‘li.1‘1i<é»!=’1’f“1Zé,y<.>iff has ;devTast%ited¥i,<>1K‘e Ségmén

’ .7.«t’1.i“e Northi.PoIe,ieconoiny,,such as the tinygpoiiji

   

  iaiidgthe tiny shoe 
‘ ,Santa’s toys will; now be,‘-Iriade.'b

V y’ ipdoztes
- gnomes for sevenrc/ents an hoiurg 4 *7; "

 

Starr puts~C1inton on‘naughty’1ist, g
Washington -— Independent Counsel”:Ke/ni1”eth 
Starr submitted a 1,400 page report to Santa Claus ”
detailing reasons why President Clinton should be
put on the “naughty” list. I 3 I
“President Clinton has been a bad, very bad bo
‘ this year,” Starr concluded. “He does not deserve the
,_ Sony Playstation he asked for.” ' '
Clinton blames the report on the “right wing con-
‘ spiracy” against him.

he Last Word would like to wish all

of our readers a very Merry

Christmas, Happy Hanukkah, Joyous
Kwanzaa, Smashing Boxing Day, Wonderful
Wiccan Winter Solstice, Happy Yanomamo
Sun God Feast, Bleak Nihilist Day, or a good
whatever bizarre holiday your particular sect
in our fractured society celebrates.

by Brian Prisco
PHI MOVIE GUY

  

 3:2 5
(W/ait until the
matinee showing)

“Very Bad Things” is not so much
a movie as a life changing experience.
After seeing this horrifying graphic
ﬁlm, I left the theater, as did much of
the audience, clutching my head in my
hands and mumbling, “Jesus Christ.
Jesus Christ.” It was THAT vicious.

“Very Bad Things” was written and
directed by Peter Berg (Chicago Hope),
a first timer behind the camera. I am
not sure what drug he was injecting,
snorting or smoking, but it should
probably be outlawed and destroyed.
The savage comedy strikes at every
single aspect of society that could be
considered wrong and shows it in all
its brilliant glory.

The movie has an outstanding
cast. Jon Favreau (“Swingers”) I5

a.‘

about to get married to Cameron Diaz
(“Something About Mary”) and be-
fore the day is through, he and his bud-
dies go out on a rampaging, all-out
bachelor party bonanza. It’s a drink-
ing drugging whoring crazy whoopti—
do, until Jeremy Piven (P.C.U.) acci-
dentally kills the hooker. Which is a
shame, cause she had quite a pair on
her.

Then, the movie breaks down into
a grotesquery that Quentin Tarantino
would vomit at.

The twisted death in this movie is
not so much the point, it’s the fact that
you don’t really see it coming until it
is too late, and then it hits you all at
once. It’s like taking a sledgehammer
to the cerebral cortex. Which might be
one ofthe only items not used to kill
someone in this movie.

The plot runs smoothly and
quickly, and is well played out by ev-
eryone. Christian Slater is surprisingly
dire, Daniel Stern takes an out-of—the-
norm turn as the only semi-vigilant
family man with morals (limited though
they are) in this gruesome gathering,
and Diaz isjust frightening. Berg de-
scribed her character as “Martha

Very good movie gives audience very bad feeling

Stewart on acid.” I’d say more like
“Martha Stewart on PCP and crack.”
The ending is wrong on so many lev-
els, but it ﬁts this movie perfectly. I
wouldn’t dare spoil the horrid effect it
had on me, so just go and see it for
yourself. Seriously.

The question that most people
have put to me is “Yeah, but would I
want to see it?” I felt dirty because I
laughed a lot during the movie. A
whole lot. More than I should have.
And I left the theater feeling evil. How
can I answer it?

Well, a comparison. “Pulp Fiction”
involved a scene where someone gets
his head blown offin a car and bits of
brains and blood are everywhere.

“Single White Female” involved a ‘

scene where a woman jams a high
heeled shoe into a man’s eye socket.
This movie makes them look like kiddie
ﬁlms. So there.

Sound like your cup oftea? lfyou
don’t like savage violence or twisted
humor, this is not your movie, do not
even waste your time. But if you dig
sick shit, hey, this is deﬁnitely the flick
for you.

designed  Hollister Hovey

The cast of the wonderfully twisted comedy '1
“Very Bad Things.”

 

0

  

  0112 iii

VOLUME 101, No. 11

Freshman dies
in car accident

Speeding truck driver causes
massive pileup on Interstate 81

By Polly Doig

NEWS EDITOR

Slippery early morning conditions
on Interstate 81 near Lexington and
an out-of-control tractor-trailer com-
bined to claim the life of a Washing-

ton and Lee University freshman on

Sunday, Jan. 3.

Jonathan Owen Nabors, 19, ofA1a-
baster, Ala., was returning from Christ-
mas break to begin his second semes-
ter at W&L when the car in which he
was traveling with his family was
crushed between two tractor-trailers
in a l6-vehicle pileup. Nabors and his
15-year-old sister Leah Marie were
killed instantly in the accident.

Nabors’ mother was transported to
Roanoke Memorial Hospital, where
she was initially listed in critical con-
dition and put on life support. As of
Friday evening, she remained in criti-
cal condition.

His father Eddie Nabors also sus-
tained injuries, but was released from
Roanoke Memorial on Friday, and is
expected to return to Alabama for a
memorial service for his children.

Dean of Freshmen Mark Dalhouse

has been the school’s contact with the
Nabors family.

“I was just so impressed by the fam-
ily,” Dalhouse said. “They’re just ex-
tremely close-knit, and are handling
this tragedy extremely well under the
circumstances.”

The Nabors have no other children.

“My heart goes out to them,”
Dalhouse said.

The accident began early on the
morning of Jan. 3, with the occurrence
of a relatively minor accident. The ve-
hicles involved had been moved to the
side of the road, and a State Police of-
ficer was helping travelers when a trac-
tor-trailer traveling too fast for condi-
tions hit the police car and jackknifed.

The driver of the tractor-trailer,
Douglas Hubert Austin, 49, of the
Memphis area, was killed in the wreck.
Within moments, however, at least I 1
other vehicles, ﬁve of them tractor-
trailers, had piled up in one of the
worst accidents local rescue squads
have dealt with in years. A total of 28
people were injured, and the interstate
was closed for approximately 12 hours
with trafﬁc backed up for miles.

See related story on page 4

Police arrest two

on drug charges -

Student calls police raid an act of
‘madness,’ questions methods

By Heather McDonald

STAFF WRITER

Senior Andrew Harrell and former
W&L senior Alexander Chris
Kurnellas were arrested on drug
charges after a 10-man tactical team
searched their three-story house in
early December.

An informant purchased a quar-
ter pound of marijuana from
Kumellas on Dec. 4, according to the
Rockbridge Regional Drug Task
Force.

The search warrant was served
the night of Dec. 5 by a tactical team
consisting of Virginia State Police,
Lexington City Police Tactical
Teams, a state police canine handler
and deputies from the Rockbridge
County Sheriffs Department.

After the search, Kurnellas was
charged with l) distribution of more
than .5 02. but less than 5 lbs. of
marijuana, 2) possession with the
intent to distribute more than .5 oz
but less than 5 lbs., and 3) distribu-
tion of more than .5 oz. but less than
5 lbs. of marijuana.

The first charge carries a maxi-
mum penalty of 10 years and a
$2,500 ﬁne; the second charge car-
ries a maximum penalty of 30 days
and a $500 fine; the third charge car-
ries the same penalty as the first
charge.

Kumellas withdrew from W&L at
the beginning of winter term. Harrell
was charged with misdemeanor pos-
session of marijuana.

Harrell described the night that
the search warrant was served as
“madness.”

“There were a lot of people, in
full riot gear, and they dragged [all
five residents] out ofbed . . . It was
just madness. I’ve watched COPS
on TV before, when they bust
people for illegal arms smuggling
and they didn’t use this many
people. [The cops] scared the shit
out of us,” Harrell said.

“They wouldn’t let us get
dressed [during the search] !” Harrell

I; said. “I was sitting injust my box-

ers in the coldest room ofthe house,
for like two hours, while they
searched the house. They tried to

question me, and they refused to let
me get dressed. I was like, ‘No, this
isn’t illegal or anything.”’

Bob Chapel, of the Rockbridge
Regional Drug Task Force, said the
bust wa: routine in nature. In the
past year, there have been more than
100 busts in the Rockbridge, Lexing-
ton and Buena Vista areas.

“We normally use seven or eight
men on a tactical team,” Chapel said,
“But this house had three levels, so
we used ten men.”

Chapel said he was unsure how
much the operation cost.

“[The DTF] doesn’t add up the
costs. However, the costs include
things like man hours, vehicles, gas,
wear and tear on the wires (for trans-
mitting information), and money
used to buy the drugs from the in-
formant,” Chapel said.

Harrell thinks what he viewed as
the seriousness of the bust may
have been due to what the informant
may have told the police.

“[The informant] might have told
them we had more stuff, but there
really wasn’t,” Harrell said. “[The
informant] lived at our house over
the summer. We gave him free room
and board, and he cut our grass. . .
He used to be the main supplier [of
marijuana] to W&L, but then when
someone started selling it for less,
he got mad.”

“Nothing has made sense in the
past few days,” Harrell said. “It’s
all fascinating to me that they did all
of this for a bunch of guys with a
little pot. They’re nuts. l’ve never
seen anyone get guns pointed at
them for having pot! Even the war-
rant just said marijuana. . . no co-
caine, no hard drugs.”

In addition to the marijuana, po-
lice found $500 worth of highway
road signs in the house. Charges
have not been brought against the
residents of the house forthese
signs. Harrell maintains the signs
are not theirs.

“Some fraternity had the house
for five years [before us]. We rented
the house from a landlord. The road
signs were stacked in corners when
we got there, and we just left them
there. . . They aren’t ours,” Harrell said.

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

Hg-tum {ﬂirt

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

MONDAY, JANUARY 1 1, 1999

Sorority rushees listen carefully to the rules they must obey during their last day of rush. During the next two onth,
these girls will be at the heck and call of their future ‘sisters.’ More about women’s rush on pages 6 and 7.

Elrod recovers from surgery

By Polly Doig

NEWS EDITOR

Washington and Lee University
President John W. Elrod underwent
surgery last Thursday to remove a
cancerous kidney.

, The.operation has been termed
an initial success, according to
W&L’s director of communications
Brian Shaw, and Elrod is resting com-
fortably at the New York Hospital
where the procedure was performed.

“As far as we know he is doing
very well,” Shaw said. “The surgery
proceeded as expected and his doc-
tors reported that things ‘looked
good.’ The final report on the analy-
sis of the tissue around the kidney

that was removed will not be avail-
able until the end ofnext week.”

The surgery was performed by
W&L alumnus Dr. Darracott Vaughan
’6l, the head of the urology depart-
ment at Cornell University.

Elrod was initially diagnosed
with transitional cell carcinoma in his
right kidney at the Augusta Medi-
cal Center. Dr. Vaughan confirmed
the diagnosis when Elrod sought a
second opinion.

“John experienced some discomfort
and had it checked out,” Shaw said.
“The examination revealed the cancer.
His first diagnosis was in mid-Decem-
ber. The second opinion was deliv-
ered just before Christmas.”

Although risks exist every time a

Hotline misdialers
bother Lex resident

By Polly Doig

NEWS EDITOR

For Lexington resident Pam
Mayo, snow is a bittersweet event.
Her husband earns part of his living
plowing snow. Yet, along with the
season’s first flakes, Mayo can an-
ticipate a ﬂurry of unwanted early
morning phone calls.

Mayo’s phone number is 463-
GOOD, one digit away from Wash-
ington and Lee University’s inclem-
ent weather line, 462-GOOD.

“Basically, anytime the weather
gets bad, these calls start pour-
ing in from students wanting to
know what the road conditions
are,” Mayo said. “The majority of
them occur before 7 a.m., and I’ve
had people call at 2 in the morn-
ing before.”

According to Mayo, the problem
has been ongoing for more than a
year now, with no sign of slowing
down, as evidenced by last week’s
bad weather and subsequent calls.

“[Last week] when the weather was
so bad, I got ahnost 70 calls between 7
and 10 a.m.,” Mayo said. “And I have
caller I.D., and most said W&L.”

The common error is com-
pounded for Mayo by W&L stu-
dents’ rude behavior.

“Most of the time, I answer the

"phone, and peoplejust immediately

hang up,” Mayo said. “They don’t
even have the courtesy to say
‘sorry, wrong number.’ I’ve only
spoken to one girl who was nice
enough to tell me that she was try-
ing to reach the weather line.”
Changing her phone number,
however, is not an option for Mayo.
“I’ve had my phone number for a
good while now,” Mayo said. “I

don’t see why I should have to
change my number. The university
should do something about this
problem. Brian [Shaw, director of
communications] said that he’s go-
ing to try and get another number,
so he’s working on it.”

According to Shaw, the univer-
sity is looking to make a change with
the existing system, but is encoun-
tering problems.

“We are looking for a differ-
ent number at this point,” Shaw
said. “However, the problem is
that 463 numbers, in particular
those that are easy to remember, are
hard to come by.”

For the time being, when the
weather in Lexington takes a turn for
the worse, not worrying about the
phone ringing and getting a full
night’s sleep is an impossibility for
Mayo.

“We run our business out of our
home, and when my husband’s out
on the road I have to take these
calls,” Mayo said.

  Ellie ﬂing-tum ilﬁhi
January 11,1999
OPINION:

W&LIFE:

weather

SPORTS:

patients undergo general anesthesia,
the removal of a kidney is not consid-
ered to be high risk, and Dr. Vaughan
is optimistic regarding the operation.
He said that no follow-up treatment
will be necessary, if, as he suspects,
the tumor has been caught early.

Elrod is expected to return to Lex-
ington within ﬁve to seven days after
the operation, according to Shaw.

“After he gets back he will recu-
perate at Lee House and probably do
some work,” Shaw said. “We don’t
really expect him to be back at full ca-
pacity until the first of February at the
earliest.”

Throughout Elrod’s period of re-
cuperation, his office is being man-
aged by Farris Hotchkiss, vice presi-

dent of university relations, and
Laurent Boetsch, vice president for
academic affairs.

“We had to reschedule a few meet-
ings at which John’s presence was
essential,” Shaw said, “but basically
it has been, and will be, business as
usual until John is fully recovered and
back working.”

Shaw stressed that the operation is
relatively minor in nature, and that Elrod
is expected to make a full recovery.

“There are many people who have
this operation and go on to lead nor-
mal, active lives,” Shaw said. “There
has been absolutely no talk of him
stepping down.’ Aside from this prob-
lem, John is healthy, vigorous and
ready to lead the university. ‘

Rush Statistics:

Number of rushees: 236
Number of upperclass rushees: 5
Number of transfer rushees: 4

Pledge Statistics:

Number ofofﬁcial pledges: 200
Number of upperclass pledges: 4

House

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Phi Kappa Sigma
Sigma Chi

Sigma Phi Epsilon
Phi Kappa Psi
Kappa Sigma

Phi Gamma Delta
Sigma Nu

Pi Kappa Phi

Phi Delta Theta
Chi Psi

Pi Kappa Alpha
Beta Theta Pi
Lamda Chi Alpha

1999 Men’s Rush and
Pledge Statistics

Number of freshmen ineligible for rush due to grades: 26

—c0urteSy of the Interfraternity Council

Parking problems persist, Independent com-
plains about Greek pranks

Phish album disappoints, tips for surviving cold

PAGE 3

PAGES 4

Men’s basketball wins, wrestling wins

PAGES 5

 

Sorority rush results on
pages 6 and 7

 

 

A. ,   @112 ﬂing-tum lﬂht "
‘ ,’ v .'L-I,’ '  V
PAGE?  E   S JANUARY1l,l999 -

Phi congratulates students who achieved Dean’s List A

The following students have completed fall term with 12 or more credits with a term g.p.a. of at least 3.400 and cumulative g.p.a. of at least 2.000 and no individual grade
below C (2.0). * * Indicates that the student is also on the Washington and Lee Honor Roll for completing fall term with a term g.p.a of at least 3.750.

Mims Eshelman Adams ’99A
Brittany Anne Ahlstrom ’00A
Sarah Lynn Aiman ’99A **
Didem Akyel ’0lA

Charles Woodruff Allen ’99A
Ashley Alliene Anderson ’0lA
Sergei Alexandrovich Antonov ’99A **
Lee Anne Applegate ’0lA
Kendra Louise Archer ’99C "‘*
John Talbot Arnold ’99C
Elizabeth Anne Arthur ’99A **
David Neely Averyt ’O2A
Michele Lee Backus ’O2A **
William Jeffrey Bahl ’O2A
Kathleen Evingston Baird ‘02A **
Kathryn Rhett Baldwin ’0lA *"
Robert Renton Baldwin ’0OA **
Christopher McNeill Ball ’00A
Joseph Bassam Barakat ’0lA
Rachael Elizabeth Barlow ’99A **
Jeffrey William Barnes ’0lA **
Ann Cabell Baskervill ’O2A **
Evan Wareing Beale ’0lA
Jackson Talley Beardsley ’0lA
Taylor Beaupain ’00C

Joshua Thornton Beckham ’99A
Andrew Duane Beckler ’99A **
Emily Ann Belcher ’O0C
Shannon Elizabeth Bell ’00A
Kelly Elizabeth Benson ’99C
Edmund Travis Bentson ’OOC

Samuel Moore Chase ’99A
Vanessa Louise Chen ’0lA "”*
Brent Tyler Christ ’99C
William David Christ ’0lA **
John Paul Cimina ’O2A
Lance V. Clack ’00A
Elizabeth Taff Clark ’00A
Ladonna Blaine Clarke ’O2A
Edward Cantey Clarkson ’00A *"‘
Meagan Elizabeth Clement ‘02A **
Matthew James Clymer ’O0C **
Laura Michelle Cohen ’99A **
Sarah Lauren Cohen ’O2A
Michele Kim Connors ’00A
Jeffery Kenneth Cook ’0lA
Hillary Beth Coombs ’99A “”“
David Paul Cooper ’99A
Minton Truitt Cooper ’99A
Timothy Francis Cormier ’0lA
Deirdre Rose Coyle ’00A
Jordan Lorne Coyle ’0lA **
Andrew William Crawford ’0lA
John Aubrey Creek ’O2A
Robert Brian Crews ’0lA
Kathleen Grace Curameng ’00C
David Jason Damiani ’00A
Gary Cornelius Davis ’O2A
Jennifer Lynn Davis ’0lA
Joshua Isaac Davis ’99C
Lillian Hallett Davis ’99A **
Russell Alan Davis ’m A

Russell Kingsbury George ’0OA
Kathryn Joan Giard ’.OOA
Frances Norwood Gilbert ’99C
Nicole Suzanne Gilkeson ’O2A **
John Michael Gilman ’99C
Jordan Samuel Ginsberg ’0lA **
Carl Robert Ginther ’00C

Jude Collin Gleason ’OOA **
Matthew Lee Gooch ’0lA
Sara Kate Goodwin ’0OA
Alysia Margaret Graber ’99C
Tarah Shana Grant ’99A **
Amy Harnbly Gray ’99A
Charles Tyler Green ’0lA ** ,
Riley Erickson Greene ’OOA **
Frances Parnes Grobcrg ’0lA
Thomas Galen Grove ’O2A
Susan Ellen Groves ’0lA **
John David Grumbine ’99C
Lee Ann Gschwind ’99A "‘*
Gerald Lionel Guilbert ’O2A **
Aaron Louis Haberman ’99A
Eline Elly Haenebalcke ’O2A
Nathaniel James Hager ’99A
Donald Clayton Hall ’O0C
Hayley King Hall ’00A **
Leah Michelle Hall ’99A **
Sarah Louise Hall ’0OA

Sarah Ann Hardee ’0lA

Mary Elizabeth Harmon ’99A
Judson Ian Harper ’99C

William Alexander Kanner ’00A
Chase Alvin Karsman ’99A
Alyssa Rachel Kaufman ’99C
Julie Ann Kelley ’O2A
Christoph Arne Kemnade ’99C
Clayton Hughes Kennedy ’O2A
Mark Allen Kennedy ’0lA
Tyler James Kenning ’0lA
Martha Mason Kieckhefer ’99A
HyeWon Kim ’0lA **
Kevin Maxwell Kimmel ’99C "”“
Emory Frampton Kinder ’99A
Isis Calculus Kirby-O’Connell ’99A “*
Jeremy Brian Kirkland ’O2A
Ellen Sue Klenk ‘00A **
Matthew John Klimas ’O0A
Jeremy Todd Knezek ’00C
Jill Elizabeth Kosch ’O0A **
Matthew Lee Kozora ’O2A
Anne Monica Lachiewicz ’O2A
Jane Selden Lacy ‘OIA
Lauren Elizabeth LaFauci ’0lA
Katherine Caulkins Lamb ’0lA
Corinne O’Hayer Lane ’O2A
Samuel Paul Langholz ’O2A *"‘
Jennifer Rachel Law ’O2A **
Michael Joseph Leaser ‘99A
Charles Drake Leddy ’99C **
Alice Saunders Lee ’0lA
Joyce Kerri Lee ’00A
David Andrew Lehman ’00(‘

Michael James Miraglia ’0lA
Darlene Antonia Mitrano ’O2A
Meredith Anne Mlynar ’O0C **
Kathryn Ross Mobley ’O2A
Thomas Vincent Monaco ’0lA
Lee Price Moncrief ’0lA
Abigail Louise Montgomery ’O2A **
Catherine Marie Moore ’99C **
Erin Katherine Moroney ’99A
Kathleen Moroney ’0lA **
Jordan Cameron Morris ’00A **
David Whitfield Morriss ’99A "‘*
Ezra Starling Morse ’O2A
Robert O’Connor Moynihan ’O2A
Daniel MacKenzie Myer ’O2A
Christian Kleven Myers ’00A **
Elizabeth Anne Nacozy ’O2A **
Robert Partlow Naﬁel ’02A
Matthew Paul Neumayer ’00C "‘*
Kristoffer Johan Neville ’99A **
Elizabeth Ann Newton ’O2A
Erica Neyland ’0lA
Jason Allyn Nichols ’00A **
Roshni Mona Nirody ’00A **
Casey Conrad Nixon ’0lA
Kelly Elizabeth Norton ’99C
James Matthew OBrion ’0lA
Autumn Jean Oczkowski ’00A
Ji-Won Oh ’O2A
Elizabeth Leigh Olson ’0lA **
Michael Dennis O’Neill ’oor‘

Hampton Booth Richards ’99A
Carolyn Marie Richardson ’00C
Elizabeth Umstead Richey ’99A
Brian David Ricketts ’00A
Katherine Michelle Riddle ’00A
Sarah Lynn Riggs ’0lA "‘*

Leah Edwards Robinson ’99A **
Jesse Alan Rockoff ’O2A **

Fon Rogers ’O2A

Angela Christine Roman ’0lA *“
Leonard Calvin Rorrer ’99A
Christopher Charles Rosen ’99C
Jeffrey Scott Rotondi ’99A
August Frederick Ruckdeschel ’O0C
Susan Lee Ruge ’O2A **
Kimberly Ann Russell ’0lA **
Nicholas Robert Ryan-Lang ’0lA **
Linda Marie Salerno ’99A "‘*
David Allen Saunders ’99C

Paul Josef Saupe ’99C **

Leah Michelle Sawyer ’0lA
Nicholas Warren Sayers ’O2A
Nicholas David Sbema ’O2A
Leah Camille Schaefer ’00A
Sarah Elizabeth Schandler ’O2A
Peter Carey Schaumber ’99A
Daniel Martin Schreeder ’O2A
Emily Lynn Schulz ’00A
Carl Edward Schulze ’99A **
Megan Lindahl Schwarz ’0lA

i(.=u.. c........... o.... !(\I\r‘ ..

Marshall Hunter Sutton ’99A
Elizabeth Lucille Swann ’O2A
Stephanie Frederick Sweet ’O2A
Andrew Harlan Tapley ’99A

Susan Erica Terzian ’00C ** _
Amanda Lauren Thayer ’00C J‘
Matthew Mike Theodorakis ’99C

Corinne Carter Thomas ’O2A **
Elizabeth Colgate Thomas ’O2A "*
Ben Randolph Thompson ’00A
Matthew Adrian Thurlow ’00A
James Taylor Thurman ’O2A
Gerald Morton Titus ’00A
Jennifer Anne Titus ’00A

Micah Paul Tolman ’O2A **
Alison Marie Trinidad ’O2A **
Abram Jonas Trosky ’O2A
Campbell Lanier Tuskey ’99A ‘*
Rebecca Ashley Tyson ’O2A '
Sumnima Udas ’0lA

Julieann Veronica Ulin ’0lA **
Shannon Viar Upchurch ’99A **
George Michael Urban ’99C p
Nathan Kyle Urquhart ’0lA **
Jennifer Marie Vallidis ’99A **
Robert Chris Vanderbrouk ’O2A **
Geoffrey Brian Veale ’99C **
Khanh Don Nhat V0 ’00A

James Turner Vosseller ‘OOA **
Jodi Lynn Walberg ’O2A

. vnnn

‘C

Gerard Anand Best ’O2A

Joseph Michael Bestic ’99A **
Morrison Curtis Bethea ’O2A
Juliet Marie Bickford ’00A
Daniel Mofﬁtt Birdwhistell ’0lA
Erik Robert Bittner ’99C
Richard Cappe Black ’O2A **
Thomas Gately Blair ’99C

Tully Talbot Blalock ’00C
Robert Worrell Bland ’O2A "‘*
Suzanne Miriam Blum ’00A **
Julie Alissa Boncarosky ‘01C
Christopher George Bond ’99C
lsaris Bonilla ’99C

Kristen Renee Bonnema ’02A **
Kristine Ann Borden ’99A
Elizabeth Eleanor Borges ’0lA
Bret Douglas Bowerrnan ’99C **
Rachel Leanne Bowes ’0lA "‘*
Lee Alexander Bowles ’0lA **
Heather Marie Bradley ’99A **
Lauren Elizabeth Bradshaw ’0lA **
Christine Elizabeth Bragg ’99A
Robert Roy Brigance ’99A
Elizabeth Calder Britt ’99C
Ronald Norval Brown ’00C
James Andrew Browne ’00A **
Rebecca Ann Bruggeman ’99C *‘f‘
Virginia Ann Brumby ’0lA "‘*
Allison Michelle Bruneau ’0lA
Erin Ashley Buck ’00A **
Mary-Sommers Burger ’99A
Kristen Elizabeth Burr ’00A **
Amy Lynn Calce ’0lA
Mackenzie Smyth Caldwell ‘OOA **
Ruth Elizabeth Caldwell ’0lA
Joseph Boyd Camak ’00A

Scott Stewart Cameron ’0lA **
Amanda Lynn Cannon ’O2A **
Claire Anne Cannon ’99A
Carolyn Lee Carlson ’00A

Brian Christopher Carney ’00C
Joshua Eben Carpenter ’00A
Thomas Martin Carr ’99A
Kristin Ellen Carroll ’O2A
Wendy Nadia Case ’0lA

John Brandon Chalk ’00A **
Joshua Donald Chamberlain ’0lA **

Enid Elizabeth Dean ‘99A
Mary Nelson Dickinson ’99A
Benjamin Grant Dickson ’O2A **
Emily Barrington Dixon ’O2A **
Nancy Elizabeth Dixon ’00A
Peter Gardner Dodge ’99A
Allyson Ann Doiron ’0lA
Allison Agnes Doyle ’99C
Mary Hagood Drennen ’O2A
Henry Charles Driscoll ’00A **
Ruth Wakefield Duncan ’0lA
Keri Anne Dunphy ’99A "*
Ellen Rebecca Dupps ’0lA
Bess Jones DuRant ’O2A
Katherine Derbes Eagan ’0lA “*
Dana Marie Early ’0lA **
Brooke Erica Easton ’99C
Christopher Alan Edwards ’99A **
George Frederick Eichleay ’0lA
Ashley Elizabeth Eigher ’99C **
Ryan Mark Elliott ’99C **
Katherine Elsnab ’O2A
Courtney Leighan Emich ’O2A
Brian Jeffrey Euterrnoser ’00A **
Craig Sloan Evans ’99C
Noelle Elizabeth Evans ’O2A **
Elizabeth Brooke Evenson ’O2A
Hillary Camilla Everist ’00A
MacNeille Everist ’O2A
Alicia Marie Faderewski ’00C-
John Lee Farringer ’99A
Joel Patrick Fechisin ’0lA **
Sarah Elizabeth Feinberg ’99C **
Erin Kathleen Ferguson ’0lA **
Sean Brandon Fierke ’99A
Shelby Ryan Fierke ’O2A **
Megan Poynter Fink ’00A
Rebecca Helen Fitzsimmons ’99A
Silvana Elizabeth Flinn ’O2A
Emily Thomas Fonnan ’0lA *"‘
Lauren Ann Francis ’99A **
Amy Michelle Frazier ’99A
Tara Ann Friedel ’O2A
Jennifer Ann Frost ’99C
Matthew J. Gallo ’O2A
Noelle Marie Gamble ’00C
Thomas Henry Garrett ’00C
Gregg Joseph Genetti ’99C **

Malcolm Erskine Harris ’99A
Mary Rebecca Harris ’99A
Joshua Thomas Harvey ’O0A **
James Worrill Haslam ’99C
Christopher Edward Hatzis ’00A **
Joseph Pierce Hawkins ’00C
Geoffrey Bradford Haydon ’0OC **
Lezael Andrea Haynes ’00C **
Victoria Clark Hays ’0lA
Anne Cummins Hazlett ’0lA
Raquelle Alicia Headley ’0lA
Michael L. Healey ’00A
Warren Eliot Hedges ’00A
Frederick Mark Heiser ’0lA
Shari Noelle Henderson ’0lA
Daniel Ewell Hendricks ’99A **
‘Robert Lewis Hendricks ’O0C
Pamela Gray Herbert ’99A **
Margaret Kelley Herring ’99A
Wade Randall Hess ’O2A
Sara Naomi Heusel ’O2A **
Kenneth Brooks Hickman ‘02A **
Mary Kimbrell Hight ’00C
Kristen Noel Hitchens ‘00A **
Margaret Anne Hoehl ’99A **
Wesley Alden Hoke ’00A **
Graham Davis Holding ’O2A
Marium Grace Holland ’99A **
Scott McLean Hook ’00A
Nathan Rollins Hoot ’0lA ** 0
Stephen Day Hopkins ’00A
Rosalie M. Taylor Homer ’00A **
Stephen Christopher Hostetler ’O2A
Paul Daniel Hourigan ’99C **
Heather Michelle Howard ’O2A **
Nadiyah Mateen Howard ’99A
Matthew James Howenstein ’0lA
John David Huntington ’99C
Elizabeth Parry Huston ’99A
G-Yoon Im ’O2A
Sula Beatrice Jacobs ’00A
Christopher Patrick Johnson ’00A
Cynthia Ann Johnson ‘OOC **
Deena Nicole Johnson ’0lA
James Gowen Johnson ’99A
Tyler Scott Jorgensen ’0lA **
Teresa Kelley Joy ’99A **
Stephen James Kalista ’99A

Elizabeth Armistead Lemon ’99A **
Ryan Matthew Lepine ’O2A """
Thomas Weckesser Leshner ’99A
Aliya Imani Leslie ’O2A

Joe Spencer Liles ’0lA

Christina Elizabeth Lollar ’0lA **
Christopher Boyd Looney ’99A **
David Aaron Love ’00C

Davidson Glenn Lucas ’O2A

Amie Marie Lucier ’O2A **
Kathryn Marie Luskey ’99C **
Sarah Ashley Lyon ’O2A

Heather Elizabeth Mahaney ’O2A **
Margaretta Jamieson Maher ’00C
Rebecca Rose Makkai ’99A

J.T. Aquinas Malatesta ’0OC
Emily Lynn Malin ’00A ** .
Michael David Malinzak ’O2A **
Kirsten Rae Malm ’0lA **
Elizabeth Blair Manning ’O2A **
Margaret Ashley Marano ’00A **
Matthew Paul Marks ’O2A **
Elianna Joella Marziani ’O2A **
Jason Matthew May ’0lA

Denise Michelle Mayo ’O2A

Scott Hansen McClave ’00C *“
Sara Anne McCrone ’99A "*
Aaron Wayne McCullough ’99A
Mary Crawford McFall ’99A *“'
Margaret Houston McGregor ’99C ""‘
Lauren Lee McKeever ’00C

James M. McKnight ’00A
Stephanie Ann McKnight ’00A
Samantha Marie McLemore ’O2A
Stacy Lyn McLoughlin ’O2A
Wendy M. Meade ’0OA **

Warren Thomas Meehan ’00A **
Sarah Nicol Meldrum ’99A
Zebulon Stelley Mellett ’99A **
Douglas George Metcalf ’O2A
Cory Kristen Mettee ’99C **
Christine Anne Metzger ’0lA **
Tiffany Delana Miles ’99A **
Christian Kenneth Miller ’O2A
James Raymond Miller ’O2A **
Jason Ryan Miller ’O0C

Stephanie Miller ’0lA

Matthew Thomas Mills ’0OA

Susan Irene Osnato ’99C

William Overbaugh ’99A

Eric Jay Owsley ’0lA

Herbert Mills Palm ’0lA
Brittany Ann Palmer ’0lA
Melissa Wilce Palombo ’O2A
James Brewster Parker ’O0C
Shelley Rogers Parks ’02A
Matthew Seamus Partrick ’99A
Marlen Paschalidou ’0lA

Brooks Berg Paulsen ’00C
Rachel Alaina Perdue ’0lA **
Gwendolyn Derbes Perrilliat ’99C
Elizabeth O’Brien Perry ’99A
Stephen Matthew Pesce ’0lA
Sara Kristen Peterson ’0lA
Matthew Richard Petrusek ’O2A **
Martha Veil Pettyjohn ’00A
Justin Ronald Pfeifer ’99A
Stephen Lewis Philipson ’0lA
Ginger Renee Phillips ’0lA
Jennifer Pinyan ’00A **

Emily Weldon Pipkin ’99A "‘*
Gregory Legare Pleasants ’00A **
Darren William Pohlmann ’99A
John Michael Power ’02A

Anne Drew Powers ’O2A
Carolyn Troutman Pressly ’O2A **
Catherine Connolei Price ’99A
Brian James Prisco ’00A'*‘* ‘ 4'
Erica Lynn Prosser ’99A
Catherine Barry Quinn ’99A **
Hugh Kirkpatrick Rabb ’0lA ’”‘
Matthew Ryan Raley ’0lA
Alison Forrester Ralston ’00C
Lucy Wright Rankin ’O2A

Keith Daniel Rauch ’00A

Maria Socorro Rayas ’O2A
Reagan Allison Reaud ’0lA
Sarah Elizabeth Rector ’99A
Heather Melcher Reid ’0OC **
Nancy LeAnne Reinhart ’00C "‘*
Robert Carl Reitinger ’O2A
Patrick Joseph Renton ’0lA **
Cecily Audrey Reynolds ’99A **
Charles Lee Reynolds ’99A **
Jann English Rhea ’99A **
Daniel Lewis Riberkof ’O2A **

William Michael Seganish ’00A
Jennifer Marie Selder ’99A **
Alyssa Christine Sellers ’99A
Jonathan Wilkins Sewall ’O2A **
Harold Ellis Shaw ’O2A **
Timothy Norman Showalter ’00A **
Ashley Elizabeth Shreves ’00A
Alison Callaway Simmons ’0lA
Andrew Cary Simmons ’0lA
Caroline Tison Simons ’99A
Crystal Ann Simpson ’0lC
Tejpal Bal Singh ’99A

Kristi Lynne Slatka ’00A **
Althea Kendall Smiley ’0lA
Ashley Claire Smith ’99A **
Hudson Day Smith ’99C **
Matthew Spencer Smith ’O2A
Paul Maxwell Smith ’0lA

Ralph Harrison Smith ’0lA
Robert Hunter Smith ’00A

Susan Neislcr Smith ’00A **
Zachary Eben Smith ’0lA
Charles McLean Snyder ’99C **
Joshua Jason Solot ’00A
Meredith Jane Sorensen ’O2A **
Kathie Soroka ’0lA **

Lindsay Sommerville South ’0OA
Ali Burcak Soydan ’O2A **
Katherine Lindley Spaht ’99A
Julianna Marie Spencer ’0lA’ ' 
Gina Lynn Spezialetti ’0lA **

I Amanda Jo Stallard ’99C

Nicholas Andrew Stawasz ’0lA
Michael Jeffrey Stefan ’O2A **

, Kelly Elizabeth Stewart ’00A **

Brian Carr Stisser ’0lA "‘*

Tracy Ann Stitt ’O2A **
Justin Douglas Stockdale ’00A
Thomas Alexander Stoklasek ’02A **
Everett George Stook ’99A

Thomas Christopher Stover ’99A **
Claudia Blair Stowe ’00A **

Amy Kathleen Stowell ’99C

Steven Charles Straub ’0OA **
Jennifer Ruth Strawbridge ’0lA **
Jonathan Paul Stroebel ’O2A
Margaret Lee Stuntz ’99A **
David Edward Sugennan ’99A

JAMES F. LEYBLIRN t.}aRARY_, .
r,r,,r..s-r-:w-:.i~orz a LE~.E umvehstrr

 
 

LE)(lNGTON.\/A 24450

JAN 12 1999

(not in credit cards)

Introducing the American
Express Credit Card for Students.
Live for today.

Build for tomorrow.

The American Express Credit Card

for Students is a resource you can
depend on. With benefits like big air-
fare savings, free credit information,
and no annual fee, it'll help you get the
most from your student years — and
help you build a solid financial
foundation for the future.

AMERKAN
EXPRESS

Cards

"|—....-... I....,.,.,.. ..II_
John Robert Walker ’0lA
John Israel Wall ’99C
Denise Kathleen Wallin ’00A
Dylan Patrick Walsh ’00A i
James Augustine Waskovich ’00C
Lauren Kathryn Weedon ’99A
Jeffrey Scott Wehner ’00A
Meredith Lynn Welch ’00A
Natalie Ann Welle ’99C
Katherine Elizabeth West ‘E **
Michael Bryan Wheeler ’99A
Katherine Alexis Wheelock ’99A
Mary Elizabeth Whipple ’00A
Valerie Janiece Widener ’99C
John Bradford Wiginton ’O2A
John Martin Henry Wilbers ’99A
Lindsay Alison Williams ’0lA
Benjamin Gray Wilson ’0lA
Charles Maxwell Wilson ’99A
Harry Maurice Wilson ’99A
Robert Michael Wilson ’99C ' 1
Mary Elizabeth Winfrey ’00C "‘*
Stephanie Ripley Wolfe ’99A **
Christine Karning Wong ’O0A
Mary Elizabeth Woodard ’0lA **
Erika Ann Woodson ’99A
Scott Andrews Woodward ’O2A )-
John Cliﬁon Woolley ’99A
0 Jonathan Michael Wright ’99C" i
’ ‘Patrick Beaumont Wright ’0lA *3‘
Adam David Yablonski ’0lA
Amanda Roxanne Yates ’99C
Margaret Shepherd Yates ’00A V
Courtney Catherine Yevich ‘OOA
Joshua Neely Young ’99A
Dorothy Yuan ’0lA **
John Philip Zimmer ’0OA **

I

Parents and alumni
can subscribe to The
Ring-tum Phi by
sending a $30 check

to The Ring-tum Phi,
University Center,
Lexington, VA 24450.

 

 

Craun presents class ’62 lecture
Ed Craun, professor of English at Washington and Lee

I lninm.-.-in. "rill vs»-tnruzvlf +l-do In:-or n

University, will present this year’s Clalss of 1962 Fellow-
ship Lecture on Tuesday, Jan. 12 at 7:30 p.m. in Northen
Auditorium. The title of Craun’s lecture is “Women’s
Voices, Men’s Learning, and Moral Agency: Two Notori-

ous Medieval Cases.”

rium.

Washington and Lee's

Friday, Jan. 22.

third prize is one FD ticket.

MSA sponsors MLK program
W&L’s Minority Students Association is co—sponsor-l
ing a program on Martin Luther King, Jr. along withi
Lexington's First Baptist Church and Promji, the black stu-ll
dent assocation at Virginia Military Institute. l
The program will be held on Saturday, Jan. 16 at Firstl
Baptist Church, 103 N. Main Street in Lexington at 6 p.m. 

one Ar 1 one r:..II.\...)l

it

His lecture will explore how two late medieval bour-
geois women, Geoffrey Chaucer’s Wife of Bath and
Margery Kempe, dealt with the male clergy’s attempts to
direct women’s lives, especially their sexuality, their speech ’
and their desire to instruct others. ‘

Expert discusses effects of alcohol

Dr. H. Scott Swartzwelder, a clinical professor of psy-?
chiatry at Duke University Medical Center and a senior 1‘
research career scientist with the U.S. Dept. of Veterans
Affairs, will speak on Jan. 18 at 8 p.m. in Northen Audito-

in

la

SARAH holds lip sync contest

SARAH (Students Against

Rockbridge Area Hunger) will hold the 13th annual Lip‘
Sync contest to raise money for local food pantries on”

The contest will be held at the Student Activities Pa-1,
vilion. The admission charge is $5 at the door or $4 ifthei
ticket is purchased in advance from the W&L Co-op. 

Sign-up for the acts will be conducted at the W&L Co-,9
op on Wednesday and Thursday, Jan. 20 and 21 . The entry
fee is $30 per act. First prize is $100 and a pair of tickets to,
Fancy Dress; second prize is $50 and one FD ticket, and

l

;l
!

Pl

 

 

Eh: itling-tum lﬂhi

   OPINION

PAGE 3

  
 

   
 
  

Does everyone want to be a hero? I

if anyone else shares our adventuresome

of a water—landing on a flight from

      

 
   
  
  
 
   
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
  
  

 

   
  
 

4: ‘ V ‘ = T NV»-_L oVVs’a_nd Iiandrailings of ‘Woods Creek
LETTERS  Iwge-ét.iId°nit1sno2v who did it but W
» I .V V  .thVis;1s»rush week, it's probably some kind
TO  _  ?‘of fraternity prVank.Inasnowbank outside
‘ . I e V » .. _ Woods Creek, ice grafitti reads "Pika Sux"
*I I  Y I end‘ _'I'Go" Beta Theta l’i."'Ilt's really unfair
   that independent-studentsIhave to deal
. ‘ . v  a ‘ 5 . ’ with fallout from rush week; V
, I . '  i V « V ‘Rush should be conﬁned to the frater-
.; I I ‘ I "I‘_ ‘‘ ‘~_Vnities'.,Let'thern screamlandyell and smear
Stud_entS   Vaseline‘ all over the doorsover there. But
parking S1tl1atlOI'l‘I I ‘ I A lfkieep it away from independents. Indepen-
. .  I "V , I dents choose to live on campus in order to‘
h To the editors of The Ring-tum Phi, I ‘ -avoid these kinds of things. We enjoy the
E I would like to address an issue that I am mpeeeea quiet: and Serenity Of “Vlng 011 the
sure most students here care very deeply ~ Other Side Of The Hill frem the fralemlty
about. Asa freshman 1ast.yVear,jIfdid;n_ot re-I .110.11S¢S- I I . I . ’
any concern mysé1f§vith_”th¢_1a¢kVnfgnfﬁcienf Vflndcpendents are treated unfairly in a
, parking facilities at this Tschoeol Ifriiisése “ lot of Ways already. When grades are cal-
however’ 1 haygitfhund  fﬁéulty lated and averaged, fraternities are cat-
ing a. legal p§;fking‘«Ip]age_: "  gp:rizVed.’onian individual basis, but inde.
usuallykeep ﬁe en_tsVare allilumped together. Every
. On several occasions;though, an in  anpus statistics announce that fra-
ai quick run-to Ham, Tee;-V  aV V V ies have higher GPAs than indepen-
to anywherejnear the,I4Ii)”use"iand arnlsforceti IS, when in reality, the students with‘
_to park as many blolcksliawayifro ' I ’ nd,bc,:low‘ Whoare counted as inde-I
the store_ I‘ '   *~ ‘ V because they can't get into a fra-
Washington and.,Lee“wants yfﬁeshmaii year, lower our average
I problem witli’2iariIiiiiriiensc§p ..W‘h3‘°f’"l3nY frats-7° ‘ ._  I
Well, whereis :he‘~}aiieg‘éa. garage? ‘ , . ., ts.al;s<‘558et less attention ,
. Iikea trick to sucker‘ tudeii’ trident prefssystudent activity
5 about-this problein.Il1’a V  l    1 ;  _ .-
say; we wi]j’Nojrb¢ g‘j1VeV‘ "¢d V  disgraceful that we should
. _   , I A I ’ tcleijate “dumb fraternity pranks
I Rush we‘el<—,ontop of all this, V
A I V L  a    Robert Marmorstein
mdéteedentélainstatsm I 
activities sho ‘l I
' 1 h o b 1 I the Greek system
Do you contemp ate orri e   
. Earlyon the morningV.ofVJanu
‘tmgedie s wh e reve 1' Yo u g o ‘>   

twins in the back? I’ll just have to rescue

know I sure do. A friend and I were talk- state ofmind. I’d like to admit my strange Roanoke to Atlanta is slim, but that all three ofthem. Sometimes I even ﬁnd  

ing over winter break about the strange ideas, purge myselfofmy wild desires. doesn’t stop me from deciding how to myself a sidekick. First, we have some ‘id, 

thoughts and fantasies of heroism that When on aplane, I would assume that get every last passenger out ofthe smol- disagreement, hostility if you will, and {“-,_V,.-*““'11Ot€   
cross our minds in everyday situations. many people read, sleep, listen to the dering wreck before it plummets to the then We resolve Our differences and Work <1“-»«.» I

Each ofus was slow to admit these pecu-
. liar passions and
desires, but after
testing the water V
with one another,  i I
,,_we discovered
“that we share
isome bizarre
gidreams.
 I thought that I alone entertain these
§',ludicrous, often gory, fantasies of glory,
iifbut I was mistaken. At least one other
rgdemented soul holds such feelings. He is
 great friend. And ifhe alone shares my
Vllplight, I am in good company. For he is a
 truly incredible person. But I’d like to ask

  
   

...a'ta'e...

 

If ~- _VOff His Rocker
y’ Stephen Pesoe ’01

flight attendant’s instructioifs (well,
maybe not) or listen to mu-
sic. I, on the other hand,
think about possible hos-
tage situations and horrible
crashes. I pick out the oth-
ers in the plane whom I
think would go over the
edge. I also think about how the wacko
is going to do it: gun, bomb, nerve gas,
locusts, whatever. Then I establish a plan
of action. How am I going to take the
knave down? He will not succeed, and I
am the stud-man who’s going to make
sure of that.

I think about crashes. The likelihood

depths of the ocean. Who is going to
need the most help? The elderly gentle-
man in the front or the two-year—old

{I

I crave smoked
ham and imag-
ine my family
gagged and tied
up in the living

 ”

   

5  (governance,

" I To A‘V1i:;w&L tudenits,
. ‘ ,fA3lh.ell11t,1‘5il1V€ ‘ “
‘ dent body constitu,

V lﬁnd myself indebt  V 
h. . you‘ who have called or written’jtV;‘o,.ex-‘
press your interest,vVshai;e,,yVo  
and offeryour support; Much hasbeen

"‘ eff. ‘was published, and I haveevery liope“

als have yetto be  it seems most
M appropriate.forrneto,beginIieirculating
. someiofﬂie‘ more sigiiificant, ideas as

soon as possible. In this way lliope to-

cess of constitutional reform. Fi1nher-

‘and any subsequent proposals care-
fully. Should you have any commen-

rectly or through the office .of 7hVejRirVzg-
1. tumVPhi. ’ I " f . . V

‘I V Sincerely, »_   ,V 3 

‘A ,’,_VV’Pau‘ickMcCormaél_t I I I It

 

‘Proposal One:Divi§ion ofPowers S , I

- : government is notanew one, but has

 
    
   
   
 
  
  
  

V_ done in the severalV‘iwVeVjeVl<s, _sViiV_ice‘:n_1y=, V
V [original  of Vst_udent—?gover,nance ”;

_ I.Vthat"tli'isi important work will soon be  I
‘I completediiuhlthoughg the ﬁnal propos- ‘

heighten the general iriterest’in the pro-. .V

ix more, I hope that I may provide a fully; ,
reasoned explanation for these initia-V‘ 
tives before those with institutional pre- I
rogatives to protect distort my iposi-24

I tiofisg So, Lask you to please read this 

tary, Ilencourage you to contact me di- ,

Theconcept of divided powers‘ in .

l}V always proven a great success whenever

. ‘7task1into itsicomponerit parts, you may then
I V design the most T appropriate strategy for
 dealing with each of the specifics.‘ The clas-
=  sicexample ofthislis the American national
1‘, government, with itsjidivision of executive,

egislative and judicial powers.
Now itshould be completely obvious

‘ (that governing our university is not nearly_

ticornplicated  the example above. We
collectively agree that the proliferation of
committee"sVon_.eampus, espedially where

Vfthej studenlfijudiciary is conceV_rned, has
 gone to"o;,far;jWithﬁthis in mind, the ques-

ion became_ one of realigning our current
, .structuife. to our maximum Vadvantage with-
foiit rnakingllife rn_oreIcoinplicated or con-
 Theanswer I propose is not a new
-. on‘e,f_asa~I remember some minor discussion
of the t'oVpicIoccurred~two years ago when I

 servingionthe White Book Review
fCo_mmittee.\ . V

The two groups that should be involved

‘I in the realignment are the EC and the class

ofﬁcers — basically, a shift toward the lat-
ter. I realize that this can be a sensitive sub-
ject to many. They incorrectly assume that
‘criticism of the Executive Committee trans-

 ilates into criticism of the Honor System.

When I conducted my poll some weeks ago
; the vast majority of the respondents linked
the two by saying that the primary role of
the EC should be to safeguard the Honor
System. , '
If you examine the EC’s rules of proce-
dure (such as the practice of closed delib-
erations), you will see that it is best suited

. for its basically judicial role. When we ex-

I amine the other main duties of the EC (mak-

‘ , VingVcomm_ittee appointments and distribut-
, ting the revenue of student activity fees),
{one has to wonder if its procedures are as

effective. This is why I asked students

V government. In this way we will avoid

come with many added attractions: it

' than the EC (1 envision regular students

‘ students in our government (thereby

whether or not they would support

sive.

Again, the vast majority agreed that
this would be a good thing. I believe
this can be best achieved by empow-
ering the Class Ofﬁcers and Big Three
Officers to handle the routine tasks of

hampering the ultra-important role of
the EC in adjudicating honor infrac-
tions.

i This new grouping, which I would
style the Student Congress, would

could operate on a more open basis

being able to see just how delibera-
tions are done), it would involve more

making it more responsive to general
concerns), provide a broader platform
for students to affect policy changes
on campus, give the class ofﬁcers a
substantial chance to provide service
to their respective classes.

In short, though, it would allow the
EC to concentrate on its role as arbi-
ters of Honor and allow others to handle
the more political processes. The
whole idea has a lot to be said for it,
but I am afraid that I do not have the
chance to fully explore the benefits
here. If you have questions or con-
cerns, then I look forward to hearing
from any and all of you. If you under-
stand the benefits of the proposal, then
I ask you to try to discuss it at some
point in the near future with others on
campus. Even if this proposal is ulti-
mately rejected, perhaps our discus-
sions will allow another alternative to
arise to address some of the weak-
nesses on campus.

together for the common good.

I never get bored on a three-hour
flight. There is so much that could go
wrong. And in my sick, twisted little
head, I am the Renaissance man to over-
come any of it. Liver transplant, open-
heart surgery, Chinese tickle torture? I’m
your man.

Sometimes when I am home with my
family, I come back to the house very late
— 3 or 4 in the morning. I would assume
many people wouldjust like to go to bed
at that point. I crave smoked ham and
imagine my family gagged and tied up in
the living room while some psycho ﬁn-
ishes the last ofthe ham from the refrig-
erator. I don’t appreciate people abduct-
ing my parents, and nobody eats my ham.
How should I deal with this situation?
What’s the best way to enter my house

one coming in through the bathroom win-
dow. Now he’s learned to expect it. He
says he wishes he’d have skipped the
lecture on “better to be safe than sorry.”)
Well, then I have to decide how to deal
with whatever weapon the criminal might
have and choose my own weapon. Usu-
ally I decide to venture out with my bare
hands. Of course, I am a little guy who
has never even been in a ﬁght, much less
trained to ﬁght. But, hey, that doesn’t
matter.

I hope this isn’t sacrilegious, but
sometimes I drift off during church ser-
vices. I’m sure we’ve all experienced a
boring sermon or two in our day, and
we’ve all probably daydreamed about
something at that point. Again, I turn to
thoughts of hostage situations. How will
I use my masterful skills to save the con-
gregation from ultimate peril? Artfully
swinging from the support beams or yank-
ing a rug injust the right way could save
us from some religiously frustrated
wacko. Then my Catholic background
takes hold of my mind and I wonder if
the pope has any type of Secret Service.
Are there any men in black cassocks and
dark sunglasses looking for suspicious
characters? There must be. I could do that.

These thoughts pop into my head all
the time. I can’t control them. I hope they
are not too abnormal. Perhaps those Hol-
lywood adventure ﬁlms have distorted
my sense of reality. When I forced my
dad to watch the Superfriends everyday
during break, I knew I had a problem. Dad
saw titles like “The Attack of the Giant
Squid” and said, “What the hell are we
watching?” I thought, “Cool, an
Aquaman episode! His mental telepathy
with the sea life is vastly underutilized
by the Friends.”

{(

I want to get on him . . .
Oh, but he’s too short.
But I guess it doesn’t mat-
ter if you’re lying down.

—— Anonymous Junior

Ellie Ring-tum ilﬁh

Executive Editors Tarah Grant

t has been employed. Consider it a spe-. _making the appropriation and appoint- without making any noise? (One night Hollis," Hove,
VV iaiization of labor-'_—.} if you break a large ment processes more open and inclu- my dad got nervous when he heard some- News Editors Polly Doig
' i ‘ John Stewart

W&Life Editors Ginger Phillips
Erica Prosscr
Stephanie Bianco
Stephen Pescc
Frances Groberg
Kevin McMancmin
Sarah Meldrum
Meredith Mlynar
Emily Barnes
Scott Cameron
Cliff Woolley

Opinions Editors
Sports Editor
Last Word Editor
Copy Editors
Photo Editors

Production Assistant

Jason Williams
Matt Lorber
Lionel Brown

Business Manager
Advertising Direclors
Circulation Director

i

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee

University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Rin
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscr
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications
elects the Executive Editors, but The Ring-tum

otherwise independent.

g-mm
iption
Board
Phi is

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University Center, by noon

on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The
turn Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for c

Ring-
ontent

and length. Letters, columns and “Talkback” do not
reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.

Advertising does not reflect the opinions of The

Ring-

tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current

court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wIu.edu
hltp://wlu.edu/~pI1i

Annual subsription rate: $30

 

J}

 

@112 ﬁling-Gum lﬂlli ‘
 W8: IFE 
TO A CLAS SMATE DYING YOUNG 
Freshman Jonathan Nabors ’ life had an impact that won ’t be forgotten by the W&L community i

By Elianna Marziani and Erica Prosser
STAFF WRITER AND F EA TURES EDITOR

On Sunday, January 3, Washington and Lee University
lost a good student and a great friend.

Freshman Jonathan Nabors, a graduate of Montgom-
ery Academy in Alabama, was killed in a 16-vehicle acci-

dent on Interstate 81, just south of Lexington. The acci-
dent also took the lives of three other people.

Nabors’ sister died in the crash, and his mother remains
in critical condition at Carilion Roanoke Memorial Hospi-
tal. His father, Eddie, was one of dozens of people injured
in the pile-up that involved at least eight tractor trailers.
Eddie suffered cracked ribs and a torn shoulder. He also
received 10 stitches on his face.

State Police lst Sgt. Joe Peters told The Roanoke Times
that the accident was the worst he has seen in his 28-year
career, and it was certainly one of the worst that has ever
occurred in Western Virginia.

When tragedies like this one occur, it can be easy to get
lost in the statistics and lose sight of the fact that the
victims are real people. Members of the W&L community
are less likely to become desensitized, though, because in

losing Jon, they have lost a well-liked and well-respected
classmate.

The W&L counseling services are available to help stu-
dents deal with his death, but in exploring his impact on
campus, we chose to celebrate his life. Maybe students
who didn’t know Jon personally can get a small idea of
who he was and how valuable his time here was to those
who knew him.

Jon Nabors was 19 years old and an avid Alabama foot-
ball fan; he even went to the New Year’s Day game against
Georgia Tech. He was planning to rush Kappa Sigma this
winter, which is why some of the Kappa Sigs are ﬂying
their ﬂag at half—mast for him.

He loved Dave Matthews Band, Phish and Widespread
Panic. On campus, he was a politics major and a Summer
Scholar. Jon did not lack faith, either; he was a practicing
Baptist who planned to go to the University of Virginia law
school, then work at an Atlanta law firm for awhile before
returning to Alabama. In the fall, he took religion, politics,

Phish album not up to group’s

By Matt LaMotte

MUSIC REVIE WER

Phish has a whole lot going for it
right now.

Its last two summer festivals,
Lemonwheel and the Great Went, stand

as two of the most grandiose testa- Ghost,

forced to wonder how these walking
surveys of American musical accom-
plishment have avoided the commer-
cial pop market for so long.

The answer to this conundrum em-
phatically reveals itselfon Phish’s lat-
est studio effort, The Story of the

art and math, and he took golf in PE. He even found time
for volunteer work; he was a member of the Big Buddies
program and had already taken his Little Buddy out to eat
and to go
bowling.

Beyond his .
interests,
though, I on
was generally
regarded as
smart, kind,
compassionate
and motivated.
S u i t e m a t e
Mike Reynold
said that he,
Jon and other
s u it e m at e s
Micah Tolman
and Claiborne
Taylor would
hang out to-
gether, playing
tw o - o n - t w o
basketball, go-
ing to parties
and staying up
until 3 a.m. talk-
ing.

“We all en-
joyed our-
s e l v e s , ”
Reynold said.

In his recol-
lections, he re-
membered an
example of
Jon’s determi-
nation: Jon had
decided that he wanted to go to Mardi Gras over Febru-
ary break this year.

Jon’s parents were not at all happy with the idea, and

jure up Jimi Hendrix, tastefully ac-
companied by light, jazzy instru-
mentation that is some of Phish’s
best to date.

'  :.=:.' i i« 2'»-4: zi---i-.:."..-r

Photo courtesy of Brian Shaw

Freshman Jonathan Nabors, a native of
Alabama, was killed January 3 on Interstate
81 in a 16-vehicle pile-up. His absence is
deeply felt at Washington and Lee.

they had not given their consent. But Jon was still making
arrangements, calling hotels and getting all the details
worked out for the trip. When Jon’s father met with Jon’s
suitemates Thursday night, he said that
even though he had said that Jon
would not be going to Mardi Gras, he
and his wife knew that Jon would go
anyway. He had set his mind to it, and
everyone who knew Jon knew that,
when he was determined to do some-
thing, he did it.

Taylor agreed with that observa-
tion.

“Jonathan was one of the strongest-
willed people I have ever met,” he said.
“He had well-thought out and many
times elaborate explanations for his
thoughts on just about any subject.

“I always admired this about him, and
believe it to be the quality of a very de-
termined person. He knew exactly what
he wanted and thought about life and
he never was afraid to share it, even if it
came in direct opposition to your own
beliefs. And while this quality often
translates into people who are very hard
to get along with, this was not the case
with Jonathan, and that is one of the
things that is so special about him.

“While he may have disagreed with
or ﬂat-out hated the view you could take,
he always honored it and was interested
to hear your thoughts on it. And even
if you argued with him over some cer-
tain topic, when all was said and done,
he would think ofyou no less and treat
you no differently,” Taylor said.

Professor Alexandra Brown of the re-
ligion department had Jon in her New
Testament class fall term, and she also
caught a glimpse of his tolerant and thoughtful determina-
tion. She said that, while he was quiet in class, he could be

passionate about some topics and shared that passion
with his classmates.
“He did a report around the last day of the term about

poverty and wealth in the New Testament,” Brown said. I‘

“He obviously had some passion about it. The subject
was that we are privileged here . . . he seemed to be dealing
with the responsibilities ofhis privilege.” Brown said that
she was impressed by his responsibility and by the fact
that he did an oral presentation instead of a paper; few
students chose to stand in front of the class and present
their thoughts.

“[That presentation] is an enduring image for me of

Jon,” she said. “It meant an awful lot to me, looking back I,

on his life.”

Through his determination and passion, though, Jon
was also a laid—back and happy person. Reynold said that
he could only recall one time when Ion lost his temper.

“It was during a Nintendo game,” he said. Otherwise, l‘
Jon was relaxed and full of smiles.

Professors George Bent and Mark Rush also taught
Jon during the fall, and both agreed that he was a quiet but
friendly student. ll

“He seemed to be very pleasant, a very nice guy,” Bent said.

Taylor had many similar impressions of his friend to share.

“He had qualities that made it hard for people not to
get along with him,” Taylor said. “His upbeat attitude made
it hard not to be excitedjust when you were around him. 1

“In him was a quality of genuineness, which could even
be seen in his smile, and sincerity that made him the great
friend to many that he was,” Taylor said. “He always could
remember people’s names and things they had told him
better than I could ever imagine, and I know it is because
he whole—heartedly cared about what each and every one
of these people had to say.”

Overall, Jon is remembered as friendly, kind, strong, de-
termined and irreplaceable. y

“I could be having a terrible day and just the sight
of him and his big smile made it hard not to just smile
back and forget about crap that was bothering me,”
Taylor said. ,

Jon Nabors, you will be missed, and we will never
forget you.

I

potential  

tracks such as.“The Moma Dance,”
“Fikus” and the first single, “Birds-4 ,-
ofa Feather,” Phish goes to incred-
ible lengths to demonstrate its
skills, sadly at the expense of the
listener.

Melody and texture are abandoned
for tricky time changes and advanced

.. Oh,
cold outside v

Tips for surviving winter in Lex

baby, it’s ’

 

 

 

m§mSt0 mUSiCaiW0TShip in American Phish has become a victim of its compositional techniques that the aver- By Erica Prosser whktiepinglwarm at homffi 1'
history. own attributes: glimpses of genius age Phish fan can neitherunderstand nor FEATURESEDWOR 6 ,er you We 9“ “am?” 9“), ’
Phish has wealth beyond belief, a abound, but musical ideas are con- appreciate. . . . you might be feeling a bit Chilly m
never-endingtourthat seldom fails to tinually scrapped for an opportunity Good intentions are evident, but if Limk Outside’ kldsi winter has your mom" Stay warm’ butiie care-
Seii Out aim0St CV60’ Venue Visited, to display the unparalleled ability Phish intended to cut a legitimate stu- ofﬁclany amved what d°_eS that ﬁll‘ Check for drafts nearwmdows V
and the most faithful fan base of any Phish feels obligated to cram into ev— dio album, the group should have real- {mean to those ofus cradled m LeX' and doors’ and try to block the ‘mes
band since the Grateful Dead. ltvs all ery measure. ized that more goes into the process ington?' Well, it means new rules you ﬁnd. Electric blankets can be a
enviable State of affairs, to Sal, the some Songs Survive this Self_ than merely culling concert jams to for getting around and having fun. big help overnight, but be wary of
least in du l g en C el four minutes. kDrivewitlt1.care: Nlpmatltlerlwhat, slpace heatehs. Almost ehery weekl ).
Commel-- “Gu uteavski S l Worse still, Phish atlem ts to ta e your ime w en riving t ere’sanot erstoryint enationa
elal legletles aim: on a filfh P"°‘° °°““"'5y °f “’“’“’-P“'5"-°°‘“ Squeeze all of its musical ldefs into around. Four-wheel drive does news aboutadeadly ﬁre caused by
aside’ plllsll rhythmic idea Album cover for The Story these foupmihute bursts. nothing on ice, and for those ofus an unsupervised space heater. If
has fourofthe coupled with of the Ghost, Phish’s latest Albums like Rift used this c0m_ used to ﬂatter lands orwarmertem- you mustuse one, keep itaway from
most talented an engaging (but not very impressive) positional technique Successfully’ peratures, the road corditions can curtains and other ﬂammables, and h
musicians 0f m e l o d y , l'ei€aS€- carving and molding Phish’s: ideas be um “On t let It
01” genera‘ changing con- into comfortable, ﬂowing song struc— p1eaS_a',my “,1” 8}”
tion. tinuously yet Even “Wading inthe Velvet Sea,” tures. Surpnsmg mghtwmle
Few m“si' never compro— despite its compositional predictabil- In Ghost, however, the virtuosity is A”°,w ex’ you 516"?’-
Clans haw misin g the ity, ﬂoats pleasantly withaspare drum continually overzealous, and the quilt tra “me to Staymg “
the” W7‘ catchy sophis- groove and delightful melodies that of musical diversity Phish has resided get where ,we": Even
Calm)’ ability tication inher- have become one of Phish’s trade— under for so long seems gaudy and in- you need If. , you
to combine ent in a well- marks. complete. togmkéep did“ t get
iazza mcka written song. Unfoitunately,the ﬁin stops here. Die-hard Phish fans claim the an 1c_e your ﬂu it
barbershop “Limb by On excruciatingly tedious band shouldn’t try to work in the Scraper 1“ shot last
and blue- Limb,” studio, and that the your car’ falmhereis
grassa laid possibly live show is the only don“ slam hope £0:
underneath t ll e ~ Y 0 U T )’0U- 3
t ll e l l alhum,S ?lpSph(::::ti)f¢OhueTf:::f brakes in Photo by Emily Barnles/Photo Editor llealtllyl l,
u ll l cl ll e l l, plloiocollnesy olwww_plllsll_mm heslsohgl malice. Albums like slippery Bundle up, W&L: winter is here. avoiding
Pleasmg POP Phish could disappoint its fans features E  I Junta and Riff, h0W- Spois and . , . . fatty foods
extellm with its latest recording. melodies ever’ render this ar_ don tgo out at all ifyou re worried and empty calories. And above all,
one is that coh_ gumehl false. about it. If you re going someplace exercise! You ll stay warmer and fit- I‘

ter ifyou can find time to work out
in these cold months. If the out-
door conditions are unsuitable,
head to the gym and ride the exer-
cise bike for an hour. Winter is an ill
easy time to forget about ﬁtness, so
don’t let it happen to you!

Fun winter activities: There’s
snow on the ground, so sand vol-
leyball is out ofthe question. Now ‘
what? Well, the Homestead resort
in Hot Springs is probably the near-
est ski spot, so the intrepid can try
out the slopes there. The Home— lll
stead also features ice skating.

Locally, the snow can be a
source offun, as well. You can build
a snowman, have a snowball ﬁght,
make snow angels orjust watch the 3‘
snow fall. Stock up on hot cocoa,
surfthe Internet or plan your spring
break vacation.

Above all, think warm thoughts
and remember: summer is just
around the corner.

where you might get trapped in your
car, bring along blankets and water.

Walking hazards: The side-
walks around here can be worse
than the roads, and slick--bottomed
shoes are a fall waiting to happen.
Stay as much as possible on con-
crete that’s only wet, but if you must
walk on something frozen, snow
might be better than ice. At least
snow has a chance for traction, es-
pecially on the hills around campus.

Dressing for the weather: Don’t
sacriﬁce your health for the sake of
fashion. It’s cold outside, so dress
for it! Coats and gloves are a must,
hats are helpful (much of your heat
is lost through your head), and
even snow boots come in handy
for this time of year. Layer your
clothes ifyou need to, especially if
you have a long walk to and from
campus. When the temperatures
plummet, don’t stay outside longer
than you absolutely must.

Phish has the abil-
ity to record, when the
group puts their self-
indulgent, abstract
demonstrations aside
and focus on the craft
of songwriting.

On this album, Phish
fails to transfer its live
abilities to record be-
cause of its unwilling-
ness to sacriﬁce style
for substance.

The Story of the
Ghost stands as a testa-
ment to what happens
when musicians, in their
frantic attempts to im-
press their audience,
Iose sight oftheir songs
and lose touch with their
listeners. It is a disap-
pointment; Phish has
proved that it can do
better.

I   540-463-7371
SPRING BREAK

FROM $159 PER WEE|(‘°‘

*Parents’ Discount*
*Newly Renovated*

2 QUTDQQRHEAT‘-f‘ D 0 z ..        *Free HBO with Remote*
:s  EACH FRONT , ~.
LAZY RIVERRIDE -‘SUITES UP TO 10 PERSONS
SAILBOATS - Tll<| BEACH BAR - JET SKIS» PARASAILS

“HOME OF THE WORLD'S LONGEST KEG PARTY"
FREE DRAFT BEER ALL WEEK LONG-(ALL FOR INFO!
1-800-488-8828

www.sandpiperbeacon.com (*rates per person)

*No Smoking Rooms*

*Free Continenal Breakfast*

17403 FRONT BEACH ROAD ~ PANAMA CITY BEACH, FL 32413

 

" JANUARY 11, 1999

  Sibkrs

PAGE 5

‘Men’s basketball come up short against ’Noke

By Brendan Harrington

' S TA FF WRITER

Although the names and faces change year after year,
the Roanoke Maroons have simply dominated the Wash-
ington and Lee Generals during the past decade.

‘1 The trend continued on Saturday aﬁemoon at the Warner
Center as the Maroons (5-6, 2-3 ODAC) used a lightning
quick 20-2 run in the middle of the second half to down the
Generals (3-7, 2-4 ODAC) 72-63 in an emotional contest.

Roanoke has now defeated the Generals eight straight times
dating back to the 1994-1995 season, when Veme Canﬁeld was
still at the hehn for the Generals. All told in the 1990s, W&L is
2-17 against the Maroons, their biggest rivals.

“Streaks are streaks, you can’t get caught up in that,”

4 said W&L head coach Kevin Moore. “ It’s basketball -
we have to play to our ability and win the game.”

Early in the second half, it did not appear as though the
Generals would be headed toward their eighth straight
loss to Roanoke. W&L led 41-30 with 16:04 left to play

‘ when Roanoke stole the momentum away from the Gener-
als, using a 20-2 run over a period of6:48 to take a 50-43

lead that the Maroons would never relinquish.

“They just kicked our [butts] on the glass,” Moore said.
“We’re right there battling for it but we don’t box out and
we try to tip it. We’re not going to winjumping contests.”

“They came out real hungry in the second half,”jun-
ior forward Scott Hudson said, who led the Generals with
14 points. “I don’t know how much time it was, but I
looked up at the clock and couldn’t believe we went from
being up 1 1 to down by eight in what seemed like a couple
of minutes.”

At the height of the run, Roanoke scored six points in
less than 20 seconds after sophomore guard Brad
Dunleavy stole freshman guard Ben Johns’ inbound pass
from underneath the Generals’ basket and dunked it home,
cutting the Generals lead to 43-39 with 12:36 left to play.

Things then went from bad to worse for the Generals,
as junior forward Rich Peterson picked up his fourth and
fifth personal fouls in a span of 19 seconds and was sent
to the bench with 12:03 remaining in the game after scoring
only two points. It was the second consecutive game in
which Peterson fouled out, and was virtually ineffective
because of foul trouble.

-Women’s basketball marooned

By Tod Williams

STAFF WRITER

‘ The Generals had played the Roanoke College Ma-

roons only eight times prior to Saturday’s matchup
in the Warner Center. In Washington and Lee’s his-
tory, the Generals have never beaten the Maroons.

At For a brief moment on Saturday afternoon, things ap-
peared it might be different this time.

The Maroons raced out to an early 18-6 lead only
five minutes into the game, but the Generals quickly
responded with their own run of 23-1 1 to tie the game
at 29 apiece withjust over four minutes to play in the
first half. Both teams managed two more free throws
as the half expired, leaving the game in a 31-31 tie at
the break.

; The Generals continued to hang with Roanoke as
the second half began, jumping up 34-31 on the Ma-
roons. The game was again tied at 36-36 with 16:20
left in the game after W&L freshman guard Sarah
Schmidt banged what seemed to be a three-pointer,

3 but her toe was on the arch. On Noke’s ensuing pos-
session on the other end ofthe court, junior Maroon

center Sarah Dingledine dropped in an easy two on a ‘

hard backside cut as Roanoke went up 38-36 and
earned the lead for good.

The lone senior on the General squad, co-Captain
Chrissy Burghardt, nailed a 12-footer with 14:25 left
in the game to pull the Generals to only three away at
41-38, but that was the closet W&L would get.

g‘ Roanoke (7-2, 5-0 ODAC) took care of business as
they closed out their 71-56 win over the Generals.

The story of the game for the Generals was the
dominant presence of freshmen in the lineup. Two
freshmen started, and within the final minute ofplay,

four ofthe five Generals on the ﬂoor were freshmen.
The box score backs this up as well. Freshman Jes-
sica Mentz posted a 19-10 double double, which in-
cluded his career high points total. Freshman Megan
Babst came in off the bench to give her own 11-11
double double performance. Junior guard Ansley
Miller dropped in 10 for the General’s cause.

Miller knew that the Generals loss came from their
own shortcomings. “Our defense was okay,” she said,
“but we just couldn’t score. We shot a lot better in
the first half, but we just didn’t get it done in the
second half.” The statistics back up Miller’s state-
ments. The Generals shot 36 per cent in the first half,
but fell to 27 per cent in the second. The team was
very consistent from the charity stripe, shooting 62
per cent on the day. Miller also said another thorn in
the Generals’ side was the absence of Jessica Morton,
who only played 12 minutes, and only two minutes
during the second half.

On Thursday evening, it was a different story at
the Warner Center, as W&L rolled over Eastern Men-
nonite 71-41. Again, both Mentz and Miller chalked
up double-digit totals, 14 and 13, respectively. Fresh-
man Carter Thomas also had a stellar night.’ Starting
at guard she had eight points and six rebounds, but

more importantly, Thomas came within one assist of ‘

W&L’s record of 10 in a single game.

The Generals (2-7, 1-4 ODAC) have an ODAC-filled
week ahead-ofthem, as they travel to Lynchburg Col-
lege on Tuesday to face the 3-7 Hornets. On Thurs-
day W&L will host Hollins, and on Saturday the girls
will travel to Randolph-Macon.

Miller looks for a strong showing from the team on 1

Tuesday. “[The game] is on our hands,” she said.
“We just have to take care of business.”

It
Th's eek for the G e al
I
Monday
"‘ Men’s basketball @ Dickinson
Tuesday
it Women’ s basketball @ Lynchburg
Wednesday
ki Men’s basketball @ Lynchburg
Thursday
‘, Women’s basketball vs. Hollins 7 p.m.
Friday
1? Women’s swimming vs. Buffalo State 7 p.m.
Saturday
4 Men’s basketball vs. Randolph-Macon 3 p.m.
' Women’s basketball @ Randolph-Macon
Women’s swimming vs. Catholic 2 p.m.
I7
1749 1999 , , ,
 Bicenquinquagenary Bulletin
' .
Need another reason to be kind to strangers ?
I
Consider the story ofDoremus Gymnasium. In 1910 dore Doremus bequeathed a substantial amount of
a student met Commodore and Mrs. Doremus, north- his estate to Washington and Lee. Upon the
em philanthropists, as they were walking on campus. Commodore’s death Mrs. Doremus gave the $75,000
1,1 The young man put aside his books and proceeded necessary for the construction ofDoremus gymna-
to give them a tour of the university. They were so slum. Upon her death the University received
impressed by the student’s friendliness that Commo- $1,500,000 from their estate.

“We need Rich out on the court,” said senior captain
Kevin Cobbin. “Even ifthey’re questionable calls, he can’t
be getting in foul trouble.”

Unhappy with the call that sent Peterson out of the game,
an illegal screen away from the ball, Moore picked up a
technical foul for arguing with the referee. The Maroons
capitalized on both of the technical free-throws and then
junior forward Kyle Murphy nailed a three—pointer on the
resulting possession, giving the Maroons the lead 46-43
with 11:53 left in the game.

“The tide had turned already before the technical foul,
I’ll take the blame for the technical, but that’s not the differ-
ence in the game,” said Moore. “But I felt there was some
injustice with Peterson. [The official] needs to show me
where that ﬁfth foul was.”

“I don’t usually criticize officiating because it’s not usu-
ally a big factor in the game,” Hudson said. “But I think it
was today. The last two games I think the officials have
taken Rich out of the game. 1 think we’re getting robbed.”

During the next eight minutes of the game, the Roanoke
lead hovered around five points, but the Maroons pulled
away in the final three minutes to claim the 72-63 victory.

Dunleavy added his second dunk ofthe game as time ex-
pired to put a final exclamation point on the comeback.

“I don’t think we buckled down the way we should
have and we let it slip away,” Cobbin said. “But we will
learn from the mistake and move on — we’ve got to.”

Roanoke guard Paris Butler led all players with 16 points

and three other Maroons finished in double figures. Sopho- .

more Jason Strickland scored 15, Murphy had 14, and
sophomore center Alex Phillips had 1 1.

For the Generals, sophomore guard Will Ballard had 12
points and sophomore guard Chad Braley added 10 to go
along with Hudson’s team-high of 14.

Roanoke shot only 28% from the field for the game,
while W&L shot 42%. The Maroons held a significant ad-
vantage at the foul line as they visited the charity stripe
more than three dozen times and were 21-3 7. The Generals
took only 16 foul-shots and hit nine of them.

The Generals next travel to Dickinson on Monday night
for a non—conference match-up.

“We’ll do our best to try and get a win up at Dickinson
and get back on track,” Cobbin said. “That’s all we can do,
we have no other options.”

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

Coach Dadio-Campbell gives the team a pep talk before Saturday’s contest against Roanoke.

Wrestling pins down victory

By Steele Cooper

SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee wrestling team posted
its first Centennial Conference win sincejoining the
conference this year. The. Generals defeated Johns
Hopkins University (37-12) during the W&L Qua-
drangular Meet on Saturday morning. W&L fell to
Davidson (10-32) and Pensacola Christian (21-31) at
Saturday’s meet.

Junior 133-pounder Chad Casto led the Generals
once again with two wins and a forfeit. Casto won
his match against JHU with a 3-0 score and won his

Davidson match with a 7-1 score. His third victory
ofthe day came from a Pensacola Christian defeat.
Several wrestlers that scored two wins on the
day also led the Generals. Sophomore John Valen-
tine (174 lbs.) won his matches against JHU and
Davidson. Freshman 157-pounder Ivan Zdandov
defeated his JHU and Pensacola Christian oppo-
nents. Junior Alex McManimen (184 lbs.) scored
wins in his matches against JHU and Davidson.
Next Saturday, W&L will travel to Swarthmore
to wrestle in the Swarthmore Invitational. The Gen-
erals will be back in the Doremus Gymnasium on
Saturday, January 23 for the W&L Invitational.

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

Sophomore Jeff Paul pins his opponent during the W&L Quadrangular on Saturday.

 

 

PAGE 6

S

(‘I112 ﬁling-‘Glam lﬂhi

ORORITIES

9

 

JANUARY 11, 1999

J enny Alley

Kate Bidwell
Kate Blocher
Alicia Brandt

Liz Brustin

Katie (‘edarholm
lee Charbonnet
Sarah Cohen
Maggie Fagan
Leslie Fishbeck
Courtenay Fisher
Eline Haenebalcke
Ricka Hildebrand
Diana Hoshall
Laura lngoldsby

Elizabeth Kelsey
Anne Lachiewicz
Berry Lowden
Alexis MacDonald
Heather Mahaney
Blair Manning
Shelby McGrain
Sam McLemore

9 Jess Mentz

Drew Powers
Kristin Pranke
Iindsay Ruckert
Lizzie Swarm
Carter Thomas
Jessica Warner

QM/9, wager
5/gage/A ammx
Wfeyan £84551
r7(a/5/een $a1'rJ
9(ee_/y ﬂafer
6006‘/an ﬁasfin

9G2e//e (suans
(Si/uana 33””
(Samar;/[a Qaz-5z‘sc£
8/ise groves

5,-//, Jﬁ;/ﬁeman

year: 77(ar1'e yenninys

761%.:/1'12 Garroff ,7(a/ie yoﬁnson
Wary grennan ,7(a/e Wfafan
ﬁes: @u.Tan/ (Sa//y Way:

  

Cozzyra/u/a/[0123 new memgers

  
   

Jrappa

g 01221224

 
 

61': Xacozy
3J5!/ney .77a1'son.s
jfa/ey gjeno/eryz-ass
yetma ﬁwﬁe

Carof n Tress/y
Caro/ine 73”-./a’,
(3/oise Tries]
zeryen were//0
am,-/, are,-J

Cjyn/fizz £31121‘/I

(Sc//ie gm, (S/rany
CS/epfanie csweel

oar, gay/or
yzaryare/—J{un/er garner
97[a1-ie//e Qlryufarl
Baa:-en Zﬂemfeff
97(annin_y ZUI//arJ

%-mmm gm//Z24
./wta %m/
,5,” fay;

ghéaﬂna <>&Aa{04'

9%//W  ¢

ﬁmfen v 
-.9$naAu/a .%€a4me//
.54» JVJJW
.%’ezA ./Vwtm
Wm‘ ﬂmdamza
A/4,, ﬁméa
./yéoi Wm
./wad l//,maa/I
9%” %"%W’
ﬁdan 
@0049! 7%/oé

ROBERT E. LEE SIGNATURES

FOR SALE

Clipped signature with closing w/ CDV
Document signed "R. E. Lee, Lt. Engrs"
Letter Signed, Lexington, VA, 1870
Lee Signed CDV
AND

Washington College Diploma, 1867

$3000
$4000
$6500
$5500

$4500

Other Lee's: Fitzhugh, G.\W.C., "Rooney" & Lee's Father—In—Law

Also Available: Lincoln, Grant, Mosby, Longstreet, Ashby,

Beauregard, Early, A.P. Hill, Imoben, etc., etc.

Great Framing, Great Service, Great History

Original Frameworks

1 North Main St. Lexington, 464-6464

M—F 10-6, Sat 9-4, New Manager

T

 

 

t @112 Iking-E11111 Iﬂhi by I 9
 SORORITIES 99 

 

Congratulations to  3 ﬂy 3 M"

the Gamma
pledge class of

Kappa Delta

  
  
  
   
   

   

   

 

 
 
 
  
   

      
  
   
 
 
  
 
      
    

    
Rebekah Ahn Tracy Johnson
Ellen Antrum Lauren Kearney
Michele Backus Amanda Kelley
Ann Baskervill Summers Kimbrough
Brooke Belasco Sylvia Kokis
Valerie Bruneau Peyton Lane °
Julie Carskadon Sarah Lyon 1  a
Andrea Ceccarelli Stacy McLoughlin , ,
Lindsay Cooper Divya Mohan
Marisa Davis _ Kayse Nelson
Caroline Dumas Rebecca Ostendorff -
Brooke Evenson Emily Owens  _ ° 0   0 Mﬂbamtll/‘mmlf
Amanda Fischer Lillian Pace  it 0 lmpledge rim
Caitlin Fitzrandolph Lauren Paxton _   
Graham Frankel Lucy\Rankin 
Kirsten Gladding Emily Seale ‘i|;j'-m??s]i;iffe,r
Gray Harden Lauren Stearns  

  

Katherine Houstoun

 

 

teed Credit Cards with Credit Limis G04/e4~,E
Up To $10,000 Within Days! ‘°4~»»o,,,

NO CREDIT, NO J OB, NO PARENT SIGNER, NO SECURITY DEPOSIT!
no credit ° bad credit 0 no income?
6‘ ‘       If You Thinl(You A   r      

 

aagﬂf’ Guaran

          

O

        

Can't Get A Credit %
Card, Think Again.

ant VISA & MasterCard Credit Cards

  ORDER FORM    

 '    want Credit Cards immediately.
0

CRA, PO BOX 16662, ATLANTA, GA 30321

 
 

 
 

"I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I

J

' y A t t Z’
Cit .................................................................................................................... .. S a e ............................................... .. Ip .................................................... ..
.
Signature .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ..

Tired of Bein Turned Down?

   

 

 

jjj1:1:1:11:11::1:
F6
' (n
U)
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
n-jjjjjjjmjjjmjmxjj

 

 

Humor Page

PAGE 8

LAST WORD

JANUARY 11, 1999

A brief look back at the Twentieth Century

By Kevin McManemin

215T CENTURY SCH/20/D M-IN

The Twentieth Century. The bloodiest hundred years
in human history. Joseph Stalin. Adolph Hitler. Bob Saget.
A time of great change. New ideas. Incomplete sentences.

The Last Word presents this brief, illustrated history of
the 20th century as part of our continuing effort to be like
every other publication. In the coming months you can bet
every arm of this great squid called the media (newspa-
pers, magazines, television, radio, intemet gossip columns,
teen fanzines, cookbooks, off-Broadway musical comedies,
telegraphs, graffiti, etc.) will be running retrospectives on
the previous decade, century and millennium. We wanted
to get ours in first. Take that, Newsweek!

So, without very much more ado, we present:

The Twentieth Century

“the syphilitic sore on the scrotum of history”

The Zeroes -— All for naught

At the turn of the century, the entire world was owned
by three mega-corporations: Standard Oil, Carnegie Steel
and the British Monarchy. Actually not much has changed
since then. Standard Oil was bought out by Microsoft in
1992 and Carnegie Steel was acquired by Sony in a merger
with Time—Warner. The British monarchy sold all its hold-
ings to Ted Turner but still retains Buckingham Palace, its
corporate logo and the right to embarrass itself publicly.

Not much else happened in the nineteen naughts. Some-
thing about a Progressive movement and a Great White
Fleet, I think, but in order for me to tell you anything more
about them I’d have to do actual research and that’s not
bloody likely. So the Progressive Movement was a . . . uh
. . . part of a symphony by Stravinski and the Great White
Fleet was a meeting of obese Klan members.

The Tens — El Waro Grande

The Great War (later renamed “World War One” after a
greater one came along) was almost as long and brutal as
some of the poetry it would inspire. Mankind saw his belief
in the good of science explode in a burst of mustard gas
and machine gun fire. Europeans were being slaughtered
at almost twice the rate of New York City public school
students.

Let’s take a gander at the major players:

The Germans — It was barely forty years since Presi-

dent Otto Van Buren united Prussia and Bavaria into a
single country called “Prussvaria” (later renamed “Ger-

many”). But in that short time Germany had come a
long way — building a massive navy powerful
enough to be thor- oughly and consis-

  
  
  

tently sunken by the _ British and an army
of men in neat ’ pointy little helmets.
By head-butting opponents,theGer-
many army became one of the nine or

ten most feared ﬁghting forces of the day.

The Great British (also known as “The English”) —
What the British wanted in World War One was simple: a
nice, dangerous front line to fill with Scots and Irishmen.
“Yes, Angus, Taevish, Seamus, you boys ﬁll in the trenches
there, I’ll just stay back here at base and sip me tea,” the
limey generals would say. “Oh, and mind the mustard gas,”
they’d add with a mischievous grin. Those wacky Brits!

The French — The French are to Europe what Ringo
was to the Beatles. When France heard Europe was releas-
ing a new war it merrily trudged along with the rest of the
group, despite the fact that it hasn’t been a major military
player since Napoleon. France had been using its national
energy on wastes of time like “art” and “literature.”

The Russians — The ‘Russians were so backward in
1914 even the Amish looked at them and said “You guys
need to modernize.” With something like 99.9999% of the
population living far below the poverty line, Russia was
the Mississippi of Europe, only a hell ofa lot colder.

The Belgians — Historic accounts always overlook
King Leopold and the Belgians. This one is no exception.

The Americans —— The Americans were like the guy
who shows up at the last hour of the party when everyone
else is tired and leaving, then empties the keg and takes
credit for polishing it off. Never mind that Russia and France
had been sucking that tap all night and were now passed
out on the couch, America came in, chugged the last half-
a-plastic-cup left in the keg and declared loudly, “shit, you
guys are lightweights.” No wonder the Europeans despise
us.

The Twenties — These dang young’uns

In 1919 our Congress, possibly while drunk, passed one
of the most inane laws in the history of jurisprudence —
Prohibition. And so, for the first week or so of the 1920s’,
alcohol was nearly somewhat hard to get.

On the sunnier side ofthings, the twen-
ties were a time of great prosperity at home
and abroad, especially among mobsters,
thanks to Prohibition. The only place that
didn’t experience prosperity was Germany,
where inﬂation was rising faster than the
hemlines on flappers’ skirts.

Flappers were wild, loose l920’s gals

who ﬂaunted the morals of their society;
wild, loose women who are now our great-
grandmothers, so talking about their sexual
exploits would be more than a bit disgust-
ing.

Yes, the roaring but rarely boring twen-
ties were a good time for all (‘‘all’’ meaning
“anyone with enough money to invest in
the stock market”). Suffragettes rallied for
chicks’ rights, idiots sat on ﬂagpoles for
some bizarre reason and sports idols like
Babe Ruth proved that even alcoholics
could be functioning members of society.

 

The Thirties — The birth of big,

bloated bureaucracy

Sports were still popular in the thirties, but different
sports: office ledgejumping, noose spinning and shotgun
shell swallowing. In 1929 the stock market crashed like an
iMAC computer, derailed like an AMTRACK train, send-
ing the country spiraling into depression faster than I re-
sort to cheap similes and metaphors.

Hoovertowns (named after Hoover vacuums as they
really sucked) sprung up across America, providing the
best in luxurious box living.

Franklin Roosevelt stepped in as President and brought
the country out of unemployment by hiring everyone to
lettered government agencies. FDR brought us the WPA,
TVA, FDIC, NBC, C-SPAN, UCLA, LMN OP, USSR, BBC-2,
AOL, CD-ROM, MXPX, and of course the SCTV.

But abbreviations would soon take a back seat to WWII.

The Forties —— Another bad sequel

By the end of the ’30s the German economy was in
shambles, so Adolph “move over Genghis, I want to be
history’s biggest asshole”‘HitIer decided on the brilliant
strategy of invading Poland — possibly the one country
in the world with a more pitiful economy than Germany -—
to solve the crisis. In re-
sponse England and
France declared war on
Germany. France sur-
rendered approximately
three minutes and nine-
teen seconds later, be-
fore the ink was even
dry on the declaration of
war.

Meanwhile, Japan
was engaged in bomb-
ing Pearl Harbor in a
day that will live in in-
famy but I can’t recall
right now. So the U.S.
trudged into the war
(only a couple of years late this time) and kicked some
major foreign ass. In 1945 the U.S. dropped da bomb on
Japan, ushering in a new era of warfare: an era when the
heroes were no longer the soldiers in the front but the
nerds in the labs.

When the war ended Europe and Japan were in pieces

_ (literally, pieces —— parts of Nagasaki were found as far

away as Greenland and what was left of Germany could be
collected and put in a brown paper bag). The United States

took the roll of international sugar daddy, dolling out sweet -

rewards to our allies and, ironically, even sweeter rewards
to our enemies.

The Fifties — A time for sensible footwear

In the ﬁfties hair was short, cars were big, Reds were
evil and cigarettes were healthy. Things made sense. People
liked Ike, men wore ties to work, people said “please” and
“thank you” in the name of something called “common
courtesy,” and everyone knew their place. In fact, the gov-
ernment passed out this chart for handy reference:

Your Race Your place
White Suburbs

Black Ghettos

Asian Asia

Latino Ancient Rome?

In the fifties people started protesting this injustice. In
I954 the landmark case of Brown vs. Board of Education
set down the historic propositions that:

1) Children should not go to their neighborhood public
schools when they can be expensively shipped several
hundred miles away for poorer quality education.

2) The “separate but equal” doctrine of blacks and
whites is wrong—— any objective look at basketball ability
will tell you that they’re not equal.

Yes, the ﬁﬁies began the long but necessary Civil Rights
battle. Just think: the perfect harmony between the races
we now enjoy wouldn’t be possible were it not for the
gains made in the fifties.

THE SlXTIES==
SOCIETY GETS

ILURRY

A great way to
make your parents un-
comfortable is to ask
them about the sixties.

Firsthand historical
accounts of the sixties are sketchy at best. Psychedelic
drugs (the word psychedelic coming from the Greek roots
psyche, or mind, and delic, or holy crap the colors in my
veins are talking to me) played a big part in the sixties, so
remember to take all accounts on sixties life with a grain of
salt (or some white powdery substance).

Here now are some actual over-sentimentalized tales of
the actual sixties from actual pathetic aging baby boomers:

 

“The sixties began in 1964 when four lovable inop-
topped Liverpudlians (Sean Lennon, Yoko Ono, Jim
Morrison and an inflatable raft called “Reginald”) landed
at Idlewild airport (later renamed JFK after JFK Jr.) and
appeared on the old Gilbert and Sullivan show where they
performed their famous “I have a dream” speech. That’s all
I remember.”

——Sally Hainsworth (formerly Lucy in the Sky with
Methedrine)

“In the sixties there was a war or something somewhere.
Guys shooting people. No, wait, that was ‘Gunsmoke’ 
—Dr. Lawrence Feinbaum (formerly Flower

Moonchild)

 

The Seventies — A decade-long hangover

Bad trip, man.

As millions ofhippies came down from their highs, so
did hippie society come down from its lofty ideals of peace
and happiness and universal love, replacing them with
ideals such as paying the mortgage on
time and good dental hygiene. The bril- E
liant experimentation of psychedelic I
rock was replaced with the unrestrained
suckiness of disco.

Most importantly, the seventies
made politics the societal joke it is to-
day. In the sixties, we had presidents
like Johnson and Nixon —- men who you
could really hate with a passion! But
Watergate taught us that politicians
were not so much comic book
archvillians as they were petty thugs.
The decade ended with the likes of
Gerald Ford and Jimmy Carter at the
helm. You can neither really love nor
hate Jimmy Carter. All anyone can do is
acknowledge his existence.

And so a general malaise (thanks,
Jimmy) set in over the country and
squelched the passion previously evi-
dent in public life. Finally, people could
start focussing on what really mattered:
themselves.

 

The Eighties — Reaganomics, low-cal
frozen yogurt and ALF

Most scholars now agree that nothing of remote cul-
tural value came from the 1980s. Musically the ’80s went
from bad — new wave rock — to worse — glam rock —
and somehow ended up
even a step below that
with rap. Rap is like mu-
sic, but take away the
musicallpart and you
have got rap.

Along with the de-
cline of everything
good and noble about
mankind, the 1980s saw
the rise ofthe Yuppie.
This development was
made possible by the
invention of the cell
phone, which let

 

Yuppies communicate with other Yuppies while simulta-
neously compensating for small genitals by inflating their
self-importance. The most popular recreational activity
among Yuppies was divorce. The Yuppies imported every-
thing: Italian wines, Gennan cars, French arrogance.

By 1987, however, the Yuppies had all maxed out their '

credit cards and stopped buying stuff they didn’t need.
The stock market plummeted. President Reagan responded
with swift, decisive action: canceling his scheduled nap to
hold a press conference in which he categorkxzlly denied
ever being told about the stock market crash.

The Nineties — www.whatever.com

So, it’s, like, the end of the century or something. Big
deal. F in-de-siecle ennui or whatever. I guess.

The nineties saw, like, the information revolution. Infor-
mation is, like, all over, you know? It’s like on the internet
and stuff. All over
the internet. The
Internet rules. a

A lot of stuff
happened in the
nineties, like the dis-
mantling of Eastern
European Commu-
nism. We no longer
fear nucl:./ar attack
from the Ruskies; we
now fear nuclear at-
tack from crazed militia goons living in lduno bunkers. Se-
riously.

Oh, and dude, guess what? The Pres was like boinking
his intern in the nineties and there was a lot of stuff about
it on C-SPAN like impeachment or whatever, you know, but
I didn’t really watch that.

Well, that’s about it for the nineties. We’ve got, like,
another year left in this century or something. Maybe it’ll
suck or maybe it’ll be cool. Whatever.

Things are okay.

That’s the basic story of our century. Americans went
from caring about Europe to caring about our society to
caring about ourselves to caring about beating the high
score on “Doom."

No one knows what will happen in years to come, but if
mankind approaches the twenty—first century with the same
genius, dignity, prudence, spirit, courage, vitality, passion,
understanding, enterprise and honor we applied in the
twentieth, we can be sure of one tliing.

We’re all f“‘**ing doomed.

Reserves.

Leadership Opportunity

 
  
 
   

Basic Camp this Summer and
experience a fun and challenging
adventure on a successful path.

...-:.I

ourhancs 0 getting 11 on-
campus scholarship for attending
Basic Camp are 50%.

End Result, a great job as a 2LT in the
Active Army, National Guard or

See CPT Whittaker, ARMY
ROTC at (540) 464-7187

 

 

  

 

‘ VOLUME 101, N0. 12

«SAB captures
Black Crowes

Rock ‘n’ roll band scheduled for FD

in By Hollister Hovey «

EXECUTIVE EDITOR

Washington and Lee will see the

band that U.K. Music Weekly called
I; “the most rock’n’roll rock ‘n’roll band
in the world.”

Last monday, the Student Activi-
ties Board confirmed the Black Crowes
as the headline act for this year’s

‘ Fancy Dress weekend, Thursday,
March 4 in the Pavilion.

“We’ve been trying to get them for

awhile,” SAB president Wes

q Annstrong said. “They’ve just come
out with a new album, so this is sort of
a great kick-off.”

Their new album, “By Your Side”
won critical acclaim instantly. It re-
ﬂects much of the early true-blue rock
of the band’s debut album. Armstrong
feels the Washington and Lee student
body will respond very well to the

5 Crowes’ classic rock ‘n’roll style.
“This might even be bigger than Wide-
spread Panic,” he said.

According to Billboard magazine,
the refreshed rock ‘n’roll sound on

‘‘ “By Your Side” did not come without
some pain on the part of the band:
Before sessions for the album began,

the Crowes ﬁred longtime guitarist
Marc Ford and founding bassist
Johnny Colt quit soon thereafter.

Atlanta-born brothers and
frontmen, Chris and Rich Robinson
immediately began reconstructing the
band. The result: Sven Pipien on bass,
Audley Freed on Guitar, and Eddie
Harsch completing the line—up on key-
boards.

Their “new” sound is compared
to British Invasion greats like the
Rolling Stones and Led Zeppelin.
They also find influence in home-
grown tunes. Southern-fried soul
has always been a big inspiration;
the Black Crowes’ breakthrough hit
was a cover of Otis Redding’s “Hard
to Handle.”

“I’m happy SAB got a band that
will appeal to the whole Washington
and Lee community and not to just a
small group of students,” junior
Ashley Marano said.

“I’m glad that they’re not quite as
outdated as The Band or as obscure
as The Roots. Too bad there’s not
going to be a beer garden.”

For more information, visit the
Black Crowes website at
www. tallest. com.

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

 

. U112 ﬂing-tum {ﬂirt

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsIrv’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

MONDAY, JANUARY 18, 1999

Loyal pledges enthusiastically cheer on their future Phi Gamma Delta brothers Matt Gooch and Rick Black during last
weekend’s men’s swimming meet.

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

ii-9,0

Grammy award-winner Barbara Bailey Hutchison
performs in the GHQ. Besides playing for college
crowds, Hutchison has been featured in commercials for
companies including Hallmark cards, McDonalds and

‘ti United Airlines. Despite her international fame, less
than 20 students attended last Friday night’s concert.

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

International performing arts
series brings culture to W&L

By Eszter Pados

STAFF WRITER

The international perfonning arts
series at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity was started last fall, but already
can be called a success, according to
William Klingelhofer, director of Inter-
national Education at W&L.

The Office of International Educa-
tion, which sponsors the series, was
created about a year ago to serve the
needs of international students on
campus and to promote international
awareness campus—wide.

According to Klingelhofer, the arts
play an important role in our aware-
ness of culture. Therefore, he said that
the primary purpose of the series is to
expose people to new and different

Fall athletes

receive

-Compiled from staff reports

Though their seasons are over,
members of the W&L fall sports teams
haven’t stopped winning.

FOOTBALL: Six players earned
places on the Roanoke Times Division
II, III All-State Football team.

Junior quarterback Christian
Batcheller, senior offensive lineman
Marc Granger, sophomore defensive
back Will Baker, senior tight end David
Ritchey, sophomore running back
Marc Watson, and senior defensive
lineman Ben Middendorf were placed
on the squad.

Batcheller garnered First Team
honors after completing 167 of280
attempts (59.6%) for 1,813 yards and
11 touchdowns on the season. His
118.43 quarterback rating led the
league. Batcheller was a First Team
All-ODAC pick and an Honorable
Mention VaSID All-State pick ear-
lier this season. He was a Second
Team All-State selection by the
Roanoke Times last season.

Granger earned First Team laurels
for the second straight year, leading a
W&L offensive line that allowed just
19 sacks in 285 passing situations and
helped the Generals average 317.0
yards of total offense per game, the
highest total in over 30 years. He is a
two-time First Team All-ODAC hon-
oree and VaSID All-State selection.

awards

Baker backed up his First Team All-
ODAC and VaSID All-State selection
by being named to the First Team as
well. He led the W&L defense with 84
tackles and four interceptions, and
was second on the team in pass break-
ups with eight.

Ritchey earned Second Team
honors after catching 25 passes for
365 yards and three touchdowns on
the season. He paced W&L with a
14.6 yards per catch average and had
the Generals’ longest pass recep-
tion (52 yards) ofthe season. Earlier
this season, he was named Second
Team All-ODAC and First Team
VaSID All-State.

Watson earned second team hon-
ors after rushing for 823 yards and
seven touchdowns. He also set a new
W&L record for all-purpose yards
(1,500) in a season. Watson was a First
Team All-ODAC selection.

Middendorf earned Second Team
All-State honors after making 62 tack-
les and team leader in tackles for loss
(9 for -18 yards) and sacks (2.5).

MEN ’S SOCCER:Senior back Mikel
Parker was named the Virginia College
Division Men’s Soccer Player of the
Year. Senior forward Sam Chase earned
First Team All-State honors, as did jun-
ior midﬁelderlamie Parker.

See AWARDS on page 5

cultures and provoke awareness of
culture as a global phenomena. He
said that the series will go beyond the
cultures most known to us, that is,
those of America and Western Europe.

So far, three events of the series
have been held, all three from India.
The first two were performances of
North Indian classical music, while the
third one was a performance of tradi-
tional Indian dances. Besides
Klingelhofer’s special interest and
specialization in Indian culture, he sees
the three—paIt Indian series as a chance
for audiences to get a more in-depth
feeling for one specific culture. “In
addition,” Klingelhofer said, “Ameri-
cans respond well to Indian culture.”

Klingelhofer hopes that the series
will represent the world. He is plan-
ning to invite cultural performers from
Latin America, Europe, Asia and Af-
rica. Perforrnances he has in mind in-
clude Peking Acrobats and Irish and
Scottish musicians.

These performances tend to get ex-
pensive, Klingelhofer said. While the
office initially financed the cultural se-
ries by dipping into the International
Education operating budget, the
school later committed an annual fund
to the series.

“We hope for three or four [perfor-
mances] a year,” Klingelhofer said. He
also said- that he hopes that the series
will be a permanent part of W&L life.

Students who attended the con-
certs were impressed.

“I think that they were great,” se-

nior Isis Kirby—O’Connell, said. “We
needed something like this at this
school because of our lack of diver-
sity, and it promotes an appreciation
for other cultures.”

In the future, the ofﬁce willattempt
to coordinate these performances with
classes focusing on speciﬁc regions
being taught at the time, Klingelhofer
said. He added that the Indian perfor-
mances were well coordinated with
Professor Joan O’Mara’s art classes.
She recently introduced Indnn Art as
part of the curriculum.

“We also have a good Spanish de-
partment,” Klingelhofer said. “We
might coordinate a program with them
and their curriculum.”

Furthermore, there are some Irish
literature classes in the planning,
Klingelhofer said. If they are imple-
mented, he said that the ofﬁce will try
to attract an Irish performer.

The next performance will be on
Jan. 29 at 7:30 p.m. in Lee Chapel. It
will feature Andes Manta, performing
vibrant traditional music of the Andes
region on more than 35 musical instru-
ments. Performing groups of traditional
Irish and Scottish music will come to
town in early March.

The series has been successful so
far, Klingelhofer said.

Students, faculty and community
members had a chance to be exposed
to the “incredible richness of the cul-
tural world,” Klingelhofer said. “Over-
all, I am very happy with the turnout
and responses,” he said.

January 18, 1999
OPINION:

W&L1EE:

SPORTS:

LAST WORD:

@112 ﬂing-tum iﬂlri

Response to parking letter, “To the bastards who
harass me,” slackers add to suck factor

Millennium doom and gloom

Randy-Mac beats both basketball teams, men’s,
women’s swimming add to their win records

McManemin spins off own newspaper

PAGE 2

PAGES 3&4

PAGE 5

PAGE 6

 

@112 ﬁling-tum lﬂhi

   OPINION

In regard to the bastards who harass me 

  

JANUARY 18, 1999 p

 _;+’UOt€ of the Week: *1
Friday night, at around 3 a.m., I was awak- If you guys(l know_who ‘—‘*_"—‘*”" will win me over to your side? I love that, here at W&L, we can trust  ’
ened by a phone call from an on-campus exten- you are) want an apology '' I  "“~;. R)$I'l lhl Or is it just a way of having each other. We don’t have to like everybody, I‘
:sion. When I answered, some guy speaking in for anything I wrote that of-   Mike Agndlo (2 fun among yourselves at my but we know that they won’t steal your stuff, ({ ‘
tén obviously fabricated accent answered. fended you, you can have expense? Either way, you’ve hurt you or violate any rights you have as a ,. ‘

 

gone too far.

What REALLY bothers me is the sheer
callousness of you guys. As some dead
guy once said, “No man is an island.” I’m
far from an exception; I have family and
friends both at home and here who care
and worry about me. You think this makes it
any easier? Actually, that’s a stupid ques-
tion, I doubt you care. Contrary to their

person. Now I’m not so sure, and that’s

wrong. When shit like this happens to any- For  ' 
body, our cherished traditions of honor

and civility begin to go down the tubes. you can have me’

These traditions set W&L apart from any AV‘
other college in the nation, and without _Spunky Sophomore Girl

them, we're just another egghead school
in the middle of nowhere. W&L is a spe-
cial place, and if you want it to continue to

it. I never write with intent to piss anybody
off. I have entirely too much to won'y about
in my life without wasting any time on you. I
question your methods, however. If you had
approached me in person, sat down with me,
and talked with me about why I might have
been wrong and why it bothered you, I
would have listened intently, and I might
have apologized completely. Apparently,

He began by asking me general questions
ffhat led me to think he was merely a drunk
fprank caller. Before long, however, he began
{asking obviously ridiculous and insulting
:questions about this column, why I write it,
2:and my choice of topics. He called my writing
E‘.‘shitty” and basically said that in a couple of
iéirticles, I really had no idea what I was talking
{about This isn’t really important; what is im-

1}

'portant is that this is the second time I’ve we interpret “civility” differently. There’s wishes, I am NOT going to give in to you be, you'll quit doing this childish crap. I’ve i
received such acall, and I’ve never been given nothing wrong with that, but do you think and compromise my integrity and beliefs said my peace in the proper manner, and I
a fair chance to explain my side of the story. that your method of handling the situation because of your pettiness. challenge you to do the same.   

P

Make groceries
fat the grocery

Ok, I'll admit it. Sometimes I like to bake. I don’t care
who knows it. I like to get a big mixing bowl, ﬂour, milk,
some eggs, some spices, and go to town. My friends

the suck factor

Who are the justices of the Supreme Court? How many ,
articles of impeachment against President Clinton were
passed by the House? What is are the circumstances un-
der which a censure can take place?
Do you know the answers? If you are like most stu- _.,
dents on this campus, '

. . . . Z4: . . d . I ‘ d b

from home get a big kick out of calling me a sissy or ,.;»<~'*”  =2», Sir Lgac hnes you fo new is 3 5'3 ut
’“Betty Crocker” orjust “Betty.” I tell them “Duncan    Suck ac: h. :n 1:011 ?'e?
dammit. If you insist on ridiculing me, then it's Duncan  stephan'eB1amO 01 ac an t In a outmlt

makes no sense. We are
all intelligent people. We
are all capable of reading the newspaper, or watching tele-
vision, or listening to NPR on the radio. The question is
why aren't we doing it?

The inactivity of W&L students with regard to news, II
political and otherwise, is disgusting. The so-called politi-
cal organizations on campus are a prime example of this
slacker attitude. One would think that on a campus such
as W&L that is so slanted political involvement would be
overﬂowing. Well, look around. It's not. Sometimes I even
question my own involvement in it. I guess I stay in it in
hopes that one day we'll actually do something.

This laziness is not just political. Many do not know
the ﬁrst thing about what is going on around them. World i
news, national happenings, local events . . . they may as
well be in Sanskrit. Once again, I should not be surprised
by this considering that W&L students even breeze on by
the campus notices on email with a swift click on the delete
button. Geezl I bet if I went up to a random student he ’'
could not even giye,ine:'t,_he .4-A1-1, on the outcome of the x
'  wrestling match that .wa,s,h,eld the,night before. _

I have heard all the excuses ofwhy people can not take
two seconds to be informed. "I'm too busy," "I have tons
of homework," "I don't have a subscription to the newspa-
per," "It doesn't affect me." I don't remember the last time
you were "too busy" to go out. Come on! Honestly, out
of the seven hours you'll be in the library you will do solid
schoolwork for maybe six . . . and that's being generous. 7
No subscription? Well, that's kind of crazy considering
you manage to have a subscription to “Cosmo,” “People,”
“Sports Illustrated,” and “Playboy.” Finally, the next time
you say it does not affect you, think about what you just
said. Maybe then you'll see that all the apathy does is add
to the general suck factor of college students everywhere.

Hines, you schmoolies.” They say, “Ok, Betty.” (Why
am I friends with these people? Hey, I take what I can
get.) I'll stop trying to defend my masculinity now and
get back to the point.
' Last week I decided
to bake some cookies
_ and a big cake. Where
, should I go for all my
ingredients? Now, I am
: certainly a big Wal-Mart fan. Some days I make mul-
tiple trips. One night I woke up at 3 a.m. and decided
‘that one pillow just wasn’t cutting the mustard, so I
(dashed on over to visit my yellow-faced smiley
friends and purchased a second pillow for my pretty
1 little head.
But when it comes to making groceries, nothing stimu-
lates my culinary imagination like a good old fashion
' grocery store like Harris Teeter, Kroger or Food Lion. The
,' Wal-Mart atmosphere simply cannot replicate the epicu-
rean aura ofthese places. A store that sells fishing rods,
) a-Charlie’s—Angel-sponsored clothing for women, and small
rodents might carry the same tasty Toll House‘? morsels
that I want in my brownies that I would by at Harris Teeter;
, but my qualm is psychological. '
The two most important places for innovative food
: creations (at least in my case) are the kitchen andithe
, grocery store. A certain warmth and domesticity guide
my spirits, juices, spices and extracts of all sorts when
; I enter a traditional grocery store. A type of outer-body
experience takes hold and cosmically guides me to the
products destined for my dishes. In a well-designed,
’ comfortable store, the experience can truly be spiritual,
as well as therapeutic. Something can certainly be said
, for a smiley-faced sticker, but it doesn’t solve all.
Many people worry about the impact of Superstores
such as Wal-Mart upon other retail stores. Wal-Mart

   

' .;*5»~~...,()ff His Rocker
7;,,,..3§ Stephen Pesoe '01

we

Upperclass elections should
follow freshman example

The freshman class may actually
have something to teach the rest of us
when it comes to student government.

When I conducted my poll on stu-
dent government last semester, the

Without going into an unnecessar-
ily lengthy argument, I propose that
we amend the constitution to allow for
Fall Term elections for all classes. (This
should only apply to the class offic-

  Over the Hill

 
 

 

definitely impacts other stores; but people are quirky
enough (not as quirky as I am, perhaps, but quirky none-
theless) to go somewhere for the simple reason that
they like the way it smells. I’m not ashamed to admit
that smell makes me go certain places. In fact, I had a

' friend all through grammar school whose house smelled
really nice. My friends and I used ﬂatery and told him

-that he had the best toys so that he would invite us to

’his house. Shallow? Perhaps, but my nose wouldn’t
have had it any other way.

ﬁrst-year students collectively outper-
formed the upper classes in their abil-
ity to recall the names of their student
leaders. I credit this to the fact that
their elections necessarily occur in the
fall term,‘and I consider this to be of
great benefit to the class..When stu-
dents know the names of their oﬁicials,
it stands to reason that the same offi-
cials will be more accessible and re-

sponsive to their classmates’ con-
cerns.

If you are looking for any proof of
this, then I suppose you need look no
further than the Freshman Leadership
Councils. While different class presi-
dents have tried to hold their class
councils together over the years, it al-
ways seems to be the freshmen who
are the most active.

ers, however, since the Executive Com-
mittee plays such an important role
during Freshman Orientation.) By
electing the class officers in the Fall,
and incorporating them into the Stu-
dent Congress I proposed last week, I
believe that we will find ourselves with
a government that will be much more
energetic and familiar to the average
student than that which we have now.

T0 THEEDIT 

Alumnus~urges,:the, return of I
the W&L ’Gentlemari .»  ,.

Dear Editor,

be, in some circles, a high honor. The worst part of it
is that even W&L has become part of the problem.,_,

Ring-tum Phi vividly exempliﬁes W&L‘s alcoholic pro-‘
pensities and other letters in your ﬁne publication have
referred to the problem. As I read them I noticed the
total omission of a trait about which W&L men have
always been proud. -I

It's a trait that was once a powerful influence on
W&L men. It was nothing more than the rather con-
suming belief that they were, not just Gentlemen, but
W&L Gentlemen, just as Robert E. Lee and George
Washington were Gentlemen.

In the ’30s W&L students liked alcohol just as
they do in the ’90s. They were so proud of being

with their drinking. With rare exceptions, they re-
fused to get out of hand.

Binge drinking was almost unheard of. A W&L
Gentlemen made it a point to avoid the obstreper-
ous reputation the University of Virginia had at
that time.

   
    
 
    

g In recent years I've been puzzled by the reports ,
of seeming out-of-control alcohol consumption in.“
colleges all over America. Binge drinking seems to 1'

Lawrence A.G. Johnson's ('55) recent letter to 7725 :5

W&L Gentlemen that they strived to go only so far.

' I  wasla  Chi,H'ouse

indulged. We weregproudi o'f_be'_-.

 

its men to again take up the standards of a Gentleman and
I, all the characteristics for which it stands.
'S'in~=<='r.;e.Iy, _
. John Clark White
Washington and Lee Alumnus

'Aifea guidance counselors thank

, numerous  big buddies

DearEditor, ,

V The school guidance counselors from Rockbridge
County and Lexington City Schools would like to thank
the seventy-seven students from Washington & Lee Uni-
versity who volunteered to be "Big Buddies" to our stu-
dents.

These special friends meet once a week all year with a
yound child who needs special attention. The college stu-
dents take our kids to places and activities they might
otherwise miss. This is the largest group of volunteers we
have ever had.

 
 

JA?»‘*‘£~. G. LF.-‘(BURN LIBRARY
T"a“'_‘ Y°“’ vmei ‘crow 3. LEE L3N!VEFlS!TY
Margie Page LL:/:.l\lGTCll\'. VA 24450
Central Elementary

IA}.

'h'e¥tiiiie and.I.rarely;h'ad trouble vi,/‘itlithosle »

-I ‘noted your letter of parking frustration in the 'cu'r-.1; ‘
L I rent Phi. The parking garage is indeed coming. We are \
working with the architect/contractor who will be build- .

I I ':"‘So the  ofniy is to suggest that W&L‘s lead-»
. ers return to an age-old strength of W&L by encouraging

   

ing the garage, and current plans call for construction
to start-early inMay; the garage is scheduled for comple-
tion and our use at the start of the winter term (Janu-
ary), 2000. Unfortunately, during the construction pe-
riod, you are likely to find parking conditions even more
intolerable than you do now. An interim plan is bring
developed that should bring some relief and ﬂexibility,
but it will require much cooperation, tolerance, and pa-
tience on the part of all University drivers. '

Your letter mentions parking near the Delt House,
now in use as a Panhellenic center. Are you one of the
young women living at this address?

If so, you may not be aware of an arrangement the
University made with the Chi Psi fratemity, whereby
residents of the Delt house can park their vehicles in
the spaces behind the Chi Psi lodge, just a half-block
away from the Delt House.

I have copied some appropriate folks with this mes-
sage. If the arrangement for using Chi Psi spaces is no
longer valid, perhaps they might suggest a viable alter-
native.

Good luck in your quest for the PPUP (pronounced
Pee—Pee-You-Pee). That's short for the Parking Place of
Ultimate Proximity, the one goal that all Americans
(those with wheels) pursue but relatively few achieve.

Sincerely,
Frank Parsons
Coordinator, Facilities Planning

_ j  Viv / g I , , _ _\  p  2 g  A, »‘ Sports Editor
. _Faci'1.ities‘planner,» Frank Pa;rsc75i'1";s, L
_resporids'to parking (complaint  

Elhi: ‘ﬁling-tum iﬂlii

Tarah Grant
Hollister Hovey
Polly Doig

John Stewart
Ginger Phillips
Erica Prosscr
Stephanie Bianco
Stephen Pesce
Frances Groberg
Kevin McManemin
Sarah Meldrum
Meredith Mlynar
Emily Barnes
Scott Cameron
Cliff Woolley
Leo Brown

Executive Editors
News Editors
W&Life Editors
Opinions Editors
Last Word Editor
Copy Editors
Photo Editors

Production Assistant
Layout Assistant

Jason Williams
Matt Lorber
Leo Brown

Business Manager
Advertising Directors
C irculalion Director

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editors, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters, columns and “Talkback" do not
reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wIu.edu
https//wIu.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

1 0 1000
- ‘;.kJxJ

,}_; 1.1 v ‘

 

&

I

 

JANUARY 18, 1999

By Ginger Phillips

F EA TURES EDITOR

Y2K. The name is short but it represents a Pandora’s
box of potential problems. Y2K, or the millennium bug, is a
problem that could affect almost every aspect of our in-

creasingly technology-reliant society. What will happen‘

at the stroke of midnight on Jan. 1, 2000? Well, here’s how
the story goes, at least for some people:

It takes you four hours to get to work because none of
the traffic lights are working for some strange reason.
When you ﬁnally arrive at your oﬂice building, you ﬁnd
yourself stuck in an elevator for the entire workday.

After you escape the metal conﬁnes of the elevator you
decide to run some errands but ﬁnd that none of your
credit cards work and that all the money in your bank
account has suddenly disappeared. Now how will you
pay for that $100,000 phone bill that you receive in the
mail?

It ’s been a bad day so you go home, on the way passing
by ﬁfty convicts from the state penitentiary, where the cell
doors simply won ’t shut. Upon entering your house you
realize that you not only have no electricity or wa-
ter, but that you'll have to live of of the few food
items left in your pantry since grocery stores
aren ’t receiving deliveries anymore.

This is, perhaps, the exaggerated ver-
sion of the results of the Y2K computer
bug. Y2K itself stands for the year 2000,
the year in which many computers may
face the serious challenge of not be-
ing able to read the dates for the new
millenium. A few Americans are ac-
tually stockpiling food and fire-
wood in preparation of Y2K prob-
lems.

“I feel there is entirely too
much hype concerning the Y2K
issue. However, I think everyone
needs to be aware that there will
be some problems concerning
Y2K,” Bill Todd, Washington and
Lee University’s Y2K Coordinator,
said. “Everyone can be affected. It
makes no difference if you have a
computer or not — you can‘ be af-
fected if there are problems. Everyone a
should be educated concerning the Y2K
issue.”

So what exactly is theproblem? During
the early phases of computer_ programming
computer memory was expensive and scarce. H
By, conserving just two bytes‘ perireﬁcordi of’:
memory, organizations were able to save millions of
dollars. Programmers also viewed the coming of 2000 as
such a distant event that they ﬁgured that their program-
ming would be obsolete anyway be the time the date system
started to wreak havoc. '

Therefore, dates were recorded in two digits, for ex-
ample 65 for the year 1965. This poses a serious problem
for the upcoming millenium because computers will read
00 as the year 1900. Because so much of our daily life is
rooted in such technology, numerous social and political
problems could result from these date malﬁinctions.

Fortunately, most W&L students seem to be taking the
news without too much apprehension.

“There isn’t too much to worry about with Y2K. Your
computer is not going to blow up and there won’t be

Y2K bug: Are computers readyfor. new millennium?  

any major catastrophies,” freshman Ali Soydan said.
“Banks and other institutions with big systems are
aware of the problem and are solving it. This issue has
been over — exaggerated in many ways.”

In fact, many of the problems associated with the
millenium bug have already been detected. A Centenarian

from Minnesota recently received an invitation to attend‘

kindergarten due to age discrepancies attributed to Y2K
errors. Credit cards with expiration dates in 2000 have al-
ready caused some computerized cash.registersto crash
and many corporations have recorded serious errors in
long-terrn order processing for the birnillenium.

But how can two little numbers cause so much trouble?
The answer is relatively simple: the expansion of the date
to accommodate four-digit years can change the location
of all subsequent data in a system, meaning that every
program that retrieves that information must be altered to
ﬁnd these new locations. These revisions can then
lead to new
glitches,

or
bugs. A popu-
lar process to fix the

Y2K problem, called windowing, has been devel-

oped to avoid the problems of date expansion.

Although methods to ﬁx the problem do exist, it is virtu-
ally impossible to ﬁx the problem in its entirety. To replace
the innumerable amount of computers and programs al-
ready in use would be far too costly, so many corporations
are attempting to mend their equipment. With such a great

  
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  

task and an immovable deadline, there are sure to be some
problems after all the New Year’s parties stop in 2000. For-
tunately, most of these problems should be pretty minor
ones.

“I think that a lot of areas may be affected by routines
that haven’t been ‘ﬁxed’ by Jan. 1, 2000, but most inci-
dents will be irritating or amusing more than serious,” John
Stuckey, director of University Computing, said. “Aware-
ness of the potential problems will be so widespread that
nearly everyone will be watching for irregularities and ready
to deal with them.”

And the University is ready to deal with those problems.

“President Elrod has appointed a Y2K Steering Com-
mittee of senior executives and a Y2K Task Force of admin-
istrators responsible for all areas of University activity,”
Stuckey said. “We’ve been working on Y2K issues for
about four years here in University Computing, and we
published our overall institutional plan about a year ago.”

For the past several months, University Computing

has been preparing for the affect of Y2K on personal
computers on campus. It has tested the readiness
of “pilot” ofﬁces and is in the process of evalu-

ulty and staff.
“The Y2K problem has already af-
fected us by requiring «much of
our time and attention now,”
Dirk van Assendelft, Stu-
dent Computing Coordi-
‘ nator, said. “We are
making sure hard-
ware and software is
Y2K compliant,
and we will be
testing all of our

equipment.”

A 1th 0 u g h
minor problems
with the net-

work are ex-
pected, Todd
says that the
U n iv e r s i t y
should be in
full operation
when classes
resume after the
holiday break on‘
Jan. 3,2000. Even
if W&L is prepared
for Y2K, however, the
ill-prepared also have
the ability to affect the
school.
“We will only be as strong
as our weakest link. If we have
everything on campus ready for
January 1, 2000 and any of our links to
the outside world or our vendors are not
ready we could be impacted,” Todd said. “So,
while we make every effort to be ready, we could expe-
rience problems that for the most part, are out of our con-
trol. We are in the process of contacting our off campus
links and vendors to determine their readiness.” _
University Computing, however, is only responsible for
the approximately 1200 computers owned by the University.
It is the responsibility of the students and faculty to ensure
that their personal computers are Year 2000 compliant.

ating software for the use of students, fac- 4

PAGE 3

_.t

 

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor’

“I’m sick to death of Y2K! It’s just not a big
deal,” senior Nathan Hagar‘ said. “I don’t think
we’re that reliant on technology that we’ll all die
if something goes wrong with our computers.”

“Everything should be OK because most companies
already have the problem solved,” freshman Daniel Comer
said. “However, I don’t think that most people know that
there is some individual responsibility as well.”

“Computer owners should contact their computer ven-
dor to ﬁnd out whether their system is Y2K compliant. If it
isn’t, they should follow the vendor’s recommendations
for upgrade and replacement of components,” Ruth Floyd,
head of Academic Computing, said.

Most, but certainly not all, computers sold within the
past two to three years are able to recognize the new date,
but many older ones will not be so lucky. It is also neces-
sary to check out your computer’s desktop for non-com-
pliant applications. Depending on the volume of applica-
tions stored on your desktop, you could face some seri-
ous problems.

For software programs such as the commonly used
Microsoft WordTM and Corel Word PerfectTM, visit http://
microsoft.com/year2000/ and www.corel.com for compli-
ance information. Most large computer companies, such as
Gateway2000 (www.gateway.com) also have web sites that
list important information about Y2K solutions.

The United States Government has also set up a toll-free
hotline with pre—recorded information about Y2K solutions.
This 24-hour—a-day service is available by calling l-888-USA-
4-Y2K.

University Computing is also developing a web site
that will contain helpful information for personal computer
owners and links to software that can be used to verify the

“hardware and softwareon personally owned computers.

I “We will make sure the fa‘c'ulty,istudents and staff of
personally owned computers will have tools necessary to
help them determine their needs,” Todd said..

So instead of storing dehydrated food and warm
clothing for the much exaggerated, upcoming disaster,
take the proper action to ensure that your personal com-
puters are ready for the new millenium. If so, everyone
may be able to enjoy a tall glass of champagne on Dec.
31, 1999, without having to fear any major Y2K calami-
ties the next morning.

Just in case, the University Y2K Task Force won’t be
far away.

Stuckey reassured students, “We plan to have a crew
on duty, checking systems and watching for problems as
the clock chimes in the New Year — probably the least
boisterous New Year’s Eve party you can ﬁnd.”

Consult the Magic 8-Ball: predictions for the future

By Elianna Marziani
STAFF WRITER

2000. Is it just another number, another new 4-digit sequence to remember to
put on the dates on checks next year, or is it more?

As 1999 kicks off, people naturally begin to look forward and make plans for

. next year, the beginning of the third millennium and the twenty-ﬁrst century.
What changes will this new year hold? Will the only effect be that 20th Century
Fox® will need to change its logo, or will the effects be more widespread?
Members of the Washington and Lee University community had many and
varied ideas about what the tum-of-the-millennium will bring.

First of all, many people throughout the country are worried about the Y2K
problem (see related article, this page). Regardless of their level of knowledge
about it, though, the great majority of those interviewed had very similar an-
swers when asked if they would ﬂy on New Year’s Day 2000 if they had.an
appointment to keep.

“Probably not, just to be superstitious,” said freshman Chris Kieber. “I bet
they’ll have really low fares, though.” '

Freshman Mike Malinzak said, “I wouldn’t ﬂy New Year’s Day, just in case,
because I really don’t want to fall!”

Politics professor Ken Ruscio agreed. “I would not be willing to be on a
plane on January 1st... I’d just as soon let others find out about the problem
than me,” he said. a

Onlyjunior Lucas Penix bravely said, “Sure, I’ll ﬂy that day.” We’ ll just have
to see if he really does.

Aside from the possible airline crisis, the new millennium offers the possi-
bilities for change in all sorts of aspects of life: attitudes, technology,.culture,
you name it. W&L students and faculty had very different views on what sort
of changes the new millennium might bring.

After sketching out the possibility of several apocalyptic groups bombing
each other and killing themselves and the rest of the world (which would still be
in a drunken stupor) on New Year’s Day and thus causing the end of the world
in the year 2000, Kieber grew more serious and offered the idea that the change
of millennium “might be a good chance to put things in perspective.”

He doubts that any major changes in political thought or technological
advancements will occur overnight, however. He said that, while 10 years ago
he thought the year 2000 would be really cool, full of men walking around in
polyesterjumpsuits and living the classic sci-ﬁ life, that scenario is most likely
not going to happen within the next year.

Freshman Ivan Gonzales agreed, not willing to believe that a sci-ﬁ, utopian
world is likely to come about soon.

“Now that we are really near, I see all the scientiﬁc developments coming,

but not in a boom or a glimpse,” he said. “I think people are overly-excited
about it . . . it’s a very superﬁcial thing.” He was open to the idea, however, that
eventually there could be a possibility for “new ideas, new conceptions of
things as we challenge ourselves, question ourselves.”

Ruscio agreed. “It is interesting that we put these artiﬁcial bench-marks on
a year . . . in natural history, this is an insigniﬁcant second,” he said. The
change of millennium, he said, “will be more of a curiosity, a sort of light-
hearted thing, than a serious discussion of where we’ve been and where we’re
going.” I

He believes that there will be some major changes in environment and medi-
cine out of necessity in the near future, testing whether we have enough strength
as a world and society to deal with the complicated social and ethical questions
new problems and solutions will create.

Quite the oracle, Malinzak also saw some changes occurring in the next
century and millennium: “I’ll be dead.” More seriously, he expressed a view-
point similar to Ruscio’s, that the year 2000 “is a year like any other, vaguely
symbolic, but it doesn’t really mean anything.” '

He said, “[The change of a millennium] has happened before, and all we did
then was say, ‘Hey, let’s'kill some Mus1ims.”’ He doesn’t see this millennium as
bringing any great changes in humanity such as those presented in Edward
Bellamy’s utopian novel Looking Backward: 2000-1887. Rather, he said,
“We’ll all sit around and laugh at videos of what we-thought the world
would be like.”

Penix said that he has no idea about what kinds of changes will be made over
the course of the new century or millennium, but he believes that technology
will grow and “dehumanize the workforce even more,” resulting in problems for
those who rely on manufacturing jobs, but also perhaps resulting in improve-
ments of society as a whole.

He believes that there is a possibility that “societies, various ones, will try to
progress more at the beginning of the new millennium.” He does not foresee
any major, rapid changes occurring in the near future. -

While looking ahead at possible social and political changes and devel-
opments is interesting, many people are also concerned with something
more close at hand: the celebrations, festivities and parties associated
with the new year.

Freshman Valerie Bruneau said, “New Year’s Eve is always a lot of hype, so
hopefully this year it will live up to its hype.”

Penix thinks it will. He said, “People are going to be spending .too much
money for a party they could have any time of the year . . . I think people are
kind of crazy to be booking hotels two, three years in advance.”

Ruscio said, “Surely some [celebrations] will be bigger,” with “extra features
and a lot of clever marketing.” As for his own plans, however, he does not

foresee that his New Year’s 2000 celebration will be much different than any
other he has had. 3

Malinzak agrees that celebrations will be “like they were this year, maybe
crazier. Everyonewill think they’re all original because they’re playing Prince’s
1999.”

Kieber thinks that there will be one major feature of the coming New Year’s
Eve and Day: “Alcohol poisoning will be rampant.”

Gonzales agreed that partying will be somewhat excessive, but opinions were
summed up by Reeves, who said, “We’re gonna party like it’s 1999!” (For a report
on the biggest bashes in store this Dec. 31, see related story, page four.)

The new millennium will deﬁnitely bring some major changes, though not as
rapidly as certain futuristic sci-ﬁ shows might have suggested. People are

-preparing themselves now for these changes, working on building that infa-

mous Bridge to the 21st Century that was so often referred to in the 1996

presidential debates.
As for what lies beyond the Bridge . . . well, that’s anybody’s guess.

 

 

PAGE 4

  W31

I

@112 iﬁittg-Gum iﬂlii

IFE

3

JANUARY 18, 1999 in

By Erica Prosser
FEATURES EDITOR

Only 347 days to go.
Until what? Until the new millennium, of course!
Until the parties begin, the computers crash and the

 end of the world comes (or doesn’t come, depending on

your religious preference). And although most experts agree

that the millennium actually begins on Jan. 1, 2001, the real

fun (and trouble) to be had will be waiting at the stroke of
midnight on Dec. 31, 1999.
It staggers the mind: only 347 days left until the

1 end ofa thousand—year countdown. In the last 1,000
.j years, the world has seen mankind grow by leaps

and bounds in every area of thought, technology
and imagination. V ‘

This New Year’s qualiﬁes as a Big Deal, so what are you
(and the rest of mankind) doing to prepare for and cel-

F ii ebrate the event?

Times Square in New York City, traditionally the head-
quarters of First Night every year, will be updating the
festivities for the new millennium:-event planners will be
unveiling a new ball that will drop to usher in the century.
Don’t live in New York? Don’t despair.

Most major cities will be having bashes of their

_;- pl: own, and all over the world, authorities are planning
 celebrations that are supposedly the biggest parties
‘ in the history of time. Huge committees, corporate

sponsors and planning groups have had their heads
together for years in the process of organizing these

 events. ‘

In the United States, the Billennium® is touted as

the “official celebration ofthe year 2000,” and it
means business. The event is a multi-year
celebration of the best entertainment, cul-

ture and education from the past,
present and future, and it all cul-
minates with the 2000th Birth-
day Party for the World” on
New Millennium’s Eve“.

We kid you not; all of these
terms are trademarked and care-
fully protected. Sound compli-
cated (and commercial)? We’re just
getting started.

In California, Party 2000® is a
ﬁve-day blowout that claims to be
“the largest event under construc-
tion in the entire World.” It will fea-
ture the largest concert and party ever held on
the planet; planners expect a turnout of two '
and a half million people on the 5,000 acres set
aside for the event. Event planners also claim
that the world’s largest barbecue, carnival, ﬁreworksd i s —
play and sound system will make the whole thing even
more amazing.

This party is not without a price: the cost to attend
is $445 per person until Jan. 30, $600 per person from
Jan. 30 until March, $700 per person from March until
July and $850 per person thereafter. But wait, the world-
wide bash doesn’t end there. The joy continues in other
countries.

England is preparing with, among other things, a party
called Greenwich 2000. The British claim that the millen-

U

  
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
  
 
  
 

nium ofﬁcially begins in this Prime Meridian spot, so they
are building the Millennium Dome, a huge exhibition hall,
for the occasion.
In Paris, ofﬁcials are preparing for the
expected influx of visitors with a
bigger airport,
more foot-
bridges

0

across
the Seine,
faster trains, more
landscaping and
facelifts for many of the
monuments and muse-
ums. A

The Roman Catholic
Church will base its spiritual mil-
lennium activity in Vatican City,
scheduling pilgrimages to the area all
through the year in order to spread out the
expected crowds. .

In Egypt, authorities plan to place a gold-encased capstone

on the Great Pyramid to make it whole again for the night of

Dec. 31, 1999. »
Other worldwide activities that will last all year long

‘ emperor’s rule, will do little to mark the Western

Tonight we’re gonna party like it’s . . .well, 1999 -

include cruises, horse races, festivals, vigils, dinners and
nearly all other imaginable means of celebration. Hotel
rooms and champagne are expected to be scarce, causing 7‘
many people to book their parties already.

Not everyone is preparing with such gusto. Rus-
sia and China have no major events planned yet,
and Japan, which measures time by the length of an

millennium (the date in Japan will be Hisei 12,

the 12th year of Akihito’s reign).
Israeli religious authorities have already warned against
much celebrating of the New Year because the date falls on ,,
a Friday night, the Jewish sabbath. But most countries and
peoples will be partying this New Year’s Eve like there’s‘

no tomorrow. ‘

Despite the proliferation of parties and
celebrations across the globe, one i
question still lingers: where will
the ﬁrst millennium sunrise
be?

Pitt Island, a member ‘
of New Zealand’s remote
Chatham Islands, claims
the honor of hosting that

first light, predicting it at
4:04 a.m. on Jan. 1,2000 3-
(11:04 a.m. EST, Dec. 31,
1999). .
You could go all the way there to
see the dawn, but even if you don’t, odds are that the sun *
will rise wherever you are, bringing with it a new millen-
nium and a future full of possibilities.

J final world revolution against

United States.

' been held responsible for at least

i» installations, and Asahara and his

By Erica Prosser
FEA TURES EDITOR

For as long as anyone can remember, handfuls of religious cults and
extremists have announced that the world will end soon, possibly on Jan.
1, 2000. Despite the fact that experts now believe that our calendar is off
and we’re already past the actual 2,000-year anniversary of the birth of
Christ, these groups declare that the Apocalypse is nigh and we’re all in
big trouble.

Who are these authorities on speculation? What groups are behind this
rumor of Armageddon? Here’s a short exploration of some of the cults that

A ’ : have been or are currently preparing for the Second Coming while the rest of us
’ i; plan our parties. .

Aum Shinri Kyo: This Japanese cult, which combines some elements of

\ Buddhism and Christianity, was founded by Shoko Asahara. Followers see him

as Christ. Asahara took the bibli-
cal Book of Revelation and some
of the writings of Nostradamus
and predicted major worldwide di-
sasters to occur in these last years
of the millennium. He also declared
that the group must ﬁght in the

6 C
...at least 46 major
predicted dates for
Armageddon have
been made and ,
debunked, so if
nothing happens on
Jan. 1, 2000, it
wouldn’t be the
first time.

Japan’s enemies, including the

To prepare for this planned Ar-
mageddon, the group stockpiled
chemical weapons. This cult has

nine biological attacks on Japanese

members are blamed for a sarin gas 9 9

attack that killed 11 people and in-

jured more than 5,000 in a Tokyo subway station.
Meanwhile, Asahara’s daughter, Rika Matsumoto, has taken over the cult;

members think she has great abilities because she was born after her father’s

‘ _ enlightenment.

Branch Davidians: David Koresh led this group that met with tragedy in

' Waco, Texas, in the spring of 1993. The group expects the imminent return of

Jesus Christ to earth, and Koresh renamed their compound “Ranch Apoca-

‘_ lypse” because of his belief that the battle of Armageddon would begin on the
compound. Members live a disciplined and communal life, stockpiling arms for

the ﬁnal battle.

In 1993, ofﬁcials tried to arrest Koresh on ﬁrearms violations, but they de-
cided to go about it by assaulting the compound directly, leading to a long
siege. Miscommunication between the ofﬁcials and Koresh, combined with
“expert” opinion that mass suicide or slaughter was unlikely, led the govern-
ment to attack with tear gas and force their way into the buildings. Fires sprung
up, and when the ﬁghting and ﬁres were over, roughly 75 people (including
Koresh) were dead.

The group is still in existence, split into anti-Koresh and pro-Koresh fac-
tions. The pro-Koresh side believes that

 

T Write'forthegPhi..:.~~’."  
Write for the  . Q’  v  i

   

A  know you want 

Cornet to story board ati:_7:3_0i€' A
. .Tué-ﬂay inighfsin r°9m’2;°.8 
off th¢UniYlersiFY C¢*“¢r-*i“- 

|_v.eid_'  .

    

I FLORIDA
SPRING BREAK

FROM $159 PER WEEl(*

HUGE BEACH mom HOTTUABV I “
LAZY mvsv. RIDE - SUITES upro ‘IOPERSONS .
SAILBOATS - TlKl BEACH BAR - JET SKIS - PARASAILS

“HOME OF THE WORLD'S LONGEST KEG PARTY"
FREE DRAI-T BEER ALL WEEK LONG-(ALL FOR INFO!
1-800-488-8828

www.szmdpiperbeacomcom (‘rates per person)

l7«10?ll{ONl BE/\Cl'l ROAD - PANAANA CITY BEACH.

the process of the Apocalypse is almost complete, and that the ﬁve months of
torment will begin on orabout Aug. 6, 1999.

Heaven’s Gate: You remember this group from March of 1997, when 39 people
put on black Nike shoes and purple shrouds and committed suicide so that
they could reach the mother ship that was waiting behind the Hale-Bopp comet.
The group, founded by Marshall Applewhite (“Do”), is a combination of Chris-
tian belief and UFO theory.

According to the members, Do came to earth 2,000 years ago and moved

into the body of Jesus Christ, and his power was how all the biblical phenom- A

ena happened. Current members believe that, if the group commits suicide
together, their “container” bodies will be left behind, and the aliens will be
able to graft their spirits onto “better than human” forms.

When Hale-Bopp got close to - I —
Earth and Easter was also occur-

 Apocalypse soon: some cults think end of world is nigh ~‘

so we have someplace happy to go when the asteroid hits.

The word “extreme” does not do this group justice, but their wealth and ii
variety of information is nice.

These are just some of the more organized and well-known groups that
preach an imminent end of the world as we know it. Over the course of recorded
history, at least 46 major predicted dates for Armageddon have been made and
debunked, so if nothing happens on Jan. 1, 2000 (or sometime beforehand), i‘
it wouldn’t be the first time. V

Still, these groups are vocal and provide us with some fascinating food
for thought about the possibilities of the future.

I’ll probably head to Confession sometime before Dec. 31, 2000 though, i
just in case. .

‘1l'l .

ring, 39 group members killed them-
selves in an effort to reach the
spaceship. The members left be-
hind are busily maintaining the
group’s multimedia materials and
waiting for their turn to ascend.

First Internet Church of Phila-
delphia: This extensive website (at
www.Escape666.com) covers pre-
dictions, theories and declarations
of the end of the world. The site
explores everything from the Bible
to Nostradamus, finding “evi-
dence” of Armageddon in every
location. A

According to one of the more
prominent predictions on the site,
an asteroidwill hit the earth in July
of this year, causing the end of all
life. Apparently, Jan. 1, 2000 isn’t
soon enough for the coming of our
just desserts.

Asteroids aside, the makers of
the site (of whom only “Pastor
Harry,” leader Harry Walther, has a
name), predict ﬂoods, aliens and a
worldwide “disappearance” of en-
tire groups of people for no appar-
ent reason. Sex and violence will
reign, although that will probably
stop when the asteroid kills every-
thing on the planet. .

The leaders of this group say
that all ancient prophesies con-
verge on the coming millennium,
so the end is at hand and we all
need to repent and be forgiven _

Lee Signed CDV

FL 32413

Clipped signature with closing w/ CDV
Document signed "R. E. Lee, Lt. Engrs"
Letter Signed, Lexington, VA, 1870

Washington College Diploma, 1867

Great Framing, Great Service, Great History

Original Frameworks »

1 North Main St. Lexington, 464-6464 
M-F 10-6, Sat 9-4, New Manager

ROBERT E. LEE SIGNATURES
FOR SALE

 

$3000 A
$4000
$6500
$5500 '
AND

$4500

1
Other Lee's: Fitzhugh, G.\X/.C., "Rooney" & Lee's Father—In—Law
' 11
Also Available: Lincoln, Grant, Mosby, Longstreet, Ashby,
Beauregard, Early, A.P. Hill, Imoben, etc., etc.
it

 

.Generals suffer narrow loss at
..hands of Randolph-Macon

I

X

 

JANUARY 18, 1999

S‘i?d‘RTs

PAGE 5

Junior guard
Jessica
Morton

protects the
ball from an
opponent
during the
game against
Hollins on
Thursday.
The Generals
cruised to an
A easy victory,
defeating the
Roanoke
team by a
score of
76-59.

  

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

By Tod Williams

STA FF WRITER

Just as soon as the Generals be-
gan their ﬁrst streak of the year that
didn’t involve losses, the Yellow Jack-
ets of Randolph-Macon put an end
to the two-win streak on Saturday.
After impressive 76_-59 and 78-62 wins
over Hollins and Lynchburg, respec-
tively, Washington and Lee was
outscored 52-29 in its 90-62 loss to
Randolph-Macon.

The Generals used a 12-2 run to
pull within three points of the Jack-
ets, but went into the locker room
down by ﬁve at halftime, 38-33.

Randolph-Macon came out hot in the
second half, shooting 62% in the half.
The Beightol sisters of RMC combined
for 36 points in the 28-point win.

For the Generals, junior Jessica
Morton came off the bench to lead the
team in scoring with 16 points, includ-
ing her 6-6 free throw performance.
Freshman Alison Kudlacik posted 13
points for W&L. The real story on the
week was freshman center Jessica
Mentz, who posted 14 points and eight
boards in the loss, and equally respect-
able numbers in the two wins.

In the Generals 76-59 win over
Hollins, Mentz posted her third double-
double of the year with 17 points and

13 rebounds. Against Lynchburg, she
chipped in 13 points and six rebounds.
Mentz said the team’s upperclassmen
have been crucial to her first season.
“[The upperclassmen] never look
down on any ofthe freshmen. We're
members of the team.”

Mentz said the only thing holding
the team back is its lack of a “ﬁnal
burst.” “We've only been able to play
20 minutes,” she said of the team’s
inability to close out games with a
strong ﬁnish.

The Generals outscored Hollins 39-1 1
on Thursday injust under 12 minutes in
the second half to cruise to the 17-point
win. Hollins lead 32-30 at me break and

iWomen’s basketball two for three in VA

by as much as six later in the second half,
but W&L pulled out the victory.

Senior Chrissy Burghardt led W&L
in both scoring and rebounding, 18
and 14, respectively, en route to her
ﬁfth double-double this season. Jun-
ior Ansley Miller also dropped in 16
for the Generals. Sophomore guard
Rosee Hopkins led all scorers with 23.

In the Generals’ 78-62 win over
Lynchburg, Miller and Burghardt com-
bined for 39 points. W&L led 33-31 at
the half, and never looked back, as the
ladies ended the game on a 16-2 run.

The Generals (4-8, 3-5 ODAC) will
travel to Bridgewater for a 7 p.m. game
on Tuesday.

By Brendan Harrington

SPORTS WRITER

Despite a sizzling second half
shooting performance, the Washing-
ton and Lee men’s basketball team lost
its sixth game in a row on Saturday,
falling to Randolph-Macon 59-54 in
front of 420 fans at the Warner Center.

The Generals (3-10, 2-6 ODAC)
trailed 28-21 at the half, but shot an
amazing 79% from the field in the sec-
ond half to climb back into the game.
In the end, however, the Generals were
unable to overcome 11 second-half
turnovers and came up just a bit short.

Saturday’s loss extended the Gen-
erals’ losing streak against Randolph-
Macon to 24 games. W&L last de-
feated the Yellow Jackets on Feb. 9,
1977, a time when every player cur-
rently on the team except senior cap-
tain Kevin Cobbin was yet to be born.

“We did a greatjob rallying and
battling back, and that’s a credit to
our guys,” W&L head coach Kevin
Moore said following the loss.
“We’re right there, we’re ready to
turn the darn corner, it’s just a mat-
ter of knocking away a few turnovers

and grabbing a couple of extra re-
bounds.”

After the Yellow Jackets (10-3, 5-2
ODAC) went ahead 43-28 on a basket
by senior forward Matt Meehan with
12:58 left in the game, the Generals
went on a 15-0 run and tied the score
at 43-43 on sophomore guard Chad
Braley’s free-throw with 7:34 left to go.
It was the first and only free-throw of
the game for W&L.

“When we were down by 15, we
very easily could have collapsed,
but we didn’t,” Moore said. “We
have talent, we have ability, and we
should be able to play that way for
40 minutes.”

W&L led 54-53 with less than two
minutes remaining when Meehan
nailed a clutch jump-shot in the lane
to give the Yellow-Jackets the lead 55-
54. On the next possession-the Gener-
als turned it over, but Meehan then
missed a jumper on the other end.IheL
Generals claimed the rebound and
called a time-out with 16.2 seconds left
to play. "

Following the time-out the Gener-
als looked to play for the last shot, but
Braley tried to force a lob-pass down

low to junior forward Rich Peterson
and the Yellow Jackets were able to
knock it out-of-bounds off of W&L
guard Will Ballard.

“The play was designed to get
Chad a shot, and if he was covered
his next look was to Rich inside,”
Moore said. “He looked at him too
long, and the defense was able to
get over there —— he probably should
have reversed the ball.”

The Generals then found them-
selves in a rare position: they were
four fouls away from putting
Randolph-Macon in the bonus and
they needed to put the Yellow Jack-
ets on the foul line in order to get the
ball back. As a result, the Generals
were forced to foul someone before
the ball was inbounded so that no time
would run off the clock and Ballard
was whistled for an intentional foul.

Senior forward Brian Pirttima
nailed both of the free throws fro
RMC, and the Generals were forced
to foul again. Meehan hit both of
his free throws to produce the ﬁnal
score of 59-54.

“You can’t play good teams and
have 20 turnovers and expect to win,

it’s just not going to happen,” said
Moore. “We need to start limiting
ourselves to at least fourteen a game.”

The free-throws by Pirttima and
Meehan at the end of the game were
the only time the Yellow Jackets went
to the line all afternoon. The two teams
combined for only 21 personal fouls
and a mere ﬁve free-throws, making for
an extremely swiﬁ game.

The Generals shot a season high
60% from the ﬁeld. Braley led all play-
ers with 20 points (8-13 from the ﬁeld)
and Peterson added 12 for the Gener-
als.

Pirttima and junior guard Mike
LaGuardia each scored 15 for the Yel-
low Jackets while Meehan added 12.
LaGuardia was 5-9 from three-point
land including a clutch NBA-three
down the stretch.

The Generals return. to action
against St.~Mar:y-’-‘s College in Maryland
on Monday night at 7230 before travel 7
ing to Emory and Henry on Wednes-
day night.

“We need to win a game right now,”
Moore said. ‘‘If we lose too many in a
row, the guys are going to start to
doubt themselves.”

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

Sophomore guard Will Ballard catches some air against RMC

Men’s and Women’s swimming can hang with bigger teams

By Steele Cooper

SPORTS WRITER

This weekend, the Washington and Lee men’s and
women’s swim teams combined for three wins at home
against Buffalo State and Catholic University. Friday, the
Generals faced Buffalo State, with the men winning easily
(1 1-74) and the women edging out a close 92-90 win. Satur-
day, the men defeated Catholic (105-96), but the women lost
by a 109-96 margin. The W&L men now have an overall
record of 6-3, and the women have an overall record of 7-3.

Against Buffalo State, senior captain Margaret Hoehl
led the Generals swim team to the close victory with three
wins on the evening. Hoehl placed ﬁrst in the 100 Breast
(1 : 13.55 — meet record), the 200 Free (2:01.21 — meet
record), and the 100 Butterﬂy (1 203.3 5).

Two additional upperclass swimmers taking home
ﬁrst place finishes also paced the women on Friday.
Senior Courtney Tyler won her 2001M race (2:25.80),
and junior Lauren Beckenhauer won the 100 Back
(1 : 105.43 — meet record).

Saturday’s lose to Catholic did not come without sev-
eral victories for W&L. Once again, Hoehl led the pack in
three of her races, this time breaking three meet records in
doing so. Hoehl won the 200 Free (1:59.84 —meet record),
the 200 Fly (2: 16.75 — meet record), and the 500 Free
(5 :2 1 .08 —meet record).

Lauren Beckenhauer earned another ﬁrst place ﬁnish

 

for the weekend, on Saturday. Junior Lezael Haynes and
freshman Laura lngoldsby both won their races as well.
Beckenhauer won the 200 Back with a time of 2:20.58,
Haynes won the 200 IM with a time of 2:24.15, and
lngoldsby won the 1000 free with her time of 1 1:40.36.

The W&L men’s swim team was led by sophomore Colin

Hayes, junior Jared Fribush, and sophomore Mike Miraglia
during its easy victory over Buffalo State on Friday. Hayes
won the 500 Free (5:1 1.99), the 200 Free (1 :51.l9), and the
100 Fly (54.21). Fribush charged to win the 50 Free (22.40)
and the 100 Free (50.95), while Miraglia won the 100 Breast
(1 204.34), and the 200 IM (2205.18).

A member of
the women’s
swim team
backstrokes
to victory
during a
meet. Both
the men’s and
the women’s
teams posted
wins this
weekend, and
many meet
records were
broken in the
process.

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

AWARDS continued from page 1

Earlier this year, Parker was named the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference Player of the Year. First Team All-State
each of the past three seasons and a four-time First Team
All-ODAC honoree, Parker anchored a W&L defense that
allowed only 16 goals in 17 games and only two goals in a
seven-game stretch.

Chase earned First Team All-State honors in 1996 and is
a two-time First Team All-ODAC selection. He leaves the
W&L program as its all-time leading goal scorer (52) and
total point scorer (1 17). He also led the Generals in both
categories this season.

Parker earned First Team All-State and First Team All-
ODAC honors in each of his ﬁrst three seasons for W&L.
He was second on the team in goals (9) and total points
(19). Parker is tied for second in all-time goals at W&L (40)
and tied for third in all-time total points (86).

WoMLN’s Soccrn

Three members of the 1998 ODAC regular season cham-
pion Generals were named to the Virginia Sports Informa-
tion Director's All-State team.

Senior forward and co-captain Karin Treese has been
named all-state ﬁrst team for the second consecutive sea-
son. She ends her career at W&L as the program's all-time
leading scorer in goals (72) and total points (167). In 1998,
she led the ODAC in goals per game (1.21) and total points
per game (2.79). She also led the Generals in game-winning
goals with ﬁve.

Freshman midﬁelder Kate Bidwell was one of only two
freshmen to make the state's first team. She placed third on
the W&L scoring list with nine goals and 21 total points.
Bidwell scored both goals in a 2-1 win at Lynchburg, hand-
ing the Hornets their only regular season conference loss.

Senior back and co-captain Nicole Johnson has been
named to state's ﬁrst team for the ﬁrst time. Last season,
Johnson was named to the state's honorable mention team.
Johnson anchored a defense that allowed only 10 goals in
14 games, including eight shutouts in 1998.

All three players were named to the Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference's ﬁrst team. Treese and Johnson were
both named to the south region's third team.

VOLLEYBALL
The ODAC Champion volleyball squad placed two Gen-

erals to the Virginia Sports Infonnation Director's College
Division All-State team.

Freshman middle blocker Lindsay Ruckert was named
to the ﬁrst team and junior outside hitter Nancy Reinhart
was named to the second team. Head Coach Terri Dadio
Campbell was named the Coach of the Year.

Ruckert also earned First Team All-ODAC, ODAC Tour-
nament MVP, and ODAC Rookie ofthe Year honors after
leading W&L in kills (318) and hitting percentage (.344).
Her 77 total blocks tied for the team lead and she was sec-
ond on the team in digs (307).

Reinhart, a First Team All-State selection last season,
earned Second Team All—ODAC honors this season after
breaking the school record for single-season digs (402) and
career digs (1,082).

Dadio Campbell earned her second State Coach of the
Year honor, having earned Co-Coach of the Year laurels dur-
ing the 1 995 season. Dadio Campbell led the Generals toa 26-
2 season, 10-0 in the ODAC. Her team set a new scl.oo]
record for winning percentage (.928) and tied the school's
longest winning streak by emerging victorious in her ﬁnal 16
matches. Her career record at W&L stands at 137-41 (.770).

Congratulations to all ofthe award winners.

Saturday, the Generals upped their record to 6-3 with the
help of three swimmers with two wins each. Fribush, the All-
American from Burtonsville, MD, was once again at the top of
the ﬁeld in his 50 Free iaoe (22.47), and his 100 Free race (50.74).

“Catholic beat us last year, and it was a tough meet two
years ago,” Fribush said, “and it was tough this year, but
everyone has been swimming really well, and it paid off for
us. We may be a smaller team than others, but we can hang
with the big teams.”

Sophomore Rob Little won the 200 Free (1 255.01) and
the 200 Back (2:06.84) to add to the men’s domination at
the Catholic meet. This year’s recruit class made show-
ing with two ﬁrst place ﬁnishes by freshman Rick Black.
Black won the 1000 Free (10:57.65) and the 500 Free
(5: 16.28).

The men will try to improve their record when they host
Johns Hopkins on Jan. 22, and Sewannee on Jan. 23. The
women will be back in action on Jan. 19 when they travel to
Radford to face Radford and Hollins.

— Courtesy of Sports Information

Econolodge

540-463-7371

*Parents’ Discount* V
*Newly Renovated*
*Free HBO with Remote*
*No Smoking Rooms*

*Free Continenal Breakfast*

 

  

INSIDE

issue 45, volume 23

founded 1865

New trailer hark to

Trouble arbrexlvin at

i  I 3 relieve residents of the el’ tishin’ hole,
I Q 9 U In; , nesky “dianity” she’ enufi
‘*9 ‘ ‘ —n9. A-4 —m2. A-6

(Spar/3 / yea/ares ./

Deckhridae County
Hiah wins state clin-

snittina ﬁnal -119. B-2

""9. C‘ I

 

Din farminu: the
wave of the future’!

Opitzion ./ I. IE XI N er 0 N
Dros and cons of |-CW0

the Thirteenth NUMl3l':'|?5:.
Amendment |’|<3|\' 1 - 6
jug. A-S  2 Z 5“

Rockbridge County's third-favorite weekly paper
”/'0/' f/re /ifa/are amongsf 1/: ”

he Daily Lexingtonian

January 18, 1999

price: 35¢

Megatrucasaurus

to squash
localcars

The age-old battle between machine and big-
ger, fire-breathing machine will be played out this
SUNDAY SUNDAY SUNDAY at the Roanoke
Civic Center when Megatruckasaurus rolls into
town.

The Roanoke Civic Center’s Megamonster
Demolition Monster Truck Rally is considered the
highlight of the Monster Trucking season, which
stretches from Monster-Truck—o-rama on April
13th to Monster-Truck-a-thon on February 29th.

The art form of Monster Trucking stretches
back to the days of the ancient Greeks. The Greeks
would sail boats into the Aegean Sea and then run
them over with bigger boats while delighted fans
drank beer and hooted from the shore. Since then
the artform has evolved greatly with revolutions
in locomotion and ﬁrebreathing technology. Like
rodeo, although Monster Trucking is often criti-
cized as being “too cerebral,” it remains a popular
cultural activity in this part of the country.

Not everyone is looking forward to the arrival
of Megatruckasaurus, a Mac truck that transforms
into a four-story tall, ﬁrebreathing monster with
powerful claws for ripping apart cars or unlucky
fans.

Rockbridge County Sheriff Dan Graft said that
his forces are prepared if the dangerous
Megatruckasaurus breaks out of the Roanoke
Civic Center and heads north on 81 to squash cars

 

Megatruckasaurus looms over
his next victim.

in Rockbridge County. “It’s like that movie
about that big ape done stomped up New York.
When will men learn you can’t contain an awe-
some force of nature like Megatruckasaurus?”
Graft said in a press conference held earlier
today.

Residents are advised to keep their pick-
up trucks indoors at all times and call the po-
lice immediately should they see any four-
story tall, firebreathing monsters. “Under no
circumstances should you make eye contact
with Megatruckasaurus,” Graft warned. “He’ll
think you’re challenging him.”

“Please don’t feed the Megatruckasaurus,”
he added.

Lexington fashion show
shows Lexington fashions

They came from Paris and New York. From London and
Madrid. Once a year, the luminaries ofthe fashion world de-
scend upon the normally
sleepy burg of Lexington to
put on a show the entire
world is watching.

Nestled in the heart of
Virginia’s Shenandoah Val-
ley, Lexington is the perfect
place for the annual
“Southern Fashion Show

and BBQ Bake.” Lexing-
ton is the resting place of
Civil War Generals Robert
E. Lee and Stonewall Jack-
son, men remembered
both for their military
prowess and keen fashion
sense.
The “Southem Fashion
Show and BBQ Bake”
never fails to bring

 

Camouflage shirts and
cowboy hats are a

fashion must! Pants out the best from
are °Pti°“al- the world’s top de-
signers.

One of the most talked about looks this year was
the WWF merchandise look. Donna Karan’s stun-
ning Stone Cold Steve Austin t-shirt and dirty old
jeans combo garnered rave reviews, and Giorgio
Armani’s breathtaking Goldberg shirt showed that
he’s still got it. One of the most glamorous pieces
of Amiani’s WWF collection was a 14-year-old Cap-
tain Lou Albino t-shirt with holes under the armpits

 

one gun salute from the audience.
“Camouflage is such a stylish look,” Hilﬁger said. “Whether

on the hunt or just hid-
ing out in the woods
avoiding the police,
camouﬂage looks great
anytime.”

It looks like the “no
shirt” look will once
again be the way for men
to go this summer.
“Walking around in
public with no shirt is
sexy and cheap,” said
designer Issac Mizrahi.

For formal events
such as county fairs and
Family Court Deposi-
tions, the look of choice
remains the classic
Western. Cowboy hats

 

Supermodel Earl Beaman
shows that empty Budweiser
boxes make great hats.

and cowboy boots are a necessary item in

any well-dressed Southerner’s wardrobe.
Even for those who have never even seen a
real horse, let alone left their trailer parks, the
cowboy look is a statement of rugged, un-
washed masculinity.

Popular new designs this year included
cheap hats with the name of a towing or plumb-
ing company on it. Calvin Klein’s Burger King
and Taco Bell uniforms also wowed the crowd.
“These uniforms make a great fashion state-
ment,” Klein said. “They say: look at me, I’m

  

BV named one of top

34,264 small towns

An annual survey conducted by
US. News and World Report named
Buena Vista, Virginia one of the 34,264
most livable small towns in America.
Buena Vistajoins the survey between
Sulfur Gorge, South Dakota and
Midstate Medium Security Correction
Facility, Wyoming.

Buena Vista’s position has made an
incredible leap from last year, when it
ranked second to last on the list at
43,432. BV mayor Duke Dinwiddie cites
recent city-wide improvements like in-
door plumbing and, running water as
major factors in the jump.

“River parasite infections dropped
in half after we stopped drinking out
of the river,” Dinwiddie said.

The economy in Buena Vista has
also radically changed in the past few
years, with primitive bartering replac-
ing their traditional hunter/gatherer
economy.

Education has also improved in re-
cent times. Average SAT scores have
doubled from 1997-1998, allthe way
from I to 2. Buena Vistans still speak a
tongue incomprehensible to the north-
ern ear. Based upon English, their
words are slurred together to give a
sound somewhat resembling a pig re-
lieving itself.

U.S. News and World Report As-
sociate Editor Brian Henderson said
that they examine many factors when
drawing up the annual list. “We look
at factors like economic squalor, mana-
gerial incopetence, lack of cultural ac-
tivities or basic upright walking. Buena
Vista met all these standards. But when
we heard that the city was built on a
flood plain right next to a river — oh,
man!”

Buena Vistans plan to hold a pa-
rade to celebrate, “just as soon as we
get this upright walking down.”

Community Forum
Issue: Shoney’ s breakfast bar

Damn that’s some
good scrapple

by Elroy P. Diggs

Every time I go to Shoney’s break-
fast bar, damned if I don’t eat me a
whole lotta breakfast. Usually in the
mornin’s before I go off to the cement
farm my gal Dotty Sue ﬁxes me up a
box of Captain Crunch with Crunch
Berries, but sometimes when I been
out drinking all night I go to the
Shoney’s breakfast bar and eat.

I likes me the foods they got up in
there. I likes the bacon and the grits,
and the pancakes what come with
syrup. But my favorite part of the whole
dang breakfast bar is the scrapple.

Now, I ain’t got no right clue what
in hell scrapple is. I ain’t no fancy chef
like the ones what work at Mr.
Shoney’s. But I do know this about
scrapple: it sure tastes damn good. If I
could eat scrapple all my life, I ain’t
never go hungry. That’s the God-hon-
est truth, sure enough, or my name
ain’t Elroy P. Diggs.

Yup.

Also, thems ham biscuits is mighty
tasty.

I likes me them

sausages

by Rita Mae Duggs

Them sausages is what makes the
breakfast bar at Shoney’s so good, I
tell you what. I love me some Shoney’s
sausages. When I go buy sausages at
Harris Teeter and cook ‘em when I used
to cook before they done turned my e-
lectricity off cuz my ex-husband didn’t
pay no bills, my sausages ain’t never
tasted like that.

My Lord and Savior Jesus Christ,
if he was alive today instead of two
hundred years ago, I’d take him to
Shoney’s. I truly do love my Lord
Jesus Christ, but I loves me them sau-
sages more. I’d take Jesus to Shoney’s
and share my sausages with Jesus and
I wouldn’t worry none about Jesus
eating all of my sausages because the
breakfast bar is all-you-can-eat which
means Ijust pay once and Jesus can
have all the sausages he wants.

I tell you what, I ain’t gotta wait for
the Apocalypse and the Rapture to
come like it done says in Revelation,
because when I eat Shoney’s sau-
sages, I’m already in Heaven. Amen.

and a bigjelly stain on the front.

Camouﬂage was another common sight on the _
runway this year. Tommy Hilﬁger unleashed his 1999 “kc Stone Cold Steve
camo wardrobe to a standing ovation and a twenty- Austin “Shirts!

Nothing screams “class”

earning minimum wage and I’m loving it!”
The show was declared a rousing success

by all involved, and left no doubt what we’ll

be seeing on the racks of Wal-Mart in 1999.

“country charts

I lie:
15' a r
15

1) Shania Twain: A CD jacket
With Lots of Sultry Pictures of Me
in Various‘ States of Undress. Oh
Yeah, Some Songs Too.
2) Garth Brooks: Ego Trip
— 3) Alan Jackson: Another
Indistiguishable Country Album A
. 4)pThe Dixie Chicks:iHicks Play-
ing Guitar,Licks With Pics   .
5) Bobby Joe Bucky Billy Bob Bo L
Clem Bubba Bob Bob BO Bob I
Kensirigton Bob Johnsonxlunior:
My Pick-up Truck M I .
6) Col. Bill “Big Roy”’Beaumont:
Cousin Mom" . '. I ,
7): Leann Rimes: Peclophilia Is’
Just Another Way to Say I Love ‘
:8) Diamond Rio: Catterwails  the
key of G ,  r A
9) The Dave Matthews Band: We p
Suck Enough to Be On the‘Coun—
. try Charts , , A L ‘
10) Little Texas: Little Talent
11) Billy Ray Cyrus: Live at the
BBC / I
12) Ol’ Toothless Joe and the
Yodelin’ Farmhand Band: My
Lover, My Dog
13) Alabama: Arkansas
14) Spittin’ Jimmy: All Chawed
Out
15) Puff Daddy featuring Patsy
Cline: Country Remix ‘99 (radio
edit)

  

The Daily Lexingtonian
a Grits Media production

Editor-In-Chief: Lum Perkins

News Editor: Nathan Bedford Forrest
VIII

Copy Editor: Our ol’ dog Skip
Business Manager: Cap’m Charlie
Croker

Overseer: Bud P. Wadmore
Spittoon: “Randy”

“The Daily Lexingtonian” was con-
ceived, writtcn and performed by
Kevin “Carpetbagger” McManemin

MY DEGREE aorflmr THE RVIEW.

    

ARMY ROTC GOT ME THE JOB.

Things got pretty competitive for
this job. I’m sure my college degree
and good grades kept me in the
running. But in the end it was the
leadership and management
experience I got through Army

ROTC taught me responsibility self-
discipline and leadership. Those are
things you just can't learn from a
textbook. I don't know where I'd be
right now if I hadn't -enrolled in
ﬁy Army ROTC, but I do know one

    

ROTC that won them over. Army a 8 thing for sure . . .Iwouldn't be here.

Bxaanzxai
ARMY ROTC

THE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE

For details, call VMI Army ROTC
at (540) 464-7351.

 

  

 

? Chi: ﬁling-tum iﬂhi  

,3 WASHINGTON AND LEE UNlVERSlTY’S WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

    

VOLUME 101, NO. 13

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

MONDAY, JANUARY 25, 1999

“Hill presents
~ arking plan

‘Trustees will vote on latest plan next
month, construction set for spring

By Polly Doig

g NEWS EDITOR

Washington and Lee University
gave the Lexington Planning Commis-
sion a sneak preview of the latest pro-

gposal for its parking garage last Thurs-
day.

Construction was originally sched-
uled to begin on the garage in Octo-
ber, but has been pushed back to this

‘spring, with a goal of completion next
January.
“We found the original plans un-
acceptable; they called for a ﬁve-story
I structure that was too tall for the loca-
tion and would not have ﬁt well with
the rest of the campus,” Lawrence
Broomall, W&L’s vice president for ﬁ-
nance, said. The newest plans have
Nbeen designed to blend with W&L’s
classic revival architecture, according
to Alan Wilson of the Haskell Com-
pany, a Florida-based design ﬁrm.
Construction will cause the tempo-
' rary loss of an estimated 120 - 130

spaces in this area, thus cramping
parking conditions. W&L’s Director of
Planning Frank Parsons urged plan-
ning board members to “keep your eye
on the prize.” Parsons contends that
the parking deck will alleviate parking
problems downtown and on the W&L
campus when completed.

The garage has been plagued with
design problems from the outset. This
latest plan calls for a four-story, 612-
space parking garage that will be lo-
cated where the Upper and Lower Gym
parking lots are currently located. The
garage will have an elevator and stair-
way tower.

A looped walkway will let pedestri-
ans reach the parking garage, the
plarmed sorority houses and the main
campus.

The proposal will be put before the
Board of Trustees next month for a
ﬁnal decision. Pending approval, the
proposal will go before the Planning
Commission and the Lexington City
Council.

_Maya Angelou
‘tickets go fast

Tickets given out in four hours, leaving
many students on the outside looking in

' By Polly Doig

NEWS EDITOR

It took more than three weeks for
CONTACT to contract Maya Angelou.
It took less than four hours for tickets
to be distributed.

“We had given out all the tickets
by 1 1:50 a.m. of the second day,” CON-

y TACT President Jason Hahn said.

Due to the high demand for tickets,
the lecture will be simulcast live in
Newcomb 9, Williams School 221 and
327, Lewis Hall classroom C, Northen
Auditorium and two other classrooms
in Leybum Library. Tickets will not be
distributed for the simulcast locations,
but students will be seated on a first-

1; come, ﬁrst-serve basis.

Angelou, who comes with a $27,000
price tag for a one-hour performance,
was paid in part by CONTACT, PRIDE,

‘ the MSA, the Office of the Dean of

the College and the Office of the Presi-
dent. Overall, CONTACT spent less
than half of its $_47,000 budget for this
year on Angelou.

~ “There won’t be a formal reception,”

Hahn said. “However, she’ll be meet-
ing beforehand with sponsoring
groups.”

Angelou’s contract also comes

“ with several specifications.

“According to her contract, there
can be no professional ﬂash equip-
ment aﬁer the first ﬁve minutes,” Hahn
said. “My understanding is that it’s
pretty dynamic, so I would imagine
that to have ﬂash photography dur-
ing the performance would be pretty
disturbing. However, we can’t make a
recording of the event.”

Halm said that Angelou is expected
to give an unconventional speech, in-
cluding reading from her writings and
explaining what they mean to her.

“She won’t be taking any ques-
tions,” Hahn said. “She feels, based
on past experience, that questions just
don’t ﬁt with the type of performance
that she gives. It’s not your standard
45 minute lecture, followed by ques-
tioning at the end. It’s much more dy-
namic.”

CONTACT has alsoconﬁrmed sev-
eral other speakers to come within the
next few months. Taylor Branch, a pre-
eminent historian, will give a lecture
on Feb. 3 entitled, “Martin Luther
King, Jr.: The architecture of a social
movement.”

On Feb. 11, Bill Johnston ’61, the
president of the New York Stock Ex-
change will give a free lecture. And
former MTV video jockey Kennedy
will speak on March 1 1.

Phoﬁ) ByWEmily Bames/Photo Editor

‘ Clad in sequin and spandex dance outﬁts, the Pointer
Sisters from Kappa Delta perform the classic “Jump.”

   

Dressed as a bumblebee, Sigma Alpha Epsilon pledge Whit Kinder performs his version of “Rain” by Blind Melon.

CHI OMEGA WINS!

With little else but their hats on, Sigma Phi Epsilon pledges
mimic Tom Jones’ hit “You Can Leave Your Hat On.”

  

2

Photo By Emily Bames/Photo Editor

  

Photo By Emily Bames/Photo Editor

Mock Con goes to Washington

Thirteen Mock Con organizers travel to the Capital, meet up with GOP big wigs

By Polly Doig

NEWS EDITOR

Prominent California Rep. Chris Cox
awaits his limo. It pulls up, or so he
thinks, and out step. . . George Wash-
ington and Robert E. Lee?

This is what happens, boys and
girls, when 13 Washington and Lee
University students escape classes

for a few days in order to promote
Mock Convention 2000 in Washing-
ton, D.C.

“We ﬁgured it would be a great op-
portunity to publicize Mock Con and
make contacts,” said media chair Sean
Eddy. “We had a banner with our logo
and contact information, and hired
George Washington and Robert E. Lee
look-alikes who spoke.”

  

  
   
  
 
   
 
 

. A student t

 
 
 

, Alyssa Sellers .

Holly Estes

Photo courtesy of Susan Wager

day

 

 

Keller Theatre

 
   
    

“Shattered Images,” a student thesis one-act written by senior Alyssa Sellers and directed by junior Holly
Estes, opens Friday, Jan. 29 for a one-night performance at the Lenfest Center. When asked to describe the
thought process behind “Shattered Images,” Sellers said, “This play is about more than eating disorders 

it’s a struggle to maintain control and achieve perfection, something everyone can relate to at some level.”

jnua 29, 1999

According to
Eddy, the Mock
Con planners
who went to D.C.
for the annual

winter meeting of the Republican Na-
tional Committee made some valuable
contacts, including Steve Forbes, Dan
Quayle and Tom DeLay.

But the biggest surprise for Eddy
was the fact that, in some cases, they
were preaching to the converted.

“A lot of people already knew our
reputation for accurate prediction in
presidential races,” Eddy said. “It was
nice to see that people recognize us.
Steve Forbes was very interested in us.”

Currently, Mock Con is courting
speakers for the spring kickoff, which
will be held April 26-28. According to

Eddy, possible speakers for that event
include Gov. George W. Bush (R-Tex.),
former Red Cross president Elizabeth
Dole, Sen. John McCain (R-Arizona),
entrepreneur Steve Forbes and former
Vice President Dan Quayle.

Mock Con’ers sent out more than
150 press releases to various media in
an attempt to increase awareness of
their purpose.

“We have a lot of ideas to make it
more modern than the actual conven-
tion itself,” Eddy said. “We just want
to convey our message to the student
body and to the nation at large.”

8pm

Cilia‘ ‘filing-tum Iﬂhi
January 25, 1999
OPINION:

To impeach or not to impeach, parking situation
according to Mike Young, ODK selection

W&LiFE:

How much do you know about A.I.D.S.?

SPORTS:
Women’s basketball beats Guilford, wrestling takes
sixth, swimming loses to Sewanee and JHU

LAST WORD:

God revises the Bible, movie review of“Waterboy”

 
  

PAGE 3

  

PAGE 4

PAGE 5

PAGE 6

GENERAL NOTES

E-mail General Notes to phi@wlu.edu

Author of Appalachian

books visits

Dennis Covington will read from
his works on Tuesday, Feb. 2 at 4 p.m.
in Northen Auditorium.

Covington wrote “Salvation on
Sand Mountain: Snake Handling and
Redemption in Southern Appalachia”
(Addison-Wesley, 1995) about the
culture of that area after covering the
trial of Glenn Surrirnerﬂeld for The New
York Times. He explores the peculiar
practices and social realities of these
people and traces his own Appalachian
roots.

“Salvation on Sand Mountain” was
a fnialist for the National Book Award
in non-ﬁction.

Living in Birmingham, Ala.,
Covington covers the South for The
New York Times and writes ﬁction. He
also teaches creative writing at the
University of Alabama at Birmingham.

This event is sponsored by the
Glasgow Endowment. A book signing
will follow the reading. .

C-SPAN airs W&L

Law School lecture

Author Scott Gerber will give a pub-
lic lecture based on his new book,
“First Principles: The Jurisprudence of
Clarence Thomas” on Jan. 27. Gerber's
talk begins at 3 p.m. and will be held in
Classroom A of Lewis Hall.

Gerber's lecture will also be aired

Gerber has received both a Ph.D.
and a J .D. from the University of Vir-
ginia, and a B.A. from the College of
William and Mary.

Contact brings MLK
biographer to campus

Taylor Branch, winner of the Pulitzer
prize for his book “Parting the Waters:
America in the King Years 1954-63,”
will give a talk in Lee Chapel on
Wednesday, Feb. 3 at _7:30 p.m.

The title of his lecture is “Martin
Luther King Jr.: The Architecture of a
Social Movement.”

Branch, who will spend several
days on the W&L campus meeting
with various classes, published his
second book in his King trilogy last
year, “Pillar of Fire: America in the King
Years 1963-65.”

In an interview with The New York
Times about this book, Branch ex-
plained that he had planned to become
a surgeon until that fateful day in 1963
when Police Commissioner T. Eugene
“Bull” Connor turned his wrath on civil
rights demonstrators. “Seeing dogs
loosened on eight-year-olds changed
the direction of my life,” he said.

Branch is also author of “Laby-
rinth” and “The Empire Blues and Sec-

ond Wind: The Memoirs of an Opin-
ionated Man,” and he has written ex-

tensively for “The New York Times
Magazine,” “Sport,” “Esquire” and
“The New Republic.” Branch is a ﬁ'iend
of the Clintons. He has advised the
president on race issues and wrote
both of his inaugural addresses.

A native of Atlanta, Ga., Branch
earned his A.B. from the University of
North Carolina at Chapel Hill and his
M.P.A. from Princeton University's
Woodrow Wilson School of Public and

  (J11: {King-tum HMS

while being accessible to those with

Capps exhibits art work

in C-school

A show of paintings and drawings
entitled “I’ll Tell You In Time,” by
Carolyn Capps is currently on display
in the Williams School of Commerce,
Economics and Politics. The show
runs through Feb. 28.

Capps’ work, perhaps reflective of
her Southern roots, is narrative in that
it portrays people in various settings
and in various psychological states in-
teracting with the viewer.

“My aim,” Capps said, “is to create
works that are complex enough to in-
terest the most sophisticated viewer

less artistic training.”

RACC asks students to
help in area cleanup

Rockbridge

 

JANUARY 25, 1999 "

tive at the James River Canoe Livery
at 9:30 a.m. on Saturday, March 27 for
a cleanup assignment. Students
should wear gloves and bring water
and snacks.

Last year, 50 W&L students from

six campus organizations participated.
RACC hopes that even more will help
this year. ‘‘
Interested students should call jun-
ior Autumn Oczkowski, 464-6992, or .
RACC director Jane Comstick, 463-2330.

i"

Area Conserva-
tion Council
needs student
voluteers to help
with its annual
c o m m u n i t y
cleanup. Inter-
ested students
should-meet an
RACC representa-

-“llewlv Renovated

Econo
Lodge

540-463-7371

° Free Hill with Itemute

GW Semester in Washington »

An Undergraduate Program in Political Management

Spring, Summer, and Fall Sessions ..

Make Connections to
Launch YOUR CAREER!

0 learn From and Network Among
”Washington |nsiders"

0 Produce Radio and TV Advertisements
in Campaign Simulations

0 Compete as Consultin Groups
on Strategic Lobbying lans

0 live 3 blocks from the White House
and Monuments

0 GW's central location can put you on
Ca ital Hill or the K Street corridor of
lab yists & Interest groups in minutes.

The Tlhe Gradluate 7‘
A Sclhool of 9 

1' C , , '
S On P lit. 1 
V  Mlanagemlgriit f

I Gwisanequolopportunity/aliirmaliveoclion iistilmion I

For More Information, And To Receive An Application, Contact:
(800) 367-4776, (202) 994-6000 http://www.Semesterln Washington.org

Now Accepting Applications On A Rolling Admissions Basis. Apply NOW! 9.
Deadlines: Summer-March 31, I999, Fall—lune I, I999

 

 

 

on the C-SPAN rietwork“America and International Affairs. 0   
the Courts” and “Book TV” programs This lecture is sponsored by the
at a later date_ Contact Committee. ,
 mental;mags o  . . »
   _  6  .  .. . ~ A»  l'V(l.S‘/’Il}“lgi‘.L()lI ajzd Lee 9
- y   " " ‘  1*» Adm.z.s'.s‘1.(m.s'
9' ' "  ~ Admissions C0unselorPositi0n
.. -  c c o o X
 The W&L Undergraduate Ofﬁce of Admissions 1S seeking a respon-
alireceolhg, . ... .. .. ..
AAAA 1 4“ 6! " sible and enthusiastic individual to _]0ln the staff as an Admissions
‘ , , €llo”l'i'“’ 6 my Counselor. Responsibilities include: interviews, recruitment, and V
’  ‘ "  ‘ applicant evaluation. The successful candidate will hold a bachelor’s
   5 b.r1;‘to\r 5  6, degree, have excellent communication skills, and a willingness to

3.

 Call llic  for more imfogmallolm 463- 8000

3 pm

Qloliwiaovi 9"l’l/ie=as,l,_re

travel. All interested candidates should submit a cover letter and ,
resume’, including two "references, no later than Monday, February

I 1, 1999 to Julia M. Kozak, Associate Dean of Admissions, Ofﬁce
of Admissions. »

LL

impaired.”

463-6192

Yoga for wimpsal

Join us for this fun approach
to the ancient art that heals the
body, mind, and spirit!
Classes are designed for
beginners and the “flexibility

for details and registration call

Miriam Austin

Advanced classes also available.

9 LE‘i'BLi—FlN LIBRA

 causes.
WA”.-§lI'C\T
I ° ;,Ei‘(lNGTON, V/K 2r.4,sp

JAN

ON 3. LEE l_lI~ltVEP.Sl.Tt-.'



 
   

  
 
  

(not in credit cards)

Introducing the American

Express Credit Card for Students.

Live for today. '
Build for tomorrow.

The American Express Credit Card

for Students is a resource you can _

depend on. With benefits like big air— ,
fare savings, free credit information, '4
and no annual fee, it'll help you get the

most from your student years — and

help you build a solid financial

foundation for the future.

‘A
)‘
TRESS
 
Cards
VI

 

 
 

 

4

JANUARY 25, 1999

O

Gilt: Ring-tum ﬂirt

PINION

 

PAGE 3

‘Hell no, he Won’t go

,-

According to some polls, Bill
Clinton’s approval rating is at 76 per-
cent.

It’s time for the Republicans to
count their losses and get back to
work. They are digging themselves
into a hole that’s going to lead them
right out of ofﬁce.

They may think they’re trying the
President on charges of perjury, but
America still sees it as a sexual witch
hunt

The American people think
Clinton’s sleazy, but they don’t care.
Their marketwatch.com stock just went
up 500 percent.

The people really haven’t cared
about Clinton’s problems from the "be-
ginning. Pot-smoking, draft-evading,
Whitewater, Filegate, Travelgate and
Paulagate all made news before the
1996 election. Clinton still won.

I know the issue should not be
about Clinton’s approval rating. But
popularity is what politics are really
about. In the end, it will all come down
to that.

It’ s not that I think the Republicans
should cop out. It’s not a cop out to
give up on something that never had
much merit from the beginning.

Clinton is a lawyer. A brilliant one
at that. The prosecutors in the Paula
Jones trial — not quite that bright.
They accepted the convoluted def'mi-
tion of sexual relations that has
haunted the nation ever since. Clinton
answered like any lawyer would.

Clinton might be slimy, but what
defendant in a sexual harassment
trial would say to the prosecutor, “I
think your definition of sexual rela-
tions is much too narrow. You can’t
even imagine the things we did to-
gether?”

From the beginning, Clinton-sup-
porters viewed the Jones case as a Re-
publican-motivated witch hunt. Why
would Clinton hand himself over to his
predators if he didn’t ne‘ed_to‘.7‘“ _

His use of lawyer-eeze might beﬁ-
diculous, but prosecutors should have
been prepared. They know what he
was about. They asked the wrong
questions.

Members of the House decided that
they cared much more about the next
step of the process, though —— the
grand jury.

In the grand jury testimony,
Clinton fully admits to an improper
relationship with Monica Lewinsky.
That is all that should have been in
question. No one, not even Kenneth
Star, needed to know Monica and

Bill’s every move.

The charges of suboming perjury
with his staff would not hold weight
in a court of law. They shouldn’t in a
political trial, either.

Betty Curie insists that Clinton did
not ask her to lie. Clinton agrees. Who
is there to say definitively otherwise.
There is no actual evidence. That

L

  
 
 
  
 

doesn’t mean it didn’t happen, but
they should not be able to remove
the president from office on the
grounds of circumstantial evidence.
In this case they cannot prove he
committed a high crime or misde-
meanor. L ‘ '

‘He shouldlnot go down in history
as the first American President to be
thrown out of office.

If the Senate does convict, the
Republican Party will have to be
ready for a gigantic public backlash.
Larry Flint won’t be the only citizen
paying millions to get dirt on the
sexual pasts of the GOP.

They’ve already opened the pro-
verbial can of worms. If they convict,
it will only get worse.

The media hailstorm of amoral poli-
tics will only get more Jerry Springer-
ized. That’s the last thing we need.

@112 ifstng-tum iﬂlii

Executive Editors
News Editors
W&Li_'fe Editors
Opinions Editors
Sports Editor
Last Word Editor
Copy Editors

Photo Editor
Online Editor

Business Manager
Advertising Director
Circulation Director

Tarah Grant
Hollister Hovey
Polly Doig

John Stewart
Ginger Phillips
Erica Prosser
Stephanie Bianco
Stephen Pesce
Frances Groberg
Kevin McManemin
Sarah Meldrum
Meredith Mlynar
Emily Barnes
Tom Wadlow

Jason Williams
Matt Lorber
Lionel Brown

One glance at the Omicron Delta
Kappa list brings a few concerns
quickly to light. And it’s not just who
is on it; it’s also who isn’t. Alter glanc-
ing at the list, I looked into ODK, and
I’m not sure I liked what I saw. -

ODK was founded at Washington
and Lee University on December 3,
1914, by 15 student and faculty lead-
ers. According to the W&L ODK web
site, “Student membership candidates
must rank in the upper 35 percent in
scholarship of their school or college
and must show leadership in at least
one of five areas: scholarship; athlet-
ics; campus or community service,
social, religious activities, and campus
government; joumal-
ism, speech, and the
mass media; and cre-

 

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editors, but The Ring-tum Phi is

ative and performing
arts.” The web site
also notes, “Emphasis
is placed on the devel-
opment of the whole

   

 

otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters, columns and “Talkback” do not
reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wIu.edu
http://wIu.edu/-phi

Annual subsription rate: 330

person, both as a member of the col-
lege community and as a contributor
to a better society.” Dean of Students
David Howison said that ODK wants
leaders from all ﬁelds, but that the
g.p.a. cutoff can hurt people.

“There are nominees who are im-
mensely qualified, but their grades just
aren’t up to the standards,” Howison
said.

That raised a big question for me:
who decides? How does one get cho-
sen for this illustrious honor? The web
site doesn’t say. Howison said that
the grade point average cutoff for the
group is strict, so all juniors and se-
niors in the right g.p.a. bracket are
automatically considered for the
group. Nominees from students and
faculty are also considered. Who con-
siders them? Why, a committee of ex-

isting members, of course!

Remove Clinton now

As the nation has been engulfed by
the media frenzy surrounding one of the
largest presidential scandals in history,
the American people have grown weary,
frustrated and much too eager to put an
end to the Clinton’ matter by the easiest
means possible.

Impeachment is certainly not the easi-
est or most desirable method for restor-
ing order to our chaotic political envi-
ronment, but it is the only way.

If one looks past all of the sordid,
sexual details and ﬂagrant bipartisan at-
tacks, both of which are abundant, one

can see the true foundation for the case
against the president: Bill Clinton has
purposefully and premeditatedly ‘ lied
under oath. ‘ ' 1' ‘E  l N I

Most Democrats do not even dis-
pute the fact that the president lied un-
der oath in his Jan. 17 deposition in the
Paula Jones case and in his grand jury
testimony seven months later.

Because Clinton’s self-proclairned
“misleading” testimony revolves
around the topic of sex, many are prone
to dismiss the act of lying all together.
They claim that every American would
lie about improper sexual relations if
placed in the same position.

Perhaps, but laws against commit-
ting perjury exist to prevent lying under

All existing ODK members can be
on the committee if they choose. With
the help of Howison, they look over
the list of candidates, and a majority
vote chooses the lucky few. Howison
said that, although a simple majority
vote could be close, it never is. Dis-
cussion about potential members is
usually going on long before the vote
is taken.

The result this year was clear-cut:
10 out of the 19 undergraduate induct-
ees are dorm counselors or resident
assistants (who are, incidentally, cho-
sen for those positions by committees
that include existing dorm counselors
and resident assistants). In fact, 14 out

of the 46 current D.C.s
, _ and R.A.s are mem-
0 VCS lfl bers of ODK.

 That isn’t so

-._j;- 5"" Prosser strange, you might
" Erica prosser 99 say. Donn counselors

are, after all, campus
leaders by definition,
and ODK is a leadership honor soci-
ety. Besides, that leaves nine people
who aren’t dorm counselors who were
still initiated this year.

It’s who DIDN’T get in that puzzles
me. For example, although the society
claims to include leaders in campus
publications, not one person initiated
this year or last was a leader in any
campus publication. Given the num-
ber of hours that editors of campus
papers, magazines and journals put in
every term, their leadership cannot be
questioned. But they still didn’t make
the cut. And there are other people
who seem deserving who didn’t get
the honor.

I wonder how people like Erin
Kraal, Amy Frazier and Cliff Woolley
can possibly be excluded. Kraal (as-
sistant head resident assistant this
year), while taking a break from run-

oath about any topic, including sex.
These laws have serious consequences
for any American citizen who chooses
to ignore them, including the president.

Bill Clinton has not only mocked his
responsibility as a citizen to tell the truth,
but he has also violated the public trust.
The American people elected Clinton
in the faith that he would protect the
Constitution on which our democracy
was founded.

Instead, by attempting to undermine
the legal process, Clinton has only suc-
ceeded in undermining the very trust
that defines his relationship with his
constituents. He has treated the law as
a mere stepping stone on his way to
maintaining his own power and pres-
tige. These facts constitute high crimes
and misdemeanors, and are worthy of
impeachment.

Most Democrats would like to see
Clinton censured and move on their
merry way. The censure tenns proposed
by the Democrats on the Judiciary Com-
mittee state that the president “made
false statements concerning his repre-
hensible conduct” and “wrongly took
steps to delay discovery of the tru .”

The censure proposal itself, which
is favored by the White House, only
serves to back up the perjury and ob-
struction of justice claims made by the
so-called evil Republicans.

What good will a hefty fine and pub-
lic reprimand do to alter the damage that
Clinton has already done to the nation
and its people. If we ignore abuse of the
legal system now, will that not leave the
door open for future leaders to do the
same?

Yes, impeachment is a constitutional
crisis of grand proportions and it will
have some harsh ramifications for our
society. These consequences, however,
will in no way outweigh the damage that
will be done if Clinton is simply slapped
on the wrist.

We attend a university in which
honor and integrity“are“ revered and’ irr

‘ which lying and'cheatin?g"“ar€“c’6risiii5 ‘

ered to be evils worthy of expulsion. If
we value the ideals of Washington and

Lee in our personal lives, then should

we not also consider them to be equally

important in the life of our nation’s high-

est leader?

The Clinton trial is not simply about
sex and cigars, but about standards
of truth and justice and upholding
these American traditions — these
W&L traditions. Our president has
failed in his duty to defend our Con-
stitution. Can we really afford to do
the same?

ODK overlooks qualiﬁed students

ning her hall, took the time to form
WITS, an outreach program that in-
volves area girls in science. Frazier
was the editor of The Trident, and
being in charge of any campus pub-
lication takes literally hundreds of
hours of work each year. Somehow
she also ﬁnds the time to lead Out-
ing Club activities. Woolley seems
to be ready to lend a hand with any-
thing, be it running the Computing
HelpDesk, working on projects in
the theater department or keeping
the equipment working in the j-
school. And these are just a few of
the unsung heroes who probably de-
serve to be sung about more often
for all they do around here.

Maybe their grades aren’t high
enough for the strict ODK cutoff,
you say. Well, then, I have to ques-
tion why ODK puts so much em-
phasis on grades when there are
countless other national societies to
honor academic achievement. But
we can’t change the way ODK does
things, you say. Fine. Then maybe
we should start a new society, one
that actually focuses on leadership,
not academics. And maybe we
should find a more impartial way of
inducting members.

Sure, ODK is a great honor, and
probably all those inducted de-
served it. But I just can’t help but
think that some people are falling
through the cracks. If they just
aren’t well-known enough to exist-
ing members, or if their grades just
aren’t high enough, they get passed
over. A word to the wise: keep an
eye out. There are other campus
leaders who deserve much of the
credit for making this place run, and
although they didn’t get ODK, they
get all of my support and admira-
tion.

 

 

   
: ttduringconsiiruciien period 

2
1‘.

if
§a.<:Uote of the week:

{I

I wish instead of a beer
belly, I got beer breasts.

— Anonymous sophomore girl

2;
Meal of the week

by Sex Machine and Fire & Ice

#8: Two all beef Baja Gorditas, one soft taco,
some fire sauce, and a refeshing Dr. Pepper

 

new Baja Gordita this week. I know you’ve always been a
big fan of the Supreme, but I think the Baja might be a
worthy contender.

Sex Machine: Ice, baby, the ﬂy flavor of the new Baja
certainly launched my taste buds into orbit. Our mistake,
my ﬁery friend, was ordering the all beef. That zippy Baja
tang needs to join the juices of some tender steak.

F &I: S&M man, you’re so right on one point. The beef
did leave a bit to be desired, something the Sex Machine
never allows, but I’m going to have to say that the new all
white chicken would have been a tastier choice.

S. M : Whatever you like. At least we agree that the Baja
is a worthy counterpart to the Supreme. I’m not saying
that the Baja should take the place of the Supreme. They
each have their place.

F&I: Another thing I’d like to say about the Bell is that
those are some efﬁcient workers. I stood stupiﬁed as I
watched the chef do his Mexican magic. I want to meet the
culinary genius who figured out that a caulking gun could
be used for easy application of sour cream.

S.M.: Well, I have one word for you, “Spankings.”

F&I: That’s “Spanky’s.” I’ll see you later in the week
when we get together to get a little Rowdy.

 

 

  

PAGE 4

JANUARY 25, 1999 _

 
         
       
     

  

1 in 4 new
HIV infec-
tions occur
in people
under 25

[Centers for Disease Control]

HIV is transmit-
table almost iIn—
mediately after
infection, but it
can take up to 6
months to test
positive

[American College Health Associaton]

Total U.S.
deaths from
AIDS =

641,086

as of June 50, 1998

[Centers for Disease Control]

AIDS is the
6th leading
cause of
death in 15-
24 year-olds

[Centers for Disease Control]

The CDC estimates that

there are between -

650,000 and

He
f

900,000 individu-
als living with HIV in

the U.S. (not including
those diagnosed with AIDS)

It is estimated that

1 in 1,500

college

students is

HIV+

[Centers for Disease Control]

HIV: How much do you know?

By Erica Prosser
F EA TURES EDITOR

HIV 

l. Being on birth control pills reduces my risk of
contracting HIV.

Q

». Most of us grew up in a world al-
ready dealing with the AIDS epidemic.
We were bombarded by ad campaigns,
signs and speakers that told us what
HIV-positive meant, how the virus
could be spread and what we could
do to be careful. Soon, the little red
loops of ribbon on people’ s lapels were
an everyday sight, one we barely no-
ticed anymore. Unfortunately, now
that AIDS has been around for almost
20 years, some of us may be getting
rusty on our AIDS knowledge.

Think you still know everything
you were taught in grade school? Take
this quiz and find out. All answers are
true or false. (Answers below)

2. I can get HIV by having oral sex.
3. I can get HIV by French kissing.

4. If someone infected with HIV is in my class at
school, I am more likely to get it.

5. I can get HIV by giving blood.
6. Mothers can pass HIV on to their unborn babies. breastfeeding.
7. I can’t get HIV from having anal sex.

8. If I’ve never used intravenous drugs and only
had sex with one partner, I can’t get HIV.

'9ld09d Sum ll!151! pus ‘emu:
mo nus si Saw uoiieuuogui 1no;( snap
-dn oi Messoosu ssomosai .l9l.{1O Aura pue
zinb siqi asn ‘iou 31 [grad 01 dn [ms aﬁpa
-[mom] gqw moA s1 (gop noﬁ pip mop]

‘no,( man smoms
J0 sozosus ‘sayio uosiod psiosgui us 3;
poiuom aq1,uop os ‘sn.iiA sip uieiuoa iou

op sczoaus pus SJB91 ‘moms ‘gnu '17}
‘.I3L[10U.I
911130 >[1iui 1SE9.lq our 11101} Am 198 use 1;
‘uioq si /{qizq 9L[1.I91_,}12 u9A3 ‘gnu ‘gt
‘AIH 3011193
go aoueqo mo/( aonpsi /([12:13 suiopuoo
X9121 ‘K].I9d0.Id pasn uaqAA '9I‘l.I_L '31
'no/( 01 1; paoids iouueo uos
-rad pswagui ua /(q pasn s[amo1 pun sizes

191101 ‘sxuis qiim ioeiuog '9s1e_.{ "[1
‘no/( 011; ssed1,uea soounbsoui pus ‘oiinb
-sour 2 ui 9/\l[ iouueo Am 'ani_[ '01
‘P0010
areuop 01 psuiuuad iou om /(sq: ‘saw 01
ps[ 9Aaq1q3iui Jog/\eq:>q .Il9q19)[l[ spunos

ll  pill? ‘All/\l1OB /<)[Sl.l ll‘lOC|E p9)[SB OS[E ‘

one SJOIIOQ ' Am 10; poise: ueaq seq s)[u12q
P0010 U! P0010 ll‘? ‘S861 9°U!S '95l9:l '6

9. I could get HIV from having a blood transfusion.
10. I can’t get HIV from a mosquito bite.

I 1. HIV can be spread by using the same bathroom
as an infected individual.

12. Latex condoms are highly effective in reducing
my chance of getting HIV.

13. Mothers can pass HIV to their babies while

14. HIV can be transmitted through most bodily ﬂu-
ids, but not sweat, tears or sneezes.

'uoi1e1uai1o Ienxos 10 rap
-uo3 ‘asn Brup go ss9[pxe8s.i ‘.19l.]10IIB139}UI
01 uosiod auo scum ,<[uo 11 osleg ‘g
‘ages S3; >[uiq1 9|do9d
Kueui aouis /meioadsa ‘Am ;o peaids
911110} /{)[Sl.I /<19/\ si xas Ieuv 95125 "L
saiqeq uioqun .Il9L[1 01 Am
pB9.IClS use S.I9q10uJ iueuﬁsid '9l'lJ_[_ ‘9
uouop

..--g...

rpésiexual

You can
transmit
HIV through

oral sex

[American College Health Associa-

[Centers for Disease 95‘

The number
of HIV-infected
teenagers in
the U.S.
doubles every
14 months

[American Academy of Pediatrics]

Hooking-up with death

A PHI

STAFF EDITORIAL

It’s easy to assume that we at
Washington and Lee are immune to
the AIDS epidemic. Hell, these kids
are from rich families. Look how they
dress. This isn?t the HIV crowd.

Get real. In no way is this a cam-
pus that likes to abstain — from
much of anything —- especially sex.
Our culture of binge drinking en-
courages it.

And through the haze of beer
goggles, condoms are probably not
the highest priority.

There are no reported cases of
HIV or AIDS on campus, but one
person could start an epidemic. That
one person might have HIV already,
and not even realize it.

Because it can take years to die
from AIDS-related complications, we
might not see a current W&L stu-
dent succumb to karposi sarcoma,
wasting disease or AIDS-related
pneumonia — but many people
could be dead by our ﬁve and ten
year reunions if we aren’t careful.

Don’t be blinded by another
student’s good looks or popularity.
You don’t know their sexual pasts.

Remember, the next time you
hook-up, an embarrassing glance
from your one-night partner on the
Colonnade may be the least of your
concerns.

If you feel you might be at risk,
go to the inﬁrmary immediately.

qoua 10; pasn st alpoau ueap ‘Man 12 fouiais
Kioialduioa are s>[maq poolg 'asie_q '9

‘Still/\ our peaids iouueo iomuoo puiz
/(1iAi13e LU00.ISSE[I) ,(1ap,(JaAg 'as[e_.[ ‘17

'/(EM sup

uoiiaenuoo Am 50 saseo umoux ou uaaq

emu aiaqi ‘s1qissod /([910lLI9.I s,1i1eq1)[uyq1

sisiiuoios qﬁnoquv '3uissi>[ U101} saw
193 01 Kr->iuun Kiuﬁui S! 11 '9Sl9.-I '5

‘menu .10 qmoui sq: ug
smo J0 S9105 l{3n0.Il{1 Apoq our .I91U9 p[n0:)
9S0l{1 pue ‘suoiiaioos yeuiﬁm pue uouics
‘P00l"~l ll3“01ll1P9!-Ul3° 5! AIH 9011 ‘Z
A 'P9109JUl193lll1S it
pmoo noﬂ ‘xas p91i)910.ldlln 9/mu no.( pun
nid sq: uo :;J,no,( 51 ‘Am qum op 01 Eur
-qiou a/mu suid [onuoo quig -95123 '1
ISJQMSUV

ll‘.

 

44

R

3

1-K’-

 

JANUARY 25, 1999 I /

SE11: ﬁling-tum lﬂht

 

PAGE 5 "41

Lowden comes up big 

Freshman Berry Lowden scores in the ﬁnal seconds of
Saturday’s game to give the women’s team a narrow win.

By Tod Williams

SPORTS WRITER

On Saturday against Guilford, the Generals proved they
were asecond-half ball club in dramatic fashion. With only
28 seconds left in Saturday’s game, freshman guard Berry
Lowden made the lay-up that would end the Generals’ 10-
game, ﬁve-year losing streak against ODAC foe Guilford.
The basket, which came from Lowden’s rebound after her
own previous miss, put the Generals up 63-61 for good,
snapping the Quakers’ four-game winning streak.

“I drove the baseline,” Lowden said of the last—minute
action, “and after 1 put the first shot up, the rebound just
kind of fell right back down to me, and it seemed like I was
the only one around. Everything was in é C

Kudlacik shot 7-for-1 1 from the ﬂoor, including 3-for-5 from
behind the arch.

Kudlacik said the team had talked in the days prior to the
game, and went into the game more focused on playing
together. Yet she saw the Generals soon slipping into their
old ways. “We knew we weren’t playing well at the end of
the first half,” Kudlacik said. “At halftime Coach [Terri Dadio
Campbell] corrected the X’s and O’s and everything, but
then we talked as a team. We knew we could win, so wejust
went out there and played like it. Right now, we’re ready to
start accomplishing what we know we can do.”

Senior forward Chrissy Burghardt led the Generals in
rebounds with 10. Beacham lead the Quakers with 18, and
both Arden Miller Landenberg and Kerrie Campbell of
Guilford each added 12 points.

Thursday’ s game against

slow motion. It was such an adrenaline
rush.”

Bridgewater did not go as well for the
Generals, as they lost 70-53. The

It did not look like the Generals were Everything was in slow Eagles began what appeared would
in control in the game until Lowden made - be a dismal day for W&L with a 9-0
the go-ahead basket. Washington and motlon It was Such an run, but the Generals quickly retali-
Lee trailed Guilford by as much as 18 with adr 311311113 1'USh- ated, going up 14-13. That one point
less than ﬁve minutes leﬁinthe first half, _ Freshman Berry Lowden lead would be the only time W&L

but the Generals were able to cut a little
from the lead, and went into the locker
room down only 14 point, 42-28. _
When the Generals came back from the break, they raced
out on an 1 1-4 run, only to have the Quakers answer with
an 8-2 run to build the Quaker lead to 13 at 54-41 with only
9:47 left in the game. At that point, the Generals decided to
take control of the game. In the next five and a half min-
utes, W&L went on a 22-7 run. With 4:11 left, freshman
lison Kudlacik nailed her third three-pointer of the day,
knotting the score at 58-58.
Guilford’ s Erin Beacham hit her own three-pointer with
3 :56 remaining, but the Quakers would not see the bottom
of the net again. Kudlacik hit two from the charity stripe,
and freshman Jessica Mentz added another to tie the game
at 61-61, setting the stage for Lowden’s heroics. Mentz
had 16 on the day, while Kudlacik scored a game-high,
career-high 21 points, 15 of which came in the second half.

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
   

would be ahead.
)7 The Eagles went into the break

ahead 30-19, and the second half
would echo those numbers. The Generals shot 44% in
the game, only one percent less than Bridgewater, and
W&L actually won the rebound game by five boards, 3 1-
26. But turnovers tell the real story of the game. The
Generals turned the ball over 27 times in their loss to
Bridgewater, compared to only 18 times in the win over
Guilford.

Ansley Miller led W&L with 17 points, and Burghardt
notched her sixth double—double of the season with 10
points and 11 boards, seven of which came on the Eagles’
end of the court. Amanda and Angela Osborn led
Bridgewater with 18 and 17 points, respectively.

On Tuesday, the Generals hope to continue their win-
ning ways as they host Virginia Wesleyan at 7 pm. in the
Warner Center.

Photo by Emily. Bames/Photo Editor

Junior Chad Casto, with face protection for a previously broken nose, tries to trip his foe.

Wrestling holds own at home

The Washington and Lee University wrestling team
placed sixth of eight teams in_ the W&L Invitational on
Saturday afternoon in the Warner Center.

Leading the way individually for the Generals was jun-
ior Chad Casto, who was the runner-up in the 133-pound
bracket. After a first round bye, Casto defeated Davidson's
Dan Carman 13-5 in the second round before losing to
Scranton's John Cavey in the ﬁnals, 5-1.

Sophomore Jeff Paul also produced a second place fm—
ish, his coming in the 197-pound bracket. Paul began by
defeating Judah Keenan of Pensacola Christian, 10-3, then
pinning Doug Norris of Longwood in just 29 seconds. In
the finals, Tony Booth of Washington and Jefferson
emerged victorious, downing Paul, 10-5.

Freshman Ezra Morse took home third place in the
174-pound bracket for the Generals. Morse defeated
Davidson's Jeff Bender 12-0 in the first round before
suffering an 8-3 defeat to Longwood's Kamel Chantal in
the second round. Morse then advanced ahead of sopho-
more teammate John Valentine by default and then de-
feated Davidson's Justin Perkinson 3-2 in the consola-
tion round to earn the third place finish.

Washington and Jefferson took home top team hon-
ors and Scranton's Mike Grandchamp was named Out-
standing Wrestler of the Tournament. W&L will be in
action again on Sat., Jan. 30 at 11 a.m. when it travels to
Swarthmore for the Swarthmore Quadrangular.

— Courtesy of Sports Information

Junior Lauren Beckenhauer starts off the 800-free relay. Though the team lost both meets this *3-
weekend, a number of individual victories, personal bests, and records were posted. -"

 

  

.'~.x.»\.\ ~ 1.: t.»._v..:. 1. e

X 88

oto b Emily Bames/Photo dito.

A

n

'1

if

$

Hoehl shines in face of defeat

By Steele Cooper

SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s and women’s swim
teams both dropped disappointing losses to Johns Hopkins
and Sewanee on Friday and Saturday. The men fell to JHU
with a score of 124-21, and to Sewanee with a score of 97-
48. Hopkins defeated the women with a 103-42 score, as did
Sewanee with a106.-38 score. X K,  . , .
The bright spot for the Generals this weekend was a
tremendous performance by senior captain Margaret Hoehl.
In three events Hoehl won three first place ﬁnishes, two
NCAA provisional qualifying times, and a new school

3 . record. In the 500 Free, her time of 5:09.43 broke the W&L
 record that had stood since 1989. She also met the NCAA

qualifying time and defeated the No. 1 ranked swimmer in

that event from Sewanee. ,3
Hoehl also won the 200 Free with a time of 1.57.83, and‘?
the 1650 Free with atime of 1753.1 1. Her finish in the 1650‘:-
Free was good enough to earn her a second NCAA quali—. .
ﬁcation this weekend. ‘
Leading the W&L men once again was junior co—capEI3;“
tain Jared Fribush. The All-American sprinter took secondE;1
in the 50 and 100 Free with the respective times of 22.055;
and 49.76. 
. After this weekend’s defeats Fribush remained optimi_sjT;E‘,'r
tic about the rest of the season. “I know we’ve got a gootgi:-it‘,
group of swimmers out here,” Fribush said. “We will justgjg
learn from some mistakes in order to get better for the fol?-".3
lowing meets.” ' ~ .
The Generals will get their chance to prove this on Sat:-35;’
urday, Jan. 30, when they host Mary Washington starting?

at2p.m. ,-

9-;
.

-3.’

0

  

7 Track still
  running
  strong

The Washington and Lee's men's
and women's indoor track and ﬁeld
teams continued their season on
Saturday afternoon with fine perfor-
mances at the Lebanon Valley Col-
lege Invitational.

The women were paced by se-
nior Lisa Brennan and sophomore
Wendy Case, who ﬁnished first and
second in the women's 1,500-meter
run with respective times of5: 16.4
and 5119.1 Senior Darrick Alford led
the men with a second place ﬁnish
in the men's 1,500-meter run and a
time of 4:24.7.

W&L sophomore Kathleen
’Moroney came in third place in the
women's 800-meter run with a time
of 2238.2. Freshman Justin Novak fm-
ished sixth in the men's 800-meter
run with atime of2: 10.7.

Junior Hansell Pasco ﬁnished
sixth in the men's 200-meter dash,
with a time of24.8 seconds.

The Generals will travel to
Carlisle, Pa. next Saturday to partici-
pate in the Dickinson College Invi-
tational.

—- Courtesy of Sports Information

133 lbs.: Chad Casto d. Dan Carman

Murray (Scranton) (1.

Wrestling Results

James (Davidson) d. Dan Comer, DQ

(Davidson), 13-5

John Carvey (Scranton) d. Chad
Casto, 5-1.

149 lbs.: Josh Chamberlain d. Jus-
tin Bellman (Valley Forge), Fall 3:28.
Anthony Albert (Davidson) d. Josh
Chamberlain, 5-4. Josh Chamberlain
d. Russ LeFrance (Scranton), Fall
1:30. Justin Bellman (Valley Forge)
d. Josh Chamberlain, 5-0.

157 lbs.: Ian Kaplan (Davidson) d.
James McKnight, Fall 0225. Kevin

McKnight, Fall 1:04. Mike Lynch
(Scranton) d. Ivan Zdanov, Inj. Def.
Ryan Phelps (Pensacola Christian) d.
Ivan Zdanov, Inj. Def.

165 lbs.: Mike Grandchamp (Scranton)
d. Greg Valentine, Fall 0:5 1 Greg Valen-
tine d. Dennis James (Valley Forge), 4-
2. Beau Dickerson (Longwood) d. Greg
Valentine, 9-3. Dusty Werner
(Pensacola Christian) d. Dan Comer,
Tech. Fall 6:02. Dan Comer d. Rayson
Ashton (Gallaudet), 14-8. Alan Roe

174 lbs.: Mike Mason (W&J) d. John
Valentine, Fall 2:05. John Valentine d.
Max lvankov, Fall 4:21. Ezra Morse d.
Ezra Morse, Def. Justin Perkinson
(Davidson) (1. Max lvankov, Fall 5:38
Ezra Morse d. Jeff Bender (Davidson),
12-0. Kamel Chantal (Longwood) d.
Ezra Morse, 8-3. Ezra Morse def. Jus-
tin Perkinson (Davidson), 3-2

184 lbs.: Alex McManimen d. Bill
Aymes (Valley Forge), Fall 0:47. Wes
Koteski (W&J) (1. Alex

McMani1nen, Fall 2:52. Ja'mes
Shackleford (Longwood) d. Alex
McManimen, Def.

197 lbs.: Jeff Paul d. Judah Keenan
(Pensacola Christian), 10-3. Jeff
Paul d. Doug Norris (Longwood),
Fall 0:29.Tony Boone (W&J) d. Jeff
Paul, 10-5.

Hwt.: Aaron Drabkin (W&J) d.
Marshall Sutton. 6-4. Vernon
McNece (Gallaudet) d. Marshall
Sutton, Fall 1:51.

— Courtesy of Sports Information

Men down, but not outgrsé

By Brendan Harrington

SPORTS WRITER

For the Washington and Lee men’s
basketball team, 1999 has been any-
thing but a happy new year.

The Generals (3-12, 2-7) lost their
eighth straight game Wednesday night
at Emory and Henry, falling to the
Wasps 92-57 to remain winless in 1999.
The Generals last victory came on Dec.
9, when they defeated the same E&H
team 80-70 in Lexington.

“Having beaten E&H the way we
did in the last game, it was very disap-
pointing to lose,” Coach Kevin Moore
said. “It was the same exact team.”

The Wasps (9-5, 6-2) took the lead
7-6 early on in the game and never
looked back. E&H led at the half 3 8-24
and used a 7-0 run to start the second
half and break the game wide open.
The Wasps outscored the Generals
54-33 in the second half.

E&H shot a solid 53% from the ﬁeld
and was 6-1 1 from behind the three-
point arc. The Wasps scored 30 points
off 24 W&L turnovers and out—re-
bounded the Generals 42-29.

“We got beat in every phase of the

  

  

      

game,” Moore said. “Defensively!?1‘
that’ s the worst we’ve played all year.‘
They were doing whatever theyg;
wanted and we couldn’t stop them.’?;‘§

Sophomore guard Bryan Pruetfg
scored a game-high 24 points for tlférf
Wasps. Senior forward Donalﬁ
Thurston scored 18 and his twig;
brother Ronald added 13. 

For W&L, senior Kevin Cobbin 
10 points and sophomore WillBa11a1‘.gE§.
had eight. The Generals shot 22—2§t,§
(79%) from the free throw line but shqjs
only 34% from the ﬁeld and 1-10 ﬁoiﬁgﬁ

three-point land. .;-1,.
Things don’t get any easier fort 
Generals as they travel to ﬁrst-plac;:'¥
Hampden Sydney on Wednesday. 
Tigers were undefeated and rankegi;
ﬁrst in the nation until they lost to“
Randolph-Macon 68-57 on their home
ﬂoor this past week. 
Moore was quick to point out that
W&L played that same Randolph-Ma-
con team tough last Saturday in Lex-
ington, a game they lost by five points.
“We have nothing to lose,” Moore

said. “We have nine games to play and A

we want to be in the ODAC touma-
ment. We are not about to pack it in."-v

mas up TO"’1o1>E1i5ONs .1

j "BAR «- JET S1<1S - PARASAIL
“HOME or THE WORLD'S LONGEST i<i=.<. PARTY” .
. ma: DRAFT BEERALLWEEK Long-(ALL i=oi;iNi=o1. ' *7 
1-800-488-8828 ' '

j www.sandpiperbeacon.com (*rates per person)

17403 -FRONT BEACH ROAD-

PANAMA CITY BEACH, F132413 .:

 

 

PAGE 6

Humor Page

God revises the Ten Commandments ’

by Kevin McManemin

DUCKING THE LIGHTNING Bow

Does it bother anyone else that no
new books have been added to the
Bible in several centuries? Back in
the old days people couldn't wipe
their noses without God adding an-
other book telling them how to live,
but now the man upstairs seems con-
tent to just sit back and let the faith-
ful have their fun misinterpreting
vague 2,400 year-old passages.
Well, I think it's time for God to get
01?" his cosmic ass, dust oﬂ his pen and
give us some clear rules on how to
live in this frantic modern age, clear
up the moral ambiguities and take
some stands on modern ethical dilem-
mas.
Wait a minute, I ’m feeling divine
inspiration kicking in right now . . .

The Book of Tito

Chapter 24

And Lo, it soon came the twenty-
ﬁfth day of the first month in the sev-
enth year in the second realm of King
Clinton the Elder of Washing Town.

The prophet of the Lord, her name
being Jenn and Jenn being her name,
did ascend upon a mountain high in
the Catskills on a nature hike, and
there seeist she a burning bush.

“I am the Lord,” sayest the bush.

“Lord, are you aware you’re on
fire?” replied Jenn.

“Of course I’m aware! Now I shalt
give thou ten commandments, ten . . .
what the hell are you doing?”

“Stamping you out. That bush is
an endangered species.”

“Never mind the bush. I am the
Lord thy God, who created all the
bushes and trees and birds of the air.”

“All the more reason you should
respect wildlife. Shame on you!”

“Shame on. . . I AM THE LORD!
Thou shalt not disrespect me. I see all
and know all.”

“I’m so sure. Where’s the hidden
speaker? Am I on one of those hidden
camera shows?”

“I have chosen you to be my mes-
senger, Jenn, to spread my new com-
mandments throughout my ﬂock. For
centuries people have been misinter-
preting my Word. It is time I cleared a
few things up.”

“All right, I’ll play along. What
channel is this going to be on? Hold
on, let me put on some makeup. I look
so totally gross right now.”

“Forget the makeup. I give thee . . .
THE WORD OF GOD!”

Thus at the spaking of the Lord,
the rocks didst shake and the ground
didst split apart. Two stone tablets
emerged from the ground, and the ﬁre
of the Lord did burn words on the tab-
lets. .

“Cool pyrotechnics,” Jenn said.

“Go now,” sayest the Lord. “Take
mine commandments to my people.”

“On stone tablets? Yeah, right.
Why don’t you just post it on the
web?”

“The web?”

“Sure. Just buy yourself a computer
with a modem. I got a Powerbook a
few months ago. Got it on sale from
Office Max. Half off!”

“Really? Half off?”

The Lord didst go to Ofﬁce Max
the next day, but the sale being a
President’s Day Sale eight months ago,
the sale had ended, and the Lord be-
ing too late for the sale decided
against paying full price, and didst in-
stead buy a cheaper model with com-
parative RAl\/Ibut only a 28.8 modem.

Thus the next day the Lord did log
on and design his new website,
(www.heaven.org) which boasted
MIDIs of “How Great Thou Art” and
“Amazing Grace” and ahilarious “pin-
the-Jesus-on-the-cross” Java appelet.
There was even a section where people
could send e-prayers to the Lord. The
Lord got it on all the major web direc-
tories and even got a website review

LAST WORD

 

JANUARY 25, 1999

in PC World magazine, and the web
traffic was great, and the Lord was
pleased.

And on his page the Lord didst
post the following message:

My people, I give these Ten Com-
mandments to you that you may live
in My Light.

Follow them thusly and you shall
eat naught but milk and honey and
Snapple. Disobey mine orders and
thou shalt be smited.

I) I am the Lord thou God, thou
shalt worship no other God but me.
This also applies to trendy Eastern
religions that have that “not-really-a-
God-but-an-interconnectedness-of-
all-nature” crap. In fact anything in-
volving yoga is right out. I’m running
a religion here, not a friggin’ calisthen-
ics class.

II) Thou shalt not make false idols.
Sports stars, actors and rock stars
shalt thou not worship, for these idols
are mostly alcoholics and drug ad-
dicts. Thou shalt build no shrines to
the Spice Girls.

III) Thou shalt not use the name
of the Lord in vain; at least not be-
tween the hours of 7-9 p.m. on net-
work television.

IV) Honor thy father and mother.
Not just your biological father and
mother, if you know who they are, but
your father and mother’s new
spouses/life partners as well. Honor
also the grandmother or aunt who -
actually raised you. Honor your day
care provider or, if your folks were
wealthy enough, yourlillegal immi-
grant nanny who looked after you
during your formative years.

V) Thou shalt not kill, unless thou
can afford great lawyers.

VI) Thou shalt obey the marriage
covenant. Well, obviously there are
exceptions depending upon your deﬁ-
nition of “sex.” For example, oral sex
is not really sex, but even if it is, a
woman who pleasures a man is break-
ing the marriage covenant but he is

Lee Signed CDV

ROBERT E. LEE SIGNATURES
FOR SALE

 

Clipped signature with closing w/ CDV
Document signed "R. E. Lee, Lt. Engrs
Letter Signed, Lexington, VA, 1870

H

AND

Washington College Diploma, 1867

Other Lee's: Fitzhugh, G.\X/.C., "Rooney" & Lee's Father—In-Law

Also Available: Lincoln, Grant, Mosby, Longstreet, Ashby,
Beauregard, Early, A.P. Hill, Imoben, etc., etc.

Great Framing, Great Service, Great History

Original Frameworks

1 North Main St. Lexington, 464-6464
M-F 10-6, Sat 9-4, New Manager

$3000
$4000
$6500
$5500

$4500

not. Hast thou got it? Lying is also bad,
except for lying under oath about sex,
which is understandable.

VII) Thou shalt not steal. When
thou writest a song, thou shalt write
thy own melodies and lyrics and not
“sample” them from other sources.

VIII) Thou shalt not covet thy
neighbor’s wife. Thy neighbor’s six-
teen-year-old daughter shalt thou
covet in the stead. Thy neighbor’s wife
hast seen better years; thy neighbor’s
wife’s bosoms doth sag low. Besides,
thy neighbor’s sixteen-year-old

Don’t get soaked by Adam
Sandler’s “The Waterboy”

by Brian Prisco
PHI MOVIE GUY

 

(WAIT UNTIL TBS PLAYS IT
FOUR DAYS IN A ROW)

What’s that I hear? Someone run-
ning around like a jackass and making
ridiculous cro-magnon sounds while
affecting some sort of irritating accent?
Could it be? YES! It is! Another Adam
Sandler movie.

Adam Sandler, or “OH SHIT NOT
AGAIN” as many other movie critics
refer to him, is in fact a funny, funny
man. I know when I am going to see
one of his movies, I can basically check
my brain in at the door and enjoy the
slapstick immature retard humor (no
offense to retards, you probably have
more social skeeels than Sandler).

I have laughed and laughed at ev-
ery single movie he has made, includ-

daughter is probably more sexually ex-
perienced.

IX) Keep holy the Sabbath day. Hey,
how come’ no one ever sacriﬁces goats
to me anymore? I rather liked that ges-
ture. Let’s bring it back.

X) The powers not delegated to the
United States by the Constitution, nor
prohibited by it to the States, are re-
served to the States respectively, or to
the people.

And thus the people of the Lord
did read the message and misinter-
preted Commandments 2-6 as procla-

ing this one. “Billy Madison,” “Happy
Gilmore” and “The Wedding Singer”
are some of the funniest movies ever
made. I can sit and watch them over
and over again. This movie, though, I
could only watch over and over again
if someone strapped me into one of
those torture chairs from “Clockwork
Orange” and held my eyes open with
hooks.

If you saw the preview, you basi-
cally saw just about every funny mo-
ment in the movie. Basic plot: idjit gets
mocked, idj it gets pissed, idj it cripples
college students with bone crunching
hits, idjit becomes a hero. Okay, so I
wasn’t expecting some psychological
thriller. I just wanted to see the big
mongoloid smash into people.

It happens, but not nearly enough
to keep me entertained. This movie is
really not worth the price of the ticket.
At least in his other movies, Sandler
kept the tempo up and kept the action
fresh. This movie’s humor gets stale
by the first half-hour.

I like Adam Sandler. I have all three

mations against homosexuals, Com-F‘
mandments 7-9 as a “green light” to
abortion doctor murders and Com-
mandment 10 as a sign that the anti-
Christ is Christopher Reeve. _
And thus the Lord sighed a heavy
sigh and hurled the Earth into the sun.
The sun being unpleasantly hot, the
people did perish, except for the Cana-

dians where the temperature was now ~,,

livable.

Thus the Canadians became rulers
of the earth and peace and politeness
returned to the world.

ofhis albums. I have seen all his mov-
ies. He is funny. After “The Wedding
Singer,” I didn’t know which direction

he was going to go. Apparently, nei- 

ther did he. This movie is really just
sub-par in comparison with his other
work. Was it funny‘? Okay, I admit it
made me laugh, but my time would have

been better spent watching his early ,,

stuff.

The major problem here is that he
chose an awful lead character. Bobby
Boucher is based on “The Excited

Southerner” from his comedy I‘

sketches. I don’t know how y’all feel,
but “The Excited Southerner” is suh-
suh-suh-stupid. I don’t mean that in
the nice Ralph Wiggum with a ﬂute
stuck up his nose stupid, but in the
boring, odd, disturbing sort of stupid.
LikeMADTV.

I guess I’m just asking for a movie
about his character “The Goat.” Who
wouldn’t love a talking goat that
swears like an enraged sailor and
sounds like an illegal immigrant? NOW
THAT’SCOMEDY!

Reserves.

Leadership Opportunity

Sophomores- Go to Army ROTC
Basic Camp this Summer and

l experience a fun and challenging
adventure on a successful path.

  

Your hances of geng an on-
campus scholarship for attending
Basic Camp are 50%.

End Result, a great job as a 2LT in the
Active Army, National Guard or

See CPT Whittaker, ARMY
ROTC at (540) 464-7187

 

 

 

 

I U112 ﬁling-tum lﬂlii

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNivERsITY‘s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

#5

VOLUME 101, NO. 14

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 1999

Angelou  
captivates

By Polly Doig

NEWS EDIT0R

She strode into Lee Chapel sur-
rounded by the aura that is apparent
even on TV, on the arm of a man about
six inches shorter than she. She moved
gracefully through the receiving line,
shaking hands.'She signed students’
battered copies (though most still bore
price tags) of “I Know Why the Caged
Bird Sings,” with a simple “Joy.”

When the poet laureate comes to
town, people tend to sit up and take
notice. Lexington was no exception for
Maya Angelou’s visit to Washington
and Lee University last Wednesday.

More than 600 tickets were distrib-
uted. Forty-ﬁve minutes before the
speech was to begin, the line of ticket
holders almost bridged the distance
between the two churches bearing
Robert E. Lee’s name. Sirnulcast loca-
tions were set up in buildings around
the W&L campus, and people scat—
tered to ﬁnd seats there when the
chapel ﬁlled.

Angelou came with a price tag of
$27,000 for an hour’s speech, and most
who watched claimed that Contact and
its co-sponsors did not overpay.

“I thought that the sponsors made
an incredible investment, but it was
worth every penny,”
Megan Davis. “I wish she could have
spoken for hours. The poetry just
ﬂowed out of her.”

Angelou recited her own poems
and favorites by other authors, told
personal anecdotes, and encour-
aged W&L students to continue de-

“,‘veloping themselves. Many stu-

blents came away from the speech
inspired.

“I had a chance to get an autograph
and speak with her beforehand, and
she was just great,” Minority Student
Association President Brian Jamison
said. “[During the speech] I felt so in-
spired, because she kept talking about
being a rainbow in the clouds, which
to me meant that when things get bad,
you keep going and pretty soon they
turn around.”

Angelou’s speaker fee was paid by
Contact, PRIDE, the MSA, the Ofﬁce
of the Dean of the College, and the
Ofﬁce of the President.

“It was really a no-brainer when we
were asked to co-sponsor,” Jamison
said. “With a limited budget it’s hard
to do to get speakers like that here. So
when we had the opportunity to co-
operate with Contact, it was an easy
decision.”

said senior .

ay Angelou delers spec to a paked Le hap about rainbows intheclod.

WLUR thefts continue

CD disappearances show Honor System not respected

By Heather McDonald

STAFF WRITER

Chances are, if you listen to WLUR
91.5, you have heard DJs say, “We
don’t have the CD.” Some ofthis is
because CD5 are being stolen from the
music library.

Senior Cliff Woolley, Chief Opera-
tor/Engineer ofWLUR, says that there
is no record of how many CD5 have
been stolen.

“lt’s pretty consistent from year to
year,” Woolley said. “They’re usu-
ally the really popular CDs. The new
Black Crowes and Pearl Jam Live CDs
were in the studio for only days. We
went out and bought replacement CDs
right away.” Usually, the music com-
panies send free CD5 to radio stations
for airplay. WLUR does not have
enough money to replace all the CDs
that are stolen, Woolley said.

“It’s anybody’s guess who is steal-

ing the CD5,” Woolley said. In order
to prevent more of the popular new

releasesfrom being stolen, WLUR has

now taken drastic measures to keep
the CDs out of the stacks.

“What we’re doing now is locking
them down,” Professor Bob deMaria
said, “ which kind of defeats the pur-
pose of an Honor Code.” A few new
releases, including the Black Crowes
and Pearl J am Live CDs, are now in a
padlocked box within a locked room.
These CD5 have been recorded and
encoded into MP3 format, loaded onto
the computer within the studio, and
then kept for future reference. These
songs in MP3 format can then be
played over the air like a CD or an al-
bum in the radio station.

“It’s really ridiculous and a lot of
work,” Woolley said. “But if it keeps
the CD5 from being stolen, I guess we
have to.” Woolley says that in addition
to making extra work for WLUR work-

ers, the songs lose sound quality when
changed from CD quality to MP3.

Despite signs forbidding “borrow-
ing” CDs from the WLUR music library,
Woolley says that warnings of Honor
Violation charges have not deterred
whoever is stealing the CDs. If he
catches them, Woolley says, “I would
send them straight to the EC. I have
no hesitation in calling the EC into this.
If it’s not W&L students, then I’d have
to call the police, and I would press
charges.”

DJ Jeffrey James is disappointed
with the situation.

“It’s really sad that [this is happen-
ing] at a school with an honor system
that covers every aspect of our lives,
from academics to walking into the
bookstore,” James said. James has
gone looking for a particular CD many
times and found only an empty case
and the CD gone for good.

“It’s really frustrating,” James said.

‘One Acoustic Evening’ held for charity

By Jonathan Barker

STAFF WRITER

Ten acts took the stage at the
Lenfest Center Saturday night for
“One Acoustic Evening,” a musical
showcase for charity. Performances
ranged from the fast-paced bluegrass
pickings of The Ruley Boys to the big
band sounds of the University Jazz
Ensemble, with almost every other
type of music that falls between.

The show began with Washington
and Lee seniors Elizabeth Huston and
John Wilbers’s version of James
Taylor’s “Mexico,” and continued on

Junior reg Nuza, piaist for the ban Speas, eforms during “One Acoustic Evening.” Z

through to the raucous bluegrass act
Wildgrass, who headlined the event.
Other student acts included the song-
writing duo of Josh Harvey and Chris
Edwards and the pop rock quartet
Speakeasy.

Harvey and Edwards’s act, one of
the highlights of the evening, de-
lighted the crowd with such feel- good
songs as “You Make it All Worth
While.” Harvey’s piano solos also
elicited much applause. When forced
to choose a favorite act of the evening,
Wayne Raynal, owner of Night Owl
Music, reﬂected the opinions of many
when he said, “I’d have to go with

Josh and Chris. They play such com-

plex music and play it so well.”
Another crowd pleaser was Speak-

easy, the night’s other rock act. Play-

ing in an unplugged setup, the group.

performed four original songs, from
the fast paced “The Bridge” to the
popish “Kinda Hard.” The group con-
sists ofjuniors Anthony Allen on
drums, Matt LaMotte on guitar and
vocals, Greg Nouza on piano, and
sophomore Matt Herman on bass.
Also performing was the Univer-
sity Jazz Ensemble, a thirteen member
group directed by Terry Vosbein. The
ensemble livened up the evening with

 

a selection of Duke Ellington songs.
“I think we had a lot of fun up there,
and it showed,” said saxophonist Mike
Agnello.

Of the local groups, Rattlesnake
Chili, The Ruley Boys, Walker’s Run,
and Wildgrass provided the audience
with a steady stream of bluegrass, the
most common genre of the night. The
acts were largely met with enthusiasm.

Many students, however, were sur-
prised by the popularity of bluegrass.
“I didn’t realize that it was so popu-
lar,” said sophomore Carly Blakelock,
“but I’m impressed by the amount of
musical talent.”

Those who are bluegrass fans were
likewise impressed. Sophomore John
Dumas, who classiﬁes himself as a
bluegrass fan, said that Saturday
night’s fare “rates well with what I usu-
ally listen to.”

The funds raised on Saturday
night will go to help alternative spring
break projects for Washington and Lee
students. The projects, co-sponsored
by Total Action Against Poverty
(TAP) and Catholic Campus Ministry,
will take students to Nicaragua over
February break and work in Lexington
over spring break.

Students on the Nicaraguan trip will
be helping to repair last year’s destruc-
tion by Hurricane Mitch. Students par-
ticipating in the program over spring
break, Christmas in April, will be do-
ing repair work and house painting for
elderly, ill and poor Rockbridge
County residents.

 

Fancy Dress
‘veils’ theme

By Polly Doig

NEWS EDITOR

The self-proclaimed ‘biggest party
of the South’ will add masks, amongst
other things, to the list of acceptable
attire for the bicenquinquagenary-year
ball.

This year’s Fancy Dress theme,
which was announced today by the
FD Steering Committee, is “Le Bal
Masque, The 92nd Annual Fancy
Dress Ball, A Renaissance of the Origi-
nal.” The theme attempts to recreate
the original ball, which was organized
in 1907 by Washington and Lee Uni-
versity librarian Annie Jo White with
$42 in leftover theater funds.

“The student committee decided
that the theme should be fun, but also
high-class,” FD Publicity Chairman
Sarah Rector said. “We wanted it to
be different than the 250*‘ ball, but we
still wanted it to be something elegant,
so we decided to go with the masquer-
ade theme.”

Fancy Dress is scheduled for Sat-
urday, March 5, 1999 in the Warner
Center, and is open to all W&L stu-
dents, faculty, alumni and guests. Ac-
cording to the Steering Committee,
decorations will transform both gyms
in the Warner Center into a mass of
Renaissance-era architecture and land-
scapes, with a “merry and high-class
mood, like a 16th-century masquerade
ball.”

The masquerade theme has many
students more excited than usual.

“I wasn’t planning to go to FD,”
junior Sonia Hall said. “Then I heard
about the theme, and thought that this
one seems exciting and different, not
like the ones I’ve seen so far. It sounds
like a theme that people will go all-out
for.”

Indeed, the FD Steering Committee
is suggesting ‘everything from boas
and tiaras, cowboy boots and hats, as
well as various period pieces for

partygoers. In addition, the commit-
tee recommends that costume ideas
may be obtained from such movies as
“Much Ado About Nothing” and
“Romeo and Juliet.” FD invitations
themselves, which will be mailed within
the next two weeks, request “creative
black tie” and costumes. '

“Normally people find out the
theme from the invitations,” Rector
said. “But this year, because of the
theme, we wanted to give people as
much time as possible to go out and
ﬁnd really creative costumes.”

According to Rector, instead of
teasing with the theme the committee
will instead tease with the names of
the bands.

“There’ll still be some element of
surprise this way,” Rector said.

For additional costume ideas, Rec-
tor recommends visiting the FD
website, which is linked from the W&L
homepage.

“Hopefully, people will visit the
website,” Rector said. “There’ll be
links that will give people suggestions,
and it should be really helpful.”

The ball’s music, which has tradi-
tionally included two bands playing
simultaneously in the large and small
gymnasiums of the Warner Center, will
be added to by a third band this year.
The additional band will take turns
playing in the large gym.

“Kings of Swing” will be playing
again this year in the small gym. Al-
though the FD Publicity Committee is
not releasing the names of the bands
that will be performing in the large
gym, clues to their identities will be
released during the week prior to Feb-
ruary break. The names will be an-
nounced at the end of February.

Ticket packages, which include two
t-shirts, two shot glasses, two post-
ers and six plastic cups, will go on sale
in the University Center for $88 begin-
ning March 1. More than 2,100
partygoers are expected to attend.

Pulitzer-winning
author to speak

By Polly Doig

NEWS EDITOR

Pulitzer Prize-winner Taylor Branch
will give a speech concerning Martin
Luther King, Jr.’s role in shaping the
Civil Rights movement 7:30 p.m.
Wednesday in Lee Chapel.

“Branch is the best Martin Luther
King, Jr. historian there is,” Contact
Chair Jason Hahn said. “He is also an
entertaining and interesting speaker.”

Branch, who will spend several
days at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, is sponsored by Contact and will
also meet with various classes.

“Considering the fact that Mar-
tin Luther King, Jr. Day, which was
just a week ago, was virtually unno-
ticed on campus, I think this visit is
very timely,” Contact Vice-Chair

Roshni Nirody said.

Branch won the Pulitzer Prize for
History in 1988 for his book “Parting
the Waters: America in the King Years
1954-63.” He published the second
book of his King trilogy last year, “Pil-
lar of F ire: America in the King Years

1963-65.” He received a ﬁve-year
MacArthur Foundation Fellowship in
1991.

“As Mr. Branch is a Pulitzer Prize-
winnirig author as well as an acclaimed
historian, I am sure he’ll appeal to a
wide range of people,” Nirody said.
“Personally, I think it is great that Con-
tact is bringing in a speaker who can
offer some reﬂections on one of the
great leaders of our time.”

A reception and book signing will
be held following the lecture in the
Alumni House.

February 1, 1999
OPINION:

W&LiFE:

SPORTS:

LAST WORD:

(J11: ﬁling-mm iﬂlii

Lip sync raises money, alumnus responds to senior exit
surveys and W&L needs athletic supporters

Black students have a short but important history at
W&L, LaMotte reviews latest Eels album

Men’s basketball wins their first game

Stereotypes debate impeachment

PAGE 3

PAGE 4

PAGE 5

PAGE 6

 

,4 F!’ C H .
 1/ I C?
3 57%. 768
  A _
/79  A-M
V, ! 5* /

I 4

3.73;’ I

PAGr~:2}.;

 12 Tiling-tum ﬂirts

FEBRUARY 1, 1999

 

Shenandoah sponsors
cover art contest

Winning artist will receive $400 and have work
published in the nationally-recognized magazine



 

By Tarah Grant

EXECUTIVE EDITOR

Shenandoah, the Washington
and Lee University Review, is look-
ing for a piece of art, produced by

.a W&L undergraduate, to publish
on the magazine’s cover.

Founded in 1950 by a group of
undergraduates, Shenandoah pub-
lishes a wide range of original po-
etry, ﬁctions and essays. Writers
from around the world submit their
work to Shenandoah with hopes
of being selected for publication.
Its editors have included well-

§HENAND0A;g

 

known literary ﬁgures Tom Wolfe,
James Boatwright and Dabney
Stuart. Since Shenana'oah’s of-
ﬁces are located off the main cam-
pus, though, many of today’s stu-
dents do not know about it.

“I’ve been working to bring
Shenandoah back into some local
prominence, making its kinship to
W & L more evident than our loca-
tion and address might suggest,”
R.T. Smith, Shenandoah’s current
editor, said. “This seemed one way
to accomplish that aim.”

Shenandoah has not published
any work by Washington and Lee
students in more than a decade, al-
though faculty submissions occa-

sionally are accepted. A painting

AN DOAH

by Emeritus Professor of Art I-
Hsiung Ju was selected for the Fall
1997 cover.

The winner of the cover art con-
test will be paid $400 for the cre-
ation. “We’re just looking for one
piece, but you never know,” Smith
said. “If there are more than one

. ..them.”. . ..

bring the original to the ofﬁces of
Shenandoah, 2nd Floor, Trouba-
dour Theater.

“The only advice I’d give is that
a look at the past dozen or so is-
sues would give some idea of my

taste, which is generally represen-

tational,” Smith said. “Also, a ver-
tical composition ﬁts our page best,
allows us to present the image
larger.”

The contest will be judged by
the editors of Shenandoah. If no
entry is deemed appropriate to
serve as a cover for the journal, a
non-purchase prize of $ 1 00 will be
awarded.

Shenandoah Editor R.T.
Smith suggests that
students look at the covers
of old issues for inspiration.

GENERAL NOTES

 

E-mail General Notes to phi@wlu.edu

Writing Center tutors

available to give help

The Writing Center in Payne Hall is
open 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. Sunday through
Thursday. It is staffed with trained tu-
tors who can assist students with any
college writing task, from papers and
lab reports to resumes and application
essays.

Students who want to meet with a
tutor should sign-up in advance for
an appointment. The appointment
sheet is hanging on the wall next to
the Writing Center ofﬁce.

Applications for Oxford

program are due soon

Washington and Lee is one of six
area schools that sponsor a summer
program at St. Anne's College, Oxford,
England. The Virginia Program at Ox-
ford uses the English tutorial system
to study the literature and history of
Tudor-Stuart England.

Dates are July 5 to Aug. 14, 1999.
Application deadline is March 1, 1999.
There is some scholarship aid avail-
able. See Professor Pamela Simpson
in the art department for more infor-
mation.

Generalprobe presents

German plays in Lenfest
Generalprobe, a German theater
group of Washington and Lee German
students and faculty, will perform three
one—act comedies by 16th century poet

that catch my fancy',l won't forget” A  I

SUCCESS.

a two-year enlistment.

need to succeed in college.

GET AN EDGE ON COLLEGE EXPENSES.

The Army can help you get an edge
on college expenses in just two years.

When you enlist and qualify for a
certain skill, you could become eligible
for the Montgomery GI Bill plus the
Army College Fund. That means you
could earn $26,500 for college with

And the Army will give you
another edge, too. You’ll develop .
the self-discipline, self-conﬁdence and maturity you'll

Find out more about how you can get $26,500 for

college in just two short years. Call your local Army
Recruiter for more information today.

703-886-2651

ARMY
BE ALL YOU CAN BE?

wvvw.goarmy.com

  
  
 
 

Students.shouldis’end'a slidéori  1 

@112 iﬁing-tum lﬂlri
1999-ZHIJIJ ﬁtaff

The Ring-tum Phi is
currently accepting
applications for all
positions. The new staff
will take over production
of the newspaper at the
beginning of Spring
Term.

Students interested in
serving on the 1999-2000
staff should submit their
résumé and cover letter
to The Ring-tum Phi
mailbox in the University
Center by March 15.

Q9 .,V

   
 
 

ONl.il,NE,;.,.EDlT£ ‘(R EEDED iMlVlEDlATELY _   ~
We  ‘a stud n oIpu’tfThe' Ring-tum Phi onlinef ~
e”  L; ’  'xperience.necessary.. E-mail
phi@wl,u;edu';'if;ryfo;uare interested in thegpositionifi :., I

ﬂAll-TIIE BEST THEN l}All THE BEST!

. ﬁgzf USA srnma BREAK

BAHAMAS
rnunmn em ,

BALI Fllll llllll BEST Plllci llllAIIllllTEEl
JOIN US r-‘on THE WILDEST

PARTIES .01! THE PLAN ET!

EAT 8. Illllllll Fllll FIIEE!“

 

ALL TRIPS INCLUDE:
ROUNDTRIP AIR* 7 NIGHTS HOTEL
ROUNDTRIP TRANSFERS* HOTEL TAXES
STAFF ASSISTANCE USA PARTY PACKAGE
‘Caribbean packages onry. “Call for details. I

.1-888-77 7-4642

 

www.usaspringbreak.com. |

Academic Couple seeks:

EGG DONOR

for clinic in VA/N C region: Cau-
casian woman, 21-30, nonsmoker,
college degree or higher, solid
SAT scores, at least 5’8”, lean/
athletic build, dark complexion/
hair, even-featured face, excellent
health/teeth/skin/eyesight. Right
candidate will be well-compen-
sated and asked to provide pho-
tos. Please send letter along with
background, education, and mo-
tivation for doing this to: POB
425545, Cambridge, MA 02142.
All serious replies answered.

_____A__J

Parents’ IITSBBIIIII

Newly Renovated

Econo
Lodge

540-463-7311

H88 H30 Wllll BBIIIIIIB
N0 Slllﬂlllllﬂ ll00|llS

FIBB continental Brealrtast

and dramatist Hans Sachs in the Keller
Theater, Lenfest Center at 8 p.m.
Thursday and Friday.

The comedies will be performed in
German, with a detailed English syn-
opsis provided in the program. Admis-
sion is free.

Hans Sachs was the most proliﬁc
and well—known poet of his day—a fa-
mous Meistersinger later featured in
Wagner's Opera “Die Meistersinger
von Nuemberg.” Best known today
are his carnival comedies, of which
Generalprobe features three:
“Eulenspiegel with the Blind Men,”
“The Hot Iron” and “The Devil took
an Old Woman for a Wife." Also fea-
tured will be a “Meistersinger” con-
test judged by the audience.

W&L celebrates 250"‘

with postcard V

The U. S. Postal Service will honor
Washington and Lee’s 250"‘ anniver-
sary with a ceremony for the first day
of issue of a stamped card bearing a
photograph of the University’s Col-
onnade. The ceremony takes place on
Thursday, Feb. 11 at 2 p.m. in Lee
Chapel.

Kl

“The Historic Preservation series
of stamped cards provides a unique
way of saluting America's finest
schools, museums and other institu-
tions on their important anniversaries
by featuring a building which is on
the National Register of Historic Land-
marks,” said Frank Thomas, market-
ing specialist of the stamp department
ofthe U.S. Postal Service.

The W&L Colonnade appeared
earlier on a postage stamp in 1949 in
honor of the University's bicentennial,
the last time the Postal Service used a
university on a stamp. .

In the Feb. 11 ceremony, Larry
Creamer, the postmaster of Lexington,
will preside and the Virginia Military
institute color guard will perform. The
program also includes remarks by
George Washington, portrayed by
William Sommerﬁeld, and the dedica-
tion of the card by Henry Pankey, vice
president for area operations of the
Postal Service's mid-Atlantic region.

Designed by Derry Noyes of
Washington, the 20-cent stamped
card will be available at the ceremony,
and members of the presiding party
will autograph it after the ceremony.

“HOME OF THE WORLD'S LONGEST KEG PART "
FREE DRAFT BEERALL WEEK LONG-(ALL FOR INFO!
1-800-488-8828

www.sandpiperbeacon.com (*rates per person)

17403 FRONT BEACH ROAD -

PANAMA CITY BEACH, FL 32413

C:/lgoﬁynzaz/Qpor/ut212’1'es‘.7

Summer Jobs at Washington and Lee University

Counselors for Summer Scholars

June 30-July 31,1999

Summer Scholars is a four-week academic program
for 150 rising high school seniors. Counselors serve
as resident advisors for 10 students in Graham—Lees
dormitory and plan evening and weekend activities.
Application deadline is Feb. 24, 1999.

Special Programs Resident Assistants

June 15-Aug. 3, 1999

The Ofﬁce of Special Programs employs 5 W&L
students to serve as Resident Assistants for a wide
variety of Special Programs including Alumni Colleges,
Elderhostel, and adult conferences. Duties include
housekeeping, attending all meals with guests, bar
receptions, and shuttle driving. An outgoing person-
ality is a must. Application deadline is March 31, 1999.

For more information, please contact the Ofﬁce of
Special Programs, Howard House, 463-8723.

JAMES G. LEYBURN LIBRARY
WASHWGTON 8: LEE UNPVET-TSTTY
LEXNGTON. VA 24450

‘FEB 02 1999

LEXINGTON SCHOOL OF DANCE

FANCY DRESS
SWING DANCE
LESSONS

Lexington School of Dance
Sherri Ludt, Director
14 E. Nelson Street
463-7662

Classes begin Feb. '7
5:30-6:30 p.m.

A

.. ...——

k

<4’

5
‘i
‘ii

‘ha If

 

FEBRUARY 1, 1999

O

@112 itling-tum lﬂlii

PINION

 

PAGE 3

Come cheer for W&L athletics

Let’s give it up for the men’s and
women’s basketball teams here at
Washington and Lee.

These Generals are awesome, and
it's a shame that so little support is
given to them. After attending a few
games, I became hooked. There is so
much excitement and energy in

darn good job at it. I have a hard time
ﬁnishing my homework and I don’t
have practice every day! How do they gets a free Domino's pizza. How much
do it? The team’s ex-
citement just fills the
gym and it gets every-
body into the spirit.  
When I see people ix

ets and the ticket holders compete in
a 30-second shoot out. The winner

better can it get? The
music, typical arena
rock, gets all fans into
the mood. You can
even catch a few fu-

g;-3- %Not—So—Deep

  

  Thoughts

“ex .

Warner Center, I just have to go to standing for the W&L -.  Carly Bl ak 61 Ock .01 ture Generals dancing
their games. Swing, I just can t on the sidelines.
These athletes are managing ath— keep myself from smil— I'm writing this in

letics and academics and are doing a

(6

Let’ s all take a few
minutes out of our

evenings to give a little
much-needed support

to our Generals.

7 7

our teams!

ing. The leadership given by some of
the older players warms my heart. If
I could only be a part of it.
Professors, deans, Lexingtonians,
and students come together to give
the support that the Generals de-
serve. If only we could fill the gym
for all the games and help pump up

One of the most exciting parts of
the game has to be the halftime shoot
out. Mr. Bitz randomly selects 3 tick-

the hopes that more Generals will give
their support to all General athletes.
They have skill, spirit and spunk, but
something is missing when only a
handful of supporters show up. The
men’s next home game is today at 7:30
and the women's next home game is
tomorrow at 7 p.m.

Let's all take a few minutes out of
our evenings to give a little much-
needed support to our Generals. See
you there!

In the Shadow of the Chapel

by Erica Prosser

, 

Hc\¢5 in ‘His:

Ci 3-xr6i"l'e, ¢_;\'o~ir\
iourns rot“ v --

(M emo +0 sci-$1 we\\)°*"‘i
dovft Q6.“ qhC_ 0
oJ>\e¢Q w{—\-\~ W0 ?ar‘\’3cs
o~ \i-\’ c.2o)o-¢<—"<‘\'G) L W

 
 
  
  
 
   
 

\ l‘V\,'rV,\/. :31) Crncm) Kicil \/GUI’.
O.\(‘€otci\/' OK/\/€, ‘I
mg -;or ’T\A~’*~'\'
crn*'.“,\r*opo\o<3\{

r-4-I’

/ essay e;
iTou V~I°~""‘* ' 7 
\\g.gt.K vow Pace. :
\ ,—«"f‘

"BeuJqrE+/re cold ilzsf //<2/iq. 

I am a mathematics major and damn proud of it 

Let me just begin this week with a discussion of how
cool the math department is. Sure, math is frequently
the target of student hatred, but if you can get over the
initial phobia of Robinson you will soon
realize the true majesty of the depart- -
merit. It is a small department with only ,, Y
seven professors and roughly 20 jun- if. E?
ior and senior majors. Despite this ap-
parent small size, almost every student
passes through this beloved department to fulfill the
dreaded gen-eds.

Regardless of your major, you have the opportunity to
experience the true caring nature of the mathematics pro-
fessors. Each one adds some unique qualities to the fac-
ulty as a whole. Each of these men, all brilliant in his own
right, has given something to the student body. My expe-
riences have been remarkable to say the least. Upon en-
tering this institution, the thought of majoring in math

  
 fuote of the Week:

z
"(3tI.»»-.4‘

 
 

  

I wish students would send
‘Quote of the week’ ideas
to phi@wlu.edu.

— Drained, frustrated editor

I}

~ just Plain Right

  ,3 1‘! Jean Rowan ’O1

Cilia: iﬁing-tum iﬂhi

Tarah Grant
Hollister Hovey
Polly Doig

John Stewart
Ginger Phillips
Erica Prosser
Stephanie Bianco
Stephen Pesce
Frances Groberg
Kevin McManemin
Sarah Meldrum
Meredith Mlynar

Executive Editors
News Editors
W&Life Editors
Opinions Editors
Sports Editor

Last Word Editor
Copy Editors

Photo Editors Emily Barnes
Scott Cameron
Production Assistant Cliff Woolley

Business Manager
Advertising Directors
Circulation Director

Jason Williams
Matt Lorbcr
Lionel Brown

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editors, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters, columns and “Talkback” do not
reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu
http :// wl u. edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

 

never crossed my mind. Math was only for geeks who
never left the library and laughed at math jokes. But since
my arrival, I have come to the realization that this is far
from the truth. (And for the record, I
think that most people think math jokes
are funny, they arejust afraid to admit
it.) Anyway, the professors are so amaz-
ing. I’ll share a little known fact: the
math professors are in the most over-
worked department. You would never know that these
men have more students than most other faculty mem-
bers because they give so much of their time to their
students. Walk through Robinson Hall sometime and
you will see all the office doors open and usually a few
students in discussing this week’s homework. All the
brochures claimed that this was the case in every de-
partment at Washington and Lee, but my experience
has proven otherwise. I feel genuinely welcome in ev-

ery math professor’s office. Believe it or not, this is one
ofthe biggest assets of the department. Granted I have
only had three math professors, but

these three men have really left their ‘ C

ten to know so many other fellow math students. A bond

exists between us that sure doesn’t appear to be present

in other departments. ;
Although math is not for every-

mark.
I know I’ll get some math dork com-
ments for this article, but I think some-

And for the record,

one, I would suggest that everyone
take a second look at the white cata-
log and maybe consider taking a

one needs to stand up and say this Ithmk most people class beyond what is required. It
stuff. Math really can be fun, ask any- think math jokes are could change your life. Maybe you
one who took Math 195 last spring term funny, they are just could just start out with an afternoon
with Dr. Dresden (advisor _ _ _ lecture. The math department IS in
extraordinaire). It was a phenomenal aﬁald to admlt 1t- the process of hiring some new

class and I recommend it to everyone.
Cryptography and Number Theory
was the name, you may want to mark
your schedules today. That class was one more thing that
drove me to declare mathematics as my major. I have not
regretted that decision once, especially since I have got-

9 9 teachers and there are two speakers
this week: today, Monday at 3 p.m.

and Thursday at 4 p.m. I hope to see
you all there. And one last goodbye to Prof. Dresden.
Prof. McRae, Prof. Vinson, Prof. Evans. Prof. Johnson.
Prof. Bourdon, and Prof. Dymacekll

.;   LETTERS To

ij,iPropusal to revise sexual‘
_ assault policy

To the W&L Community,

I ‘ munity recently received an anonymous letterjwhich
- described the effects of a rape and other consequences

thize with the writer and understand thepain and frus-

. . g with the Lexington Police and/or within the Wash'
- fyton and Lee community through Anece McC10!id

’ . P  As armounced last week, the Student Affairsg
niittee will begin a review of the University‘Policy,Ot1
Sexualehdisconduct in February. The review will ad;

 
 
   
 

_who have been involved in the process in the 
including chairs of SFHB, students, counselors and
 medical support personnel, security, and the Univer
 ’si mediator to SAC meetings. . . ' I 

 

 

Jstiecific issues of concern. The goal is to develo

quirements,.clear and understandable,.and effective.

present to the faculty before the end of tlie*,l_992§{§:..‘/39

1999. g . 1 , 
We will welcome your advice on how best to ad-
dress this difficult and troubling issue.

Barbara J. Brown, Chair, Student-
Faculty Hearing Board

David L. I-lowison, Dean of Students

Anece F. McCloud, University Mediator

 
 
  
  
  

Lip sync makes huge step.
against hunger

Dear Editor,

The 13th Annual SARAH (W&L Student Against
Rockbridge Area Hunger) lip sync contest is history,
the most successful even to date. Thirty-four acts and
632 paid admissions raised $4400, Perennial contest
winner Chi 0 did it again with their rendition of the
Village People’s “Macho Man.” Proceeds from the con-
test will purchase more than four this of food for the
local food pantry (more about this later in the term)-

 ii the second stage, there will be opportunitiesj2for._ ,
q input from the entire Washington and Lee University '  u . ,
.jcommunity through several focus groups dealing with ,

 THE EDITOR“ I    
 W  1 I .:f:Léddr=eai‘pis2'=3‘*n‘P1a
 Whourgffh ray,  _ 

* ‘with tjdfur. cameras.aThe bigges

. Y

Several members of the Washington and Lie,e,,cotr1’3-7?

I (of sexual assault at Washington and Leefwe emipa-, ’

tration that can result from such an incident.   tu‘riate‘;incidentilat lastgyea
clear. in the letter if the writer had ﬁled a Coriiplaint . , i ‘ 2
against her attacker. If not, we urge her to do soleither ‘

   
  
   
  
 
 
 
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   
 
  
   
    
  

' 7, 7 dress several of the issues raised in the letterincludirig. j; A i L (
assessment of the Student-Faculty Hearing,.Board-jg: A 3
’ cedures, sexual assault education programs, ti‘ain- ‘ A
ing programs for advocates, and support systernsgln ‘
the first stage of the review, SAC will invite individuals;

’ .

  

 

‘sexualniisconduct program that is responsive-to std‘ ‘ '
dent needs, compatible with legal and government re- s

The goal of SAC is to have a ﬁnal proposal ready to“ ~

academic year. If approved, the new policy andproce , 7 
dures wéuld be implemented beginning the Fall Termf

i  before sliewp

  
   
  
    
    
  
     
    
  
 
  
   
  
   
       
      
  
 

   

   
 

Knnstrong and Dhn Gra v ”

 G‘ve;it up for Wes and D
.. . I *~*it“.'5<%ftér;They$%.urroI.i!.1<1e<ii
..s&9f2g tté¢:_I$%e2i'.Gontch%1r°i‘/»i
 Lee and ,/Jensen.,who.,'gave”the
{.9nérw-   *  f  9.  . P.

3 ‘ ‘  ’ ial thanks goes toMikel Paike¥at_idChnsB
1 ofIFC and alljtlie‘ fraternity presidents; In

. r-(.4. .

to wés”

 
   
     

hallenge theqIkF’C but they
teﬁtfffsweii siurpprz  I

       

fl\/Ir. Clinton antic January
' ‘in Phi by Ms. Hollister

        

.¥iifS.ffI... to ,.   _ .
~ l5Ianket.ass,ei'tions\th‘atf call into,quéstion the competence ,

, of individualsﬁthat ‘firs esearch the.§iZeracitylofqher"i,
. . . . . . . - .".“tsftI1¢tti~:Qb¥i¢ufs13:Ms..Hs>veydoe ‘
% »; notpossess a,worlgin‘g“laiowledge.of the Jones case, Jones’  zpategd and w

«s»

lawy:ef,$l,7.or the legalisystemjgiri generaljas evident  her
comments. Ms. Hove)? 11a.d,the audacity to call Ms. Jones’-

attomeysi f'not 7quite‘tliat biigh .7‘ if “

gfRader, Cainpbell;lFisher.§iid Pykeithat represented Paula ,,
T0,, es in her lawsuit‘ againsf? Mr. Clintohjis ‘a close fami; ’

j  bf mine. David Pyke,wasmy'inother’s Moo = i 
; paitner in law school at SMU, and he has continit

  

L a close friend and associate of my mother to th‘ ‘

who knows,Pyke or an Q§li,i,§; partners, ’

     
   
  
 
  
  

and youw‘ill‘b,,
But, I can’t e 
partners at his 
miss them as
view oftheir han 38
I-lovey condemnsyviias

acornrnitiuentto SARAI-I'and they deliveretl‘biig7i1ne!iiThis 
_,EAxit_Sq “  

I  I-paiticipatedin ,

 tionaljﬁffectiyeness Coin‘ '

Wﬂtlngiﬁ Ms. Hovey’s cliar- _

    _

. ,‘One of Ms. Jonesfs» , , hmeys, a partneriin the law  A 1 if

‘iiottheirideﬁnition,i butone that is the accepted one to
us’ ‘insuch cases;§,Maybe the learned author of this
aiiti’cIefc”aii come.u’pgwith a; better definition than the I

4 United States Supreme Court and our Federal Rules of ‘
“Evidence. But ldoubt, that. Pyke and his partners .
.  ‘handled the case ethically and professionally. Further- 1
1   inure, had.Mr;.‘Clii;1ton not pe1jur,edhimse_lf, the Jones’ .5

"1 ’7att’oi‘iieysfwould have been able to establish a pattern ;

of behavior that would have been sufficient evidence :
to ﬁnd Clinton liable to Paula Jones for the tort of sexual ?
aifassment. It is extremely hard to win a sexual harass— 
meat caseiif a‘ witness, lies (which IS what Clinton ‘
did . . . donot buy that "legally accurate" fallacy), but i
' anlattomey could do it, then I guarantee that Pyke 7
uld be the one to win it.

Alum V ‘ poiids to Senior

    
  

"Senior Exit Survey conducted »
i’i'“§hool year by the Institu-‘E
A W H Nee. Irecently received’
‘ py ofgtheir report inthe mail and am dismayed by 5

at ate’ an of the isié

When CI,/toolg the-. survey, Irefiised to answer most

questions’ andijincluded all lengthy comment at thel:
8!id}_0f,,the. survey stating thatl believed that the;
"estio s askedaboutithé Honor System were com- .
etely iihappropriate,'.and that the Committee had‘

i ' Iced its‘resporisibility and jeopardized the

‘lof the Commiitee by abandoning questioiig‘ it}
 ked ~year,after year about student life, allow-1
ingpan aggregation of data over time which points:

 uppersistent problems, as well as charting progress 

made.
Iwas disappointed to see that in the current re-

iiport, my responses were thrown out or ignored,

 
  
  

rnycomments were not pub
predicted has come truezgb
they did, the Committee

ed, and the resultl
icing the questions
fproduced a worth-

] less document attackinig4§t‘ddeiri‘ts who attempted

to. answer honestl ariffd‘ interpolating their re-
sponses to prodjtc .3‘ result the Committee antici-
P “d, namely, Honor System "prob-
erit immediate "action" ifthe fac-
 ue to support the System.
ypersonal respect for the members of the
L , ,, and the authors of the report, I am disheart-

by the Committee's decision to shirk its vital re-
sponsibilities in order to play politic§

      
   
  
  
 

Alex Christensen ’98

Alum appreciates online Phi

Phi staﬁ‘:

I was one of those e-mailers wondering where the
online Phi was. Good luck getting some help, but in the
interim, THANK YOU for keeping tis old timers current.
It is greatly appreciated !!

Homer Bliss ’8l

 

 

PAGE 4

W&

@112 ‘iﬂing-Eum iﬂlii

IFE

Exploring diversity at Washington 

Black History Month, opportunity to examine role of Washington and Lee ’s black students, past, present rimljiiture

By Elianna Marziani
STAFF WRITER

February is Black History Month across/imerica. What
does that mean at Washington and Lee? It means explor-
ing some of our own black history and looking to the
ﬁxture of multicultural attitudes on this campus.

WHAT HAS GONE BEFORE

In 1795, Wasington and Lee University, then Liberty
Hall Academy, enrolled its first black student, John Chavis.
Chavis had been recruited by local Presbyterians to help
evangelize to the black community. .

The next black students did not arrive at W&L until
1942, when the U.S. government’ s School for Special Ser-
vices moved from Fort Meade to W&L. Black cadets were
among the 1200 cadets to go through this program during
the course of two years.

At about the same time, the civil rights issue became a
major force in national poli-
tics. The debate began to
come to a head, both in Vir-
ginia and in the United
States in general.

In 1950, The University
of Virginia admitted its first
black law student, and The
College of William and Mary
followed in 1951 when it ad-
mitted its first two black law
students. Nationally, 1954
marked the landmark Su-
preme Court case Brown v.
Board of Education of To-
peka, in which the court
ruled that “separate but
equal” facilities were a con-
tradiction in themselves and
that schools needed to be-
come desegregated. Some
groups were resistant to the changes this case brought,
but other groups were more welcoming of change.

Some faculty members at Washington and Lee, for ex-
ample, were ready for it.

“Starting in the 1960s, the faculty started clamoring for
desegregation,” Ted DeLaney, W&L history professor and
the only black undergraduate professor on campus, said.

- Because of faculty pressure to debate the issue, the
Board of Trustees held a special discussion about deseg-
regation, after which it proclaimed that the school charter
said nothing about discrimination.

The Board decided that since W&L had no discrimina-
tion policy, it should be entirely the prerogative of the admis-
sions office to admit black students. As DeLaney said, there
had been only “segregation by custom at W&L.”

This custom ended in 1966 when Dennis Haston, the
only black undergraduate applicant that year, was accepted
to W&L. He attended W&L for one year before transfer-
ring to a different college. The first undergraduate stu-

dents to receive degrees from W&L came in 1972 with the

graduation of Walter Blake and Carl Smothers.

Theater department
shows ‘Eccentricities’

    

Dean Anece McCloud helps to promote racial
diversity and understanding on campus.

lhot courtesy of Susan Wager
TW Ieshner ’99, Shelley Adams ’99, Howard Sanbom ’01, Julieann
Ulin ’01 and Rachel Welch ’02 rehearse their lines for ‘The
Eccentricities of A Nightingale,’ Tennessee Williams’ emotional
and eerie tale/of two lovers trapped by their societal positions.

In 1966 black law school applicant Leslie Smith enrolled, and
in 1969, he became the ﬁrst black law graduate from W&L.

Since then, black students have become an integral part
of W&L. While there are still relatively few black students
at W&L, the ones who are here are active participants in
campus social and academic life. In 1991, Willard Dumas
became the first black student body president, and in 1998,
Mikel Parker was elected the first black IFC president. Other
black students have become an important part of all sorts
of academic groups, clubs, sports, fraternities and sorori-
ties in the W&L community.

PROFESSOR DELANEY’S EXPERIENCE

As an example of the changes that have happened at W&L in
the last few decades, DeLaney offered his own perspectives as
an African-American man who is a native of Lexington and has
also been involved with W&L since his teenage years.

DeLaney first became involved with Washington and
Lee back when it was still segregated. He was what he
called “a poor kid who
needed a job,” and in Au-
gust 1963 he followed the
footsteps of many members
of the black community in
Lexington by taking a job
with the Buildings and
Grounds staff. A year later
he became a biology lab
technician, a job that he
held for 19 years.

During the last four

years he served as a lab
technician, he took advan-
tage of a fringe benefit
granted to employees by
taking one course each term
for credit. In 1983, DeLaney
quit his job and became a
full-time student, getting
his degree from W&L in
1985. He then taught at a prep school in North Carolina,
received a graduate degree from The College of William and
Mary, worked in ateaching fellowship for a couple of years,
wrote his dissertation and found himself back at Washing-
ton and Lee in 1995, this time as a history professor.

DeLaney’s role as staff member, student and professor
gives him a unique viewpoint of the life of black students at
W&L, past and present. He sees black students as positive
contributors to campus life, and one of his major concerns is
the small number of black students on campus. The current
ratio is one black student for every 31 white students.

This is an example of what DeLaney sees as a trend across
America, that “colleges are becoming more segregated.”

Part of the reason for this, he believes, is that colleges, includ-
ing W&L, are not working hard enough to recruit black students.

“Americans need to work harder to give the values of the
importance of higher education to blacks in elementary
and secondary school so that these students will continue
their education,” DeLaney said.

He believes it would be easier to recruit black students if
they were given black role models in the faculty. A greater

Fil Photo

 
   

by Ginger Phillips

F EA TURES EDITOR

The Washington and Lee theater
department will present its first pro-
duction of Tennessee Williams’ play
‘The Eccentricities ofA Nightingale’
this Friday at 8 p.m.

The protagonist, Alma Winemiller,
is awoman who isjust a little different
from everyone else. She is desparately
in love with John, a man who is so-
cially out ofher league.

“John sees that Alma is something
special, but he has his own familial
obligations and has to marry into high

society,” sophomore Julieann Ulin, who
plays one of the town eccentrics, said.

The action takes place one sum-
mer when Alma attempts to outlive the
madness in her family by searching
for love with John.

“This is one of Williams’ least-
known plays, and it presents a differ-
ent way of looking at his work,” Ulin
said. “Anyone can see ‘A Streetcar
Named Desire’ or ‘The Glass Menag-
erie,’ but this play offers a new twist
to a universal theme.”

‘Eccentricities’ will be performed in the
Johnson Theatre, and additional play
dates include Feb. 6, 8,9and l0, at8p.m.

number of black faculty members, therefore, is an important
change that needs to be made at W&L in the future if the
University is to continue to grow and improve itself.

The biggest problem that DeLaney sees, however, is
the lack of understanding between races. He is concerned
about the “segregation within integrated colleges that ex-
ists throughout the nation.”

“The self—segregation [on the part of both blacks and
whites] is really sad,” he said. “It will
take individual attempts on the part of
all the students to make sure they
make the campus into more of a com-
munity.”

Both black and white students have
the same role on campus — to “work
hard and to get a good education.”

DeLaney said that creating a com-
munity in which all students can

 

black sororities or fraternities and to pazti ‘ : in many other
activities that are provided to our £S()llr!1ClTH‘ti’lfs‘ at oil ier col leges.”

 

With the ratio ofblack 10 \.\‘l'lll:3 Sl1‘Ll».“«rl‘~, Eli V-'&i_ being so
small, the experience of the blur:-. imc'r:2 *.3I':«1(ll1'di(3 is deﬁ-
nitely a unique one.

“My experience here has l‘*371ll}' <;..ti;:~,. . .i me to mine out of my

shell and to approach people and ‘.,.il'l,1.'.llt)l'!S in 1it.llill.?I“‘;l1I way,”
Wade noted.

“Its ea.<;}’ for :1 i*.T:;=.=.‘l~: student to miss
out on 2» lot l>e«;.ue~n.. :mis_:li1 feel more
ll'lilt11lLlL¥l<:{lilL"C. ‘Ber; A‘ otithis fact,
l’ve leririietl that ifl -::.:n n..  it here,l

 

 

   

can niake it an_\'w'n.eic. ‘

l}H.:»' T’v‘i=v*I ;,-or ;;‘s ll‘.-skin ()3\‘
R.*.(‘is.\i An‘ V‘-.1

 

  
 
     

An:-re " " ’ 7 * Do’ it
peacefullyandhappilypursue thatend Sumbm M in n_lm:r£>f
Should be our pnmary goal‘ student at . . I .  agrees with

Del-;mv:_§. ‘J;  i'w;'l'.“.i"‘. that altliough
STUDENT PERSPECTIVES there well to iv; .: .§t—iHr.;t».._ -',%.rong ten-

Tarni Olubunmi, a black freshman,
spoke about the experiences she has had
at W&L. As a high school student, she
met Courtney Penn from the Admissions
Office ata college fair fortalented minority
students and learned more about W&L. .
Olubunmi said that the gorgeous campus,
ﬁiendly people and ﬁnancial aid brought
her to W&L, and she loves it here.

She has pledged a sorority, has a busy schedule and is
having fun. She does not see race as a major issue in her
own experience. While admitting that different students
may have different experiences, she said, “I’m used to hang-
ing out with different types of people and I really don’t
care what they look like.”

Olubunmi said that she has not experienced any racism
at W&L and hates it when “people play the race card” and
blame problems on their race. She expressed her belief in
the possibility for black students to have just as “normal”
21 life, socially and academically, as white students.

Other students believe that a racial problem does exist
on the W&L campus.

“I think that race is a serious problem here,” senior
Shanntonnette Wade said. “People try to sugarcoat the
situation or pretend that it doesn’t exist at all.”

Wade believes that people tend to ignore opportunities
to discuss the problem of minority students at W&L.

“When panels or discussion groups are held, the same
small group of people shows up,” she said. “Too many
people are disinterested and try to keep it all under wraps.
We need more people to make a real effort to solve the
racial problem on campus.”

Wade also thinks that the University could attract more
black students if a greater variety of social activities for
black students was provided.

“When prospectives come to visit W&L, the first thing
they ask about is what we do on the weekends,” Wade
said. “For black students, the social aspects of the school are
pretty limited because we don’t have the opportunity to join

Eels make waves 

By Matt LaMotte

MUSIC RE VIEWER

The late 1990s have brought about a revolution in
popular music. The divisions between rock, pop, hip-
hop, alternative and electronica have given way to a
general interest in combining every instrument and
every sound available in an effort to create textured
fields ofmusic that draw from almost every imagin-
able source.

Few bands have succeeded at this compositional medium
as well as eels.

Eels scored a modern rock hit in 1996 with “Novacaine for
the Soul,” atrippy, catchy single with an even trippier video.
All of the musical conventions from their earlier work appear
on their second album, “Electro-Shock Blues,” a unconven-
tionally delicious pop masterpiece.

Eels’ trademark drum samples, sleepy guitar lines, wist-
ful vocals and ir-
reverent lyricism
are now accompa-
nied by a host of
new unconven-
tional touches.

The ﬁrst single,
“Last Stop: This
Town,” begins
with what sounds
like a pleasant toy
keyboard melody
accompanied by
lead singer E’s
breathy vocals.
As the song
builds, electric
guitars, samples
drums, back-
ground singers
and eventually a
record-scratching groove enter the mix.

Instruments enter and exit randomly, almost anony-
mously, resulting in a patchwork ofrhythm and melody
that takes the listener through musical colors and tex-
tures that fascinate and delight. “My Descent Into Mad-
ness” incorporates sleigh bells with ajazzy bass line

 

    

had no trouble being happy as
a black student at W&L.

Photo courtesy of Drearnworks
Eels provides listeners with a musical
style that runs the gamut of emotions on
its new release Electro—SItock Blues.

  
 
   
  
  
 

.~' ziiul '-smite stu-
_.tr-ntly.
6:1 in 1985,

 

. .  in my rmpi-.=ssi-;;i= '~  l'<lL‘l~LE~’_UCl€lllS
Photo courtesy of Tami Olubunmi , _ .
\V'E3l‘Cl1lul‘vli‘I-':‘v‘ ' 2
Freshman Tam‘ Olubunmi has pus lllL“Ll'l1ll"-">L.‘:» run ;‘Iu'=‘» “.Vrt:Clou(lsaid.
"Nov.  ‘h.:;n  ~. -;

sitioms. of" it.’J.J.UCl =
 ” ’ sitiive trend.

:3x~rn1s eveii at

    

“Racism is a fact (ifiife .r;uL
W&L,” she said. adding. "lair. .   .
She believes that the pi'<\b!».,  x.‘.':l :1:-zes mainly

stem not from malicious l[i'LC?‘l  :2a:*l;;;1i. i‘lI1i';rS1':‘t,llO\\/—

ii.r\.S.

   
      
  
  
    
  

ever, but rather from “reall_x llkil 1-  W _ other and
being sort ofafraid to I1l;‘.‘a.‘l .  . . szudentsf‘
Students coming from Lii. ercztt =:i. I--econoniic
backgrounds merely do not l<i;<5n.'. im’-.~   to melt other,
and this is the problem that illils I *  ‘m.’\’;l . Campus.
In order to get these stu«'- he ‘ ‘mt ofeach

   
  
 

other’s pasts to meet and : several
student organizations ‘»VL“?:‘1r§.'t"at:t.‘ an  1

Programming forthc l{e..p-;;‘  i1:'..l~lt..lllrll‘l£1!l(i Diver-

   
 
 
 
 
 

 
  

sity in Education (PRll)l;‘; i~:.  2 2 *« zrm.  "21 project
that would improve campus lit. . mix’-ii» »'ll\L‘;‘~.ll':. 

The Minority Student A;-.5:-, -. rm  l‘orr.:-;2i‘l;. the
Student Association for Black ' sci up to “bring

about an understandirig anti  1, 92".». ~ tin‘ persons
of different backgr‘our::i<.“

This group brings ininnriw.  -- 2-.;i:;? =.itr1~s: .~'.; .'n.‘7;l~‘« togzether
in special activities. l'nelit~\.'iiig, in... o my ’ ‘~ nnrler‘stand—

  

ing and the willingness to ‘twhatz. ;

we’remore likely to COIIllT}l'i"  ». ~
McCloud said. "Olive f~1i.Ll‘:t'F.: ».  1

different background]. thz-_\‘  L.\l.t'.= ;
She feels that all the '—'!.“:«i~.l.l.

 

   

. uni? that all stu-

characteristics and speci: I .
dents will come out ot"t;oi" _ ._ ;. ‘mu .» «:;m;.‘ie;i«;t:: if
they will make an effort is ac; r » L :.:».= r‘  «i:l»:r. .»;r:: past

the differences and grow’ 
That’s good advice.

 

with an or-
gan before
yielding en-
tirely to E’s
voice ac-
companied
by drums
and a string
section that
brings to
mind a holi-
day cocktail
party, which

    

 

is joined
again by the la2iiil.i:_n r.>i';—_~;::‘: i.r<~u.;~~ * 

Sadness is ?1l1l1ili’,‘i‘°-.l'c‘I'.1L‘Ltlzlltél : ,;r:.:a :1 evident in
E3 lyrics. In the last. ye:1r.  izzv . ~.  1:69 W: <l<:d1i1 of
several family members, incl»;.=«l1r;_~ lll= ‘:1 .»m-xi:

Song titles 7.il._rg ‘*(}:,x;;ig  '\.".mr l’unera.|,”

 

“Cancer for the L‘ure”‘ me. ‘ .: \."l'r.‘:'lil‘2‘.ll0Il is

 :i!l'»u:n 2i!"l\\‘0l‘l(
».~ivzs-.2 that reads
i’initclg.‘rr.:t1ectE’s

 

that includes u \'.'&!'!ltlC-l‘ .: '6”
“Everything ‘.5 Cili‘iil}_‘.'i'i{.'.. 1*.‘

 
 
 

sense of loss zind :.e.i:;.i«.~:-Lg.

Thg un.;l¢rl‘\t1; ;- ,=v,tt’:" =0 ill\ ‘t\'<,)I‘Ll.*: 1511.1 his
sadness. h(W\,'t:VCE‘. Dali V net’ illfi :"t.‘ll¢:CliOI1S
throughout his or racing wzwgli for happiness.
Even though the zrllnmr  '  itli "xiakiiig up is

 

so much harder xvlu it 50::   ‘Lu rile.” it doesn’t
linger in deprcsxum. 2.-. l 
When he sings on the "Q:-.14. -:
your warm ClI1l)I‘2‘aL‘ .1 aw: an
he is tr'_\_'ing. and the  '.~-:.r \—.

sic makes fora. c<>iiipeil'iu:- :.«.\ 31.11‘.

124. l\‘ “take me in
" sou know

   

 

By the last song rm tin.  “.‘v‘ ‘~1. ‘rot: Rock
My World.” 13 has i;wi~:~ lil 4: ;<»_eng~let«:l_V 'ncalthy
and reniarltable ».:p;pliu_z,a. "1 \.:».a~. '=t .3 Ilium.-i‘al the
day I realiared 3 l ‘\‘.Ztl'.lL,'(l .=~. ~,iv¢:‘itl rn_\ l§lk“wi1l;)oti,” .
he sings. br:i’orr.:‘coin-l1r.ii=i;; the album‘: with “maybe
it’stime to live.”
Eels have been t'l'l‘ilI‘; :‘- «- *.~ “’ ‘  «uE?:~‘r'u.:;.ii. but

in tnitlr. there i:-:r."‘ '
close to their SOUII-;1.

“Electro-Shock Blues” is it t1’!l)tl:,“‘l1 masterpiece and ex-
empliﬁes a fantastic n<:\\.' Ll i:':.x:tim‘~ x7l’T7(Z'i‘.i.1l£Ii’ music.

 

 

 

1 Men’s  

  ‘ﬂoats,

 

 

   

 

FEBRUARY 1, 1999

@112 ﬂting-tum lﬂhi

PORTS

 

PAGE 5

swimming

«women
,sink

By Steele
Cooper

q STAFF WRITER

Saturday, the Washington
and Lee men’s and women’s swim
teams faced off against Mary

Vwashington in the ﬁnal regular sea-
son meet in the Warner Center of the
year. The men took the win from MWC
by a 109-73 margin to up their record

‘to 7-5. The women fell to Mary Wash-
ington with a score of 1 17-68 to fall to 9-
6 on the year.

Sophomore Colin Hayes placed ﬁrst
in three events to lock in the win for the

‘Generals. Hayes won the 200 free
(1 :49.80), the 100 ﬂy (53.57), and the
500 free (5:06.45), in the redeeming
victory over Mary Washington.

“We lost this one against Mary
Washington last year on the very
last event,” Hayes said. “Everyone
swam really well on Saturday, so we

i were really pumped to win.”

L Two swimmers each earning a pair of

’ irst place finishes also paced the Gener-

qls. Sophomore Mike Miraglia won the

ZDO IM with atime of 2:06.56 and the 100

, b. ast with atime of 1:04.74. Junior co-

‘ea tairi Jared Fribush continued his irn-
prc sive domination of the 50 free and
100 free. Fribush once again crushed
the ﬁeld with respective times of 49.54 and 22.19.

“We have all been swimming well, and now it’s time to
look toward the bigger tough meets at Emory and Davidson.
1 think we’re in a good position and ready to do well,” Fribush
said.

While the women may have lost Saturday’s match

Wagainst MWC, the day still had its bright spots.

Young talent was victorious alongside veteran wins for
the Generals. Freshman Laura Ingoldsby won her 1000 free
event with a time of 1 1:40.67. Senior captain Margaret Hoehl
continued to bring in the wins. Hoehl won the 200 free

'(2;oo.09) and the 100 ﬂy(1:03.05).

Washington and Lee will next be in action Saturday, Feb.

6 when the Generals travel to Atlanta to take on Emory.

 
 
 
 

  
   
    
    
  
   
     
   
   

Guilford Saturday afternoon at
the Warner Center.

The win snapped the Gen-
erals’ nine-game losing streak
and set new season highs in
both total points and margin of
victory.

“It feels good, it feels real
good,” W&L head coach Kevin
Moore said following the victory.
“We needed to get a win just so
we could feel good about what
we’re doing.”

The Quakers (3-16, 2-12)
dressed only seven players and
were playing their second game in
fewer than 24 hours. Guilford lost
to Randolph-Macon 67-60 on Fri-
day night before coming to Lexing-

ton. '

“Guilford was a little undennanned
and it was definitely a disadvantage
for them,” Moore said. “We wanted to
work the tempo up because they only
had seven guys.”

Junior forward Scott Hudson shot
9-10 from the ﬁeld and scored a career-
high 21 to spearhead the winning ef-
fort. Hudson met with the coaching
staff the previous day to work on be-
ing more aggressive on the offensive
end. It paid off on Saturday afternoon.

“I went out with a different mental-
ity that I was going to score and it just
worked out,” Hudson said.

Junior center Rich Peterson scored

17 points on 6-6 shooting from
,_ the ﬁeld. Junior guard Matt
3‘ W. Jackson had a big day off the
bench for the Generals with

15 points in only 12 minutes 0

of play. Jackson was 6-7 from
the ﬁeld including 3-4 from behind the
arc.

The Generals (4-13, 3-8) shot 68%
from the ﬁeld in the second half and
62% for the game. The combination of
Jackson, Hudson and Peterson shot a
near-perfect2l—23 (91%) from the field.
The Generals also had a season-high
21 assists and a season—low 11 tum-
overs. ‘

“We’re starting to play well to-
gether, especially the big men inside,”
Hudson said. “We were ready to play

By Brendan Harrington _ -
STAFF WRITER if

The Washington and t 0 d a y
Lee men’s basketball team and We
grabbed their ﬁrst victory of executed
1999 with an 87-69 win over b e t t e r

than in
t h e
past.”

T h e
g a m e
w e n t
back and
forth for
most of
the first
half until
W&L went
ona21-6runthat
covered the last 3 :52
of the ﬁrst half and
the ﬁrst 5:24 of the
second half. The
Generals never
trailed in the sec-
ond half,
0 u t s c o r i n g
Guilford48-37.

The Generals .
struggled from
the free-throw
line down the
stretch, leaving the
victory in question un-
til the final minutes of the
game. The Generals were
only 13-24 (54%) from
the charity stripe in the
second half.

Sophomore forward
Jon Evans led the
Quakers with 15
points. The Quakers
shot only 41% from the
ﬁeld for the game.

The Generals are now
tied with. Lyneliburg for’,
the final playoff spot in
the ODAC tournament.
The Hornets upset
Bridgewater 71-68 in over-
time on Saturday night.
The Generals host
Bridgewater on Monday
night and Virginia Wesleyan
on Wednesday night.

“We have three more games
at home in the next seven days
and that’s a good springboard
for us,” Hudson said. “From now
on, ’99 is our year.”

 

The Washington and Lee ice
hockey team won their ﬁrst game of
the season 8-1 against the C-League
all-star team after their scheduled op-
ponent, Roanoke College, failed to
show up on Saturday afternoon.

Junior Jamie Buckley scored four of
the goals, freshman Matt Jacobs
slammed in two, and Senior Greg Banks

and Sophomore Jeff Sloan each
picked up one. Senior Torn Wadlow
made an assist.

* Unlike most treams in the
league, W&L does not have
practices.

This was their ﬁrst victory

since thier one-year suspension . _

ended two years ago.

   
      
   
    
  
   
   
  
  
  

V
E g,a3e»eet,éi’2
,1 .
YOZ/I/6’ put 17-20 years into educating and
preparing yourself. In your eareeryou’ll work
» another 30-35 years.
Its time fora éreak.
N At t/Je/l Baril Guestltancb, in the mountains

ofSout/tern VVyoming, you can:

Meet /aundreds of new people and make
interesting friends/azps as you do enjoyable work.
.7 Horseback ride, ﬁs/7, play tennis and golf and
go camping — all on 200 sq. miles ofprioate
land t/Jat backs up to another 200 sq. miles of
national forest and wilderness area.

" Get a check at the end of October for $3,000
to $5, 000 to use for travel, apartment deposits
— to get your new life started . . .

Call or e-mail today for more information or to
schedule an on-campus interview. Bob or
Margie Howe, Managers, (303) 838-1950 or
abararane/J@aol. com

 

.‘,‘-a
$51



 

Toyot 5 
* oyot ‘Dealer

worldwide

--t  ..,....--

 

'.».
4

514'»).

.23’

. 1 :,,_.§: 1

‘ . V * vingsrb on comparison of '99
» Corolla equ ed with options gglggg .
comparably uipped—‘98‘C6f6l a.’ Corolla A
is flie best 5

3‘.3Le.§----—'"""

,,.....-.

   

  Men’s b-ball
wins ﬁrst game

  
    
 

Y9? C3“

   
  

,.

g car in history, bue 

Women win again

Freshman center Jessica Mentz sets school
record as Washington and Lee women’s ‘
basketball team takes fourth in a row '

By Tod Williams

STAFF WRITER

  lVl0RE’CAR‘F'OK’[

,,-..(No~Matter~Wl1at“'Y° 1'

From the looks of things this week,
women’s basketball at W&L is on the
upswing. With two last-second wins
and a record setting performance from
freshman center Jessica Mentz, the
Generals have a four-game winning
streak, a new record for the program.

The week ended for the Lady Gen-
erals with a 56-55 last-second win over
Emory & Henry on Saturday in Emory,
Va. On Thursday, W&L crushed
Lynchburg 82-54, just after the Gener-
als had narrowly edged Virginia
Wesleyan 71-70 on Tuesday.

W&L’s victory over the Wasps
came in dramatic fashion. With lead
changes throughout the game, the
outcome was sure to be down to the
wire.

With fewer than four minutes re-
maining, the Generals were down 53-
47, but a 7-0 run by the Generals left
them ahead 54-53, with only 35 sec-
onds left. On E&H’s next trip down
the ﬂoor, Erin Kyle sank a layup that
put the Wasps up 55-54 with only 34
seconds left to play. ,

But 34 seconds was enough time
for W&L’s Mentz to go to work. She
connected on a layup of her own, giv-
ing the Generals a 56-55 lead, which

they would take into the locker room.
Mentz lead the Generals, posting 17

3% points off an’ 8-for-10 performance.

Fellow freshmen Sarah Schmidt and

Megan Babst added eight and

seven points, respectively, to the
Generals’ cause.

The team’s lone senior, Chrissy
Burghardt, only connected on one ﬁeld
goal, and was 2-for-2 from the line, but
those four points put her just 10 away

..rn5n1'_the 1,000’ career points mark.

Burghardt would be the ﬁrst woman
at W&L to break 1,000 points.

“I’m just ready to get it over with,”
Burghardt said of the chase. “It’s not
really on my mind, though. We’re play-
ing really well now, so I just want to
win.”

Although Thursday night’s game
was a blowout, it wasjust as event-
ful for the team, as well as some in-
dividuals. The 82 points from the
team is its highest total of the year.
The win was Coach Terri Dadio
Campbell’s 50th victory at W&L, but

the real story on the night was again
Jessica Mentz.

Mentz set a new W&L record with
her game-high 30 points, almost half
of which came from her 12-for-17 per-
formance from the charity stripe. She
said the biggest factor in her scoring
is how “the guards are looking to pass
inside more than before, and that’s the
only way I can score.”

Mentz attributed the team’s tre-
mendous improvements in play
throughout the season to a meeting
the team held a couple weeks ago.
“We had a practice where we just
talked the whole time. We discussed
where we’re going as a team, and since
then, we’ve really come together. No
one is playing as an individual any-
more.”

Junior Jessica Morton added 10 for
the Generals, while Burghardt netted
nine points, but led the team with her
12 boards. Lynchburg freshman Erika
Smith led the Hornets with 16 points,
and fellow freshman Joharri Bass
scored eight, pulled down 10 re-
bounds, and refused soup to the Gen-
erals seven times.

On Tuesday night, W&L junior
guard Ansley Miller connected on
two clutch free throws with only 2.5
ticks left on the clock, to give the Gen-
erals the 71-70 win. Earlier Miller had
nailed two free throws to give W&L a
69-68 lead. The Generalsjumped out
to an early lead over the Marlins, but
trailed 35-30 at halﬁime.

Miller topped the Generals’ scor-
ing column with 20 points, nine of
which came from the free-throw line.
Mentz was again a huge contributor
with her 16 points, and Burghardt
added 15 points and nine boards.

Nancy Mattox led the Marlins in

scoring. Fifteen of her 17 points came

in her huge second half.

The Generals (8-9, 7-6 ODAC)’

will host Randolph-Macon
Women’s College at 7 p.m. on Tues-
day at the Warner Center. In De-
cember, RMWC defeated the Gen-
erals 86-79. Burghardt said that loss
came from a “rough game with a lot
of fouls.” The Generals _had two
players foul out, while RMWC lost
three. A total of 56 fouls were
called. But she said that with the
freshmen stepping up as they are
now, “we’ll make up for losing that
one.”

 

“;;i?§6"c“;.;¢iit’t

 

   

AJI-

orwlcss Than La it Year’)

 

I
1.

tutu. \..

35
E3
2‘
:5
§

    

.//’~:‘<2‘=e’'»i!Y9vﬁ'errj?.v‘C.=§7bi’7}m§§3§ ‘  '0

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

<12
2.9 e v
. o~ - ' t ;
S-4
o .
PAGE 6 FEBRUARY 1, 1999 v ,
0 O 0 0 0
“The Thlll R€d LlIl€° 9’ lll‘€ aI'tlStl ret Iltl0Il
- C C »
By Kevin ]\/Ic1\/[anemin The acting l5 W0ndernil- Nick Nolte . Throughout the ﬁlm we are sub— as the ﬁlm constantly reminds us. Oh, The movie starts with a whimper much is because it really let me down.
Lr_ COLONEL CH,4RuE C0Mp,iNy turns ln the best Performance Of hiS iected to a patently ridiculous narra- and love conquers all, if we learn any- and ends with awhimper—~there ma It had such rear otential! lt’s one
, _ Y 8 P
Career 35 C_°l0nel Tell. the hardened tiVe SP0l<en by an aeter trying to sound thing from one of the soldier’s frequent be some great bangs in the middle but thing to watch a bad movie that never Pg:
career soldier who will win the battle very deep and serious in a Southern ﬂashbacks to his wife. But then she they’re not enough to save the ﬁlm. had any ambition to be good —— like ‘ ‘
at any cost. Sean Penn, Woody accent. I cannot put into words how dumps him. Love sucks? War sucks? The movie drags on for what seems “Lethal Weapon IV”——but it’s another
Harrelson anddohn Cusack are all laughable this is. lt’s utterly distract- Love is war? War is hell? Or is the like hours before we get into the battle, thing to see potential so utterly and
Wonderful as his subordinates. mg, and it’s as ifthe director is so un- theme that man has lost his innate and drags on for what seems like four completely thrown away. ,
Hell,eVen.the cinematography was sure that the story and images will goodness, as the narrator tells us? months from the battle to the end. This movie is like thetime Michael l‘
(Do NOT, UNDER ANy ‘I R- excellent. This was a visually stunning convey the thematic points that he has The ﬁlm is a philosophic muddle, and Combine all ingredients in a large Jordan joined minor league baseball.
(uMs1'AN¢Es 5E E 1'|-| |s tllin, Perhaps 8 bit CiVerbl0Wn at times to Just come right out and tell us. this isn’t helped by: reel. Bake at 450°. Chill before serv- lt’s awaste oftalent, awaste ofpoten-
MOVIE. All. COPIES OF THIS but hohelheless llnlf°”nlY gorgeous which bring US t0I The worst pacing in the history of ing. tial and awaste of the audience’s time.
|=| |_M 5|-| ou L]; 3 E D E- 30 What Went Wrong? 0r, t0 Steal ‘c1 A liberal sprinkling of themes cinema The reason 1 hate this movie so Don’twaste your time on this ﬁlm. ’
51-ROYED AND EVE RYONE quote from the ﬁlrn: . . You’d think that a ﬁlm that focuses '
|Nvo|_vED |N TH E PRODU¢- “This great eV|l, Where did it Come on thematic development over plot de-
-"ON MUST BE ExE¢u-I-ED from? How did it steal into the world? velopment would at least have the A l   E  L U S I E '
AND THEIR SEED w|pED How did we lose the good that was common f"‘**ing decency to pick a I
|:RoM 1-H E E A311] 50 11..|A1- given us?” theme and stick with it. i.
M A N I“ N D W. L L N EVE R Recipe for artistic pretention: “Nature is cruel,” Colonel Tall tells o o 0 . o
AGAIN HAVE To 5ul:|:ER lcup artsy, reclusive director one ofhis men. Great. With all the im-        
1-H is a NEMA1-|¢ MON- Director Terrence Malick has not ages of the wild wildlife on the islands, , _
smos-m directedanvomgthwmcaiiv tharwouidmakeawonderfuitheme. who didn’t watch the Super Bowl last night
beloved “Days of Heaven” in But wait. Nature is also beautiful, V
“ HI‘ I m a guy‘ I hhefvar memes‘ _l978‘ The pmhlelh ls that Mahck His name is Ervin Teasdale. He is a 48-year-oldEar, Ervin: Well, maybe I should have gone to Chuck’s

Apocalypse Now’ huh Mehh lsavery talented dllecmh and he Nose and Throat Specialist with his own practice in [fellow Ear, Nose and Throat specialist Dr. Charles
éahhett’ R Ghlry’ hhlatooh’ Sal/mg wahts lh lhahe sure the alldlehce Spokane, Washington. Sunday night, while millions of Harrison] Super Bowl party. They were getting pizZa——

“Va e yah ah es? repressht some khows ll‘ Thls ls why he used: American men crowded around oversized television that way I wouldn’thave had to make dinner. Of course «ll
o.f the ghﬁﬁtest mils m the hlston/,0f _ A 2l3'page scrlpt and 3 lhll‘ screens to hoot and holler for their team of choice in they probably would have gotten it from Italian Village
einenia- ere are eW genres in Which lion feet of ﬁlm ' the Super Bowl, Ervin watched something else. This is and they make it so damn greasy there.
phwerfhl hhlhah dhalha ahd blg expl°' N0» l dldnlt rnlsplaee 3 deel‘ his incredible story. LW: Who would you like to see perform atnext year’s
slohs °°mhlhe_ qhhe so well as they ln3lP0lnt- Mallek Shdtrnere than Last Word: Ervin,why didn’t you watch halftime show?
do lh War mhwes‘ _ 3 lhlllloh feet °f hlm t° Pleee t0‘ the Superbowl? Ervin: John Denver. l‘

Th? Thlh Red Llhe’ Terrehch gethel "ho lhls lhovles several Ervin: Well, footballjust doesn’tinter— LW: He’s dead.
Mahhk S eplc hhh about the wwh lllheslhs amohhl homlally used‘ est me. A bunch of steroid-pumped goons Ervin: John Denver’sdead?
Ejlhllei ffiahcahal’ hoped to hhh _ Whh ah eplc story lhls °Xpah' running from one end of a ﬁeld to another LW: Yup. Plane crash.
15 ls h 1h hmgghah S whgmovles slvet the mhvle becomes 3 °““' trying to knock each other down —— what’s Ervin: Wow. Just like the Big Bopper. ,
—_ movleh gvh a hhh’1\‘;h ,a Gin‘ Ohs °°hlladl_°h°h_th_e twh holll so interesting about that? LW: Uh-huh.
Smohs’ wh ka Tessage‘, ovhlesl t at ahd hhy lhlhlhe lhhhlhg “me ls LW: So what did you watch instead? Ervin: Country roads, take me home. . .
‘llethle W°l 5° “"’”°‘_J“5” 3 ates‘ both tattoo long and not nearly Ervin: An old episode of “Saturday LW: To the placelbelong. .. .
packaged Hollywood drivel. long enough Night Live» on Comedy Cemml_ Ervin: West V,-rgl~m-a_ ‘ . .;
Mahck had _5°°‘l hhehh°hS' lhlfor‘ Characters ale lhhodlhfed and LW: How was it? LW: Mountain Mama. . . V '
turziatelyillie failed miserably with the never developed. Plot points are Ervin: OK, I gueSS_ Chevy Chase was Dr. Teasdale, Ervin and LW: Country wads, take me
en resu . 1 _ _ _ _ _ , - »
That bein Said there were man 8 0Seed 0Ver NOW: 0n t0P Ofthnta A young soldier cues out In pm“ the host. I ve never been a big fan of his. the man Wh0 home. I
ma“ reatthgin sa’b tth. fl Thy add‘ ' _ like an audience member who LW: So you missed all those delightful missed the Ervin: That one’s for you, John. 
‘YE 8 0n 15 iin- e  tablespoons ridiculous _uSt realized h d $6 75 t supergowl commercials? Super Bowl, LW: Lovely. Any othercommentsforthe 
achoh scenes are as good as ahy ever Phll050Phl° narrntwe l_ ,6 paye ° 0 Ervin: It’s not like they won’t be show- rest of the Super Bowl-watching male spe-
hhhed' Sn through thls crap‘ ing them every day for the next two months. cies? I
Those cute Budweiser frogs and that Taco Bell Chihua- Ervin: If you ever have any ear, nose or throat prob- I
’ hua aren’t so cute after the 954th time. lems, don’t be afraid to come talk to a professional. I;
T e    LW: Do you have any regrets about missing the Su- LW: Thank you for yourtirne, Sir- , I
per Bowl? Ervin: Thank you for having me. f
Sizereoigpe Forum J.
V ‘| ‘ ‘ ‘I 1 r 1 r 1
ISSUE: IM l’IsA(,IlMI'.N I I RIAL - ~ 
H k i
h’ b°t h ° '
im 1 C 1S sooooooo mutinous '1'
problems emb rr ' '
a assmg swine Gram,
enrollment at the )
University of Florida is
projected to increase more than
20 percent in the next five years.This i
growth offers talented students an
unprecedented opportunity to
continue their education at one of V
America's finest public universities. E»
Come see what makes the University
of Florida so special.
9 Many nationally competitive funding ’
By Lucky D B; Mary Elizabeth Priddy By Captain Brownbeard °PP°rtUnltle5 tor t°P Student-5
stereotypical street pimp mereotypical sorority girl stereotypical pirate 9 More than $l00 million in new research
facilities
iii‘). C0“ hob 1' on t'='=3 153'i’= ‘=”=’~‘~5-'7 937 -'3:~' God. Did you see that dress Dar. This be quite a a predicatment, A - ll ‘ d f ’
:r.rr.-;- tonight? No? All right.  - .\ior.::a Lewinsky was wearing on the says 1. Captain Clinton be sailing in . _ hatloha Y recogmze, Program, or
low‘. me to pontificate on the i”~.su':7~. of news the other day? It was so hid- dark waters. Avast! Thar be a mutiny lhtegratlhg computers lnto teachmg and
the day. sods. itrnade licrhips look enormous, afoot! Clinton’s crew be mutinous research
A may i sees it‘, all this talk about and let 5 face it, Monica has a big swine. . O A geographically and culturally diverse
lmpcachm and Senate trials and per- , xteigm problem. Monica needs to A captain has to keep the scurvy student bod of more than 40 000 ‘l
iur; and what not all really be about take her daddy‘s credit card and buy sea dogs on his ship in line. lfthey be Y ’
one thing A—— Clinton can't control his a new wardrobe. grumbling about not ettin enou h 9 More than 70 doctoral de ree ro rams
_ _ _ _ . g . 8 8 3 8 P 3
bitches. Linda Tripp is atotal bitch. I would plunder and be talking about mutiny, and more than l00 master's degree
Sheecet, blood, aman gots to know totally hate her ifshe were one ofmy then punish them, says I! lfthat muti— programs in 20 colleges and schools ,‘
how to talk to his bitches. friends and taped my conversations nous swine Ken Starr was on my ship, _ _ , '
Like this ho Monica, you gotta talk like that. What a backstabber! She’s The Hispaniola, l’d keelhaul his yel- , . lnnovatlve degree °PP°l'tl-lhltlesi
sweet to .\/lonica. Clinton, he gotta say like my ex-best friend Kaitlin, who low hide before my parrot Polly could including interdisciplinary, joint-degree
“baby, baby, you know i loves youf went behind my back andtold Mary say “pieces-of—eight.” ai’iCl‘COml3lI'ied bachelor's/master's
You know you and I is in it together? Susan that I have a major crush on Thar be only one way to keep or— programs )1
You know how hard I works for you. Brian, and .‘\/lary Susan totally flipped der in the Senate, and that be with the . .
Be cool, baby. l)on’ttcstify." Then he because she was dating Brian and cat-o-ninetails! Afew lashes willkeep . A great. locatlon In affordable . .
give her some lovin’ and she’ll do now she hates me and it’s all Kaitlin’s those mutinous dogs at bay, Galheshllle — ohe °t Monet’ lhagazlhe s
whatever he says, straight up. fault. l’m never going to tell her any- Clinton will ﬁnd himselfon the gal- ‘ most hvable Cities” T" offers ldeal Year" .
Bitch likcllillary,though,only thing thing again. Oh, and the other day on lows if he doesn’t do away with this mund Weather. With an average A
she understand is a slap in her ugly campus Kaitlin came up to me and feisty bar wench Lewinsky. Walk the temperature of 70 degrees and
face. “Shut ‘cho mouth, ho,” is all she was all “oh hi Mary Elizabeth!” plank! Belay herto Davy Jones’ locker! moderate seasons
Clinton gots to say to her. and she acted all buddy buddy, like Yar!Yar! Yar!
And ifthis cat Ken Starr be mackin’ nothing ever happened. What a slut! A thousand doubloons for the head ii
on Clinton’s bitches, only thing to do ln conclusion, I think that this ofLinda Tripp! A barrell ofrum to the  
is pull out a switchblade and slit his whole impeachment thing is, like, a sailor who cuts Ken Starr’stongue out g1-adfel[oW_uﬂ_edu/wl
white ass up. mega—embarrassment forthe country, of his throat! That be the way to deal .
Sometimes a man gotta be a man. and a total fashion tragedy. That robe with impeachment.
Now, how about it, slick‘? $20 to’ a Rehnquist wears # is there anything D’yar, keelhaul the mutinous swine, V
blow, $l0() fo’ mo’. My hocs’l| rock more frumpy? Let’sendthis madness, says ll Brownbeard the pirate says
yo’ world. at least before skit night. Cookies? Keelhaul them all! D’yar yar yar.
R

 

    
   
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  

 

  U112 ﬂing-tumlﬂhi

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNivERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

VOLUME 101, NO. 15

l\/ISA throws
«Cabaret party

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450 MONDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1999

By Erica Prosser
F1-IA TURES EDITOR

This past weekend, the Minority
Student Association celebrated 30
years of black student representation
by throwing a Jazz Cabaret and party
to rival Fancy Dress itself.

“I had a great time,” senior Nadiyah
Howard said about the event. “It was
lots of fun.”

The cabaret and DJ party held Sat-
urday night were part of the weekend
festivities designed to highlight the
contributions made by blacks and
other minorities at Washington and
Lee over the past three decades. This
was the first weekend of this type, and
it gave students and alumni a chance
to meet, network, mingle and talk about
school and jobs.

“We’re trying to establish a rela-
tionship between the undergraduate
students and the alumni,” senior and

_ MSA president Brian Jamison said.

The Black History Jazz Cabaret, a
semi-formal, invitation-only event
hosted in the Hampton Inn Col Alto
Ballroom, brought student leaders,
faculty and alumni together to enjoy
the music and celebrate the heritage.
The MSA sent invitations to various
student leaders, faculty departme t

heads, administrators, food service
and bookstore staff and alumni, and
members also gave out invitations to
other students they thought would
enjoy the festivities. The Bernard
Harrison Jazz Ensemble performed
with smooth jazz tunes from 7:30 p.m.
to 11 p.m.

“We had a great tumout,” said se-
nior Shanntonette Wade of the suc-
cessful event. “Dean Howison was
there, Dean McCloud  a lot of people
came.”

The weekend fun did not stop with
the cabaret, though. At 11 p.m., right
after the Jazz Cabaret, the MSA
hosted the 01’ School Party, a DJ party
at the Pavilion that was open to the
entire student body. Students partied
until 3 a.m.

“Several different colleges were
represented at the party,” Wade said.

The weekend turned out to be a
great success, thanks to the efforts of
the MSA.

Though future events of this type
will probably not be this large, plans
are in the works for more festivities
nextyear.

“The plan is for us to do something
like this every year,” Wade said,
“something for the students and
alumni and faculty to get together ”

0i0 COGS)’ ha

Senior Travis Mells and sophomore Shari Henderson chat at
the Minority Student Association Cabaret on Saturday night.

On Friday afternoon, Habitat
For Humanity broke ground on
Project Horizon’s battered
women’s shelter, which will be lo-
cated on Vamer Street. Construc-
tion will be completed during the
weekends of March 13-14 and 20-

21 with the help of Lexington residents
and students from W&L and VMI.
Habitat For Humanity is still look-
ing for more volunteers to get involved
with the project. “We need people who
are willing to come out and actually
stay and put the skills we’ve taught

Habitat for Humanity breaks
ground on Horizon safe house

them to use,” sophomore and Habitat
Secretary Tim Koss said.

“It’s going to be a really worthwhile
project,” Koss said. “We believe that
people will come away with a feeling
of enrichment.”

For those interested in volunteer-

oo b Elly Bames/PhotoEditor

ing to help with the project, a train-
ing session will be held on March
13 and 14. Contact acting Habitat
President senior Josh Beckham at
x4254 for more information.

“I think this is really going to be
a lot of fun,” Koss said.

W&L goes postal with 20¢ card

By Polly Doig

NEWS EDITOR

Ever wonder just what a philatelist
is?

Not even a little bit?

As Washington and Lee University
celebrates the first day of issue of its
very own postcard this Thursday, Lex-
ington will no doubt be full of philat-
elists -— also known as postage stamp
collectors.

The 20-cent postcard is part of the
United States Postal Service’s Historic
Preservation series, and features a full-
color image of the Colonnade taken
by university photographer Patrick
Hinely.

“What will be of interest to collec-
tors is the opportunity to receive a
first day of issue program and the
hand-canceled stamped card,” Neil-
Penick, director of W&L’s 250"‘ Ob-
servance, said. “This is really a spe-
cial event for the University.”

A ceremony will be held at 2 p.m.
Thursday in Lee Chapel, where post-
cards will be hand-canceled for attend-
ees —— which has the possibility of
increasing the value of the postcards.

“February 1 1th is the only day the _
postcards will be hand-canceled, pro-
ducing several variations which is
what collectors are going after,” W&L
communications writer Louise
Uffelman said. “If there’s an error, par-

ticularly on just some of them, [the
postcards] will be worth some money
in the future.” ‘

According to Uffelman, postcards
will be made available after the cer-
emony ‘to students who would like
them.

The remaining cards, which will be
distributed though Virginia post of-
ﬁces, will be canceled by machine. The
W&L postcard will be a regional is-
sue limited to a press run of six mil-
lion.

The Colonnade appeared previ-
ously on a three-cent stamp in 1949,
which commemorated the University’s

' bicentennial. This was the first time

that a university was featured by the

Postal Service on a stamp.

According to Uffelman, the pro-
cess of being granted the postcard
began three years ago, with the plan-
ning of the bicenquinquagenary, and
was helped along by such alumni as
Sen. John Warner ’49, Rep. Bob
Goodlatte, and John Nolan ’70, a former
Postmaster of New York City.

Larry Creamer, Postmaster of Lex-
ington, will preside over the ceremony
that includes the Virginia Military In-
stitute color guard, and remarks by
someone who never could tell a lie —
George Washington. Old George, as
well as members of the presiding party,
will also be available to autograph the
postcards following the ceremony.

00 C011 CS)’ ml _V Ollil UC

D-hall observe Groundhog
Day with ‘Road Kill’ theme

(above) University Dining Services sponsored a theme
dinner last Tuesday entitled “Road Kill Buffet” in honor of
Groundhog Day. Entrees included a rabbit dish called
“Thumper a la Bumper,” an ostrich dish called “Broiled
Ostrich” and a chicken dish called “Road Kill Rooster.”
According to Evans Dining Hall Coordinator of
Departmental Marketing Emily Donahue, “It was great.
Students had fun; I had fun. The second annual Road Kill
Buffet was quite»successful.”

Sophomore Leadership
Council honors co-op staff

(below) The Sophomore Leadership Council sponsored
Staff Appreciation Day for co-op employees on Jan. 27.
Under the cover of the night, SLC members, with the help
of W&L Security, sneaked into the co-op building, and left
each member of the co-op staff an African violet and one
big ‘Thank You’ card. The card thanked the co-op staff for
being so good to students. “We were all very touched by
their thoughtfulness,” Assistant Manager Judy Sensabaugh

said.

OPINION:

diversity article

W&LIEE:

SPORTS:

LAST WORD:

@112 ﬂting-tum Iﬂhi

February 8, 1999 4

Letter to the editor questions Honor System,
survival tips for Mardi Gras, students comment on

Dancing at W&L (Can you swing it?), student
meets her fiance’ online

Men’s basketball loses in overtime

Valentine’s Day cards for any kind of sweetheart

PAGE 3

0

PAGE 4

PAGE 5

PAGE 6

 

 

er  

,f"(:i  1' 1...‘/8’
7) FY .. £1/“
 5 J
9. ,: » I
 ‘'‘-r K‘: .5-5 ‘
.s”l~7‘"?
!Ii 1 r

 

4?"

GENERAL NOTES

E-mail General Notes to phi@wlu.edu

NYSE President

returns to campus

William R. Johnston '61, president
and chief operating ofﬁcer of the New
York Stock Exchange, will speak in Lee
Chapel on Thursday, Feb. 1 1 at 7:30

250"‘ Bulletin: Women’s

Sports Come to W&L

Women arriving in the fall of 1985
grabbed their first intercollegiate vic-
tory just three weeks after arriving on
campus, when the cross-country team
outran West Virginia State.

The new undergrads also set their
sights at starting a soccer team. When
told by people they would need at third
of their class to comprise a team, they
did just that.

Women’s swimming began that
ﬁrst year with just three swimmers, but

P I @112 Iﬁittg-tum lﬂlii

amazingly sent one to the NCAA Div,
III Championships. Tennis, women’s

5 lacrosse, volleyball and basketball
each went on to be leaders in the
ODAC conference and their success
continues today.

Theater department
presents ‘Nightingale’

The ﬁnal performances of “The Ec-
centricities of A Nightingale” will be
tonight, tomorrow and Wednesday at
8 p.m. in the Lenfest Center's Johnson
Theater.

p.m. Johnston’s lecture is titled “W&L

and the NYSE: Marketplaces of Infor-
mation and Ideas.”

He is a member of the board of trust-
ees of Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, from which he graduated in 1961
with a B.S. in Commerce.

This lecture is sponsored by the
Contact Committee.‘

I-Club takes students

on an ‘Evening Abroad’
The International Club will present

its annual Evening Abroad on Thurs-

day, Feb. 25 at 8 p.m. in the GHQ.

 

A
war. -:,(;0,.x
Valentine /Q

Personals

I saw you at the Palms. Can I buy you
a drink? You’ll know me by my smile.

Scotty, I love you bunches! Have a J
great Valentine’s Day, Honey!
AMLA, Erica ‘ 4

My Dearest PP Baby, Happy
Valentine’s Day! Thank you for mzrk- ‘
ing me so happy... you mean the world
to me. I love you times inﬁnity! Q
Yours Forever, POOP DAWG

You’re in a frat and my history class. I
like your khakis (and you!), Need an
FD date? Give me a call.

 
 

Great Hall
of the Science Center
11 amuntil ,3 pm, ,

Danica, my buttercup,

My love for you is unconditional.
Happy Valentine’s Day!

Your hummingbird, Rob

Blond boy wearing jeans: You caught
my eye in the computer lab and
“loaded” happiness into. r_ny'heart.

FRANKS PIZZA

Delivery Special
463-7 5 7 5

Hot and Cold Subs — Salads — Dinners — Calzones

 

30 Minute Delivery
10 Minute Pick-Up
Please Mention This Flyer When Calling In An Order

FEBRUARY 8, 1999 ,. E

_ Tliére’s'a whole world
out there. ’
Explore it with Contiki

. ,..'<l.‘_.,.;. (kids. Great atlviite.

— ‘M<¢.rs.°r‘=: ~ 
London $l24
Madrid $|96
Vienna $238
Paris $200

Fare: m lrom wuinnpon DC.nch wry based
on 1 RT purtluxe. Fares do not Include uni.
which an roul between S) and $lO.Int'I Student
ID mt] be mqurredfaru are valid lor departure;
in Mirth and are rub er (0 change.Reirrv<uoni
apply. Call Tor our low manic um and lire: to

 

“HOME OFTHE watuois topic. A _
ma: DRAFT BEERAILWEEK LONG-CALI. roniinroi .
, V1"84"OO",'4lV-l8i8"8828 . . I I
wvvvv.sandpiperbeacon._corn (frates per person) s V, I p
17403 FRONT B'EAC|:lmR(_3hAD_- PA’[\l_A'/v\A _ClTY BEAcbi-i_,_F‘tv_32__-113‘

  

24 S. Jefferson Street
Lexington, VA 24450
Between The Palms

& Domino"s Pizza

WE FIND IT FOR
BELOW LIST PRICE

“The biggest small guy in town who
~ 6 Cali get you any music you want

izsr i<£c'”i>AI%‘Tir"'i=‘ '5.

464-4050

Academic couple seeks:

ﬂllll THE BEST THEN Bllll THE BEST!

. «sin! USA SPRING BREAK

   EGG DONOR

BAHAMAS .
PANAMA our »

ﬂllll EIIII IITIII BEST PIIIITE liIIllllAl|'I'EEl = I

JOIN US FOR THE Wl_LDEST
PARTi,Es.onr_ THE P|.Al‘lET!

EAT 8. Tllllllll Ellll EIIEE!"

for clinic in VA/NC region: Cau-
casian woman, 21-30, nonsmoker,
college degree or higher, solid
SAT scores, at least 5’8”, lean/
athletic build, dark complexion]
hair, even-featured face, excellent
health/teeth/skin/eyesight. Right
candidate will be well-compen-=
sated and asked to provide pho-

      

  
    

  

ALL TRIPS |NCLUDE:

* OTEL -
$833312}: ?§'f\NsFERs.. Z,(§'fLHTT,fXHE5 tos. Please send letter along with
§'l’,‘,'jf,,,‘:,f,?,':’,lc,"C“k‘,,‘,_3,§, W HZ’;,,P,‘§,?;:,§ﬁ:_°KAGE ! background, education, and mo-

V tivation. for doin this to: POB
. 1-883-777-4642 E

425545, Cambridge, MA 02142.

www.usaspringbreak.coni .
I I All serious replies answered.

 

   

 ¢

PEITBIITS’ TSTEITTEE

llewlil llenniiated

Free HBO Willi Remote

E No sinuﬁiirg Resins

Free conrineniaireairiasr

 

w ,_
LEXINGTON. VA _4~"w":a0

 ~ FEB 09

 
   
 

 
    

other world wide den-nations.
Don‘: iorget (0 order your Eunrlpau!

5 . I *

Travel

CIEE: Council on International
Ediicntioniil Exchange

l-800-2Council *

‘Ix:

Ope-ii 10 a.m. - 9 p.m.
l\/ionday - Friday i»
ll a.m. -- 5 p.m.

Saturday

,9;

csumzzzer
{DII2[)[:(,’.Kl’!(ZIIf Qnpor/ut112’1'es.7

I
Surniner.lotis at Washington and Lee University

Counselors for Summer Sctroiars

June 30-July 31, I999

Summer Scholars is a four-week academic program
for 150 rising !‘~igl‘r school seniors. Counselors serve ,
as resident advisors for 10 students in Graham—Lees
dormitory and plan evening and weekend activities.
Applicatidii deadline is Feb. 24. 1999.

Special Programs Resident Assistants

June 15-Aug. 3, 1999

The Office of Special Programs employs 5 W&L
students to serve as Resident Assistants for a wide
variety of Special Programs including Alumni Colleges,
Elderhostel, and adult conferences. Duties include
housekeeping, attending all meals with guests, bar
receptions, and shuttle driving. An outgoing person-
ality is a must. Application deadline is March 3 l, 1999.

For more infomiatiorr, please contact the Office wt‘
Special M ognams. Howard House, 463-9723.

  
 
 
  
  
   
   
  
       
         
    
    
        
   
     

. 2'4-
’ ,,t t.

    €Ll3

‘ ‘ 7:‘!
'ewefry A

 

FEBRUARY 8, 1999

O oN

PAGE 3

Student enraged with honor system injustice

To the Editor.

This weekend, the Executive Corn-
mittee found a student guilty of an
honor violation I never knew was a
crime. And I would place a bet that

‘most of you reading this never thought

it was “wrong” either. In fact, I know
many of us have done just what this
student was fotmd guilty of doing —-
“stealing” from the dining hall.

The basics ofthe case are all you
needtokrrowtoexarnineyourowncul-
pability. The student used another
student’s card to swipe and eat off the
ﬁeshmanmealplan. Theﬁeshrnan vol-
untarily gave the other student their
card because the freshman was not
eatingthere forthatmeal, and sothe
meal, theoretically, was going to waste.
In another instance, the “guilty” stu-
dent shared food off a student’s plate
—— clariﬁed, one student ate their meal,
and the other ate the leftovers that were
going to be thrown away.

How many of us out there are
“guilty” of this too? When I thought
aboutallthetirnesIguessIhavevio-
lated the Honor Code (as the EC deter-

mined how it apples to the dining hall),
itmademereali2ethatthis“guilty” stu-
dentwasthe scapegoat, caught inaweb
of mistmderstanding and common prac-
tice.

Whataboutall the times I forgot my
card and the swiper let me go through
the line without writing down my name
or number?

What about the times when the
swipe machine was unattended and I
either didn’t have my card or for some
reason, the machine said I didn’t have
any meals left when I thought I did? I
went ahead and got my food and never
gave it a second thought. My meals are
paidforalreadysolﬁguredthed-hallis
getting its money anyway.

What aboutthe time when I brought
my parents with me for breakfast and I
got them cups of coffee, some fruit and
my mom shared my bagel? Three of us
ate off my one meal swipe.

What about the time my best friend
ﬁom home was visiting and I wantedto
show her the d-hall? I swiped twice,
and I thought that deducted ﬁom my
meal plan and that she was paid for.

What about all the times I got extra
frozen yogtut or juice or Gatorade or
fruit or cereal or bagels and took them
back to the dorms to eat later?

What about the times my friends
have been sick with the ﬂu or too
hungover to make it to brunch, so I got
breakfast for them and took it back?

What about the time I had metings
in the University Center and during the
breakslgrabbedadr1'nk(inoneofthose
plastic d-hall cups)? I took it out of the
d-hall without swiping because it was
between meals, and all I really wanted
was a 

How many of us have done these
same things? How many of us are now
considered “guilty” of an honor viola-
tion? I would guess the majority of us
who take classes on the hill, or gradu-
ate with a Washington and Lee diploma,
have done some “offense” against the
d-hall, without knowing it

It’s a shame that this student was
the sacriﬁcial lamb for us all. His case
was a test, pushing the Honor System
into the realm of Sunday brunch and
Tuesday night dinner. We have all paid

ourduestothe dining hall. Otuparents
hadno choicebuttobuy intothatfull
ﬁeshman meal plan, and because of that,
I felt entitled to do the things I have
done. I never thought of those actions
as dishonorable or stealing because
hundreds of d-hall meals have gone
wasted in my years here.

There’s nothing to be done, no way
to protest this injustice. The EC has
delivered their verdict, and the dining
hall has our meal plan money whehter
we choose ot eat there again or not. I
just felt I should warn you, because
almost all of us have committed these
“crimes.”

Anonymous.

P.S. I submitthis letterto the Editor
anonymously because in our Honor
System, I feel like there is no guarantee
against incriminating yourself. That
goes against our constitutional rights
ascitizensoftheUnited States,andfur-
thermore, it prevents us ﬁom speaking
out against the Executive Committee
and the Honor System. Something is
obviously wrong with this tradition.

In the Shadow of the Chapel

by Erica Prosser

 

W&L conversation hearts

GEORGE INvrrr-:s You To
1 THE FrRsr DAY or Issur: 01-‘
THE U.S.P.S.
PosrcARn CEREMONY
HoNoRrNc THE
2501}: ANNIVERSARY
or WASHINGTON AND LEE
THURSDAY, FEB. 11, 2 P.M.
LEE CHAPEL

HoNoRr-:n GuEsr
GEORGE WASHINGTON

IN! I999

@112 ‘ﬁling-mm iﬂhi

Executive Editors Tarah Grant
Hollister llovey
News Editors Polly Doig
* John Stewart

W&Liﬁ: Editors Giger Phillips

- Erica Prosser

Stephanie Bianeo
Stephen Pesee
Frances Groherg
Kevin Mewlanenrin
Sarah Meldrarn
Meredith Mlynar
Emily Barnes

Opinions Editors

Sports Editor
1 Last Word Editor
Copy Editor:

Photo Editor

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
h undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editors, but The Ring-tum Phi is
)1 otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
‘ tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters, columns and “Talkback” do not
reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
I court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
j Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060

Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049

Fax: (540) 462-4059

E-mail: phi@wIu.edu

http://wlu. edu/-phi

Annual subsription rate: 330

 

Survival tips for New Orleans Mardi Gras

This year we get to

thank the parents of
Washington and Lin-
coln for providing the
rest of the cotmtry with
a holiday that corresponds with the fantastic carnival sea-
son. For anyone headed down to New Orleans this weekend,
the following tips and reminders might prove helpﬁrl in maxi-
mizing the incredible adventure you are about to take.
—First of all, you’ve seen bare breasts, right? So don’t
spend all your time on Bourbon Street. Deﬁnitely don’t
miss the city’s most notoriously naughty thoroughfare.
Go to Pat O’Brien’s. Have a few Hurricanes. Hell, you can
even buy a few $1 shots from that sketchy guy on the
comer. You won’t be able to ﬁnd a bathroom, so ﬁnd a side
street, make sure no cops are around and let it all go.
——W&L students are all familiar with the term “pre—party.”
Be prepared to do lots of it. Remember that wherever you
are trying to go, and whatever you are trying to see, mil-
lions of other tourists are looking to go to the same places
and see the same things. So get there EARLY with lots of
Dixie and stay LATE with even more.

—The ATM machines at Fidelity banks don’t charge a
service fee for Crestar ATM cards. Stay away ﬁ'om Whitney
— $2.50! I’m not familiar with First Union’s cards, sorry.
—Looking for lunch? Have a fried seafood po-boy at
Mother’s Restaurant on the comer of Poydras and
Tchoupitoulas.

——Since you probably haven’t seen enough images of
General Lee, take a streetcar ride from Lee Circle (St. Charles
and Howard Ave). Travel all the way to Carrollton Ave.,
enjoying the beautiful uptown architecture all the way down
St. Charles. Finish off at Madigan’s and have a few drinks
with some 12-year-olds.

—Get a daquiri at any one of the drive-thru daquiri places.
—Do not buy Mardi Gras beads.

  
 

Off His ROCk€I'
3 Stephen Pesoe ’O1

-—Stroll through Lake Lawn Metairie Cemetery, original
resting place of Jefferson Davis (removed by his wife Varina
upon the burial of P.G.T. Beauregard because the two
couples didn’t get along all that well).

—The cops are busy, stressed, over-worked and under-
paid. Be nice to them. Do what they say without asking
questions.

—Beware of wrong truns. Bad neighborhoods seem to
appear out of nowhere.

——Brennan’s, Antione’s, Galitoire’s, Commander’s —— eat
at one of these places and bring your Visa card because . .
. well, you know.

—Remember that you got your shoes on your feet.

—A good place to settle down for the evening is Fat Harry’s
at 4330 St. Charles Ave. just oﬁ‘Napolean Ave., next store
to Copeland’s restaurant (a great place for a meal).

——It’s late, or early, depending on how you look at it. You
need something in your stomach. Stop at Cafe du Monde
(Decatur and St. Ann) for an order of beignets / ben yays
/, a cup of coffee and a 15-cent paper hat.

—Watch out for the pot holes.

—Bu_ild up an appetite and go to The Central Grocery for a
whole Muﬁelatta.

—See the Village People and Kool and the Gang Saturday
night in the Krewe of Endymion celebrating eternal youth
and 300 years of Mardi Gras. Check out the largest ﬂoat in
Mardi Gras history, Captain Eddie’s S.S. Endymion, an 80-
yard long superﬂoat carrying more than 200 riders, a
$100,000 Bose sound system and more than a million feet
of ﬁberoptic lighting.

—Next Sunday don’t miss Bacchus, Jim Belushi and his
reign as the god of wine as he and his krewe celebrate
Jules Verne with a four-mile stroll through the city.
—Monday night, see Orpheus’s hope ﬂoats canying Harry
Connick, Jr., and Sandra Bullock as the krewe of music and
merriment celebrates Opening Night at the French Opera

House.
—Adrnire the beautiful Fambeaux carriers by throwing
quarters.

—Find your spot along St. Charles early on Tuesday mom- '

ing. Make friends with any of a number of the groups of
overweight, classy young gentlemen with a keg in the back
of mom’s old station wagon and a homemade portable toi-
let (the two go together like red beans and rice).
-24-hour Trolley Stop Café! Belgian waffles, omlettes,
steak and eggs, Southern gravy! You are in for a true late
night treat.

—Go see the Zulu king and queen, but don’t try to ﬁnd
them down on St Claude and Dumaine.

—Keep an ear out for the incredible St. Augustine march-
ing band. WOW!

—Order jarnbalya with a meal and understand why your
friends from Louisiana refuse to eat the D-Hall’s rendition
of the plate.

—As for parking: Good Luck! Let me know if you come up
with a solution. Your best bet is to park at a friend’s house
and walk, which reminds me — always wear comfortable
shoes, which you got on your feet.

—If anyone tells you not to do anything stupid, ignore
them. Have fun, and enjoy yourself.

  uote of the week

"ﬁn-re

(I
I like little boys with no hair.

— Anonymous sophomore girl
looking for a Valentine

1}

wzrv

 

 

W K E ramgaum an .
 FEBRUARY 8, 1999 ’

Dancing brings culture,pleasure to W&L 

i .

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

E,W&L students
‘,than ever find ‘

Classes ranging from swing and shag to ballet and Spanish dancing have taken the W&L campus by storm

W-»TBy Elianna Marziani
S'm1:'F WRITER

; There’s a whole lot ofdancing going on at Washington
and Lee University. There has always been dancing at the
Friday and Saturday night band and DJ parties at frater-
nity houses, but dancing at W&L has expanded recently
to include everything from big band dancing such as swing
and shag to ethnic Spanish dancing to more conservative
fomrs of dance such as ballet.

.» The University has sponsored several types of dance classes
and dance instructor Frank Roupas has come in from the outside
world to lead W&L students in swing, fox trot, waltz, cha-cha,
samba, mambo, tango, merengue and ballroom dancing. Span-
ish language assistant Yolanda Charlan is teaching classes in the
traditional flamenco style and W&L Dance offers classes in ev-
erything from ballet andjazz to tap and funk.

Why is dance suddenly so popular? Owen Barker, direc-
tor of student activities, explained that the emergence of
dance fonns such as swing at W&L is not surprising.

“The explosion ofswing dance is something
that is happening all
over the country,”

Barker said.
“Music is very cy-
clical," he said. “The resur-
gence ofthe big band era is natu-
rally leading to a revival in the
type of dance that went along with
that music.”
As for the interest in other, more tradi-
tional dances such as ballroom dancing,
Barker said, “Many young ladies at «-
W&L are going through their debutante
seasons and are thus learning or taking
-refresher courses in the dances to accom-
pany the obligations of this period.”
While both of these
reasons for why more

 

1themselves’_,:'.

Edancing

ilocelyn Bowman put it best when she said, “It’s

r
r

the
night away are enlightening, perhaps sophomore

just fun I "
SWING: JUMP, JrvE AND WAIL

Bowman participates in the University—sponsored swing
classes that senior Christine Bragg andjunior Heather Reid
have been teaching for the past two weeks. With swing
being one of the types of music to grace this year‘s Fancy
‘Dress Ball, interest in it has grown signiﬁcantly on campus.

Swing dancing originated with the Shag, the South
Carolina state dance and a traditional southern dance.
‘While Barker is planning to organize
a shag class in the spring, swing is in
the spotlight at W&L now.

Barker said, “At the beginning ofthe year, one thing I

' “”“’~“”*;3=.*<=srat¢2¥‘5%"*‘v’3

lwanted to do was to offer free swing classes.”

In October be reserved Doremus Gym for fournights in both

Elanuary and February, planning to offer one class for 40 people.

i
L
1

Campus Notices announced the openings for the swing
classes at 2 p.m. on Jan. 13. Within an hour and a half of
this e—mail, all 40 slots had been taken. Two days after he
sent out the e-rnail. Barker had more than 150 requests to
join the class.

As a result. Barker‘ created two additional swing classes.

 
  
 

Now there are two beginners’ classes and one advanced I

class that accommodate a total of 160 people. The first
three classes have gone very well, according to many par-
ticipants, and the last lesson is scheduled for Feb. 8.

The students taking these classes are very excited about
them. Sophomore Renee Harper had her reasons for sign-
ing up for the course.

“I thought it was a neat opportunity to learn swing,”
she said. “It’s awesome, it’s fun to learn and to practice,
and it’s really a gift to the students who are participating.

“It’s totally awesome of Owen Barker to have orga-
nized these classes for the students. I have always wanted
to learn how to swing dance, but I don’t know ifl would
have pursued classes else-
where,” Harper said.

 
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
    
 
  
   
    
  
    
   
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Bow-
m a n
echoed
the high
praises of the
swing classes,
when she said,
“It’s just great fun
and really laid back.
I love the instructors
and am having a great
time learning the basics
of swing.”

Barker was pleasantly
surprised with the suc-
cess of the classes.

“I really had no idea
it would go over this
well,” he said.

Because of the fantas-
tic response, he is con-
sidering offering more

swing classes in the
spring along with classes
in shag dancing.

 
 

SEVILLANAS, A NATIVE
DANCE or SPAIN

While the oldie but goodie
dances from earlier in the century
are coming back in vogue, more ex-
otic dances are taking hold of little Lex-
ington as well.
Yolanda Charlan, a native language

classes in the sevillanas, a traditional
dance originating from southern Spain.
The natives of southern Spain cel-
ebrate the feria de abril, a week-long fes-
tival during which everyone lives in
tents, dances the sevillanas, drinks
sherry made locally and eats traditional
foods of the area.

The sevillanas is a dance consisting
of four steps in three periods.

“It’s the most typical dance in Spain ——
it’s a tradition!” Charlan said.

She describes it as a sensual dance in
which one moves the arms in rhythm with

the legs, “always creating shapes in

the movements.”
A ""'” “It’s also a way to ﬂirt,” Charlan
added.

One might wonder how such a unique dance became part
of the W&L student activities portfolio. It all started last
year when another language assistant wanted to share this
unique cultural experience with her students, and members
of the VMI and Lexington community who wanted to learn.

After seeing the great excitement generated by
sevillanas and the large student involvement in it last year,
Ellen Mayock, professor of romance languages, asked
Charlan if she would consider teaching a class this year.

Charlan was eager to take up the offer, and the ﬁrst two

student wants to help reduce those I
statistics. Sophomore lessica Parrillo
is amember of the Leukemia Society of '
America’s Team inTraining,a group of
runners devoted to raising money for
cancer research. . as I . A :3
More than 16,500 runners frgm
’, all over the country will meet in  if 5 enjoying‘, sdoin g
Diego, Calif. on May23 tonm amgara-V ~ ,‘rhgjg‘~»bec,_aus’ej2-‘,1
then in honor of cancerlpatients.» I , "know“that:_I scan
“Each runnerruns inthenameofa ihilfeip; .so“ nrarty

health for granted
suffering’ from

ribleasleukernia

raise at least $3,000. This tasklhas‘
proven to be somewhat daunting,
but that will not stop Parrillo from
reaching hergoal. ‘

Sophomore,rungrace 

By Ginger Phillips <   ii-All  .
FEATURESEDITOR  mad‘’ ‘"3. F‘?-1’z"’
leukerniaisthenumberonedimse tant in life,”’ ‘she 

killerofchildren ages 1-14 anditstrikes said.r,“I  “ -

ten times as many adults. One W&L  people ioﬂenitake .

things like their
while, others I are l

‘ sornethingqas ter-
“;I. am really.

* Participants rnltheirogig
_»grr1‘oney to help ﬁnd aj‘cure_ rot» '

’ leukemia patient,” Parrillo said. “It is people,”,she  . .» . _
such an honor to run for them. When~ ‘ , Parrillo,I:ielieves‘tl‘iat‘‘this is also a per- fmmpiaces
ever 1 think about how hardit is to run feet oppoiitunitylfor others to help in me’
arnarathon,Ijustthinkaboutthelittle fight against  shehas organized a

, girl that I’m doingthis for.” raﬁleto help herreach her goal. .

Before she can run, Parrillo must _ ,q. ,‘.‘I thought ﬂtatiﬂre raffle would be a

fgreatway to students and the commu-
nity involvedwith helping cancer research
. andhave alittlefun atthe same time,” she
said. “There arelsorne really great prizes I

r’ like the‘ four year-old  ﬂia

; other '
tacting Jessiealharijill 2’

assistant from Madrid, is offering ’

 
     
     

weeks of classes have been an enormous success. Almost
30 students attended the first class, and many students
found it to be a great experience, chatting about it in an
electronic forum for one of Mayock’s Spanish classes.
“It’s another facet to
the students’ education,

She met Moore, however, and learned about W&L
Dance. Now she is able to take classes in the Lenfest Cen-
ter when her schedule permits.

“It is kind of diﬁicult in college, since this isn’t an art school,
to pursue dance as seri-
ously as I might like,”

making them feel more like Corhhs said_

they’re part of the actual Bejchercahohh, teach

culture,” Mayock said. the girls once a week, so
“For me to get them me;-egtoftheﬁmethe Stu-

in touch with my culture dents have to organize

is great,” Charlan said. themselves and he taught
Aside from all the by the mom experienced

educational value, inthe group.

Mayock Said» “W5 lust Facilities also present

reﬁll)’ 000! t0 d0!” a problem for these bal-

The students love it,
too. “It cracks them up to
be doing it,” Mayock said,
“to see friends and pro-
fessors doing it, to have
to strike a macho pose or
a gypsy pose.”

Many students are
taking the class because
they will be going to
Spain in the spring and
believe Mayock’s asser-
tion that “you can’t be
cool in Spain and not
know sevillanas.”

Charlan, who is enjoy-
ing learning from others’
talents by taking classes
in modem and jazz dance,
is excited to be able to of-
fer this class for anyone
who is interested and
hopes that more students
will want to get involved in this multi-cultural adventure.

' Knowledge of the Spanish language is not necessary to
participate in the sevillanas classes, and a schedule of
classes can be accessed from the W&L Spanish
department’s home page.

THE TrMELEss APPEAL or BALLET

While many students are going exotic and trying new
dances like sevillanas, other students are enjoying more
traditional, conservative forms of dance like ballet.

W&L Dance is a student organization that offers night classes
for a variety of different dance forms from jazz to modern. The
group was originally created, however, for ballet.

Senior Sarah Moore teaches many of the W&L Dance ballet
classes. Missie Belcher, a dance instructor at Lexington Dance
Studio, also teaches one club class each week, in addition to a
ballet-for-P.E.-credit class through the University.

Sophomore Faith Collins has enjoyed the opportunity
to continue her study of ballet at W&L. A 14-year student
of ballet, Faith had planned on taking ballet classes in town.

“Swingers” Stephen Pesce ’01 and his date dance
the night away at the 250th Ball. The 150 students
currently participating in the W&L swing classes
will soon be ready to show off their new moves at
the Fancy Dress Ball on March 5.

let dancers. Anyone
who has taken ballet in
the Lenfest Center’s Re-
hearsal Hall can tell you
that the set-up is not
ideal. The bars and mir-
rors are not in the cor-
rect places and the ﬂoor
is not quite suited for se-
rious ballet work.

For dancers, how-
ever, these problems,
while frustrating, are
not enough to stop the
dancing.

“You don’t want to
see something as beau-
tiful as ballet die,”
Collins said. “W&L
Dance is really improv-
ing and getting better.
Each year we see more
participation.”

The group performs a recital at the end of each year,
incorporating all the forms of dance represented in the
group into one perfomrance.

Collins expressed frustration atthe apparent lack of interest in
dance displayed by some members of the W&L community.

“You’d think at W&L, there’d be more interest in see-
ing those forms of art grow,” Collins said. “I think that

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

ail

dancing is the purest form of art. It involves music and the 

human body. You use every single part of your body. When
you can do it and do it right, it is the most beautiful thing
ever — it’s almost defying limits.”

' Dancing truly does defy limits, whether they be limits of grav-
ity, deﬁed by female swing dancers who are swung up into the air
as though they weigh nothing, or limits ofthe human body (do
ballerinas’ legs truly belong up by their ears?).

With swing and ballroom dancing, sevillanas, ballet
and the huge variety of other dances perfomied by W&L
Dance, and all the exciting classes awaiting students in
spring term, there are plenty of opportunities for students
to jump on the bandwagon and dance, dance, dance.

Just be careful not to step on your partner’s toes.

Log on to wWw.loVe.c0m

By Erica Prosser
FEATURES EDITOR

Ah, the Internet. A wonderful place to learn things, do
research, meet people 

Wait! You shriek. People you meet on the Internet are
stalkers and axe murderers!

Well, that’s true of some ‘net users, but not everyone. If
you’ve ever opened Netscape, YOU’ RE a ‘net user. So am
I. In fact, I met my ﬁance on the Internet.

It’s true. Want to know
the details? Read on.

Most people meet
through chat rooms, like
those on America Online©.
Chat rooms are just places
into which you can wander,
places full of people talk-
ing about any one of an in-
ﬁnite number of topics.

It’s only natural that
people with similar tastes
who meet in these rooms
will start e—mailing each
other personally. E-mail is
great for getting to know

P°°P1e ‘”ith°“t actually Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan star in “You’ve Got Mail,”
ha"mg‘° k"°w them‘ They a movie about ﬁnding true love on the Internet.

could be lying about them-
selves, that’s true. But nothing says you have to meet these
people in person. So chat rooms are a great place to start.

Now we come to the way that I met Scott (my ﬁance):
Internet personal ads. It was late on a Saturday night last
May, and I was ready to see what kind of weirdos this
electronic medium could introduce.

I put out an ad in Yahoo! for the St. Louis area that said,
basically, “I’m coming home for the summer, I was wonder-
ing what kind of interesting people live in my area, yada
yada yada.” My only contact information was my Yahoo!
e—mail address.

The response was staggering, but only one ad was re-
ally scary. From the initial replies, I e-mailedsome of the
people. I had no real interest in meeting any of them in
person, but sometimes, the thought of doing that (which
was decidedly risky, as everyone knows) was a bit of a thrill.

When I went home in June, I arranged to meet one per-

    

son, Travis, IRL (in real life). When you meet an Internet
person, always meet in a public place with plenty of people,
right? Well, my parents were terriﬁed on my behalf, so they
insisted that Travis (a local college student and jazz guitar-
ist) come to our house to get me so they could get a look at
him. Luckily, he put up with that.

Ultimately, we didn’t get along well enough to keep in
touch, but I had done it. I had met someone from the Intemet.
The world was my oyster.

Scott was the only other person I met from the ‘net.
Again, my parents in-
sisted that he come to the
house, saying, “He could
be an ax murderer! We
have to meet him and get
his license plate number!”
He humored them.

Scott is a computer
programmer (ofcourse) in
downtown St. Louis, and
we hit it right off. We had
an uncanny number of
things in common, and
things went really well. I
even affectionately call
him “Ax Murderer,” for
the ‘net person he might
have been. The wedding,
incidentally, is set for Sep-

Photo courtesy www.darkhorizons.com

tember 25 of this year.

Yes, I was one of the lucky ones. I met people from the
Internet who had been honest about themselves and their
lives, and they had no mali— cious intent
whatsoever.

   

The moral of the story is be open-
minded but careful.
Most people out there are
just like you, but some are not.

   
  

out any of your
p e r s o n a I infonnation in chat rooms,
don’t believe ev- erything people tell you online,
always meet in public places and think cautiously.

The Internet is a huge world‘ of learning and opportu-
nity, and it is the medium of the future.

Be courageous but careful, and good things could hap-
pen to you, too. Happy chatting!

Don’t give

 

FEBRUARY 8, 1999

  Siiﬁhrs

PAGE 5;

Overtime not
a great time
for Generals

By Brendan Harrington

SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s basketball team dropped
a heartbreaker to Eastern Mennonite on an exciting Satur-
day night at the Warner Center, 82-76 in overtime.

Sophomore guard Joel Kauffrnan scored a game-high
27 points for EMU and shot 17-18 from the free-throw line,
including four technical free-throws in the ﬁnal six sec-
onds of the game to seal the victory.

“We played very hard, and that’s the most frustrating,”
W&L head coach Kevin Moore said. “You win a game like
this one and it does so much for your conﬁdence . . . but if
you lose it’s like sticking a knife right in your heart.”

The Generals trailed 79-78 with :27 left in overtime when
freshman forward Bob Bustamante missed a three-pointer
from the top of the key. Walt Plyer came down with the
offensive rebound for the Generals and W&L called a time-
out with 18 seconds left.

Following the time-out, junior center Rich Peterson
caught the ball on the right block, went up strong against

a double team but missed the shot. Although there ap-
peared to be contact, no foul was called and EMU forward

Neal Lewis came down with the rebound, Bustamante
fouled Lewis to stop the clock with six seconds remaining.
Immediately following Bustamante’s foul, senior guard
Kevin Cobbin appeared to push Kauffrnan, and Cobbin
was whistled for two technical fouls.

Bustamante’s foul and Cobbin’s double technical com-
bined to give the Royals six free-throws and possession.
Lewis hit one of two from the line and Kauffman hit all four
technicals to seal the victory.

“We kept falling behind, but we battled back and
played tough,” junior forward Scott Hudson said. “We
made some big shots and almost came up with some big
defensive stops.”

The Generals trailed 67-61 with :40 left in regulation but
W&L pulled off a thrilling comeback to send the game into
overtime. Sophomore guard Will Ballard banked in a tliree-
pointer with six seconds remaining in regulation to send
the game into overtime tied at 68-68.

The Generals pulled off the comeback without the ser-

. vices of Hudson and junior center Brian Ricketts, who both

fouled out in the final .2230 of regulation. The Generals lost
Ballard just four seconds into the overtime period when he
was called for his ﬁfth foul.

The Royals went to the foul line 42 times compared to just
21 for the Generals. EMU shot 31-42 (74 percent) while the
Generals shot 14-21 (67 percent). The Generals were whistled
for 29 personal fouls compared to just 18 for the Royals.

“They scored 31 of their 82 points were from the foul
line,” Moore said. “That is very frustrating.”

Five players ﬁnished in double figures for the Generals, led
by sophomore guard Chad Braley with 17 points. Ballard had
16, Hudson and Peterson scored 14, and Cobbin tallied 1 1 .

Along with Kauffman’s 27 points for EMU, junior for-
ward Quincy Longacre had 17 points and nine rebounds

Junior forwand Scott Hudson protects the ball during Sat

and Lewis had 14 points.

The Royals shot 56 percent from the ﬁeld, while the Generals
shot only 39 percent. W&L turned the ball over only 14 times
and outrebounded the Royals 20-1 1 on the offensive glass.

“We took care of the ball well and we rebounded well,” Moore
said. “But the thing we didn't do a good job of is preventing
their big guys from catching the ball in scoring position.”

The Generals remain one game ahead of Lynchburg for
the 8th and ﬁnal spot in the upcoming ODAC tournament.
The Generals host Lynchburg on Wednesday night after
visiting Randolph-Macon on Monday night.

Swimming crushed in Atlanta

By Steele Cooper

SPORTS WRITER

The men’s and women’s swim teams traveled Saturday
to Atlanta to face traditional favorite Emory. Both the men
and the women lost their match-ups, but the meet was not
without its bright spots for the Generals.

The men (7-6) lost by a 160-75 margin, but their usual
leaders did not come away empty handed. Sophomore
Colin Hayes gamered-two wins in the 100 and 200 ﬂy,
with times of 53.30 and 2:00.24, respectively. Hayes’
classmate Rob Little ﬁnished the 200 [M with the win-
ning time of2:06.50, andjunior Jared Fribush won the
50 free with a time of22.16. The men’s 400 free relay
team also brought home a win for the Generals.

“We knew the competition here was going to be

Track fares
well at VMI

tough, but I think everyone did well. It’s time now to
focus on swimming well at the Invitational, which I
know we’re very capable of doing,” said Fribush.

The women (9-7), riding a high from earning the most
wins on a season in school history, fell to Emory with a
167-80 score. Senior captain Margaret Hoehl once
again turned in an insurmountable performance,
thereby continuing her incredible season. Hoehl won
the 200 free (1 :58.97) and the 500 free (5: 16.38). The
women’s 400 free relay team also defeated Emory in
that event.

The men and women of Washington and Lee swim-
ming will begin to close out their season next week.
The men will swim in the SCAC Invitational February
18-20, and the women will vie for the title in the ODAC/
SCAC Championships February 19-21.

Chamberlain
wrestles well

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor
urday’s game.

Guilford Quakers
foil women’s b-ball _

By Tod Williams

SPORTS WRITER

It was a week of role reversals for
the Generals: some good, and some
bad. The outcomes of the Randolph-
Macon Women’s College game and the
Guilford College game were the oppo-
site from the teams’ first meeting ear-
lier this season. And for once, Wash-
ington and Lee was the one riding high
on a winning streak.

Just over two weeks ago, Berry
Lowden’s last-second layup gave the
Generals a 63-61 win over Guilford. But
vengeance was in the Quakers’ cor-
ner when they entered the Warner
Center on Saturday, and they walked
away with an 83-70 win.

But last Tuesday, it was the Gener-
als who avenged an 86-79 loss to
RMWC last December. Junior Ansley
Miller drove north to south in the
game’s ﬁnalseconds to put W&L up
55-54 up for good. That was the ﬁfth
win in the streak, and the first time that
they have played more than two win-
ning games in a row. Unfortunately, it
came to an end with Saturday’s loss.

Saturday’s loss was far from appar-
ent until well into the second half.
W&L jumped out to an early eight-
point lead in the game, and they car-
ried the same eight-point lead into the
break. After halftime, the Generals ex-
tended ﬂieir lead to 12, but they weren’t
far enough ahead of the Quakers, who
took the game from there.

Shooting percentages tell the story
of W&L’s second half demise. The
Generals shot 44 percent in the first
half, but let their accuracy slip to 35
percent in the second half. The sec-
ond half did see Miller connect the
trifector, the only make in ten General
attempts. But Guilford prospered in the
last 20 minutes. Having shot only 35
percent in the first half, the Quakers
saw the need to step it up, and they

certainly did. Guilford’s 55 percent
second half would be all they needed
for the 13 point win.

Again, freshman Jessica Mentz
paced the Generals with her 20 points.
W&L’s lone senior, Chrissy Burghardt
helped outwith her 17 point and 1 1 board
double double. Megan Babst proved to
be the soup Nazi for the day, as she de-
nied service to the Quakers four times;
Babst also notched 10 rebounds.

Guilford’s bench seemed a little
deeper than the Generals’ did on Sat-
urday. Three Quakers came off the pine
to combine for 42 points, while W&L’s
bench could only muster 16 points. .

Prior to the last-second heroics of
Miller in Tuesday’s win over RMWC,
Burghardt became the ﬁrst General in
the school’s 250 years to score 1,000
career points. The thrilling win came
after a very tight game. W&L led the
entire game, until the last six seconds,
but never by more than seven points.

RMWC took the lead for the ﬁrst
time as Stephanie Marcial nailed a ten-

footer to put the Quakers up with 5.7
ticks left. W&L called a time out, but,

after returning to the court, and hint.-93- ,

ing what would come, another time ou
was called. This time the General
came out in a different setup, whic

was obviously successful. Once Miller  ‘l ~“.
got the ball, it was all over for the Wild- . ;

cats. After weaving through a host of. S 
bodies, Miller hit her layup, with only~f' :‘

1.1 seconds left. But RMWC,
inbounded and took one last heave at“;
the basket.

Yet again, Mentz lead the Generals
this time with her fourth double doubl
of the season. Burghardt, the millennium;

woman, added 12 points and ﬁve steal'_s:E 
for the Generals. Tara Carleton ofRMW(§ :3 '

s.
.44

led all scorers with her 25 points. 

The Generals look to avenge a 70-
53 loss to Bridgewater earlier this year
as W&L hosts the Eagles at the
Warner Center Tuesday night.

711te1'nat1'anaI ‘Blah

‘75'eb1-nary 25, 1999 ' 77mrsday ' 8 p.m.

presents

€99-IQ_,5istro zooo

Extraordinlst Craig Karges presents a fantastic
Sophomore Josh Chamberlain

reached the ﬁnals of the149-pound
weight class bracket at the Newport
News Apprentice School Invitational .' ' ‘ ‘

Tournament, finishing in second place. V . ' 

Chamberlain defeated North Caro- .  :m..
lina-Pembroke‘s Trey Brown, 14-2, be- -339 LE"°t
fore falling to Longwood’s Jeff Kepler
13-9 in the championship match.

Ezra Morse, a 174-pounder won his
first round match against Newport
News Apprentice's Ian Frost by pin-
ning him 2:50 into the match. Morse
was defeated by North Carolina-
Pembroke's Bill Atmore, 11-0 in the
semiﬁnals. Alex McManimen reached
the semifinals of the 184-pound
bracket by beating Chris McNa1ly of
Western Maryland, 10-7. He then was
pinned the next round by Anderson's
Ryan Hardy in 5:33.

The Generals travel to Gettysburg,
Pa. to take part in the Gettysburg
Quadrangular next Saturday.

' _ . display of Illusion, the paranormal and extraor-
“The nextera In mystery

entertainment!"
4 Performance Nlagazine

The Washington and Lee men's and women's
track teams represented themselves well against Di-
vision I competition at the VMI Winter Relays on
Saturday afternoon.

The women were led by senior Lisa Brennan, who
ﬁnished in 10th place in the 800-meter with a time of
2:33.60. Sophomore Kathleen Moroney closely fol-
lowed Brennan in that event, ﬁnishing in 13th place
with a time of 2:36.40. Sophomore Amy Calce finished
12th in the women's longjump with a mark of 15'6".
She also placed 16th in the 55 meter dash with a time
of 8.04 seconds.

The men were led by senior Marc Granger, who ﬁn-
ished sixth place in the shot put with a distance of 41'10".
Junior Hansel] Pasco, ﬁnished in 20th place in the men's
55-meter dash with a time of 6.83. Senior Darrick Alford
continued to impress, finishing in 1 1th place in the 3,000
meter run, with a time of9:20. 10 and 16th place in the
mile run with atime of4:49.30.

The Generals will be in action again on Feb. 27, when
they host the ODAC Championships at VMI's Cormack
Field House.

dinarg phenomena using total audience particl-

pationi it’s like The Twilight Zone, live on stage!

As seen on The Tonight Show with Jay Leno,
Larry King Live, CNN Headline News, Lifetime
Television, CNBC, The Nashville Network, United
Paramount Netuiork and El Entertainment

Television.

K A R G E 5
Feb. 24, 8 p.m.
Lenfest Center

“This uieirds
me out!" p
—-Dennis Nliller

Free Admission

— Courtesy of Sports Information

 

Humor Page

FEBRUARY 8, 1999 y

PAGE 6

LAST WORD
Say “I love you” with a Last Word card 

, .

By Kevin McManemin

APPA RENTLY SOME SORT OF DUCK _ ~

I Ami afew Ami we 

i.::...°.::‘:::.::::.i.:::;=.‘;‘::::.";: My L0” M-w ’§?wl’eMW ‘WW ‘
chocolates, ﬂowers and little frilly lace ‘ U     1473  "V073

thingies in its wake.

Valentine’s Day. The name alone is
enough to send shivers up a man’s
bank account. A holiday dedicated to
the materialistic display of romance.

Nothing is more over-romanticized
in our society than romance. No sub-

% 711° if  never rememéer, E£Cﬂ/V153  0141’
ject has been more thoroughly ex- 7

hausted in song, stage and verse. Of a mygl you won [ //(H.761 5014“
course, no one work has ever suc- —-«-- — i )‘

ceeded in encapsulating all that love
is. Sometimes love is as light and
cheery as a catchy pop song. Some
times it’s as sultry and passionate as
an R&B number. And sometimes it’s
the blues.

In my personal opinion, love is a
war, but not a good war like WWII or

t/wmfz/:14.
Now Z014 have some
hits 0 ya

Valtrex!

 

Sorely missing you,

 

your Valtrex Valentine

I met you at that NAECAR

. 6’
VIOlel'S are blue 4%‘ ‘/“”””-’ ‘%  _
 '  You looked dang good, even

with them braces
Tﬁcmés To my

Babe, you send ma hormones

   

   

 

 

C

the Revolution. No, love is a brutal   buzzms ‘
conflict full of betrayal, lies and ha- . ,_ . _ ._ , ,

tred. Falling in love is like being V|bY‘d'l'()V‘ it   . A ~ _ ' . ~ ' if ”’ “lo” t Platter that 5'0“ ‘"5

chained upside down in a vat ofboil- "’ V * , * ma 50U5'”

ing acid and having dental equipment Mama don’t mind, in fact she

raked across your body while being Q loate wt
forced to listen to John Tesh albums I     CUZ I amit weeping no more

as diseased rats gnaw at your ﬁngers _

and toes. Q ’ with them their goate

But no,I’m notbitter. ' ‘ ‘ % '. ‘”""' ‘
Yes sir, love in the nineties is a 9*

nasty business. Gone are the days of ’

boy meets girl, boy marries girl, boy %    e   04.04%. mm amaum

and girl live happily ever after. Now n I '  ‘ © T. A

it’s boy meets girl, boy and girl get Va  N6’ (V j U my em‘; 7]
blood tests and compare viruses, boy 0’; m ¥ L997; écwcdea/wdzceﬂnce :2; Zia//imoqé
knocks girl up, boy and girl get pren— ﬂ  Sessed  [0

uptial agreement, girl leaves boy for ’é6¢ me away ’
her ex-boyfriend the heroinjunky, boy 5 9 la aw a J _’ LWQWWWI 45/9 4%,; Wwgégm

turns gay, boy and girl avoid eye con- )1
tact for the rest oftheir lives. 0” my MM/ed

I think Valentine’s Day should i  J  We MM0/ywy 440W 4%),

catch up with the times. Cut out these , ,

Last Word Valentines Day cards and Céwadw [”"”’9$"’&’ ‘
let your sweetheart know how you #3

really feel (just don’t blame me ifyou y a @  l , ,

ﬁnd yourself sleeping on the couch). Q0” 56/0“ 3/0'” éé”“’‘/‘ 0” “W éw

‘U

HAVE YOU CONSIDERED   .

. .,,_,‘l..’...Q.I1~'a‘-‘J5-'....'..";gp.'4".‘ .

 

PARTIES
BANQUETS
IMULY
I SPECIALS

°| CALL AHEAD
CARRY OUT

SUMMER SCHOOL FOR PEOPLE .
ON THEIR WAY TO THE TOP.

Apply now! You'll develop ‘l
the leadership skills and

If you didn't sign up for
ROTC as a freshman or

sophomore, you can catch
up this summer by attend-

self-confidence you need
to succeed in college and

 

‘ i§‘i?ii””“" rim 1°‘”’°i.‘F “dairies *
° ° , a enge, a paid 1ve- Ora Vance O certra1n-
Brlng Thls Ad. >Meal Plan week summer course in ing when you return to
- . leade hi . tf 11.
Soup/Salad/Drink >Food Deblt ‘S 1’ °‘°‘’“P“S “ex 5‘ ._
$3.75 >Cash or Check ARMY mm
' THE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE ‘
_ i . _ , Hundreds of scholarships available.
Mon. Thurs. 1 1.00 a.m. 7.30 p.m. For demﬂson howtmmpete for
Friday: 1 1:00 a.m. - 7:00 p.m. ones ¢a'lVM1ArmY ROTC at i.

(540) 464-7187

463-8578

 

U

    

. \

I
4
‘gr

4

 
 

E Clip: iliing-tum ﬂirt  

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsITv’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

VOLUME 101, NO. 16

By Ginger Phillips

F EA TURES EDITOR

The most popular book around
campus latelypseems to be the White
Book. The 16 pages of this book ex-
plain the philosophy and procedures
behind the Honor System for which
Washington and Lee University is
famed. After the recent withdrawal of
a W&L sophomore convicted of steal-
ing from the Dining Hall by the Execu-
tive Committee, many students are
demanding changes to the White Book
and thus, to the Honor System itself.

In an attempt to address student
concerns and to discuss possible
amendments to the system, sophomore
EC representatives Jeff Cook and Faith
Collins hosted an open forum in the
University Center on Feb. 25. Approxi-
mately 25 sophomores attended the

8 meeting and most expressed their

A

W

 

 

‘x,

At

 

sense of fear and confusion about the
Honor System.

“I don’t know if someone I don’t
even know is going to turn me in for
something I didn’t even know was an
honor violation,” Heather McDonald
said. “Everyone is on pins and needles
over this issue. The student body
needs to realize that the Honor Sys-
tem is not a toy.” ‘

Cook voiced a similar sentiment.
“People have lost faith in the fact that
the EC represents them and the Honor
System.”

The White Book states that igno-
rance of the system is no excuse, but
many students are still confused about
the logistics of the system and insist
that the deﬁnition of an honor viola-
tion be stated more clearly.

“Infractions like the D-hall incident
just seem so ridiculous,” Will Vail said.
“There should be some safeguards
against something like this. Someone
should use common sense to realize
that this is not a big deal.”

“There should be no reason to fear
the honor system,” Cook said. “It is
there to protect the student body but
it’s hard to make a laundry list of vio-
lations. That’s why it’s not codified.”

W&L maintains an honor system,
which is different from an honor code.
The Honor System was founded on
the belief that honorable conduct can-
not be codiﬁed, but that dishonorable
conduct should be deﬁned by the cur-
rent student generation.

This generation of students is call-
ing for a wide range of changes to the
structure and processes of the EC, the
exclusively student-administered
body responsible for judging all claims

Speeding limited

By Eliarma Marziani
STAFF WRITER

Speed has become a more costly
thrill for many Virginians since Gov. Jim
Gilmore announced a new emphasis on
traffic law enforcement on Interstate 81
at a press conference on Feb. 10.

Since then, the Virginia State Police
force has signiﬁcantly boosted patrols
for speed limit enforcement.

I-81, which stretches 325 miles be-
tween Winchester and Bristol, has long
been considered a safety hazard by
many drivers. First Sergeant Joe Peters
of the Virginia Police Department ex-
plained this perception. “When I-81 first
opened in the mid-1960s, the highway
wasn’t designed to carry the number of
vehicles it does today, especially in
trucks,” he said.

“I don’t think 1-81 is any more dan-
gerous than any other highway in it-
self,” Peters said, adding that the moun-
tainous, hilly terrain that I-81 covers
makes driving more difficult, especially
for trucks. 4

The dangers of excessive speed on
I-81 during less-than-ideal weather hit
close to home this year for Washing-
ton and Lee University. On Jan. 3,
freshman Jon Nabors died in a 16-ye-
hicle pileup on the interstate just out-
side of Lexington.

Unfortunately, this crash was not the
first of its kind'to have happened on I-
81. During the 1998 Fourth of July week-
end, seven people died in a crash be-
tween Salem and Christiansburg.

‘Sophomores

of dishonorable conduct.

“The most glaring problem with the
EC is that there is no accountability,"
said Cook. “The EC members are the
grand jury, investigators, jury, judge
and prosecution. Everyone on the EC
tries his hardest to make the right de-
cisions, but sometimes it’ s difﬁcult to
play so many roles.”

Some students suggested that the
voting records of individual EC mem-
bers be posted so that student voters
would be able to make more informed
decisions when electing their repre-
sentatives. Others claim that this ac-
tion would result in representatives
voting for the sake of politics and
popularity instead of to uphold the
foundations of the Honor System.

The conﬁdential nature of EC hear-
ings is also a source of heated debate;
Anyone involved in an EC investiga-
tion or trial could face serious disci-
plinary action for breaking this conﬁ-
dentiality.

“It is our honor system, not the EC’s
honor system,” Ted Adams said. “We
can’t know if the representatives voted
correctly without all of the facts of the
trial becoming public.”

“There should be a lot less conﬁ-
dentiality concerning the hearings,”
Collins said. “Robert E. Lee did not
envision the system this way.”

The sophomore EC members con-
ceded that the EC is not infallible and
that the option for an open trial is a
safeguard against any mistakes that
the committee may make. Rarely does
an investigation progress to the point
of an open trial, however, because
many defendants fear the process and
exposure of such a trial.

“A student should nevervfear go-
ing to an open trial,”‘Sarah Riggs said.
“If they do fear it, you lose the only
accountability measure that exists
against the EC.”

While many of the students present
at the forum were divided on the is-
sues of conﬁdentiality and account-
ability, almost all agreed that the sys-
tem should be divided to create a sepa-

rate EC for the University and the Law

School. Some sophomores suggested
that the law representatives may be
out of touch with undergraduate life
and were concerned that they might be
more interested in going for a legal vic-
tory than reaching the truth.

“Sometimes the law students are in
there just to exercise their own law
skills,” Collins said.

In addition to a divided system, stu-
dents discussed many other changes
to the Honor System. Currently a ma-

When asked about the causes of
the new, stricter enforcement of speed
laws, Peters said, “We want to address
the increase of trafﬁc on I-81, and of
course, the high proﬁle crashes. The
police department has received com-
plaints from citizens about driving
conditions on I-81.”

Gilmore gave responded in his De-
cision Directive, which provides new
standards for trafﬁc law enforcement.
These methods include increasing the
number of on-duty patrol units, using
state police aircraft to assist local po-
lice patrolling efforts, and installing
new signs to announce the strict
speed limit enforcement.

“There’s more traffic on" our
interstates than ever, and too many
drivers are going too fast, danger-
ously so,” ‘ Gilmore said. “My direc-
tive authorizes atask force to promptly
begin these initiatives, including tem-
porary assignment of up to 50 extra
state troopers.”

“We have increased our patrols
and the number of troopers assigned
throughout the state,” Peters said.
“We ensure that more troopers will be
out there every day. And then we have
targeted certain days that we will prob-
ably triple our enforcement out there.”

Sunday, the last day of February
break, was a targeted day. Many W&L
students noticed an increased num-
ber of patrol cars on their drives back
to Lexington. “It seemed like about
every ﬁve minutes there was a cop on
the side of the road. All of them had

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

 

MONDAY, MARCH 1, 1999

question Honor System

Emily Bames/Photo Editor

Sophomore EC representatives Jeff Cook and Faith Collins lead an Honor System discussion among ‘sophomores on Thursday.

LPD busts UVA pranksters

jority vote Oftwo—thirds is required to
convict an accused person of an honor
violation. Many would like to see this
rule changed to a unanimous vote.
Cook also proposed speciﬁc amend-
ments to the White Book such as al-
lowing the University Registrar to se-

lect at random the member of t_he,, stu-

dent body who is permitted to partici-
pate in a hearing. Presently this person
is selected by a member of the EC. He
also suggested changing the EC
president’s role to that of an objective
observer.

“The president is in a very difﬁcult
position because he must ensure a fair
trial, but he also has a vested interest in
the actual deliberations of that trial,”
said Cook.

The next White Book Review Com-
mittee will be appointed during the
1999-2000 academic year. The EC,
however, will consider at any time an
amendment proposal by a student if
it is accompanied by a petition of at
least 50 current students.

“The problem with amending the

See HONOR, Page 2

on 1-81

77

pulled over someone,
Catherine Mead said.

Virginia police in fact dealt with
more than 1700 violations on I-81 that
Sunday alone. Large white X’s could
be seen periodically along the shoul-
der of the road. Police helicopters use
these X’s to monitor car speeds by
measuring how long it takes drivers
to get from one marking to another.
The air patrol contacts ofﬁcers on the
ground if they ﬁnd a vehicle that is
consistently speeding.

Commuting from Roanoke to Lex-
ington every day, senior Seth
Kellermann has experience with this
stretch of road and has noticed trafﬁc
patterns all year. The extra police pres-
ence since Gilmore’s directive caught
his attention.

“I ’ve noticed that on the stretch be-
tween Lexington and Roanoke, I see
between ﬁve and seven cops every day,
and they’re being a lot sneakier than
they used to be,” he said. Kellerman is
thankful for the new emphasis on en-
forcement. “I think it’s very good be-
cause previously semis would travel at
incredible rates of speed like 85 m.p.h..”

Peters identiﬁes reducing crashes,
injuries and fatalities on I-81 as the
State Police’s main goal. “The extra
enforcement also lets the public know
that the highway is safe to travel on,”
he said. “They can expect to get from
point A to point B in a safe manner.”

If people do not keep themselves
safe, “we will aggressively and suc-
cessfully enforce the law,” Peters said.

sophomore

By Tarah Grant

EXECUTIVE EDITOR

A Valentine’s Day prank by the

-University. of Virginia chapten of -Phi"

Kappa Psi does not have the Lexing-
ton Police Department laughing.

Last Friday, the department ar-
rested ﬁve UVA students for breaking
and entering into the Washington and
Lee University Phi Kappa Psi chapter
house on Feb. 14.

“I would call it more of a prank than
a crime,” W&L Phi Kappa Psi sopho-
more Nick Silverman said. “I don’t
consider it that big ofa deal.”

The police, however, are taking the

incident very seriously.

While W&L students were on va-
cation, ﬁve UVA Phi Kappa Psi pledges
entered the fraternity house through

an unlocked c199r...e_1c.c.orsiing. t0_t_he

police. A neighbor alerted law enforce-
ment when he spotted people taking
items from the house and loading them
into an unfamiliar van.

“They caught them as they were

“driving away, so we got everything

back,” Silvennan said.

W&L security ofﬁcers stopped the
van at the Estill Street entrance to
Davidson Park. The students identi-

’ ﬁed themselves as University of West

Virginia students to security. A sub-

D-hall dishes out

By Erica Prosser
F 5.4 TURES EDITOR

Students wandering into Evans
Dining Hall over the past week have
met with an unfamiliar sight: new
chairs and tables.

“It’s more scenic than the old D-
hall furniture,” sophomore Tim Koss
said, “but it looks cheaper.”

Why the change from the old fur-
niture? Jerry Darrell, director of Din-
ing Services, said that this year is the
40th anniversary of the dining hall.
The old furniture was actually the
original furniture from 40 years ago.

“It was looking worn and tired ﬁve
or six years ago," he said. “It was rick-
ety and not sturdy. It was dangerous;
we actually had an accident a few
years ago when a chair broke.”

For about ﬁve years, Darrell has
made a capital request of the general
budget to replace the old tables and
chairs, and his request was granted
this year. Washington and Lee Uni-
versity allotted the dining service
funds for the new furniture, which
cost$1o’o,0o0.

Darrell said that the process of
choosing the new ﬁxtures was a long
and careful one. The dining staff sur-
veyed the students about chair pref-
erences, narrowing the choices down
to 12, then three, then ﬁnally one, the
padded "chairs now gracing the hall.
The chairs are backed by a 10-year
warranty, and although the fabric is
not indestructible, it holds up well
under the stress of spills.

“We tested the fabric with grease, cof-
fee  It all wiped right off” Darrell said.

The one problem that students
have been having with the chairs, he
said, is the fact that the plastic slides
on the bottoms of the chairs prevent
them from sliding well across the ﬂoor.
He said that the staff is working on

replacing the plastic slides with metal
ones to eliminate this problem.

The tables are a mix of long rect-
angles and smaller round tables. They
are collapsible, which makes them

easier to move around for catered

events in the hall. When the choice
of tables came up, though, Darrell said
that the student preferences were a
little different.

sequent search of the van, however,
revealed that they were UVA students
on a well—planned mission.

Eleven letters, written on UVA
Phi Kappa Psi chapter stationary,
were found in the van that contained
detailed instructions for the stu-
dents to commit pranks throughout
the southeast United States. The
letters directed the students to iden-
tify themselves as WVU students if
questioned by authorities.

In the van, security also found the
items that the pledges were directed
to take from the W&L chapter house,

See PRANKSTERS, Page 2

$100, 000

“Students were telling us that they
didn’t want the long, VMI-type
tables,” he said. “They said that they
visited friends at other colleges and
liked the smaller, round tables . . . But
now, some students are saying that
they like the long tables because they
all sit in groups together.”

See D-HALL, Page 2

OPINION:
W&LIEE:
SPORTS:

LAST WORD:

t‘? I - \-'

flip: ﬁling-tum ilﬁlti
Debating the Honor System
Campus rape: an in-depth look at the system

Men’s lax Openswith force; baseball sweeps

Traveling to England; Payback movie review

    
     

Jamaican students dance to the tune of a Jamaican
folksong at “An Evening Abroad” last Thursday.

March 1, 1999

PAGE 3
PAGE 4&5
PAGE 6&7

PAGE 8

iii ' OlOl[d/S9U.lBg,A'[_llll':]

‘ (

 

 -53' -
PAGE ‘ 

MARCH J, 1999 7*

HONOR SYSTEM———

continued from page 1

White Book is that the decision on whether or not a change _

is made ultimately comes down to the EC,” Ryan Truax said.

The current controversy surrounding the Honor Sys-
tem has no easy answer. The academic and social freedom
accorded to W&L students also exists in their form of gov-
ernment. If changes in that system are to be made, they will
come directly from the student body.

“Any changes that we make are going to last for a very
long time,” said Cook. “Therefore we must continue to
seriously discuss these issues and have everyone involved
before we make any important changes.”

D-HALL  
continued from page 1

Despite the slight confusion about table preference, the
new furniture has had a positive impact overall. Seating has
increased in the dining hall, and Darrell said that students
generally seem to ﬁnd the new furniture attractive.

‘‘It’s pretty nice,” freshman Kristen Bonnema said.
“There's something awkward about the height of the arm-
rests and tables, and it’s not as comfortable. But the fabric
goes with the columns.”

The dining hall beautiﬁcation will not stop with the fumi-
ture, either. Darrell said that plans are in the works to paint
the pillars over the summer. The old green color will be re-
placed with a light blue shade that will still complement the
upholstery of the new chairs. The painting process has al-
ready begun, as workers painted the hall ceiling during Feb-
ruary break: By the time students return next fall, they will
meet with a prettier, more comfortable dining hall.

What about the old, familiar chairs and tables we had
come to know so well? Until March 9, the old stuff will be
available for free to non-proﬁt and educational organiza-
tions; from noon to 4 p.m. On March 9, the fumiture will
go on sale to the general public. The sale will be held at
the Physical Plant barn on the back campus, and all fumi-
ture will be sold on a cash-and-carry basis. Tables will
cost $5, $7 or $10, and chairs will cost $3 each.

Students may enjoy the newer furniture now, but Darrell
said that the process of moving out the old tables and
chairs was not without heartbreak.

“It was an emotional day when the old fumiture was re-
moved,” he said. “There were two students there, the last
two to use the old fumiture. We took a picture of them at their
table, and we let them keep the chairs.”

PRANKS TERS —+-——
continued from page 1'

including a framed photograph of the W&L campus from
1919, a candle, a W&L tee-shirt, and a composite board
containing individual photographs of the 1998 W&L Phi
Kappa Psi members. The value of the items taken from the
house was estimated to be $1,310, according to the police.

After the true identities of the ﬁve men were ascertained,
based on UVA identiﬁcation cards and driver’s licenses,
they were pennitted to return to Charlottesville on the night
of the incident. Felony warrants were obtained later in the
week, charging‘ all ﬁve students with grand larceny and
petty larceny, in addition to breaking and entering.

The UVA students voluntarily returned to Lexington last
Friday to be formally charged. They were released from cus-
tody on $500 bonds to await their preliminary hearings, which
will be held later in Rockbridge General District Court.

The UVA student néwspaper, The Cavalier Daily, re-
ported that the students will not be charged with honor
violations because the UVA honor constitution limits the

geographical area in which students are bound to the honor,
system. Students are only held to the system within "

Charlottesville and Albemarle County or “when he identi-
ﬁes himself as a University of Virginia student in order to
gain the reliance and trust of others.”

“I was highly disappointed in your committee,” Mike
Young, director of W&L security, told The Cavalier Daily.
“Ours [at W&L] applies everywhere. We don’t always
ﬁnd out about things students do [off campus], but if we
do we certainly address them.”

The Cavalier Daily also reported that, as a result of the
arrest, representatives from Phi Kappa Psi national head-
quarters are investigating the UVA chapter.

  @112 iﬁing-tum ﬂirts . .

 

UNDERGRADUATE STUDY ABROAD

o:o

GREAT BRITAIN
AUSTRALIA
IRELAND
NEW ZEALAND

‘o

ARGENTINA
CI-IILE
COSTA RICA

Fall, Spring 01 Full Year. Scholarships Available.

Study Abroad Information Session:
Repmsenmive; Steve Seaworth

Thursday , March /4

11:30 am — 1:00 pm
Information Table

Outside Co-op

(If rain at the dining hall)

For further information contact the lnstitute for Study Abroad. Butler University,
4600 Sunset Avenue. lndranapolrs, IN 46208. Tel: 800/858-0229 Fax: 317/940-9704

INSTITUTE FOR STUDY ABROAD
BUTLER UNIVERSITY

Date:

Location:

71.12 13211 lllllaaque .

A Renaissance of the Zlltriat Zlianrg Erma

Tickets aml memorabilia on sale llarch 1-5
llemoraloilia Package: $88 Two Tickets: $55

llondai'-Thursday;lllacm.-5p.m. ‘:0
Tuesday a1nrlll'ednesrloy, liom.-9 pm.
Tt1'lla1y,lll:LnI.-2p.ni.
lini\'ersit.3Teoter

seoooao EAl(

‘FROM $159 PER WEEI(*

SAlLBOAT$: . Kl i3_.£Ac j BAR,» JET SKIS : PARASATLS
“HOME OF THE WORLD'S I.oNc.EsT KEG PARTY"
FREE DRAFT BEERALI. WEEK LONG-(ALI. FOR INFO!
- 1-800-488-8828

www.sandpipcrbeacon.com (*r:rtes per person)
P/\N/\/v\/\ crrv BE/\(.|-l.

17402 FRONT BE/v\(l--I ROAD - H 3.?-=11?»

ms YEAR A LOT or coLLEaE
SENIORS WILL BE GRADUATING
mro DEBT.

Under the Army’s
Loan Repayment
program, you could get
out from under with a
threeyear enlistment.

Each year you serve
on active duty reduces
your indebtedness by one-
third or $1,500, which-
ever amount is greater,

 

up to a $65,000 limit.

The offer applies to Perkins Loans, Stafford Loans,
and certain other federally insured loans, which are not
in default.

And debt relief is just one of the many beneﬁts
you’ll earn from the Army. Ask your Army Recruiter.

703-886-2651

ARMY. BE ALL YOU CAN BE?

www.goarmy.com

 

PREREOUISl'I'E: ADRENALINE '

Drive. Intensity. Those aren't
words you're likely to see in many
course requirements. Then again
Army ROTC is unlike any other
elective. It's hands—on excite-
ment. ROTC will challenge you
mentally and physically
through intense leadership
training. Training that builds

your character, confidence and
decision-making skills. Again, ')
words other courses seldom use.
But they're the credits you need to
succeed in life. ‘ROTC is open to
freshmen and sophomores with-
out obligation and requires
about five hours per week. Reg— ‘
ister this term for Army ROTC.

 

ARMY ROTC, .   8‘

THE SMIIRTEST COIJJEGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE

For; details, call VNII Army ROTC
at (540) 464-7351.

seomo BREAK

 

llovlonc, Poncmu Elly. Padre, Mioml, cuncun,
lumciou, Bahamas, etc.
Best hotels, nrioes, names. Browse
www.icnl.com. Hens com cosh, tree mos. coll
Inlet-ccmous I-800-327-6013

 

Academic couple seeks:

EGGDONOR.

for clinic in VA/NC region: Cau-
casian woman, 21-30, nonsmoker,
college degree or higher, solid
SAT scores, at least 5’8”, lean/
athletic build, dark complexionl
hair, even—featured face, excellent
health/teeth/skin/eyesight. Right
candidate will be well-compen-
sated and asked to provide pho-
tos. Please send letter along with
background, education, and mo-
tivation for doing this to: POB
425545, Cambridge, MA 02142.
All serious replies answered.

J/~.ME'S G LE\.’LiUr'“1N LlE3RAY__

   

540-463-7371

- Parents’ niscounr

' New” IIGIIUIHIEII

' "33  WIIII IIBIIIIIIB
‘ "0 SIIIIIIIIIIQ IIIIIIIIIS

° H88 clllllillelllﬂl Brealtlast

Econo
Lodge

Summer Employrnent
Opportwoities?

Special Programs
Resident Assistants
June 15-Aug. 3, 1999

The Ofﬁce of Special Pro-
grams employs 5 W&L stu-
dents to serve as Resident
Assistants for a wide variety
of Special Programs includ-
ing Alumni Colleges,
Elderhostel, and adult con-
ferences. Duties include
housekeeping, attending all
meals with guests, bar recep-
tions, and shuttle driving. An
outgoing personality is a
must. Application deadline
is March 31, 1999.

, For more information,
please contact the Ofﬁce of
Special Programs, Howard
House, 463-8723.

J?’ -
Q’

INGTON. VA 24450 1

iolAR 0 2 1999

 

  

ﬂ

 

‘ MARCH 1, 1999

1

O

@112 filing-tum ilﬂhi

PIN ION

 

PAGE 3

Only change will

preserve W&L ’s

Honor System

I
K

K

\

If

it

x

K

4

By Sarah Riggs ’Ol

PHI CONTRIBUTOR

In the past few weeks, there has been a lot of discus-
sion concerning our Honor System and its administra-
tion here at W&L. I am writing both in defense of the
Honor System and in support of some much needed
changes in the way that it is administered.

The Honor System represents the tradition of integ-
rity on Washington and Lee’s campus. Properly kept, it
has the potential to enhance students’ lives long after
graduation.

Our unique capacity for self-governance sets us
apart from thousands of other schools across the na-
tion. However, it is our ability to adapt and improve the
Honor System that will ultimately define who we are
and determine what we may become. It is for these rea-
sons that I wish to propose the following changes.

Under the current White Book policy, the Execu-. 
tive Committee needs a two—thirds majority 
to ﬁnd a student guilty of an honor ‘
violation. Changing this policy to re-
quire a unanimous decision would 
vastly improve the quality and fair- W '
ness of the Honor System.

For a student to’ be essentially dismissed from
school, the evidence against the accused should be so
clear cut and obvious that all of the EC is convinced
that an honor violation has been committed.

For one thing, a unanimous decision would increase
the accountability of EC members. Secondly, this policy
would decrease the chances of an innocent person be-
ing found guilty. A unanimous decision would promote
fairness and increased accountability in the Honor Sys-
tern.

In addition to requiring an unanimous decision, the
EC needs to assume greater responsibility for educat-
ing students regarding White Book policy and what
may constitute an honor violation. This should not be
a one-time orientation during the freshman year.

If the Honor System»--is:-to -be kept by students
th“r'o1‘i'gl’1'o'ut‘their’W&L"cé'éef§,7’then‘the EC needs to
create a continual education system to inform students
of White Book policy. .

Students should not be held responsible for offenses
that they were never told were violations of the Honor
System. How many people actually knew that swiping
a freshman D-Hall card could get you kicked out?

How many people realize that according to White
Book policy, a student who suspects a classmate of
committing an HV is supposed to confront the accused
before reporting it to the EC? This practice, though it is
too little utilized, would save time, energy and heart-
ache for many students by clearing up misunderstand-
ings before they go before the EC. Educating students
concerning White Book policy would also decrease the
growing fear that is felt among students with regard to

   

@112 ilting-tum Elﬁhi/I

‘Tarah Grant
Hollister Hovey
Polly Doig

John Stewart
Ginger Phillips
Erica Prosser
Stephanie Bianco
Stephen Pesee
Frances Groberg
Kevin McManemin
Sarah Meldrum
Meredith Mlynar
Emily Barnes
Tom Wadlow

Executive Editors
News Editors
W&Life Editors
Opinions Editors
Sports Editor
Last Word Editor
Copy Editors

Photo Editor
Online Editor

Jason Williams
Matt Lorber
Lionel Brown

Business Manager
Advertising Director
Circulation Director

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editors, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the .
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters and columns do not reflect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court deﬁnitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wIu.edu
http://wIu.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

I,

the Honor System.

Next, under the current
White Book policy, the EC
acts as investigator, grand
jury, prosecutor, judge and
jury. One major problem
with this is that because
the EC acts as the grand’
jury, deciding whether
or not there is enough
evidence to merit a closed
hearing, many of their de-
cisions may have al-
ready been in-
fluenced be-
fore the trial
even begins.

I agree V
w i t h
sopho-
m o r e
E C
rep-

  
  
   
  
  
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 

ethical, behavior for mature college students.

A student who is accused should know that he is
being investigated. Ifwe all live in an honorable envi-
ronment, what problems can this cause? Surely the ac-
cused will not ask other students to lie on his or her
behalf.

I encourage the EC to listen to‘its fellow students.
We all take great pride in our Honor System, but we
must not convince ourselves that we are incapable of
error.

There is a need for change. On the whole, the Honor
System works, but we must not neglect even the small-

est problems because we are dealing with the futures
of our classmates and ourselves.

EC strives for
balance
  between

  disclosure,
 conﬁdentiality

resentative

Jeff Cook. By Beth Formidoni ’96,
who has a99L

P r 0 p 0 S e d ECPRESIDENT

that seven

randomly 4

selected '
students, ‘V
b o u n d ‘E
by con- 
fiden- 
tial- _ g V
i t y .
and
given
no information
as to the names
of the students
involved could
d‘¢."tf€’-.‘Y 337311 ".9",
whether there 
is enough evi-
dence to go
to a closed
hearing. This
would create
a system in
which the
EC would
begin a trial
with no
precon-
cie i v ed
i d e a s
a b o u t —
the ac- :.
cused or i
the case, thus increasing the fairness to the accused.
On a ﬁnal note, no student should fear the Honor
System or the EC. The Honor System was intended to
create a comfortable and trustworthy environment.
Trials should concern only relevant questions and
material, and students should not be “investigated” by
their peers without their knowledge. This is unprofes-
sional and despicable, as well as dishonorable and un-

 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
   
    
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 

5 Many students have ex-
pressed interest in the dis-
closure of the voting

records and speciﬁc facts of

Executive Committee hearings.

The EC strives to maintain a balance be-
tween the conﬁdentiality created to protect the
accused and witnesses and disclosure of in-
formation for student awareness.

The Executive Committee does not dis-
close the facts of closed hearings for a num-
ber of reasons. First, disclosure of these facts
could compromise the anonymity of the ac-
cused and witnesses involved in a closed

‘hearing. ’ O A  ‘ I

Only the accused has the power to make
this information known to the public
through an appeal to an open hearing. Sec-
ond, no amount Qf disclosure could com-
pare to the Executive Committee’s ability to
hear and evaluate the witnesses’ testimony
and demeanor. A lesser degree of disclo-
sure would represent a halfhearted com-
promise between the conﬁdentiality of a
closed hearing and the student body’s abil-
ity to hear all of the facts and testimony
in an open hearing.

_ Releasing the closed hearing voting
, . ~ records of Executive Committee mem-

I ; bers represents an equally unsatisfac-
tory compromise between conﬁdenti-
ality and disclosure.

The release of voting records is a difﬁcult issue, be-
cause it is important for constituents to know the views of
their elected representatives. This need would not be met,
though, with a simple description of whether a member of
the Executive Committee voted guilty or not guilty.

Members’ votes are based on numerous factors, none
of which could be conveyed through a perfunctory list of

 

HONOR SYSTEM: Dead or Alive?

how that individual voted.

Furthermore, because Executive Committee members are
bound by an obligation of conﬁdentiality not to discuss
the facts of a particular case, representatives could neither
justify their decisions nor explain why they voted as they
did.

It is vitally important for students to be informed about
the opinions and values of their elected representatives. This
goal could be better accomplished through events that would
enable representatives to discuss their views on honor in a
setting divorced from the facts of a particular case.

Decaying system

must be reformed
Mike Agnello ‘O2

OPINION WRITER

In the weeks before break, an alleged honor viola-
tion occurred and resulted in a student withdrawing
from school. I won’t recount the story or even discuss
it; we are all too familiar with it. However, the episode
got me thinking. How extensive is the honor system
and exactly how does one deﬁne an honor violation?

Many students cried foul over the incident because
of the frivolous nature of the “ violation.” We all know
that any breach of the honor system, no matter how
small or seemingly insigniﬁcant, is considered equally
serious.

Is it possible for a student to unknowingly commit
an honor violation? If so, is he as accountable as a
student who did so knowingly? The White Book (which
everyone has read, of course), though rather thick, is
extremely vague on these subjects.

The ambiguity itselfis not even a bad thing; we live
in a value-based rather than a rule-based community.
Unfortunately, common sense and best judgement vary
greatly among two thousand separate, unique individu-
als. What is not covered under blatant lying, cheating
or stealing is more or less left to the Executive Commit-
tee.

I have no quarrel with the EC and recognize the dif-
ficulty of itsjob. Like any highjudicial body, its deci-
sions set precedents. These precedents can be good or
bad, but nevertheless, they exist. The EC must be care-
ful too be neither too hard nor too soft on the gray
areas. Acting too harshly would turn W&L into a po-
lice state and destroy the entire point of having an honor

system in the ﬁrst place. The reverse action would cause .

the Honor System to crumble.

Many students have called the EC’s handling ofthis
recent incident as well as others as “bull shit.” If the
body that enforces the Honor System is not respected,
what of the Honor System itself? I sympathize with both
sides, but this much I know: There are people on cam-
pus who think that the EC couldn’t pour piss out of a boot
if the instructions were on the heel. That’s bad folks.

Signs of the honor system’s decay are everywhere.
Freshmen attach signs the their detergent in the laun-
dry room, blatantly telling others not to steal theirs.
Some people who have left CDs in the library have had
them stolen. The J-School has to lock up its CDs
Whether or not everyone realizes it, we’re at a cross-
roads.

Modern societal realities have invaded our isolated
little bubble. The EC, with the help of the entire student
body, needs to re—emphasize the importance of the
Honor System and make clear what constitutes an honor
violation. The Honor System separates W&L from ev-
ery other school in the nation. In order to preserve our
elite status and national appeal, this problem must be
addressed. Somebody somewhere needs to do some-
thing before it’s too late. ‘

 

' =91} in tviio,university student budgets,’ ~
- ‘g  two gyrpupslof leaders to oversee nearly every‘ 
"student orgariiziationonv campus, observed the terms of ‘

 

i " three past Executive Committee presidents and ultimately,

g the system I am proud to call our own. i ’
A D I  numbers are suggestive of my capabilities, but
; ~ they are NOT, however, where the importance of my expe-
',rience lies. It is how these numbers have helped me, and
, continue to help me grow in my understanding and sup-
port of ourHon"or’System, that is vitally important to you,
' my fellow members of the student body.

system, butl possess the knowledge required to eﬂ‘ec-

- tively make changes in this system, a system designed to

~ I, portray and protect the principles and philosophies main-
; ,tained by the current generation of our student body.

. :  : I intend to encourage the momentum borne of these

   

commiéeéiiha 9 heal-aiz nivestigiative—reports,partici-7 "

-2   fmembersof the Executive Committee, both '
a’ present and.paSt,. simultaneously uphold and challenge I I

You see, not only am I aware of the intricacies of our .

    
 
  

     

.'~.\\s e 

.,‘weeicsto'.continue“

    
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
 

e. year ofthe White

. o‘irorSysten1. These com-

   

‘Remmders,forjFancy Dress Ball
Dear Me1{nbers‘of1he,W«&L:Community

 , As,you7’all1I'lcn‘ow, th‘e*92"" annual Fancy Dress Ballis
, Friday,‘March 5.’-I wouldlike to make you aware of a few

Tickets are ’  for admittance to the ball, so please
remember to purchase them and bring them with you. You
will not be admitted  aticket. Tickets and memorabilia
will be sold in the University Center all week beginning
Monday, March 1. These items will be sold from 10 am. to 5
p.m. Monday though Thursday, 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. Friday,
March 5, and 6 pm. to,9 pm. Tuesday and Wednesday.
Tickets will alsoobe sold at the front door of the ball for
anyone who has not already.pureha_sed them.

Please remember that smoking and drinking will not be
permitted, inside the Warner Center. The FD Steering Com-
mittee has worked very hard on this year’s ball, so please
respect our work and do not remove any decorations from
the Warner Center. In addition, please do not damage or

_ Olltlilie remainder ofthis.

folio . ‘I 'studentinitiativethatjis,1;;j , p
”  in wishes"‘fo:‘rja:safei
.  . , it E, . . he  ,_ forwardtoseeirlg
.. i}$:“%‘3.°.‘it»b<éi1yt<iiuiid¢I‘3i!kétl1e ‘  A  ‘ 
  system, and 

 35n.g°3f’3. <=I1011g31f°»I5f0P0L°-6 
for é,ch”ange’youhavérequested.‘
 etenergies of your con-g ~
“derstanding, weean col-i 

i7DearEditor:’g- 4' :~;«>

_‘ unaware of the risks of using or possessing drugs while

foreign jails but cannot get them released. I would be

- approaches.

   
   

  

aés:r,<>’y,ai1y 

 ‘nieban ;»:11_ j, heldfiom _9;;sdp.x§t. tqisoainiiaest 1
diienieitainiiig’ FancyjDress. .1-look’ ‘

   

 

  
  

 

     State

    

. / Each  many  ' tudents serve time in for-
eign jails‘ or ‘await trail indetention because they were

overseas. Many young Americans are also arrested in
foreign lands because of the inappropriate behavior as-
sociated with heavy drinking. 7

The Bureau of Consular Affairs is responsible for the
protection and welfare of US. citizens abroad. U.S. con-
sular oﬁicers can visit American citizens being held in

grateful for your assistance in reminding your readers of
theirnportance of obeying all foreign laws when navel-
ling abroad. _

Additional travel safety information can be viewed and
downloaded from the Consular Aﬂairs’ home page on the
Internet at http://travel.state.gove, including the ﬂyer
“Going Abroad?” and the pamphlet “Travel Warning on
Drugs Ahmad.” Both provide the “hard facts" about the
dangers of carrying or using drugs while overseas.

Thank you for your cooperation in this effort to alert
American students to these risks and their consequences
as the season of spring breaks and summer vacations

Sincerely,
Madeleine K. Albright

 

 
 

__tions open to victims

 

PAGE 4

I 5 : I @112 iﬁing-tum iﬂlri

 

MARCH 1, 1999

Editor ’s note: Rape is an extremely sensitive issue, and
in the stories that follow, both sides hold very strong opin-
ions. This is a complicated matter with blurred lines that
we 've tried to deal with in the most responsible way pos-
sible. Thus, we ’ve tried to present the sides of both an
accuser and an accused, although they were involved in
separate cases.

She says:
victimized twice

“There was this guy sitting next to me on the couch 
He ended up walking me into the bathroom in the base-
ment and we were making out, and basically, he undressed
me and he turned me up against the bathroom wall and he
started to have anal sex with me. I ﬂipped out at that point,

and I remember saying
“no” or “stop”. . .
Then he left
and I
passed out
on the floor
of the bath-
room and
was there
for a couple
hours.”

This was
t h e
drunken in-
troduction
‘. to college
3‘ life for
“Julia” dur-
ing her
f r e s h m a n
year at
Wa s h in g -

ton and Lee University, a school known for its Honor Sys-
tem.

Yet no sense of honor protected her from one of the
most horrifying experiences a woman can suffer, an experi-
ence she suffered at the hands of a fellow student.

Julia is not alone. Two rape cases came before the Stu-
dent Faculty Hearing Board last year, including hers. Esti-
mates of other cases that go unreported run high.

Julia did not report the incident right away. She waited
until the end of her sophomore year, when she says an
article about campus rape that ran in The Ring-tum Phi
persuaded her ﬁnally to come forward and press charges
within the bounds of the university judicial system. V

I There are no cases of rape involving students being
/tried criminally on record within recent years in Lexington.
Of the few women who do decide to go forward with
charges, like Julia, most decide to do so within the W&L
judicial process, which means the SFHB.

' “I wasn’t really told about all of my different options, I
suppose. I did hear some, and I went to see some of the
_deans,” she said. “I realize now I could have gone through
civil court.”

1 Junior Meredith Welch, who has proposed reforms to
the SFHB hearing process, is suggesting steps to increase
victim awareness.

“I think we could prevent a lot of sexual assault and
help out a lot of the people who are assaulted if wejust tell
them about their options and their resources,” Welch said.
. These options include the possibility of taking the of-

fender to criminal court. In order to make a case in criminal
court, the accuser must have proof.

“I know that one of the big problems for criminal court
is that you have to have concrete evidence —— which a lot
of girls don’t have,” Julia said. “That needs to be taught

right from the beginning: you need to get to a doctor imme-
. diately, and you get evidence the next day or that night.”
Professor Nancy Margand says that this
is also a problem in SFHB trials. According
L to Margand, never once has a victim come
, ‘forward with medical evidence.
Another option that many victims
, are unaware of is the possibility of
taking an offender before the Execu-
; tive Committee, and charging an
‘honor violation. A victim may also
;.ﬁle a complaint without com-
. mitting herself to further ac-
. tion.
A woman may report
the assault to Dean
, Anece McCloud and
.. leave it at that; she can
. go onto ﬁll out an in-
wcident report that will
. ‘be kept on ﬁle with-
,,out initiating an
[honor system pro-
;. _ceeding, or report
. the incident and
.,try mediation,
;..:again without
.;,.initiating an
_ honor system
.. proceeding.
These are all ac-

  
  

immediately following as- ,
,.sault, without the added burden of
..:_having to decide whether or not to ﬁle fomral charges.
,, _ After her trial, Julia had some procedural issues herself.
A The defendant in her case was given a two-day suspen-
,,‘,sion during the last week of spring term ofhis senior year.

He was not allowed to walk with his class at graduation,
but graduated nonetheless. ' .
. “I went to talk to Dean [David] Howison about it,” Julia
said. “He basically told me that they felt that this guy had
a good job lined up for after he graduated, and if he was

  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
 
  

suspended it would jeopardize his career and they didn’t
feel that it was worth it. So they didn’t really do anything
to him. That was his reason. It had nothing to do with the
case, it had nothing to do with whether this guy was a
threat to still be on campus  Based almost entirely on his
grades or his academic performance and hisjob  I don’t
quite know what to do with that.”

Howison could not comment on the speciﬁcs of indi-
vidual cases.

Conﬁdentiality was another strong issue for Julia.

“I was going through this hearing and it was the most
traumatic thing I’d ever been through,” Julia said. “I wasn’t
allowed to talk to anyone. And so my best friend that I live
with, that I share everything with  I couldn’t say any-
thing to her about the most important thing that had hap-
pened in my life. And I felt that as soon as I’d entered into
the trial, the support that I’d had through the school kind
of dropped off.”

Witnesses in Julia’s trial also felt that the SFHB trial
was not conducted in a completely fair or efﬁcient man-
ner. “Claire,” a witness on .lulia’s behalf, said that
her experience in the hearing brought home to her
some of the more grievous aspects of the pro-
cess.

“I deﬁnitely think there needs to be some
changes in the process, especially with re-
gard to the role of the advocate. My experi-
ence as a witnessoften made me feel like I
was the one on trial. The law school stu-
dents think they’re getting all of this
great experience by playing lawyer and
trying to win the case rather than just
bringing each party’s facts out into
the open.”

Claire also believed that the line
of questioning was often inappro-
priate. '

“I was sometimes cornered
into answering irrelevant
questions as well as
badgered until I ﬁnally
refused to answer
some of the more ridiculous ones,” she said. “The problem
with that, however, is that when you plead the Fifth
[Amendment] in a situation like that, it looks like you’re
hiding something and you’re not able to help the accuser.
It doesn’t look like you’rejust trying to keep some ofyou
dignity intact.” A

Another witness, “Nicole,” believes the process was
unfair for Julia. “After she had to go through a trial that
revealed every aspect of her personal life to students and
faculty members, she had to face the fact that her efforts
meant almost nothing to the administration,” Nicole said.
“I remember talking to her about the decision. We initially
thought it sounded positive. It was a guilty verdict [for
sexual misconduct]. But then we ﬁnally understood that
the appeal reduced his sentence to almost nothing.

“Julia was never out to ruin this guy’s life. She just
wanted him to realize that he had done something wrong.

She needed that closure,” Nicole said.

“Because the administration reduced his punishment
so greatly, I don‘t think he’ ll ever realize the heinous rami-
ﬁcations of his act,” she said. “He was let off. She has to
live with the consequences every day.”

To name a name . . .

In the midst of outcry over recent verdicts handed down
by the Student Faculty Hearing Board, junior Meredith
Welch is calling for full disclosure of names of the con-
victed.

In a September proposal, Welch called for a complete
reform of W&L’s policies on handling charges of sexual
assault. W&L’s Student Affairs Committee is currently tak-
ing her proposal under consideration in a procedural re-
view. ‘

“After they come up with a proposal, they’re going
to bring it back to the students in some form,” Welch
said. “And if they get student approval, they’re

planning on sending it to the faculty for a vote, I

believe in April.”

SFHB chair Barbara Brown, university librar-
ian, foresees possible problems with disclosing
offender’s names to the W&L community.

“If we publish the names of the individual who

was found guilty of something, with the kinds of
issues that the SFHB deals with, the concern I

would have is that the persons would become a
pariah and ostracized in ways that are not in
keeping with what the punishment was,”

Brown said.

Others, however, argue that the same
standards should apply on the W&L cam-
pus as in the court system.

“Once you’re in the real world and you
commit a violent, or even a nonviolent
. crime, as long as you’re over 18, your

' name is published,” sophomore Heather

McDonald said at a disclosure forum.

“To be lulled into a false sense of se-
' : curity within our realm of W&L is not
necessarily a good thing.”

Naming names of the convicted
is not as important to others as is
disclosing the facts of cases and

verdicts. Knight Professor of Jour-
nalism Louis Hodges is more con-
cerned that students are educated
about the possible consequences
of their actions, as well as allowed
access to infomiation about’ac—
taken by campus judicial bod-
than told the actual names of

tions

i e s ,

convicted students.
“First, we really need a watchdog to watch over even

our bestjudicial bodies,” Hodges said. “And secondly, to

do so, and to publish the results, to reveal the issues at

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
   

stake and the, actions taken, would have a major educa-
tional impact on everybody in the student body.”

Education is an important issue. Senior Patrick
McCorrnack, secretary of the Student Judicial Committee,
recently conducted a poll to determine students’ levels of
awareness, as well as their opinions, of campus judiciary
bodies.

“Students admitted that they didn’t really know what
was going on as far as thejudicial systems were concerned,
but that didn’t seem to bother them,” McCorrnack said.
“They ﬁgure as long as someone else is worrying about it,
they don’t have to.”

McCom1ack’s poll indicated that 46.4 percent of the '

W&L undergraduate student body favored the disclosure
of the results of SFHB hearings. When asked how conﬁ-
dent they were in the abilities of the SFHB to adjudicate

cases of sexual misconduct, 23.1 percent said not conﬁ- ‘

dent or barely conﬁdent, 40.6 percent were neutral or had
no opinion, 27.5 percent were somewhat conﬁdent, and 8.7
percent were very conﬁdent.

“My personal feeling is that we ought to have open
trials,” McCorrnack said. “Aside from full disclosure

about names and charges, I don’t think that there’s any
way to do what should be done. We have to have
some sort of check on ourjudicial system.”

Howison also recognizes the lack of awareness
within the student body as a problem.

“I think we need more education,” Howison
said. “There’s no question that there’s not the
kind of awareness of these procedures that we
need to achieve, and that will be a goal of the
Student Affairs Committee as we review the
whole sexual misconduct policy.”

Welch says that many students she talks
to about her proposal do not even know
what the SFHB is, much less what it does.

Recently, the SFHB has come under ﬁre,
not only for its secrecy, but also for not
being harsh enough in its punishment
of accused rapists and for being too
hard on the plaintiffs.

Trials of the
SFHB

Welch has
been leading that
charge against
some of the
SFHB’s proce-
dures.

“I’ve been
very unhappy
with the out-
come ofthe tri-
als,” Welch
said. “I don’t
think that the
punishments
that are meted
out are any-
where equal to
the crimes com-
mitted. I’d like
to see stricter
punishments
that are more
consistently
applied. People
[the accused]
tend to get
breaks if they
have ajob lined
up at Microsoft
or something
that might be
jeopardized.”

Howison ac-
knowledges that
the existing system
could be improved.

“I think there are
some procedural issues
on the actual complaint
process, the hearing pro-
cess, that we can reﬁne,”
Howison said. “And we’ll
also look at that  Yes, there
are some improvements that
need to be made.”

SFHB trials are conducted un-
der a blanket of conﬁdentiality.
All those involved, be they board
members, witnesses, defendant or
plaintiff, are prohibited from discuss-
ing the trial with anyone.

Welch contends that both the accused
and the accuser need someone to talk to
during the trial, but admits that afterwards,
the lines are not clearly drawn as to what can
be discussed and what cannot.

“I know that a lot ofthe girls that have been
through trials aren’t sure ifthey can talk about
it or not, so they’rejust talking about it,” Welch
said. “There’s a lot ofambiguity in the system
and it needs to be cleared up.“ _

Howison himself isn‘t sure where the
boundaries should be set.

“The hearing standards are that the
process is conﬁdential, so that‘s certainly
the expectation," Howison said. “I think
that we can get all tied up in rules and
regulations of who you can talk to and
who you can’t talk to. My standard is
just reasonableness. If you say can the

  
 

person never utter the name of the person she accused
and found guilty, I’d say no, that’s not realistic. At some
point, the person [accuser] has the right to talk about the
[accused] person.”

In being denied their natural support systems, Welch
points out, victims actually have little incentive to report a
rape.

“While a man may receive only a mild suspension for
assaulting a woman, she may be dismissed from the uni-
versity for conﬁding in a friend about the trial,” Welch
said. “Few women come forward when they have
been raped, both because they do not know
how to proceed and because they have
little reason to expect it will be worth
the time and emotional trauma.”

SFHB guidelines currently list be-
ing “sanctioned” as punishment for
breaking conﬁdentiality. Only wit-
nesses in trials are not named spe-
ciﬁcally in the prohibition. The
SFHB itself, however, would
have nothing to do with the
punitive process, which is
handled by the Ofﬁce of the
Dean of Students.

“We need to recognize
that anytime you have disci-
plinary hearings that are es-
sentially held in private and
are kept secret, you have a
potentially dangerous situ-
ation on your hands,”
Hodges said. “Therefore
the bias ought to be on
the side of openness
rather than secrecy.”

For the victims
who are speaking
out, the emphasis
is already on
openness.

  
  
 
 
  
 
  

  

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
   
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
   
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
   

 

h4ARcH1,1999

@112 {King-tum lﬂlti

IFE

 

PAGES_

1
tion penalty: expulsion.
C  Joe was assigned an advocate, a third-year law stu-
' dent, and asked to assemble a list of those he would like to

  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
    
    
   
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
   
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
   
   
  
   
  
   
 
  
  
   
 
 
  
  
 
  
   
    
   

call as witnesses in his defense. He named his two room-
mates and a few close friends who could testify about the
nature of his relationship with Amy.

One of the witnesses Joe called was a close female friend,
“Sophie,” who was in turn contacted by his advocate.

“It was the most horrible moment of my life,” she said,
“to know that somebody you’ve loved and trusted for
more than two years, who has never once done anything
inappropriate to you, has been accused of something like
this. At first, I thought ‘I can’t do this.’ And at moments
like that you’re thinking that it could actually be true.”

The witnesses were called, and the opening statements
written, and Joe and Amy prepared to face each other in
front of the Student Faculty Hearing Board, which deals
primarily with questions of sexual assault.

On the day of the trial, Amy’s witnesses testified for
five hours. In contrast, J oe’s friends and roommates were

Vve need a watchdog

They met during freshman year at Washington and Lee

University. People gazed at the handsome couple they

made; he, a man of the world, she, religious and
innocent.

Now they have different labels;
she calls herself a “rape vic-
tim" and him “rapist.”

And the only two
people who will ever
know what actually
took place have
completely dif-
ferent stories.

The rela— given about an hour and a half.
t i o n s h i p Because Joe and Amy had different circles of friends,
ended after Amy’s witnesses could only testify as to what she had
more than a told them about Joe. Joe’s best friend, “Tyler,” was the
year one only crossover witness, as he knew both Joe and Amy

well.

“I thought that the decision had been made before any-
thing had happened,” Tyler said. “Another witness who
followed me was told ‘we don’t want to hear about his
character, we don’t want to hear anything, we just want to
know what happened.’ And of course, the only people
who could answer that were [Joe] and [Amy].”

“One of [Amy’s] witnesses testified that I was capable

January, and
two months
later “Joe” was

notified that he
was being
charged with
rape. The plain-
tiff was his ex-

g i rl fr i e n d, of rape,” Joe said. “She didn’t know me. She judged me
“Amy,” and based on what [Amy] told her. Another male friend said
she was that he didn’t know me well, but that he wanted to hunt me

down and slit my throat. That was accepted.”
Joe feels that the board put him at an even greater
disadvantage by denying him character witnesses.
“A rape case is very complicated,” Joe said.
“I felt that my rights were vio-
» ~ " >  lated, but fiankly,inthat mo-
ment I couldn’t think ratio-
nally. It is essential to
have character
witnesses
«3, _ for both
I I. ,. . “*«, ( sides to de-
' ‘X termine if a
person has
certain ten-
dencies.. I
wasn’t al-
lowed any
character wit-
nesses. The
board turned
them down, say-
ing that they
weren’t relevant
to the case.”
Sophie, who
planned to give
/ character testi-
mony concerning
her own relationship
with Joe, was denied
. the opportunity to
speak.
“His counsel told me
that she’d call me back
 to let me know exactly
what was going on, but
the call never came,”
Sophie said. “I had to ask
[Joe] what was going on,
and he said that without
notifying me, the board de-
cided that my presence
wasn’t required because I
would be biased.”

Joe’s actions were also
questioned by the board be-
cause he had never men-
tioned his sexual involvement

with Amy to any of his friends.
“The [student board mem-
ber] asked me why I didn’t go
out and tell people that I had got-

ten laid,” Joe said. “The way I was
brought up, you don’t do that, it’s

something that’s private.”

As a result, Joe questions the abili-

ties and training that board members

have.

“Their attitudes toward my witnesses

was completely different from how they
treated her witnesses,” Joe said. “I felt that

the board members were not qualified at all. First

of all, you don’t take hearsay accounts, which
they allowed on [Amy’s] side. Those people [wit-
nesses] were not there, they didn’t know what was

going on.” .

“The case itself was based on one person’s

word against the other’s,” Sophie said. “And

in this case, she’s a tiny, virginal girl with a

very conservative background where he’s

bigger, more liberal and experienced.” V

3 Throughout the trial, the intimate as-
pects concerning the sexual relation-

ship between Joe and Amy were dis-

cussed in detail. And it was here

that the biggest differences be-.

tween their stories occurred.

Amy contended in her ini-

tial statement that she had

had sex with Joe fewer than

three times after the ﬁrst,

which she considered

asking for
a single-
sanc-

.; .V..,:\,’ - '0'/.N

 

      

   
  

  
  

W&

 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

rape. After Joe’s roommates testiﬁed that she had visited
him multiple times over a three-month period, however,
Amy changed her testimony. According to Joe, no one on
the board took note of the differences between her initial
assertion and her testimony during the trial.

Initially, the SFHB found Joe guilty of sexual miscon-
duct. It ordered him to write a report to the board, and ruled
that a second conviction would result in automatic expul-
sion. The board notiﬁed Joe through his advocate, who
subsequently advised him that there was sufﬁcient evi-
dence to sue for violating his rights as a defendant, i.e.
innocent until proven guilty. Instead, he opted to appeal.

“Their attitude toward me and handling of my witnesses .
were clearly discriminatory. They acted as though they
had already made their decision,” Joe said. “At the appeal,
I asked Professor Margand [then head ofthe SFHB] what
the grounds were for convicting me. She said that they
‘felt’ I was wrong.”

The appellate board reduced the punishment to manda-

tory counseling, as well as a re-
striction that Joe not live
in the same apartment
complex as Amy.

“I didn’t like
their decision,”
Tyler said, “be-
cause it seemed
like they couldn’t
commit. And
their justification
was that he didn’t
rape her, but he treated
her improperly. And so their punishment was
to teach him how to treat her properly. Nei-
ther side felt vindicated.”

For those involved, the trial left them with
confusion about preconceived notions re-
garding rape. Sophie and Tyler both profess
that they initially accepted the charge
against their friend Joe without question.

‘‘I think that our society sympathizes
with girls,” Sophie said, “and thinks that rape charges
must be true, otherwise, they wouldn’t go through the
process. Guys are at a definite disadvantage because of
this bias unless there is very definite and clear physical
evidence.”

“[Joe] was very fair, he showed both sides,” Tyler said.
“He was the first one involved to say, ‘she feels wronged.
Regardless of what I did or did not do, she feels
wronged.’”

According to Joe, however, the relationship was purely
consensual. Amy refused to comment on the case.

“There was no proof presented that said I had done
something wrong,” Joe said. “It was my word against hers,
and I wasn’t allowed the same opportunity to "defend my-
self. And after a year of questioning what went wrong [in
the relationship], I know that I’m innocent.” ‘

“In my opinion, rape is something you don’t want at
the time,” Tyler said. “You can’t change your mind a few
weeks later.”

Joe is left with feelings of betrayal and anger. He has
decided to remain at W&L for the time being, but is over-
whelmed at that idea that his ex-girlfriend attends meet-
ings advocating disclosure and classifies herself as a rape
victim. He asks students to think twice about the reliability
of the process itself, before asking for the disclosure of
names based on the SFHB’s rulings.

“The whole trial proved to me that there is no justice,
and that is basically depends on people’s perspectives
and then how one successfully manipulates if'3esystem,”
he said.

If it happens to you

Rape is an enormous trauma for a person to endure. If it
happens to you, however, remember that the decisions
you make immediately following the attack will be vital to
any criminal investigation, whether
that be within the W&L system
or in a criminal court.

The decision to
report a sexual as-
sault is an ex-
tremely difficult
one, but only by
reporting a crime
can any semblance
of justice be found.

In order to pros-
ecute in a criminal
court, a sexual as-
sault victim must have
physical evidence of the
crime. It is important,
therefore, not to bathe,
change clothes or
clean up in any

way following

an assault. Do-

ing this could

destroy the legal '
evidence neces-

sary to the case.

Immediately
seek medical atten-
tion in order. to ad-
dress any injuries, in-
cluding those of which
you might not even be
aware.

A thorough medical examination will assist you in de-
tennining any health concems related to the crime and
assist law enforcement in developing a criminal case. Re-
member to seek a follow-up examination to check for an
unwanted pregnancy or sexually transmitted diseases re-
sulting from the assault.

Whether you decide to prosecute a sexual perpetrator

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

in a criminal court, you can also take your case to the
SFHB, or the Student Faculty Hearing Board. Thisjudi-
cialibody is composed of both W&L students and fac—' V
ulty and deals primarily with cases of sexual misconduct“
involving members of the W&L community. -I

If you need to report a rape or talk to a-confidential «
adviser about a sexual assault, the following telephone 1‘
numbers are beneﬁcial: 

Lexington Police Department
911 or463-9177

Stonewall Jackson Hospital
462-1200

Virginia Statewide Sexual Assault Hotline
1-800-838-8238

Project Horizon Hotline
463-2594

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  

R a" p e
Rockbridge
Area

463-7273

Other good
sources of help are
the donn counse-
lor / resident assis-
tant on-call sys-
tem, the peer coun-
selor network, the
W&L counseling
service and the in-
firmary. All of
these services are
available to help
you and pro-
tect your
rights.

By Polly Doig,

Do your part

The Phi has a two—fold purpose in printing these sto"3
ries. The first is to increase awareness. Even though we
live in a community governed by honor, rape is an event
that occurs with shocking frequency.

Yet W&L men and women can greatly reduce the risk_'s
of becoming a victim by simply not placing themselves in .
situations that lend themselves to danger. The majority
of rapes are not the random, violent attacks by strangers,
but rather the drunken blurring of lines by someone known
to the victim. Protect yourself by avoiding binge drink-
ing, avoiding going alone with another person to an iso-
lated place and being loudly vocal in your protests if
someone tries to take advantage of you. We know that
even one rape each year is one rape too many, and no one
deserves to be a victim and be put through the shame
and pain of this ordeal.

Be aware, and take precautions. ‘

The second purpose is to make the W&L community
aware of what is taking place behind closed doors. Virtu-
ally IOO percent of the people involved in SFHB trials
whom we have talked to, both on and off the record, have
been extremely dissatisfied with the procedures and out-
comes of these trials. "

Both Julia and Joe have bravely risked “sanction” in
breaking the confidentiality demanded by the SFHB. Pos-

sible discipline in reaction to this breach will be handled
by the Office of the Dean of Students.
Both Julia and Joe are aware of this possibility,
yet went ahead with the interviews in orderto
make the student body aware of the problems
with the existing system.
The reform process is currently under-
way. The Student Affairs Committee is re-
viewing current SFHB procedures, and
students can have a voice in the deci-
sions reached. Thejudicial bodies of
W&L are supposed to reﬂect the
opinion of the current
student genera-
tion. _“
This is an
impossible
goal, however,
if the student
body does
_ not make ‘its
voice heard.
Do not wait
until you are the
one sitting on the
witness stand. Listen
to what Joe and Julia
have said, and form your
own opinions on disclosure,
punishment, confidentiality and
procedures. They have taken a huge
risk to make you aware oftheir experiences.
Can we afford to have campusjudicial bodies op-
erating behind closed doors? Can we risk confidenti-
ality by having trials out in the open, or by naming
names? ‘
Go ahead. Do it. Get involved. The ball is in your
court. '

1

— Executive Editor Hollister Hovey contributed to this
story. All artwork by Hollister Hovey. ’

 

PAGE 6

@112 Ring-tum lﬂhi

SPORTS

MARCH 1, 1999

Women’s basketball ends season in ODAC tournament

By Tod Williams

SPORTS WRITER

While most students went skiing, home or somewhere
warmer for break, the Washington and Lee women’s bas-
ketball team had no intentions of going anywhere. And
their dedication paid off. Their season ended on Friday for
the women, but they walked away with the most wins in a
season, both overall and conference, in the program's his-
tory, as well as the ﬁrst appearance in a semiﬁnal confer-
ence tournament game.

Randolph-Macon proved too powerful for the Generals
for the third time this season, as the two teams met in the
semifinal round of the ODAC tournament. The Yellow Jack-
ets went into the locker room in front of the Generals 24-12,
after the Generals had cut the lead from 15. The Generals
were only 5-26 (19%) from the floor in the ﬁrst half.

But the Generals never counted themselves, out, and
they came out rolling. They scored the ﬁrst 12 points of
the second half to knot the game at 24-24 with 13:31. Randy-

Women’s
tennis loses,
men win

By Frances Groberg

SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee men’s tennis team im-
proved its record to 2-1 on Saturday with its 6-1 whip-
ping of Guilford on Saturday. The team played Meth-
odist at Guilford on Sunday, but as of press time,
results were unavailable.

In singles on Saturday, sophomore Kelly Radford,
senior Scott Babka, freshman Rhys James, senior
Dave Lehman, and freshman Andrew Roberts all de-
feated their opponents in straight sets.

All three doubles teams also posted victories, in-
cluding senior Dale Pretila/Babka, Radford/Roberts,
and James/senior Tom Washbum.

The men suffered a narrow loss on Thursday at
the hands of Radford College, 4-3. Wins in singles
were posted by James, Lehman and Roberts, and in
doubles by the team of James/Washbum.

The team will take on Hampden-Sydney on Thurs-
day beginning at 3 :00 p.m.

The women’ s team lost its season opener to Sewanee
6-3. General victories were posted by junior Brook
Hartzell and freshman Marming Willard in singles, and
freshman Sallie Gray Strang/Willard in doubles.

“Although it was a disappointing start to the sea-
son, it was a good eye-opener for the team, and once
we get a few more matches under our belt, we’ll all
raise the level of play and be a tough team to beat,”
sophomore Tori Hays said.

The women will try to avenge the loss when
they take on Virginia Wesleyan on Monday start-

ing at 3 p.m. -

Mac’s first basket came from a layup by forward Bren Elliott
with 13:06 remaining. V

The Jackets then turned their two-point lead into 11
before the Generals made their last run to pull within ﬁve,
40-35, with only 4:42 leﬁ to play. From there, it was all over,
as the Jackets cruised to a 20-point win. Randolph-Ma-
con outscored the Generals 16-1 in the last four-and—a-half
minutes of the game. ,

Freshman "Megan Babst led the Generals with nine
points and 12 boards. Babst averaged more than 1 1 re-
bounds a game in the last three of the season. Senior
Chrissy Burghardt scored six points and pulled down nine
rebounds in her ﬁnal game as a General. She ﬁnishes her
W&L career with 1,080 points, making her the all-time lead-
ing scorer.

During halftime, Burghardt said, “We decided that we
weren’t giving up because we didn't want the season to
end. Everyone went out and gave 122%.” She said late in
the game shots weren’t falling and some calls didn't go the
Generals’ way, but the team proved it wasn’t giving up.

“I’ve got a lot of different emotions now,” Burghardt
said following her last game. ‘‘I’m really sad it’s over.” She
is very pleased, however, that the program is on the up-
swing. “The girls will do great next year,” she said. “I'm
really proud of the way we ended up.”

Freshman Jessica Mentz totaled eight points and seven
rebounds in the game. She ﬁnished with 393 points on the
year, well on her way to scoring more than 1,500 career
points. Mentz averaged 15.1 points a game, but she also
had the team’s highest shooting percentage, 57.3%.

Mentz said the transition to the college level was hard

at first, but she eventually “got into the swing of it.” Mentz‘

said she is very thankful the “guards have the faith to get
me the ball down low.” With the loss of Burghardt, addi-
tional pressure will fall on Mentz next year both in the
paint and in the scoring column, but she expects Babst to
ﬁll the role next year. “She’ll be a big factor next year,”
Mentz said.

The Jackets had three players post 11 points apiece,
Aimee Beightol, Renee Zando and Jamie Tanner. Tanner

was 3-for-7 from behind the arch. _

The ﬁfth-seeded Generals earned the right to face
Randolph-Macon in the semis after ousting fourth-seeded
Virginia-Wesleyan in the ﬁrst round. W&L turned the ball
more than 28 times in the game, but out-rebounded the
Marlins 46-22., The 61-49 win was the Generals’ first ever
in the ODAC Tournament.

Jessica Morton led all scorers with 15 points, while Babst
added in 12 points and 12 rebounds, both career highs, for
her second career double-double. Burghardt scored 1 1 and
Nancy Mattox led Virginia Wesleyan with 10 points.

The Generals won their last regular season game by
defeating Eastern Mennonite 66-61. The Generals led by
as much as 15 during the second half, but the Royals got
to within two with only 21 seconds left before the Generals
beat them off with a stick. Mentz led the Generals with 20
points and 10 boards. '

The Generals finished the season at .500 overall, 13-13,
and were 11-9 in ODAC play. W&L won three of its last
four games.

 Men’s lacrosse starts season with a whipping

Dougherty had 30 goals and 27 as-

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

Freshman Eric Kontargyris prepares to release a pass during the game
against Cabrini on Saturday afternoon. The generals destroyed Cabrini 26-4.

By Brendan Harrington
SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee men’s la-
crosse team opened the 1999 season
in a big way on Saturday afternoon.

The Generals destroyed the Cabrini
College Cavaliers 26-4 as sophomore
midﬁelder Matt Dugan had six goals
and four assists and junior attackman
Chris Brown tal-

sists last season and was an all-ODAC
first team selection. He has been
named a third-team preseason All-
American for this upcoming season.
The Generals, who went 13-3 last sea-
son and advanced to the quarterﬁnals of

the NCAA tournament, return a number of .

lied six goals and C C
three assists.
S o p h 0 m o r e
midﬁelder Pope
Hackney scored

We’re going to
 Out  away ' defense back.

quality players.
“Our main strength this year is our ex-
perience,” W&L
head coach Jim

Stagnitta said.
“We have our
entireattackand

four goals, all of , We’re balanced
them in the first how g00d We re acrosstheboard
half. ' and that’s oin
The Generals golng to be‘ tobenice.§ g
jumped out to a The Gener-
3-0 1ead with —— Coach Jim Stagnitta 315, who were
8:42 left in the  ranked sev-
ﬁrst quarter, but enth in the na-

Cabrini scored twice in a span of 13 sec-
onds to make it 3-2. That was as close
as the Cavaliers would get, however, as
the Generals scored 10 straight goals to
open up a 13-2 lead. The Cavaliers ended
the streak with 7:05 left in the second
quarter on a goal by freshman midﬁelder
Tom Lemieux.

The Generals then scored 13
straight goals to make the score 26-3.
The Cavaliers tallied the ﬁnal goal of
the game to make the ﬁnal score 26-4.

The Generals outshot the Cavaliers
49-15 and won 21 of the 3 1 faceoffs.

Junior attackman Colin Dougherty,
who is on pace to become the all-time
leading scorer in W&L history, saw
limited action because of a shoulder
injury but still had two assists.

tion in a preseason pole by Faceoff
magazine, now move into the tough-
est part of their schedule. Next Satur-

day they travel to Maryland to take ,

on Washington College, the defend-
ing national champions and second-
ranked team in the nation. The follow-
ing Saturday the Generals travel to
fifth-ranked Gettysburg.

The Generals last faced Washing-
ton in 1996 in a 15-5 loss in Lexington.
W&L has beaten Gettysburg each of
the last three seasons. .

“We’re going to find out right away
how good we’re going to be,”
Stagnitta said. ‘‘If we come out of
those games all right, we know we’ll
be prepared for NCAA tournament
play if we get there.”

Women’s swimming wins ODAC, men swim well at SouthernStates

By Steele Cooper

SPORTS WRITER

On Sunday, Feb. 21, at the ODAC Championships and
Southern States Championships the men and women of
Washington and Lee swimming made impressive show-
ings and solid possibilities for the NCAA meet. The women
came away with the ODAC Championship and the men
ﬁnished ninth against a strong crowd of Division 1 teams.

Leading the Generals to victory once again was senior
Margaret Hoehl. She broke her meet and school record in
the 1650-free with a time of 17:46.21, earning an RBS cut for
the NCAA championships.

Other winners for W&L were freshman Cynthia Smith
in the 100-free (56:00), junior Lauren Beckenhauer in the
200-back (2:15), and senior Courtney Tyler in the 200-ﬂy
(2226.71). The Generals completed the 1-2 sweep in the 200-
back and 200-ﬂy with second place ﬁnishes respectively
by junior Lezeal Haynes (2:19), and freshman Maggie Fagan
(2231.04). .

The women also won the 400-free relay with impressive
performances by freshman Beth Newton, Haynes, Smith,
and Hoehl. , ’

The men ﬁnished ninth in the Southern States Champi-
onships held at Davidson. The 200-medley relay ﬁnished
seventh with sophomores Colin Hayes, Rob Little, and

Men’s track 3rd, women 4th at ODAC meet

By Frances Groberg

SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee men’s
and women’s track teams earned third
and fourth honors, respectively, at the
ODAC tournament held at VMl’s in-
door track on Saturday.

For the men,junior Frank Steams
and freshman Justin Novak earned
ﬁfth and eighth in the 800-meter run
with times of2:08.l4 and 2: 1 3.1 1, re-
spectively, and senior Darrick
Alford and sophomore Bryant
Adams ran to sixth and eighth in the
1500-meter run with times of 4: 15.90
and 4:35 .92.

Alford also earned second in the
3,000-meter run with a time of 9:36.83.
Senior Joe Bestic ran third in the 55-
meter high hurdles with a time of 8.40.

The 4x 1 00 and 4x800 meter relays
from W&L each earned fourth place
with times of47. 12 and 9:08.39, and
the 4x400 earned second with a time
of 3:38.22.

Senior Mark Granger threw the
shotput 40 ft, 10 inches to earn sec-

ond place, and his teammate sopho-
more Chris Wahl threw 38 it, 9.25 inches
to earn ﬁfth.

For the women,junior Jill Kosch
ran the 200-meter dash in 28:64 and
the 400-meter dash in 1:04.08 to
earn fourth place in each event.
Senior Lisa Brennan and sopho-
more Kathleen Moroney earned
second and third places in the 800-
meter run with times of 2:33 and
2:35.37 respectively.

Brennan also ran to a third place

ﬁnish in the 3000-meter run in a time .,

of1l:42.57.

The women’s 4x400-meter relay
earned third place wiht a time of
4:28.20. , and the 4x800 team earned
first, with atime oflO:38.67.

“We had wonderful leadership
during the indoor season,” Coach
John Tucker said. “Everyone ran
their best times ofthe season so far,
and we’re looking forward to get-
ting outdoors.”

The outdoor spring track sea-
son opensvon March 13, with the
W&L invitational.

Photo by Emily BaePhoto Eito
Sophomore Kathleen Moroney runs to catch
up at the ODAC meet Saturday at VMI.

Mike Miraglia, and junior Jared Fribush with a time of
1 239.21. Hayes ﬁnished second in the 200-ﬂy with atirne of
1:54.01.

Fribush continued his impressive swimming on the sea-
son with a career best 42. 10 in the 100-free. On Thursday,
Fribush made the NCAA “B” cut in the 50-free with a time
of 21 :2 l . He was also a part of the 200-free relay that made
the NCAA “B” cut with a school record tying 1:25.42.
Brown, junior Kenneth Ervin and Hayes also swam in that
race.

Now both teams must wait to see who will swim in the
NCAA championships to be held in Oxford, Ohio, March
1 1-13.

 

This Week 1

Golf @ Pfeiffer Invitational
Women's tennis vs. Virginia-Wesleyan, 3 :30 p.m.

Golf @ Pfeiffer Invitational

Women's lacrosse vs. Hollins, 4:30 p.m.
Women's tennis vs. Hollins, 3:30 p.m.
Women's tennis at Averett, TBA

Baseball vs. Mary Washington, 3 p.m.

Men's lacrosse @ Washington (MD), TBA
Women's lacrosse @ Denison, TBA

I Baseball vs. Washington and Jefferson (DH), 1 p.m.

Monday

Tuesday

Wednesday

Thursday

Saturday

Sunday

 ‘ »   - : u   .::.—i:~r; "r--F. <cs'r::r\»‘”.‘=-<.

 

 

MARCH 1, 1999

‘1


HAPPY  
BIRTHDAY,
MONTE!  

€4.49’

  ,.  -'

Paid Advertisement

-{Ba"seball starts 1999 season
, right behind strong pitching

1

at

V1

)1

1

By Tod Williams

SPORTS WRITER

It may still be winter, but the Boys of Summer have been
hard at work for quite a while now. After going 2-3 in the
1999 Rawlings College Baseball Tournament in Phoenix,
Arizona, the Washington and Lee baseball team returned
to Lexington to beat Muhlenberg in both games of a double-
header on Saturday.

Senior pitcher Bob Weston (3-0) got the win in the Gen-
erals’ first game, as he struck out six Mules, failing to walk
a batter. Weston gave up only ﬁve hits and has given up
only one run in his 21 innings of work this year. Weston’s
ERA is 0.43. ’

Both of the Generals’ two runs came in the bottom of
the seventh inning in the 2-1 win. With one out, freshman
Matt Kozora reached on an error by the shortstop, and he
advanced to second after junior David Hanson reached on
an error by the Muhlenberg first baseman. Both runners
advanced on junior Schuyler Marshal1’s sacriﬁce. Kozora
then scored to tie the game, and Hanson reached third on
a wild pitch from Muhelnberg’ s Marc Lenzinski. Junior des-
ignated hitter Andy Thompson then singled Hanson home
to give W&L the 2-1 win.

In the second game of the doubleheader, the Generals
scored once in both the second and third inning and twice
in the sixth to clench the 4-1 win. Junior Christian Batcheller
and Kozora both went 2-for-3 in the game. Sophomore David
Sigler threw the complete game for the Generals, allowing
only six hits and giving up two walks. Now 1-1, he fanned
six Mules.

The Generals defeated Rhodes 1-0 in their first game of
the year in the Rawlings tourney. Weston’s no-hitter was
the first for W&L since 1980. The Generals lost their fol-
lowing game 9-3 to Hendrix. Senior catcher E.J. Murphy
went 3-for-4 for the Generals.

The Generals were then blown out by Ponoma-Pitzer, 16-
0, using six men on the mound, and only producing three
hits. But the Generals rallied to beat Hendrix in their second
matchup 1 -0. Weston threw a three-hitter, striking out three,
walking two. Only three runners reached first base.

Rhodes then defeated W&L 7-5 in the championship
game in the two teams’ second battle in the tournament.
SophomoreWill Ogilvie, who threw five innings, allowing
four runs on four hits, got the loss for the Generals. Ogilvie
is now 0-2 on the year ’

The Generals (4-3) will host Mary Washington Thurs-
day aftemoon at 3:00 at Smith Field.

0 C
Statistics
Senior sec- Washington and Lee (4-3)
ond baseman
getsahit Stakem..... 2 00 0 0 1 0 0
d. th Hall ......... ..200000l3
“mg ‘f Batcheller.. .3 12 0 o 0 0 0
G°“°“"s - Murphy... 3 1 1 0 0 0 o 0
SW06? Of  Kozora..... 3 1 2 ,1 0 0 2 1
Muhlenberg Marshall.... 0 0 0 1 1 0 2 o
onsaturday ’Wren'n..... 2 0 1 1 1 1 7 1
afternoon, Lewis ...... .. 3 0 0 0 0 1 6 l
The Generals Hanson.... 2 1 1 0 0 0 2 2
take on Mary Sigler ........ .. 00 0 0 0 0 1 2
Washington Total ........ .. 204 7 3 2 3 2110
this Thursday
stamng at 3 Score by innings
p.m.

RHE
MC O000100—l 6 2
W&L 011002 —470

Photo by Emily Barnes/Photo Editor

PAGE 7

KAPPA D€LTA’S  
SHAMROCK
‘PROJECT

 

4- 3 "ON 3 BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
-t- SUNDAY, MARCH 14
-t- SIGN-UPS THROUGH MARCH 5 IN FRONT OF CO-OP
’ -1- CASH PRIZES
-1- GUARANTEED 3 GAMES

-1- FREE PIZZA AFTER TOURNAMENT

-7- PROJECT BENEFITS NATIONAL CENTER FOR THE

PREVENTION OF CHILD ABUSE AND PROJECT HORIZON

VP

 

 

 

PAGE 8

Humor Page

LAST WORD

 

MARCH 1, 1999, CHRIST,
WHERE DOES THE TIME Go?

My trip to England, the fifty-first state

By Kevin McManemin
SCREECH ’s Roaor F ROM
“SA VED BY THE BELL "

The plane touched down in
Heathrow and the captain informed
us that the weather outside was cold
and rainy — “another miserable
London morning. " As the captain’s
voice echoed through the cabin only
one thought went through my mind.‘
God, they really do speak in these
silly accents.

For my February break I wanted
warm beaches, cheap booze and beau-
tiﬁil women. My travel agent played a
crueljoke and sent me to London.

Yes, London, the largest and least
foreign city in Europe — and after liv-
ing in a place where the phrase “the
big city” refers to Roanoke, I was
ready for the change. The funny thing
was, though, there really wasn’t much
of a change.

It turns out that the British are a
very Americanized people. Walking
around Piccadilly Circus, one will ﬁnd

McDonald’s, Burger King, KFC,

Wendy’s — hell, throw in a Hardees
and Wal-Mart and we’re back in Lex-
ington. (Editor’s note: there are actu-
ally quite *a few similarities between
Lexingtonians

AWBOLLOCKS I DONE GOBBED
ON ME FISH & CHIPS.

Please call for assistance; my legs
seem to be trapped

and Londoners,
not the least of

  rm CUISINE

under this train.
ELLO ELLO,

which is bad L wor’s ALL THIS

teeth)‘ Don’t leave London with- THEN? BLOODY
1“ fa°t> ‘the out trying all of these tasty ELL

British are 5° English delicacies! Yumyum! .

Americanized But while the

that most of them

,__l:-ish & Chips Brits may have En-
even speak En- ’___Bangel.s & Mash glish down pretty
glish. The rest of _Gl.aVy & ‘Glass well, unfortunately,
them speak the _ _l__l.-lee range teletubbles, their other attempts
native dialect of I lightly roasted and topped at copying America

Great Britain:

with marinara sauce

have failed. The Brit-

cockney, a Ian- I _Camlllal5arkerl3owles= ish are a very
guage developed tampon souffle civilised (well, that’s
in the early sev- __l apologlze fortlmlastjoke’ how they spell it)

enties by Monty
Python. Here are
some translations
of basic English

. I really do. It was sick and
wrong and tasteless.‘Then4
again, so is British food. U ' -.

and polite pe/ople.
Thus, it logically fol-
lows that their talk
shows suck. We

phrases into

cockney from a London guidebook:
How much for a cup of tea?
WELL, RIGHTO, I MEAN, COR

BLIMEY, El-I GUV?
What time does the next bus arrive?

watched a British
talk show called “Trisha” on the tiny
television set in our cramped hotel
room. This episode was simply titled
“Outrageous!” People accused of
being “Outrageous!” came on the

Mel Gibson should Payback
the audience for this movie

by Brian Prisco
PHI MOVIE our

 

(Wait until TBS plays it
four days in a row)

Stabbed in the eye with a 14-inch
dagger. Doused in gasoline and lit on
ﬁre. Fed broken glass. Shot through
the face with a .357 Magnum at close
range. These aren’t scenes from the
movie, these are what I would rather
have happen to me than to be forced
to watch this movie ever again.

I was always under the impression
that if you had a dynamic cast and a
talented writer and director, you in-
stantly had to have a great movie.
Apparently I was wrong. PAYBACK,
the latest collaborative effort of Mel
Gibson (“Ransom,” “Mad Max”) and
Brian Helgeland (“Conspiracy
Theory,” “L.A. Confidential”) gives
new meaning to the term “piece of
shit.” What exactly was wrong with
the movie? Where to begin, where to
begin.

The plot. lt’s an action movie about
revenge. It doesn’t need much of a
plot. This was the impression that

Helgeland was under when he put to-
gether the script. Stevie Wonder could
have seen the ending coming, and Ray
Charles was there before him. The
story line was contrived, it was bor-
ing, it was anti-climatic. I have never
actually stood up at last minutes of a
movie and shouted, “Okay, end al-
ready!”

The action was rumored to be
“gruesome and violent.” It was pretty
nasty, but it was nothing to write home
about. I’ve seen more violence on
“Touched By An Angel.” Yeah, great,
they shoot a bunch of people and there
are a bunch of-explosions. Wow. Show
me something new, people!

And speaking of show me some-
thing, “Payback” uses that “teaser nu-
dity” that drives‘ me insane. A
dominatrix, a prostitute, and a drug
whore make up the entirety of the fe-
male characters, and the best they can
do are some mildly revealing clothing
and an ass shot. AN ASS SHOT! I
paid $7.50 to see an ass shot and a car
blow up? I could watch NYPD Blue
for free! And Sipowicz’s ass is much
nicer than this one.-

The acting. Well, at least they didn’t
try much. Mel Gibson was Mel Gibson.
He was mean, and omery, and cold-
blooded. I think he might have actu-
ally been asleep during the movie. Of
course, he was up against such dire

villains as Kris Kristofferson
(“Blade”) and James Coburn (“Mav-
erick”). I think they wanted Grandpa
Simpson, but he was hauling ass to
Lollapalooza, and Bob Dole was giv-
ing the presidential poll to Liddy.

You can have an old person as a
villain and make it successful, pro-
vided they have decent lines. Ifl
wanted to hear an old person say
“t"‘**” without much bravado, I’d hit
my grandfather in the hand with a
hammer.

Course, he’d kick my ass.

Oh, yeah, there were some other
people in the movie. I'd mention their
names, but I don’t really care. The
major villain was some Aryan-look-
ing douchebag with a propensity for
beating women and looking like Brian
Setzer. I didn’t care if they killed him
or not, just as long as they made him
stop saying “hubba hubba.”

The movie tried to come off as
hardcore and original. It failed. Mis-
erably. The action was bland at best
(I may be desensitized after”"Saving
Private Ryan” but it still was shit), they
didn’t bother to earn their R rating,
and the story was mediocre at best.
The only “Payback” you rooted for
was at the box ofﬁce.

Watch Movies For Guys Who Like

Moyies. This gangster movie should .

be put out of its misery.

Night Owl Music Co.

 

24 S‘. Jefferson Street
Lexington, VA 24450

Between The Palms

& Domino’s Pizza

464-4050

Open 10 a.m. - 9 p.m.
Monday - Friday

11 a.m. - 5 p.m.
Saturday

  . WE FIND IT FOR
BELOW LIST PRICE

“The biggest small guy in town who
can get you any music you want!”

Want to advertise in The Last Word?

Good for you!

on

stage and their family and friends con-
fronted them about their “Outrageous-
ness!”

Now, the British are not an outra-
geous people. The British are at least
forty years behind

TRISHA
Jolly good.

America has vastly superior talk
show technology because so many
Americans have

America in terms of
gross national outra-
geousness. Where
was the sass?
Where was the atti-
tude? Where were
the thrown chairs,
the ﬁst-fights, the
stream of bleeped

A’l'l‘llAlJ'll0NS

No trip to London is com-
plete withouta visit to these
tourist attractions. Be sure

to budget your time so you
don’t miss a thing!

their heads stuffed
with pop-psychol-
ogy “I’m proud of
who I am” crap. The
British are at least
mature enough for
self-loathing. They
understand that the
bedrock , of

out curse words? ﬁwesunineter Abbey civilisation is re-
Not on “Trisha.” ___The'l'0we,-ofLendon pression and un-
The show went __MickJagger’sdriginal happiness. We, on
something like this: lungs andillvel. . the other hand, are

‘ _D0llyw0od London always convinced

TRISHA’

—-—Wacky, fun-loving heroin

that we’re right and

Now, Diane, I un- addicts don’t have to listen
derstand you think ___-l-he Royal Accent to other people,
your friend Jenny is Reserves which is why our
outrageous. b___Glam sore from when we talk shows are not

kicked Britain’s ass in the 5° ”,‘,“°h“ “t‘_’lk
DIANE Revolullon shows as boxing

That’s right. She _geary, Sporty, posh and matches” (al-

dresses rather outra- the rest ofthe parliament though with

geously.

America’s rampant

TRISHA
I daresay, that sounds pretty out-
rageous. Let’s bring her out!

(Enter JENNY. She was dressed -
I swear I am not exaggerating —- in a
short skirt that would be considered
conservative even by W&L standards,
a normal blouse and jacket and maybe
a little too much make-up.)

TRISHA
So, Jenny, your friend thinks you
dress pretty outrageously. What do
you have to say about that?

JENNY
Well, perhaps I do dress a bit out-
rageously. I suppose I should tone it
down.

weight problem,
perhaps “sumo wrestling” is a better
description). ,

Besides politeness, the British have
other bizarre habits thatjust don’t make
sense to Americans. For example: read-
ing. And I’m not talking about just the
sports page and TV Guide like we read
—~ no, I’m talking books, actual books,
actual books with actual words and no
pictures. And they seemed to be read-
ing these for fun!

Every London street had two or
three bookstores, advertisements for
books ﬁlled London’s billboards and
the tubes (translation: subways) were
packed with Londoners immersed in
their lengthy tomes. I even saw one
European (translation: homosexual)
reading Schoenberg sheet music. I
mean, criminy, listening to Schoenberg
is pretentious enough, but reading it?

In the New York subway system, the
only thing people read are the dirty
words on each other’s tee-shirts.
Speaking of New York, however, I
will say that I did notice one big simi-
larity between these two great cities.
No matter what the accent, the non-
sensical ramblings of the crazy home-
less sound the same the world over. I
guess some things transcend culture.

T}

As the plane touched down in
Dulles, I thought back to this strange
[and 1 had just visited, this land of
weirdos with silly accents who respect
each other ‘s opinions and read for
pleasure. I looked up at the American
flag waving in the warm Virginia
breeze and realised just how lucky I
was to be in a land where people are
free to say and think what they please;
but where more often than not they
say what they please without think-

. THEATRE

The West End of*London
houses the most prominent the-
ater district in the world. It also
houses Soho, famous for its strip
clubs and naughty book stores.
Here’s a list of some of the clas-
sic plays you can be sure to catch .
in Soho this season.

~—A Midsummer Night’s Wet
Dream

——Romeo and Julislut

——As You Dyke it

——Anthony & Cleopatra & Bruce
& Steve & Mindy &...

—Hem'y the Fourth’s Parts, II

——King Long John

—~Tightass Androgynous

-—The Merry Whores of Windsor

Send me.
N amt:

vqu ‘KNEW TOvBE.“lTVRUE2} or B B
' _BUT wants “Ar-‘RAIQ TO ADMIT,

A Story Of Kegs, Dances, Paddlings,
And A Hell Night That Will Lead.Y0u TO

The.....

,TH'E: BOOK TI-l'Al‘I‘,,l1.fl‘Xi”.POSESl.\”t'li!’iH_ALl“l‘ if

ot)py(ics) of HELLMASTER

E}: BiIlI~t'\!alker

FRATERNITY 

Add rcss

$15 per book plus $2 shipping and handling.

Plcasc rnakr: checks payable to Bill B-:.n:~I-:3 and 313.2} m:

B3113:-c-ks
R0. Rm 844
Sull:va:1'3l3iar1d. SC '2'I~.‘«-I82!

ZIP

 

I
I

I!
I
‘I
I
I

  Ultra ﬂing-tum

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsITv’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

VOLUME 101, NO. 17

EC races end
in run-offs

Executive Commitee presidency,
vice-presidency still up for grabs

By Elianna Marziani
STAFF WRITER

Last Wednesday, following contro-
versy over Honor System procedures,
Washington and Lee University stu-
dents voted to elect their Big Five rep-

. resentatives.

Today, they had to do it again.

Two-way ties occurred in the races
for Executive Committee president and
vice president. Students had to choose
between sophomore Jeff Cook and jun-
ior Erin McGrain for EC president in
the run-off election. Junior Ross
Niblock and second-year law student
Jonathan McCrary will vie for the EC
vice-presidency.

Second—year law student Ashlyn
Dannelly was elected EC secretary in
an unopposed race, while Junior
Athena Mahoney was elected to the
Student Judiciary Council presidency.
Sophomore Jordan Ginsberg will serve
as SJC secretary.

All of these students were pleased
to be elected. “I am extremely excited
about my position as EC secretary,”
Dannelly said. She looks forward to
the opportunity to make the EC more
understandable and relevant to the
student body.

“During the past few weeks, I real-
ized that there are so many things stu-
dents do not understand about the EC

and its procedures,” Dannelly said.
“Secretary is the perfect position to
help better publicize the EC and in-
crease students’ understanding of
what the EC does on a weekly basis.”

Dannelly is on her way to realizing
this goal. “I want to continue to work
hard for the good of the university and
for the Honor System I believe so
strongly in.”

Mahoney was also very excited to
be elected as SJC president and to have
the opportunity to serve the W&L
community.

“I’ve had a lot of experience with
the SJC, and I know the procedures
well,” Mahoney said. “I have pride‘ in
our council because we dedicate our-
selves to maintaining a student body
with a respectable reputation as far as
student conduct is concerned.”

Ginsberg said he was “ecstatic” to
receive the news of his victory as SJC
secretary, though he did run unop-
posed. “I think I represent the W&L
community well  Iwill try to take [the
SJC] in a direction to bring it to more
prominence in the W&L community,”
Ginsberg said. Since he served as
sophomore SJC representative this
past year, Ginsberg feels that he has
“is familiar with the SJC procedures”
and can do a goodjob in office.

“I know what’s going on — I’m an
informed member of the SJC,” he said.

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

iﬂlri

F MONDAY, MARCH 8, 1999

Le Bal Masque

In the spirit of the evening, junior Geoff Haydon (Zorro) and senior Kendra Archer (a Flamenco dancer) discover the
magic of the Renaissance Era. For a pictoral of Le Bal Masqué, see pages 3-6.

Kennedy ready to rack A Senior receives Fulbright

By Polly Doig

NEWS EDITOR

, Famed Republican activist, author
and former model Lisa Kennedy Mont-
gomery will speak in Lee Chapel this
Thursday.

You might know her simply as
Kennedy. I

The former MTV
veejay and host of the
nightly video show,
“Alternative Nation,”
will give a free lecture
sponsored by Contact
and the Women’s Fo-
rum at 7 p.m. Thursday.

“I think it’s really
good that we’re getting I
somebody younger,”
Contact member
Roshni Nirody said.
“It’ll be easier for W&L
students to relate to
her. She’s focusing on
the fact that she’s a
conservative activist in
a ﬁeld dominated by
liberals.”

Kennedy grew up
near Portland, Ore., the
daughter of a lawyer
and an artist. As a teen-
ager she was politically
active. She worked for
her state representa-
tive, visited the White
House twice as a par-
ticipant in Girls’ State
and Girls’ Nation, and
tried a run for town
council at the age of 17.

“I really wanted to
get in for idealistic rea-
sons,” Kennedy said.

i 1 “Aslgrew up,I’d read

the paper and go to
meetings at city hall
and think, dude, I can
make a difference.”
Kennedy’s ambi-
tions led her to an in-
temship at one ofthe biggest altema-
tive radio stations in the country,
KROQ in Los Angeles. While there,
she was given a one-show tryout at
the age of 19. The show was a suc-
cess, and she was hired as a full-time
disc jockey and earned the on-air nick-

It name “the virgin Kennedy.”

Less than a year later, Kennedy

was introduced to an MTV executive,
auditioned and was hired as a veejay.
She brought with her a peculiar sense
of fashion, trademark Buddy Holly
glasses and breathed humor into the
conservative point ofview.

“I’ve been into music all my life,”
Kennedy said, adding that the MTV

job has “given me the chance to ex-
press myselfin a manner that no other
medium could.”

Kennedy has appeared on “The
Tonight Show with Jay Leno,” “Late
Night with Conan O’Brien,” “Politi-
cally Incorrect," “Later with Greg
Kinnear,” “John McLaughlin,"and
Howard Stem’s radio show.

Since her departure from MTV,
Kennedy has served as a commenta-
tor for the 1998 Winter Olympics in
Nagano, Japan. She has also modeled
in Jean-Paul Gaultier and Nicole Miller
runway shows. She has also recently
authored a book on women’s rights.

“I think it’s pretty remarkable that

...".".."

415*",
n* i
in

Photo courtesy of Kepler Associates, Inc.

Kennedy will dazzle Lee Chapel on Thursday during her free lecture.

someone who’s only 26 has done so
much," Nirody said.

Tickets will be distributed daily
from 11 a.m. - 2 p.m. in front of the
Coop. beginning Monday. Iftickets re-
main. general admission will begin
Thursday at 7:15 p.m. The public is
invited to attend a reception in the
Alumni House after the lecture.

Grantto study in Sweden

By Elianna Marziani
STAFF WRITER

Senior Kris Neville was recently
awarded a Fulbright Grant for a year’s
study abroad in Sweden.

The Fulbright Program was initi-
ated in 1946 in an effort to foster bet-
ter relations and understanding be-
tween people of the United States and
other countries.

Students who receive the grants are
chosen on the basis of their academic
records, language preparation in the
language of their host countries and
the feasibility and importance of their
proposed study projects.

The program receives most of its
funding from the U.S. Information
Agency, and each year it awards
grants to allow a limited number of stu-
dents to spend a year studying abroad.
Grants pay for tuition, room, board and

‘airfare. .

Neville applied for the grant last
fall. He proposed studying how the
Reformation changed church art and
decorations in Sweden and Denmark
during the 16th century.

The Protestant Reformation devel-
oped differently in those two coun-
tries, and Neville thinks that the ef-
fects might be found in the newly
emerging Protestant esthetic.

‘ Recent college graduates grantees
are usually expected to take regular
university classes. Neville’s tutor,
Anna Nilsen, invited him instead to
enroll in a graduate seminar that will
involve full-time research and weekly
meetings. He will study at Uppsala
University in Sweden, the oldest uni-
versity in Scandinavia and the eccle-
siastical center of Sweden.

Three W&L students, including
Neville, were recommended as candi-
dates for continued attention. The J.
William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship
Board makes the ﬁnal decision, and
Neville got word on Feb. 25 that he
was a grant recipient.

The announcement caught him by
surprise. “I couldn’t believe it.”
Neville said. “Because it came so early,
I thought it was a rejection. Nobody
has ever heard anything before April."

Neville is excited about the oppor-

tunity to study in Sweden. He took
one year off from college after his
sophomore year to do social work with
retarded adults in Sweden, so he is fa-

wt

Fulbright recipient Kris Neville and his cat, Karl

miliar with the country. He had planned
to do social work in southeastern
France next year until he learned that
the Fulbright Scholarship had come
through.

_ Neville, a history major, is most in-
terested in art history and is looking

forward to the opportunity to pursue
this interest abroad. After Sweden, he
may spend a summer in France, but
plans to return to school. “I do want

..”.,..«N .~r.r)1_jt> .\.~.rutIU3 0101“

to go to grad school,” Neville said.
After that, he is considering either
teaching or working in a museum. but
his plans are far from firm at this point.
However uncertain he is about the
distant future, Neville looks forward
to next year. “I couldn’t be happier.“

March 8, 1999

OPINION:

W&L1FE:
Fancy Dress 1999
SPORTS:

LAST WORD:
Mon1ca’s drrty slutery

@112 ‘ilting-tum ilﬁhi
Construction disturbs everybody

Baseball sweeps again, women’s lax wins

PAGE 2

PAGES 3-6

PAGE 7

PAGE 8

 

PAGE 2, 

OPWION

MARCH 8, 1999

Ladies and gentlemen, we’ve
reached the dregs. T.S. Eliot may think
that April is the cruelest month, but my
vote goes to March. February break is
over, spring break and the sweet release
of spring term are still weeks away.

People are now sick and tired of the
roommates they’ve put up with all year.
Every one of your roommate’s eccen-
tricities is an exercise in irritation; It
seems like everything they do — from
the way they make their bed to the noise
they make when they comb their hair—-
is being done for the express purpose
of pissing you off. Fights are breaking
out in dorm rooms and frat houses like

episode.

Many students’ March workload
can only be described as oppressive
and probably violate the Eighth Amend-
ment. Professors who have spent the
first half of the term goofing off are now
making up for it by assigning tests and
term papers almost daily.

And what fun is there to have in
March? FD is an expensive waste of
crepe paper that’ s more over-rated than
Quentin Tarantino’s movies. With rush
long over, fraternities just ain’t putting
the effort into parties that they used to,
and let’s face it, without frat parties this

STAFF EDITORIAL

some big collegiate “Jerry Springer” ’

campus is as dead as a doorknob. l’ve
still yet to hear anyone use the phrase
“hey, what SAB event is going on in
the GHQ tonight?” ‘

March Madness? Gee, sorry, I don’t
think the Generals are in contention this
year.

Road trips? Which thriving metropo-
lis shall we hit tonight, boys —
Staunton or Roanoke?

The fact is that there is no release
from the pain of March, but that’s okay.
You see, life can’t be all smiles and dai-
sies and casual sex. Without going
through bad times, we couldn’t have
any good times either. If there was no

Natty Light, would Guiness taste all
that special? Could Mozart’s musical
genius even be recognized were it not
for the Backstreet Boys and ’N Sync?
Could there be a “Citizen Kane” with-
out a “Police Academy VI?”

Yes, the carefree revelry of spring
term would not be possible were it not
for the hours in the library we’re put-
ting in now. And just remember that
no matter how bad things get, they
could always be worse —— we could be
going to VMI.

And hey, things aren’t all that bad.
At least we’ve still got the Responsi-
bility Symposium to look forward to!

Angus: Grade-A ﬁlm with grade-A message

 Off His Rocker
( Stephen Pesce ’01

 

I’m sick and tired of people making
fun of me when I tell them my favorite
movie. That’s right, sick and tired. “An-
gus” is more than just a movie about a
fat kid. It’s a movie about a fat kid and a
scrawny kid. But not just that either.
It’s an emotionally touching film that
warms the hearts of audiences of all
ages. And I don’t mean touching in a
bad way. I may not have much in the
line of intelligence, social skills or
sense of humor, but I know a little
something about the human soul. I’ve
got heart. I’ve got soul. I can even
play it on the piano. I can even coordi-
nate playing the low part while I whistle

the high part. (One learns cool tricks
when alone for hours at a time with no
one to talk to. At least that’s what I’ve
heard from some poor people who have
had that experience.)

Anyway, back to “Angus.” When
the bullies ﬂy Angus’s underwear on
the ﬂagpole, the immature high-schooler
in you laughs, then you realize the cruel
humiliation imposed upon millions of
adolescents across this country for vari-
ous reasons, none of which amount to
a hill of beans in light of the greater
meaning of human experience. Then
when Angus’s grandfather dies, you
can’t help but laugh. Well, that’s what
you do if you have suppressed and ig-
nored your emotions for so many years
that you have no clue what’s funny and
what’s sad anymore, if you keep your-

self locked in a human-proof emotional
box and allow yourself to be befriended
only by your pale dog. Otherwise, you
feel anger and pain. This intelligent,
funny, lovable young boy loses the only
person in the world he feels comfort-
able around. Why? Why did grandpa
have to die just when Angus needed
him the most? What kind of cruel world
do we live in?

l’ll be honest with you people. I
didn’t want to go see “Angus” either
when my friends decided to go see it in
the theater junior year of high school.
Six dollars that I probably had to bor-
row (nothing changes) for a movie
about a fat kid who gets made fun of
and gets the girl of his dreams in the
end? No, thank you. But “Angus” is
one of those timeless classics that

probes the human mind and makes you
think. I can honestly say that I a_rn not
the same person since watching that
touching ﬁlm.

Sometime I feel like Angus. When
judging me as a person, sometimes I
think people don’t look past the fact
that “Angus” is my favorite movie.
They see the guy with “bad taste in
movies” and dish out the according,
unbearably cruel persecution.

The answer to the age-old question
“Why can’t we all just get along?” rests
on the shelves of your local video store.
Don’t let the opportunity pass you by.
This film has the potential to alter the
entire course of human events, if ev-
eryone will dispose of their prejudices
and pre-conceived notions about the
“dumb film about a fat kid.”

Oh, how I long to use my alarm clock

As I sit here staring at the computer
screen, I do not know what to write. I
want to inform the readers. I want to
amuse the readers. I want to make the
readers think. How do I go about that?
Do I write about a socially responsible
topic like “Just Say No?” How about
the latest Monica news? Instead, I’ll dis-
cuss the issue that has been on the
minds of many Washington & Lee stu-
dents and every Woods Creek resident
— the sorority housing.

No, I’m not referring to the six arnaz—
ing houses that will be a place of fun
times for sorority girls in a little fewer
tjam two years. I’m talking about the
loud, annoying, uncalled for and dis-
ruptive construction that is now taking
place. This construction is necessary, I
know but I do not think it is needed in the
wee hours of the morning.

Every morning before I go to class, I

Friday, March 12, 8 p.m.
Friday, March 19, 8 p.m.
Friday, March 24, 8 p.m.

am woken up by the shrill, blaring beep-
beep-ing of the trucks backing up. Each
day I hear heavy pieces of machinery
pounding and breaking into what I as-
sume is solid rock.

Each day it reso- ’.I‘:"7I
nates throughout   
Woods Creek and ‘I  .3
each day it gets 
louder and louder. Each and every
night, this tormented soul goes to
sleep hoping not to be visited by the
mean, loud people in her dreams, only
to be woken up by it in a matter of
hours.

My first class is 9 a.m. and I am not
even allowed to wake up to my alarm
clock at 7:45. The even crazier thing is
that all of the commotion mysteriously
stops at about 10 a.m. Hmm  curious.
The site falls silent from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m.
Perhaps it is because those are the peak

J

hours and the hottest hours of the day.
Wait a minute. It’ s still winter. The “hot
hours” are only about 50 degrees. Com-
mon sense would have the workers out

during the time

T  that is most com-
.. fortable weather

Stephanie Bl2II'1(D 01 wise and least
_—:_—_"-T"-—_ intrusive for

those around the construction site. I
guess that is a little too easy. Maybe
the construction is during most stu-
dents’ sleep time because it is more
economically efficient. Once again, I
doubt that is right because 10 a.m. to
2 pm. is the middle of a normal work-
ing day and the university intends to
pride itself on the new beautiful so-
rority houses and wouldn’t take short-
cuts on construction. Argh! I can’t ﬁg-
ure it out!

Why would people want to wake up

genius students who are the leaders of
tomorrow with the construction noise?
Is it a cruel joke? A horrible prank? Sadly,
the answer is “no.” The construction
caper, or CC as I will now call it, has
gone on for days, weeks and months.

The CC has gone on too long. Students,
this is our time to shine! We must unite!

We must stop the insanity! We need to
make this campus a peaceful, quiet

one once again! We need to be re’-"

turned to the world of alarm clocks as
the wake up tool! We need the option
of sleeping until noon, of waking up
at precisely 7:45 a.m. to the alarm ra-
dio and of pressing the beloved
snooze button every nine minutes for
an hour!

Okay, breathe. I’m sorry. You’ll have
to excuse me. I just get a little worked
up sometimes. You see, it’s been a while
since I’ve had a peaceful night’s sleep.

Student Activities’ Office March Comedy Series

GHQ
GHQ
GHQ

Robbie Prince
The Have Nots (shown above)
Randy Riggle

by Erica

Craig demonstrates that no amount of dance lessons
could compare to his F.D. “Vodka Dance.”

PHI BETA KAPPA
CONVOCATION

Séhedule of Classes

Fridav. March 12. 1999
A - 8:00 a.m. - 8:45 a.m.

B — 8:50 a.m. - 9:35 a.m.

C - 9:40 a.m. — 10:25 a.m.

D- 10:30 a.m.— 11:15 a.m.‘

E — 11:20 a.m. — 12:05 p.m.

CONVOCATION - 12:15 p.m. - 1:45 p.m.

F — 1:50 p.m.! 2:35 p.m.

G - 2:40 p.m. - 3:25 p.m.

H - 3:30 p.m. — 4:15 p.m.

I - 4:20 p.m. - 5:05 p.m.

J— 5:10 p.m. - 5:55 p.m.

Executive Editors

' News Editors

Opinion Editors
Sports Editor
Last Word Editor
Copy Editors

Photo Editors
Online Editor

Business Manager
Advertising Director

otherwise independent.

libel and obscenity.

W&Life Editors 1

Circulation Director

Clip: iting-tum lﬂlti

Tarah Grant
Hollister Hovey
Polly Doig

John Stewart
Ginger Phillips 0
Erica Prosser
Stephanie Bianco
Stephen Pesce
Frances Groberg
Kevin McManemin
Sarah Meldrum
Meredith Mlynar
Emily Barnes
Tom Wadlow

Jason Williams
Matt Lorber
Lionel Brown

The Ring—tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring—tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editors, but The Ring—tum Phi is

The Ring—tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 ofthe University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Lettersand columns do not reflect the opinion
of The Ring—tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court definitions of

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington. VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu
http://wluedu/-phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

G. LEYBURN
wiglAlIllSGTON & LEE

LIBRARY
NERSITY

LEX\NG§£)E&‘viA  

 

_

,l.....«:||.xI||! )III.. _.\I 5  i xvi!

mom _ mmmmm >oz<m

K 4. I ww K I .v_ R 4: .1 u ..n .1 .    , W. . ala  4 I» V L..... X . K W I

 

Q

FANCY DRE

3
l

Josh Solot
(’00) and
Matt
LaMotte
(’99) make a
dashing pair
(left). Alice
Cockrum
(’99) and
Kendra
Archer (’99)
show off their
Renaissance
‘and Spanish
styles (right).
“I was sur-
prised that so
few people
actually
dressed in
costumes, but
those that did
looked really
great,”
Archer said.

Sophomores Kristi Peterson,
Annabelle Wirth, Ryan Gielen
and Colin Fitzgibbons (right)
smile for the camera. “The
bands were a lot of fun,”
‘Peterson said. “I thought this
g-VFD was very tastefully done.”
1.Members and friends of the
‘Washington and Lee commu-
nity walked through a moat
lined with large boulders as
they made their way into the
Warner Center. Once inside
they passed through an en-
chanted forest before catching
glimpes of decorations like a
medieval church, a giant
dragon, a massive ﬁreplace and
castle‘walls. The realistic
decorations helped to create a
true Renaissance atmosphere
while the variety of bands
added a more modern touch.

Sophomore
Etan Levine
(left) cuts a . l . . ..  ..
rug with Warren Hedges (’00) dips Lisa Brennan (’99)
great pa” as they boogie the night away (above).

nache. The .. _. . .. . .   _ 

Kings of Erin Kraal (’99), Andy Thompson (’00) and James Sammons (’99) cugilo

Swing Per‘ _ while they enjoy the dance (above). “It was a great fourth and ﬁnal FD,” \

f0l‘m€d at  . . _ , I A , event. The months of effort that the Steering Committee put into this fyez.

this yearns = S , 4 A  in with smiling faces and happy dancers all night long.
event, and »- — » .

swing danc-
ing was a
popular way
to boogie
down with
dates. Wash-
ington and
Lee Univer-
sity offered
various
dance
classes in
the months
before the
event, so
students had
plenty of

opnorrnnny Juniors Krista Harkreader and Keith Rauch
to break in (above) are having tons of fun at Bal

rnelr dancing Masque. “The ball was great,” Harkreader
Snnes before said. “You could really tell that a lot of work
Fancy Dress- was put into it.”

pp   @112 ﬁling-Eum lﬂhi
I 4,

...—-.-...~_..v..~.......t__§*..... :-s. M ~.. .. .. _ V<)“<“‘ _T____, ___._,.

oseiwith a laugh
Kraal said of the
' .-‘dance paid off

1999

Seni ‘ Anthony

festive feathers and bright colors to celebrate the
resurrection of Le Bal Masqué as the FD theme, 72

Senior Ben
Middendorf
playfully fends
off fellow
seniors
Megan
Carleton,
Elizabeth
Spencer and
Christine
Burghardt
(left). “I had
more fun at
this FD than
ever before,”
Spencer said.
Leed
Silverﬁeld
(’99) and
Jennifer Frost
(’99) have a
fabulous time
at the social
event of the
year (right).

2 

Dvarskas (above) is a vision in

years after the original Bal Masqué.

Gwendolyn Perrilliat (’99) puzzles over her masked man
(above). Masked characters of every description peopled the
dance, making it a mysterious and fun-ﬁlled affair.

Maciej -
Golubiewski
(’99) gets
reeled in by
his date
(left). While
many party-
goers de-
cided to
wear their
formal wear
instead of the
suggested
Renaissance
style cos-
tumes, wild
masks and
colorful
feather boas
dominated
the dance
scene.

Professor Domnica
Radulescu (above) struts her
stuff at the ball. “As a profes-
sor, it was really fun to see
the students having so much
fun,” she said. “The ball was
very nice, particularly be-
cause of the colorful and
lively costumes.” Kate
Mobley (’02) and Slade
Broom (’02) make a charming
couple on thedance ﬂoor (left).
“I liked the decorations, but
the best part was the bands,”
Mobley said. Court jester
Nate Tencza (’99) gets into
the swing of things (right). “I
had the most fun at FD I’ve
ever had,” he said. “The
whole spirit of everyone was
the best I’ve seen at any big
event here.”

.;....\....

other’s eyes as they dance into the night. Fancy Dress is
traditionally a great event for couples and singles alike;
and both old loves and new attractions can blossom iii“ 
such a festive. beautiful environment. I

»"i‘2I'éx!i‘i’N*i'd‘ai.'s'. . .9“. . . - . - . . . .. to.

Jamie Klista (’99) and his dat (above) gazeinto 

~.

«",« '.   ‘  " ~ - ‘- 1" <7-6(.‘x:.#i
~_ar‘,\/c“~'v,.'-w‘~*,g<:)¢v_aV;1g>v?<r»!;%A£;w+>-yr-urnto-coats:-ranch-«cow-pgyauuwvyr-..p¢§‘ivtvu

 
 

@112 King-tum lﬂhi

FANCY DRESS BALL 1999 ;

THE TRADITION CONTINUES...

1908 Fancy Dress

couldn ‘I come because

 
 

Ralph Wiegardtsaia': “Don ’t

1990 Gatsby’s Great Gala

)1
1907 Bal Masque that women from chairman hada quite a dif- A llama rentedfrom the Natural Bridge Zoo escapedfrom the
Librarian Annie Jo White used $42 in leftover theater funds to Sweet Brier College Wen’ ‘heme-' Pia)’i70.V- The dance-
create theﬁrst FD ball. The Feb. 9, l907iss'ue ofThe Ring-tum (usually the most party room was decorated 1987 The Dark Continent ‘P
Phi announce the upcoming "Bal Masque " on Tuesday, Feb. 12. popular among W&L Wiih Pi0yi70,VP0’0Ph€"naii<1-' The Minority Students /1SSOCiati0n boycotted the ball.

_ It promised an "affair... exceptionally pretty and brilliant... and men) couldn't attend rabbits. balloons and free 1988 Reconciliation Ball of 1965

quite an innovation to Lexington society. ” The crowd danced to the dance because of souvenirs. Each escort was 1989 An Evening Excursion on the Orient Express
the sounds of the VM] orchestra, who ended their set with “Home a diphtheria quaran- asked to submit a photo of An Evening Excursion was the most expensive Fancy Dress
Sweet Home” a; 2 ajm_ Thea-e was class }he ngxl day tine; Hollins women his date,‘ contest chairman ever; it cost over $100,000. ‘ X

1909 Fhhcy Dress ofexams hide your bunny under a 1991 A Royal Festival at King Arthur’s Court
From [909 to 19l4_ lhe Fancy Dress Ball; were held on u skallng 1928 Bookland bushel, enter her in the Play- At 9p.m. the night ofthe ball, the FD committee realized that it
- rink on Main Stregt. ' 1929 1001 Nights mate contest.’ ” Playboy hadpurchased 700 pounds ofice, and 450 liters ofCoke, but
1910 Bal Masque 1930 Spanish Fiesta publisher Hugh Hefner hadforgotten to getcups. A committee member was dispatched )
1911 Bal Masque 1931 Robin Hood called during the party to to East Lex to purchase 4,000 cups. A record 3,500 people
i 1912 Colonial America 1932 Colonial Ball . nameawinner. attendedthe ball.
< 1913 B31 Masque 1933 Ball of the 1964 Mardi Gras 1992 A Return Voyage to the Age ofExploration
»: 1914 B31 Masque Grandees 1965 Mississippi Riverboat 1993 Celebrating the Silver Screen
1915 (jo10n1a1 America 1934 Coronation of 1966 Derby Day Ball 1994 A Magical Carpet Ride 4 ‘A
,~ 1916 Court ofLouis XIV Emperor'Alexander In the election for Fancy Magical Carpet Ride featured alive, photogenic camel from the
1917 B31 Masque III Dress chairman, senior Joe Natural Bridge Zoo. The camel was led away soon after he be-
, 1918 Europe and Columbia: The Gem of the Ocean 1935 Congress of Miller was opposed only by came angry and started spitting on people. The Ring-tum Phi

: 1919 A Midsummer Nightis Dream Vienna Fritz, a white German shep- photographer captured a shot of a male ballgoer seductively
‘, 1920 Bookhmd ‘ _ The Associated Press herd and mascot of the Phi dancing with a team of middle-aged belly dancers.
A Ring-tum Phi reporter carefully chose the right words to de- distributed pictures of ' EP h0“s€- F’iiZg0i 0n€'f0i‘ih 1995 Un¢ S01l'e€ Pafisienne

of the votes in the race.
1967 Opening Night
1968 High Society

An article in The Washing-
ton Post said the Fancy
Dress Balls in the late 1960s
used to center on the “fig-

Ballgoers were enchanted with the recreation of Monet 's garden

at Greury. The FD committee constructed a real-life sitting gar-

den complete with a walk-over bridge. After the ball, lucky stu-
dents absconded with fistfuls of lilacs, roses and tulips. i
1996 A Mad Tea Party ‘
1997 Under the Big Top

The Under the Big Top FD memorbilia package included two t-

the ball via its new
wire-photo service.
Ballgoers received a
__commerqtive picture
frame with the
university 's emblem.
1936 Queen Eliza-

' scribe the night: "The orchestra struck up spirited march. Then,

burst in the ardent‘;-evelry, with plume, tiara, and all rich array.
 The music, sighing like a ‘God in pain ’ went into every heart until
- I the people, swaying in unison as the melody throbbed, saw unroll
3 a figure of unusual complication and beauty. ”
.\ 1921 The Chinese Court of Chu Chin Chow
. 9 1922 The Scottish Highlands 1

., Evergreen trees decorated 1922 ’s ball.’ The Phi reported, "The beth and the Earl of ure, ” a dance in which shirts, two shot glasses, two posters and two boxes of Cracker
,‘ moslnolublepurt ofthe whole ‘ca,~n,'vul'was the unusually beau- Essex I couples formed the shape of Jacks. FD tickets were the “hidden surprise” inside the spe-
tifulgirls who throngedto Lexington Such a type ofﬁamininity 1937 Italian Re- the W“-shihgi0h and Lee Ciaii}"PaCkag9d Cracker Jacks h0x€s- 9
is peculiar only to certain particularly favored corners of the naissance UniV9’‘sii3’ 0957- 1998 Anything G095? Fialipersv Flight and -1311 A" Night
 inter-collegiate world.” The Fancy Dress Ball Heather MacDonald 901 gives Greg Nousa :00 a big 1969 1n3“g“T31 3311 1999 L9 1331 Masque
"j 1923 Le Bal des Operas committee set aside h M D 1d d N t t d. t 1970 The Allman Broth-
1924 My Lady ofthe Fan $350 to decorate a smooc ,' ac 0na_ an ou_s_t_t wen _0 Inner a 9'5 (Concert 0n1ya n0 11311) ,
g The 1924 ball was theﬁrst one under the control ofa President “Snwking "00’n 1’ f0’ Franco S and partied at the F111 cocktall party before 1971 N0 F3n¢y Dress 11‘
 elected by the studentbody. the 1937 ball. the ball. 1972 Sn3'n3'n3 (Concert
2 1925 Romance of the Dance 1938 C1|3l‘1eSt0na °n1y- n0 13311)
Romance ofthe Dance celebrated the evolution ofdanceﬁrom S.C.: On the Eve of Secession 1973 3111)’ 1’Te5t0n (Concert Oniys n0 13311)
ancient times to FD CreatorAnnie Jo White told The Ring-tum Phi that she thought 1974 Mardi G735 _
9 modern age, FD was "getting to be too much ofapublic affair now It used Tickeis Wei’? $4f0"f“ii€’hiiy members and $7f0’ h0h’f"ai€"' 9

Two orchestras to be almost aprivate dance, but now anyone can get in. " hit)’ siudehis Duiihg the haiiv shidenis dumpedapiicher Ufbeeh

performed on 1939 Knights of the Golden Horseshoe 0n University Pi‘€siii€niR0h‘—’i’iH"nii,V-

the Fancy Juniors and seniors were admitted to the main danceﬂoor, and 1975 1n the M0011 1941

Dress floor for sophomores and freshmen were admitted to the balcony. Specta- 1976 11“ Way for 11011yW°°‘1i

theﬁst time. tors were also admitted to the balconyfor $1 per person. 1977 P3SSP0|‘t t0 Paris n
1926 1940 Kentucky Derby 1973 Glories Of Egypt

331 Beanx 1941 King Rex and his Court at Mardi Gras The ball was held in Evans Dining Hall and the University

A115 1942 A Night at the Monte Carlo Casino Center. Aja2zpianistplayca' in the Executive Committee room.

Following the 1943 American spirit John-Ivan Palmer, an extra—sensory preception expert, set up

1926 hall, The 1944-19.16 F1) suspended because ofww 1] shop on the second level ofthe University Center. 7
Ring-tum Phi 1947 Carnival at Rio 1979 A Taste of the Big Apple

urgeda change 1948 Hampton Court under Charles Ballgoers received commemorative coins with the skyline of

in Fancy Dress 1949 George WaShington’s Birthday Ball New York on one side and the logo of"Taste ofthe Big Apple ”

.  policy "Due to 1950 King Arthur’s Court on the other. The day after the ball the ﬁreshman class spon-
' the crowded 1951 Carmen sored its annual grade party. *

c o n di t i o n s A bullfighting arena was constructed on the dancefloor. 1980 Monopoly: A SW0" ATOUFN1 the B08|'d

which will exist 1952 The works of Shakespeare An editorial in The Ring-tum Phi on the 1980 Fancy Dress Ball

on the floor, it 1953 The Court of King Louis XVI saidtickets were selling on the black marketfor $40 a couple.

has been sug_ 1954 King Rex and His Court at Mardi Gras Tickets to the ball were limited because, according to cityﬁre

gesled [hat the 1955 An odyssey Through Empires code, only 2,500people couldﬁt in the building. A news article V
‘Charleston, ’ 1956 The wizard of oz reported that a woman from Hollins had her $10,000 mink '
which has been 1957 Mozarﬁs Don Giovanni coat stolenfrom the coat room, but the Lexington police soon

banned at sev- 1958 Gilbert and ‘Sullivan at Buckingham Palace t‘eC0VeP‘edit~ ‘ Adams Greenw0od_Ericksen 901 and Kristen

eral southern 1959 Golden Jubilee (50th Anniversary) 1931 on Broadway H d ,01 . . th I] “T. C

Schools, be 1,-,,,_ 1960 The Evolution of Man 1982 A Diamond Jubilee (75th Anniversary) 313’ _ swing in e sin“ _ gy_n‘- _ “n 0;‘ p

_ itedas much as The exams schedule ofHollins CollegepreventedHollins women The M0 sP0iiighis Outside ihe 8y”? P"0inPi€d Claims Of UFO was dancing next to us and ﬂlppmg 1115 dates
; possible, from attending the ball. The Ring-tum Phi’s Hollins c0rrespon~ sightings from Lexington residents. Ericksen said. “A couple next f0 them tried
1 . 1927 Carnival dent wrote in her column: “Have a drinkfor us. ” 1983 A“ E"‘?“_'"g a'°"g the Mississippi River the same thing. Instead of ﬂipping his date
’. of Venice 1961 Shakespeare in the Court 1934 L0St Cities 01 G01d . ,
., . I 1 _g  The Ringmlm 1962 High Society 1985 The Mink Dynasty backwards like he s supposed to, the guy
;. Nick Stawasz ’01 and date get Phi reported 1963 American Civil war Centennial MinkDynasty featured in-e exotic birds ﬂipped her forwards — right onto her butt. We 5
K: ready to swing. The cocktailparty held before the ball in honor ofFancy Dress’ 1986 Carnival: A Night in Rio saw lots of other people take diggers, too.”
’ Y
, Southern Inn East Lexington Store
7 ° 0
:- 37S. Main St. 2 Old Buena Vista Rd.
463-3612 463-3614 a
9 . o
Spanky s Restaurant Natural Bridge ,
d D 1'
all 9 lcafessen Conference Center
110 S. Jefferson St. P.O. Box 57
I I
C
463-3333 Natural Bridge 24578
gm Harris Teeter 9*
I o
a 422 E- Nelson St. Washington Street Purveyors
;i 464-3309 9 E. Washington St. ..
I ~ O
; University Cleaners
V.
O
1260 Zollman M111 Rd. 11 Palazzo
‘ 463-3622 24 N. Main St.
’     464-5800 "
C O .
Aivmnenms U PP LEMEN l
102 W. Washington St. . -   The Palms  4
463-5383 S P O N S O R S 101 W. Nelson St.
7‘

 

MARCH 8, 1999

  S

PO

@112 iﬂinig-tum iﬂlii

Baseball pounds
double-header

By Brendan Harrington
SPORTS WRITER

Freezing cold temperatures and a bone-chilling breeze
weren’t enough to cool off the Generals’ scorching bats
on Sunday afternoon at Smith ﬁeld.

Washington and Lee scored 30 runs and pounded out
29 hits in a double-header sweep of Washington and
Jefferson. The Generals won the ﬁrst game 17-2 with the
help of 11 runs in the bottom of the sixth inning. In the
second game, E.J. Murphy belted two three-run homers
over the center ﬁeld fence to lead W&L to a 13-2 victory.

“I feel like we can beat anyone right now,” said senior
second baseman Patrick Hall, who went 4-5 in the double-
header and had 3 RBI’s and ﬁve runs scored. “It’s good to
see the bats going again.”

The Generals entered the game with a team batting av-
erage of only .204, but after Sunday’s hit parade they raised
it to .275, ajump of71 points.

“We’re deﬁnitely hitting the ball better than we were a
week ago,” W&L head coach Jeff Stickley said. “But we
caught them on their third double header in three days, so

they didn’t have much pitching left.”
I The Presidents lost both games of a double header at.

Guilford on Friday, the ﬁrst time the team had been outside
all year. They split a double header with Greensboro Col-
lege on Saturday before traveling to Lexington.

“They were worn down and they didn’t have much left
in their bullpen,” Hall added.

Sunday afternoon also marked the homecoming of
President’s ﬁrst baseman Ryan Walsh, the son of W&L
athletic director Michael Walsh.

“It was a thrill for my wife and I to see our son play
baseball in Lexington,” said Michael.

Ryan started at ﬁrst-base for Washington & Jefferson
in the ﬁrst game and went 0-3. Ryan’s father, who weath-
ered the cold with his wife Jean, faced a test of loyalties.

“I was hoping the Generals would win two games and
that Ryan would get a hit,” Michael said. “I went one for
two, and I’ll take it.”

In the ﬁrst game, the President’s jumped out to a 1-0
lead in the top of the ﬁrst inning, but the Generals scored
two in the bottom of the ﬁrst and never looked back In the
1 1-run sixth inning, the Generals had ten strraight hits and
13 straight batters reached base, all with no outs.

Hall and junior center ﬁelder Chris Stakem each went 3-
3 and junior left ﬁelder Schuyler Marshall went 3-4. Hall
and Marshall each had 3 RBI’s and Stakem had two. Bob
Weston got the win to go to 4-0 on the season. So far this

..season,.ll/estonhaspitchedziinnings.and..hasonlygiven

up three earned runs. Sophomore relief pitcher Bill Christ
threw three scoreless innings to pick up the save.

In the second game, Murphy’s two homers highlighted
another offensive explosion, as this time the Generals
pounded out 10 hits. Junior ﬁrst baseman Russell Wrenn
went 2 forI3 with 3 RBI’s. Sophomore pitcher David Sigler
pitched all ﬁve innings and earned the victory to go to 2-1
on the season. The game was called after 4.5 innings due

3,,
F?
I

to the extreme cold.

“We’ve got some good pitching lately and We’re tight
defensively,” Hall said. “It’s like the old cliche ——&itching
and defense wins ballgames." _ I ,

The game also settled the long heated debate of who

. Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor
Senior pitcher Bob Weston winds up during the Washington and Jefferson game on Sunday.

would win the battle of: Thomas Jefferson versus Robert
E. Lee. Both schools are named after George Washington,
but differ in the second part of their name.

On this day, General Lee showed no mercy in the pur-
suit of life, liberty, and two convincing victories.

Score by innings
Game 1

1001) x
100 0

W&L 212
W&J 100

Men’s, women’s tennis on Winning track

By Steele Cooper

SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee women’s
tennis team continued their domina-
tion of the ODACS with decisive vic-
tories over Virginia Wesleyan on Mon-
day and Hollins College on Wednes-
day. The Generals won both.of the
match ups with 9-0 scores.

Monday, the singles winners for
the Generals were senior Brook
Hartzell, sophomore Christina

Campbell, sophomore Anne Castello.
sophomore Jennifer Strawbridge,
sophomore Laura Schramm, and
sophomore Emily Ramey.

Winners in doubles matches were
the teams of Haitzell/freshman Melissa
Hartley, freshman Sallie Gray Strang/I
freshman Manning Willard, and
Castello/sophomore Tori Hayes.

Each ofthe matches were won in
straight sets for the Generals, and
Virginia Wesleyan only managed to
take a total of three games from

W&L on the day.

The story was strikingly similar on
Wednesday when W&L faced Hollins
College. Helping the Generals to another
9-0 ODAC sweep were senior Erin
Eggers, Willard, Castello, Strang, Hayes,
and sophomore Virginia Brumby.

Doubles winners were Eggers/Hayes,
Strang/Willard, and Castello/Brumby.

The men also continued their win- .

ning ways, defeating Guilford on Sat-
urday by a score of 6-1. Wins were
posted by sophomore Kelly Radford,

senior Scott Babka, freshman Rhys
James, senior Dave Lehman, and fresh-
man Andrew Roberts in singles, and
senior Dale Pretila/Babka, Radford/
Roberts, and James/senior Tom
Washbum in doubles.

The Generals are not resting on
their recent laurels. The women’s team
will face Kenyon College, one of their

big rivals on the national stage, on -

Friday, March 14 starting at 3:30 p.m.
The men will face Hampden-Sydney
on Thursday at 3 p.m.

Men’s lax
falls 9-8 to
DIH champs

Despite loss, Generals opti-
mistic about their abilities

By Tod Williams

SPORTS WRITER

The men’s lacrosse team fell to 1-1 on Saturday af-
ter losing to defending national champions Washing-
ton College.

The 9-8 loss came after the Generals let an early 3-0 lead
slip away as well as an 8-6 lead in the second half.

Though Washington and Lee led early in the ﬁrst half,

(6

We’re really ﬁred
up. We can play
with anyone in the

 —country‘f  I

the Shoremen

fought back
and tied the
game at 5-5 by
the half. The
Generals then
n u t sec oIr e (1
Washington
College 3-1 to
I begin the
second half,
— Senior Colin Dougherty but the
S h o r e m e n
then scored
the game’s ﬁnal three goals to net the win.

Sophomore midfielder Matt Dugan and junior
attackman Chris Brown led the team as they combined for
six General goals. Colin Dougherty topped the team with
two assists. I .

Dougherty said the loss came at the Generals’ own
hands. “We deﬁnitely had our chances. We hung in there,”
he said. Dougherty said the Generals didn’t possess the
ball well consistently, and Washington also capitalized for
several extra-man goals.

“We blew it, not as much as they beat us,” he said of
the Generals’ two lost leads.

The Generals next matchup will come when they travel
to Gettysburg College next Saturday at 1 p.m.

Dougherty said, “We’re really ﬁred up now after play-
ing well against the national champions. We can play with
anyone in the country.”   II III II II I

FORA
SPRING BREAK  

FROM $159 PER wE£i¢*

D POOLS -1 lINDOOR.l:EATED Poof
. HUGE BEACH ‘FRONT HOT TUB '

LAZY RIVER RIDE 1- SUITES UP TO 10 PERSONS
SAILBOATS ‘— TII<I BEACH BAR ' JET SKIS * PARASAILS

“HOME OF THE WORLD'S LONGEST KEG PARTY"
FREE DRAFT BEERALI. WEEK LONG-(ALL FOR INFO!
1-800-488-8828

www.sandpipcrl)eacon.coin (‘rates per person)
17-103IRONTl-iEACl-I ROAD»

P/\N/\/\\/-\ CITY 1’-EACH, FL 32413

Women’s lax
loses opener

By Frances Groberg

SPORTS EDITOR

While most people were swinging the night away at
Fancy Dress, the women’s lacrosse team was on its way to

Ohio to play Denison in their season opener.

Unfortunately, the trip was unsuccessful. Denison de- I     - /, ,_ A ' II’ "I 7
feated Washington and Lee by a score of 12-6, forcing the I 3 I I  ‘ ’
Generals to go 0-1. I‘:
“We just didn’t play well enough long enough,” V p _ _ _ _ -
Head Coach Jan Hathorn said. “Denison came ready W   . I j T  i.-,  A V. ____'____,_._(i -~ “"”"'
to lay.” Junior captain Katherine Riddle agreed. “Ijust . C . . A ,   I ‘ II ’_   6 ‘_
hoge this can serve as a sprinboard for us,” she said. "  I, I I. , 2.  .  _ an Get A  Equ pP_d___,,__.7--—--r »--‘>»-‘'

The Big Red scored the ﬁrst two goals of the game, ‘ _ I » L   ~ .ff*$i»'« ' ‘ I
gaining a lead they would never relinquish. They led the V , » -.’¥-.2 I I
Generals 5-2 at halftime en route to thier victory. 9" at _

Six different Generals scored goals for W&L, includ- ,. I  6%.»
ing Riddle, freshman Eloise Priest, sophomore Liz,Borges, I’ H ,  3 3,.
so homore Caroline Gee, freshman Courtenay Fisher, and  I ""I‘°‘>r
frepshman Julie Carskadon. In goal,junior Ginny Jemigan _.T0y0'E 9 KY9” . ,
posted 14 saves on the day. Katie Blowers of Denison led I 0)/Ct Dealer‘ _
all scorers with four for the Big Red. * Vmgfba #0“ comparison of ‘99 

usometimes you need hgames like that to see at what ‘ . Corolla equ eql with options pggkag , . ; 6..
level you’re playing,” Hat om said. com argbl , ui 98'C6f61'a,'Corolla I , ~ - —' '

The Generals play Hollins today in their home opener at t is ihleI‘l;est)sI gPIcI:;i: RE-’CAR  Y rwwiajor) ....s.._-.. _.

worldwide {'%’l:gl£’€S . «.—-(No—Matter-Wha -- O“
‘."__'_’__..,v———”""'f'- ~ . - '
I . . , ~

: ' ,.
/ '-"’. 2. :'

the Liberty Hall ﬁelds beginning at 4:30 p.m. The game,
originally scheduled for last Wednesday, was postponed
because of inclement weather.

~r'’’’’'‘'“I'’'_

_. ......... ~ --~ '

 

PAGE 8

Humor Page

LAST ‘WORD

MARCH 8, 1999

“She’s All That” good for a laf

By Stephen Pesce
Opinion Page Editor

 

 

Saturday night, yep, Saturday
night of PD weekend, I went to see
“She’s All That,” a truly magniﬁcent
performance that kept me waiting for
the next bit of writing genius. I’ve seen
the classics of all genres (“Clueless,”

“Scream,” “Scream ll,” “Booty Call,”
“Don’t Be a Menace to South Central
while Drinking Your Juice in the
Hood,” “Stop or My Mom Will
Shoot,” “Striptease”) and I can hon-
estly say that this one ranks up there
with any one of them. ‘
A heart-wanning story of self-dis-
covery, the film reaches out to the All-
American who struggles to balance
the expectations of those around him
and his own personal desires. The
ﬁlm also touches the soul of the self-
deprecating spazoid who struggles to

ﬁnd inner peace and enjoyment in a
world wrought with pain and suffering.
Though-these two troubled characters
meet only through the terms of an ill-
conceived bet, they ﬁnd comfort and
understanding in one another.

As for the supporting actors and
actresses, there was really little to do.
Zach (Freddie Prinze, Jr.) and Laney
(Rachael Leigh Cook) carried the show
with a little help from Laney’s little
brother Simon, played by Kieran Culkin.

From the pube—eating incident to the
uncannily realistic choreography at the

By Kevin McManemin

EDITOR AND MORAL CENTER

When Monica Lewinsky appeared
on national television in a tell-all in-
terview with Barbara Walters last
week, cries of delight went up from
humor writers everywhere. Every-
where, that is, but here in the ofﬁces
of The Last Ward. T

We at The Last Word are above
Monica jokes. We feel that Monica
jokes are cheap, seedy and anti-
thetical to the very high standards of
journalistic integrity and excellence
we’ve always rigidly adhered to. We
believe we have a contract with our
readers to provide only wholesome,
morally enriching fare.

This tale of sordid passion, pure,
naked lust, rampaging hormones and
raw, depraved, ungodly animal sex has
no place within the pages of our pa-
per. So, the President has been get-
ting blowjobs from a stupid bimbo in-
tern, lied about it under oath and

brought shame and embarrassment
to the nation — you won’t hear
about it from us. We feel that this is
nobody’s business but Clinton’s,
and after all, can’t he remain a pri-
vate man in a public oriﬁce. . . err. . .

« ofﬁce? Besides, there is certainly
nothing funny about this situation,
apart, of course, from the sheer hu-
man comedy of it all.

Many publications feel it is okay
to divulge the most intimate details
of the relationship, printing lewd
tales about the number of times she
sucked him dry, their masturbatory
phone sex sessions and the time he
shoved a cigar up her vagina, pulled
it out and declared it ‘fsmells good.”
Dirty stories like these have NO
PLACE in a respectable publication
and you certainly won’t read any-
thing like that in The Last Word. lt’s
simple pandering to the lowest com-
mon denominator and we refuse to
stoop to that level.

Remember, we must not judge
others. It is not for us to call Monica

Editorial: Monica’s dirty
sluttery is her business

a ﬁlthy little whore, or pronounce the
Clinton Presidency an exercise in in-
competence.

We strongly object to
judgementalism in The Last Word,
just as weobject to laboring the point,
beating a dead horse, running a gag
into the ground and making a humor
piece stretch on far too long when
the audience has gotten the point
two paragraphs ago. Say what you
meanand get on with it, we always
say. Don’t ramble. Don’t drone on
and on and on and on and on. Don’t
repeat yourself. Always strive to
keep things as compact, concise,
succinct and terse as you possibly
can. Don’t repeat yourself.

Our humor must be enjoyed by
all, and offending some of our read-
ers with foul language and content
is not a chance we’re willing to take.
That’s why you’ ll never read a word
about the Monica Lewinsky scandal
in The Last Word.

Dear reader, you have my word of
honor. '

36'
U

   

 

Thinking of
  Summer
Employment
Opportunities?

Special Programs
Resident Assistants
June I5-Aug. 3, 1999

The Ofﬁce of Special Pro-
grams employs ﬁve W&L
students to serve as Resident
Assistants for a wide variety
of Special Programs includ-
ing Alumni
Elderhostel and adult confer-
ences. Duties include house-
keeping, attending all meals
with guests, bar receptions
and shuttle driving. An out-
going personality is a must.
Application deadline is
March 31, 1999.

For more information,
please contact the Ofﬁce of
Special Programs, Howard
House, 463-8723.

W

Colleges,

Ride the fast track
through Europe

(heal; ttchels. Great e.¢lv\<e.
A/we People.

London, $223
Amsterdam $292
Rome $350
Barcelona $372

 

Fans an Iron Wnmngton DC. each way band
on I RT purehun. Faru do not Inelude bill},
which can ton! between $3 and S80.|n:'l Slﬂdtnl
ID my be rIquimd.Fuu an valid hr departures
In April and an subject to damp. Rurrlulonx
apply. Call for our low domutlc Ian: and farm to

other world wldc demnatlom.

Don‘: lorgut to order yuur Eurallpau!

mlﬁavel ,,__

CIEE: Council on International
Educational Exchange

l-800-2Counci|

' Parents’ IIISGOIIIII

- Ilewlv Renovated

Econo
Lodge

540-463-1311

- Free HBO with Itemote
- no Smoking Rooms

' H88 continental Brealttast

    

SPRING
BREAK
BEACHES

Daytona, Panama City, Padre,
Miami, Cancun, Jamaica,
Bahamas, etc.

Best hotels, prices, parties.
Browse www.icpt.com. Reps
earn cash, free trips. Call
Inter-Campus 1-800-327-6013

prom, the plot
was more pre-
dictable than the
end ofa Scooby—
Doo episode.
But hey, I like
Scooby—Doo.
W a t c h i n g
Shaggy and the
Scoobs scarf
down a few large
pizzas’ always
warms this senti-
mental heart. I
recommend the
film to anyone
who wants to be
entertained for an
hour and a half.

Looking for
artistic talent
and profound in-
ner meaning?
Then I suggest
you go rent “An-
gus.”

Here’s the poster to “She’s All That” included
for the sole purpose of taking up space.

 

Here’s a memorable scene from “She’s All That.” You
know, this movie really doesn’t look very good to me. Then
again I’m just a caption writer, what do I know. Seriously,
though, how good could a movie called “She’s All That”
be?l3I’ll bet this movie has lots of “attitude.” I’ll bet it uses
a lot of “hip” lingo to try to relate to the kiddies. Back in
my day we didn’t neec “attitude.” We had a thing called
“plot.” Oh, never mind. -

 

TAX ‘ADV‘ANiT'AG,‘ED SOLUTIONS

name ma mitiai

Hell Week
Etiquette
Tips

Because we at W&L are a com-
munity of gentlemen, we must al-
ways be mindful of the rules of
proper etiquette and decorum. Just
because Hell Week is upon us is no
reason to forget our manners. In an
effort to make sure civility and dig-
nity will have a place in this Hell
Week, The Last Word has asked in-
temationally renowned etiquette ex-
pert Lady Prunella Prudes to write a
column on the dos and don’ts of
Hell Week . . . err, sorry . . {Heck
Week etiquette.

1) There is a right way and a
wrong way to eatyour own vomit.
Remember ~— elbows off the table!
No slouching! Use a fork or spoon
— vomit is not ﬁnger food!

2) Remember your manners! Al-
ways say “Thank you sir, may I
please have another” when being
paddled. “Gimme another,” “more,”
or “hit it ‘til it bleeds” will not do!

3) Just because you’ve been up
all night getting hazed like a Marine
is no reason not to look your best!
Always give yourself a shave and a
shower before going off to class.
Shampoo that urine out of your hair,
and cover up any bruises or cuts!

4) When chugging beer, grain,
motor oil, etc., take special care not
to. spill! Wear a bib and keep your
shirt dry! Drunkenness is never an
excuse for sloppinessl

5) Remember formal titles!
Pledges should refer to initiated
brothers as “Mr. Pledgemaster, sir.”
Brothers should refer to pledges as
“you worthless f* **ing maggot” or
“you stupid f"‘**ing retard.”

6) If your southern fratforces
you to copulate with a sheep, be a
gentleman! Take the sheep out to a
nice‘ restaurant and wine and dine
her. After the deed is done, be sure
to call the next day!

FROM

     

   

TIAA-CR1-LF

 

UNFORTUNATELY,

THIS IS WHERE PEOPLE ARE

ver_y year, a lot of people make a
huge mistake on their taxes. harder for you.
They wind up sending Uncle Sam
money they could be saving for
retirement. 1

Fortunately, that's a mistake you
can avoid with SRAS -—tax-deferred
annuities from TIAA—CREF. SRAs not
only ease your current tax bite, they
offer an easy way to build retirement
income——especially for the "extras"
that your pension and Social Security
benefits may not cover. Because your
contributions are made in pretax
dollars, you pay less in taxes now. And

since earnings on your SRAS are tax

www.tiaa-cref.org

Ensuring the future
for those who shape it.“

PUTTING TOO MANY RETIREMENT DOLLARS.

deferred, your money works even

Today, we offer other before- and
after-tax financial solutions, including
IRAS and mutual funds. They're
backed by the same investment exper-
tise, low expenses, and personal
service that have made TIAA-CREF
the choice of America's educational and
research community.

Why write off the chance for a
more rewarding retirement? Stop by
your benefits office or call us at
1 800 842-2776 and find out how
TIAA-CREF SRAS can help you enjoy
happier returns.

TIAA-CREE Individual and lnslitunonal Services, lnc.. distributes CREF certificates and interests in the TIAA Real Estate Account. For more complete information. including
charges and expenses. call 1 800 842-2733. ext. 5509. for CREI’ and TIAA Real Fatatc Account prospectuses. Read them carefully beforeyou invest or send money.

12/98

it

 

K

I’

  

Ultra ilting-tum {ﬂirt

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

VOLUME 101, NO. 18

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

MONDAY, MARCH 15, 1999

Volunteers begin
work on shelter

Students team up with Lex community to
build shelter for battered women

By Polly Doig

NEWS EDITOR

Phonu b} ‘ , Bnmu Pholo Miro:

At the Pavillion, three volunteers cut wood for the shelter’s foundation this past weekend.

 ‘Night Owl tries to

avoid extinction

By Polly Doig

NEWS EDITOR

The latest campaign to save an en-
dangered species began last week at
the Washington and Lee University
campus.

Students are once again being
asked to save the Night Owl. Posters
dotted campus, urging students to
support Night Owl Records, which is
once again taking a hard look at it’s
own extinction.

“This past week there has been a
bit of an improvement from students,”
Wayne Raynal, owner of Night Owl,
said.

“I’m still below what I was doing

, last year, and l’ve sort of set a dead-

line for mid-April to decide whether
it’s worth trying to continue.”

Night Owl lost considerable busi-
ness last year with the opening of
CrossRoads CD’ s and Records and the
Wal—Mart Super Center. Raynal esti-
mates that roughly 60 percent Of his
sales are made to students, and with
that number steadily declining, a sub-
stantial part of his business is likewise
being lost.

In addition, Raynal says that sum-
mers are always slow without the stu-

’ dent population, and he needs to make

a decision soon as to whether he’ll be
able to make it through the summer.

Night Owl Opened in August,
1989 at it’s current location on
Jefferson Street. Since then,
Raynal has striven to open up the
local music scene, including a free
concert held last year named
“Waynestock.”

“I’ve done my best to promote
local music, though it’s not neces-
sarily music that I can make a buck
off of,” Raynal said. “That’s kind
of selﬁsh, though, too. It means I
get to see more music live myself.”

« But, according to Raynal, Night
Owl has always concentrated on
the music.

“I have one gimmick,” Raynal
said. “I’m always a dollar below the
list price, no matter what you or-
der. You can have the gimmicks, but
you have to pay for them.”

However, as he faces the pros-
pect of a future without his store,
Raynal also has to contemplate his
own future.

“I guess I’ll ﬁnd a realjob that I
don’t like nearly as much,” Raynal
said, “and probably get paid bet-
ter, too.” Although Raynal is hav-
ing to face reality, he contends that
his nine years in Lexington have
been good ones.

“it’s been a lot Of good music,”
Raynal said. “And so, even ifl

close, it wOn’t have been a waste.” ,

Phuln In l>1n|l)‘HIn\« Photo Ldilof

Night Owl Music owner Wayne Raynal hopes to stay in town.

The normal quiet of the woods
surrounding the Student Activities
Pavilion was shattered this weekend
. . . by the sound of power tools.

The Timber Framers Guild rolled
into town to begin work on a shelter
for battered women in conjunction
with Habitat for Humanity and Project
Horizon.

Close to 40 volunteers from the
Timber Framers Guild, Habitat, Virginia
Military Institute, Washington and
Lee University, and the community
gave up part of their weekend to lend
a hand.

“We’ll probably be taking some of
this stuff on site by midweek, if the
weather improves, but most of the
construction will happen next week-
end,” Brian Richardson, president of
the Board of Project Horizon and
W&L professor of journalism, said.
“What we’re doing here at the Pavil-
ion this week is cutting the joints into
the ends of the timber, so that they
interlock and ﬁt together and then you
can drive a wooden peg through them
and that way you don’t use any
nails.”

The shelter is the third Lexington
project for the Timber Framers, and

the second in conjunction with Habi-
tat. Both organizations acknowledge
a difference between this and previ-
ous projects.

“Usually wejust build houses for
low-income families, and this has
added a whole other aspect to it -
protecting people who are victims of
domestic violence,” Josh Beckham,
president of the W&L chapter of
Habitat, said. “And that’s something
that we wouldn’t have had the op-
portunity to do unless we’d banded
together with Project Horizon.”

Executive Director of the Timber
Framers Guild Joel McCarty agrees.

“The particular project here has
certainly make it easier to attract vol-
unteers from the Guild community,”
McCarty said. “We’re trying to show
people that almost anything can be
accomplished by community effort.
You’ll see a bunch of people from at
least four different [groups] working
together on this project.”

With the ball now rolling, Project
Horizon expects the construction to
be completed fairly quickly.

“We hope to open by the end of
summer, or maybe early in the fall,”
Richardson said. “Once the frame
gets up, there’ll still be a lot of ﬁnish
work to do on the interior, so we’ll be
relying on volunteers and donations

a lot for that, but this is really the criti-
cal bit.” '

When completed, the shelter will
be 4,400 square feet over three ﬂoors,
two of which will be fully ﬁnished, and
then a partially-fmished basement. The
house will greatly improve Project
HOrizon’s abilities to shelter victims of
domestic violence, which currently
averages two or three days.

“Most of them probably won’t be
there for longer than 30 days,”
Richardson said. “It’ll be in a residen-
tial setting, as homey as possible, for
up to a month. That should give them
a pretty good chance to try to sort their
lives out, and ﬁgure out what’s next.”

According to Richardson, the need
for the shelter has become obvious
over the past year. Calls to the Project
Horizon hotline have increased three-
fold during that time, and the organi-
zation is providing short—terIn shelter
to twice as many clients as it did last
year.

“At ﬁrst I thought that the number
of incidents was on the rise,”
Richardson said. “But Ithink we’ve had
aproblem fora long time. and it’s sort of
coming to the fore now. People know
they can come forward and get help.”

Soon, Project Horizon will keep a
light burning in a temporary home
across town.

Phi Beta Kappa inducts 53 students

By Eliarma Marziani
STAFF WRITER

Last Friday, the Washington and
Lee University Gamma chapter of Phi
Beta Kappa inducted 54 new members.

Four of the new inductees were
from the Class of 1998, 27 from this
year's senior class and 22 from the jun-
ior class. Art Goldsmith, professor of
economics, was also inducted as an
honorary member.

Founded in 1776 at the College of
William and Mary, Phi Beta Kappa is
the oldest and most prestigious honor
society in the United States. PBK rec-
ognizes academic achievement and
scholarship, and promotes the liberal
arts education. Chapters of PBK se-
lect and invite to membership students
with an outstanding academic record,
who have demonstrated some knowl-
edge in math and foreign languages
and have done three-fourths of their
undergraduate work in the liberal arts
and sciences.

PBK members are generally in the
top tenth percentile of their graduat-
ing class. Most inductees are under-
graduates, but some chapters, such
as W&L’s, also occasionally induct
graduates.

W&L’s inductees found out about
their honor about 2 months ago.

“To be honest, in one sense, I was
relieved . . . It was kind oflike, ‘Oh,
wow, so I made it?’” junior inductee
William Kanner said. “It is kind ofa
capstone, an acknowledgment that I
had worked hard and done well.”

Kanner was very happy to be in-
ducted, but tempered his excitement
with a little realism.

“I didn’t get too overexcited about

it,” he said, relaying the fact that he
had already been rewarded by receiv-
ing good grades throughout his col-
lege career, and that his induction into
PBK is not an accomplishment so
much as recognition of all that he has
already accomplished.

“It’s an honor to be inducted in it
at a place like W&L, where everyone
comes from such strong academic
backgrounds—everyone else is also
phenomenally intelligent around
here,” said senior Kelly Joy.

The ceremony at Lee Chapel on
Friday aftemoon was not the actual
induction of the new PBK members.
According to PBK regulations, the in-
duction must be a more secretive ser-

vice open only to new and old PBK
members.

The afternoon Lee Chapel cer-
emony, however, allowed the new in-
ductees to be publicly recognized.
The entire student body, professors
and parents were invited to applaud

Joy gave an address to the new
members on the importance of a lib-
eral arts education, saying that she will
“graduate in three months now with
the ability to speak well, write well, and
really think on [her] feet” as a result of
her quality liberal arts education.

exchange of ideas on campuses.
Through this program, PBK invites 12
scholars each year to visit institutions
with a PBK chapter and spend two
days at each of these colleges, attend-
ing classes, meeting informally with
members of the staff and student body,

A
3

.

Photo in l>nn|\ nun.-x l‘hMn l>d|Iul

New Phi Beta Kappa members stand for recognition in Lee Chapel on Friday.

the students selected for this presti-
gious honor.

During the ceremony, senior Maciej
Golubiewski was announced as the
winner of the prestigious Pinney Prize.
The annual award goes to an under-
graduate student, selected by the Stu-
dent Affairs Committee, who demon-
strates extraordinary commitment both
to personal scholarship and to the
nurturing of intellectual life at W&L.

Phi Beta Kappa also recognized
sophomore Angela Roman for having
the highest grade point average in the
class of 2001 . Her GPA is nearly a 4.2.

Caroline Bynum, a history profes-
sor at Columbia University, gave the
keynote address, entitled, “Metamor-
phosis and Identity in the Western
Tradition.” She traced werewolf lore
through the centuries and questioned
the concept of identity.

Later Friday evening, a closed cer-
emony took place in a room in the sci-
ence center. Each inductee was given
his certiﬁcate and key, was taught the
society’s secret handshake, and
signed the membership book.

Bynum also spoke again, this time
concentrating on the importance of
learning to accept change.

Thenight concluded with a dinner
catered by Dining Services, but the
PBK festivities are far from over.

One of the unique aspects of the
Phi Beta Kappa honor society is that
it is very active. In 1956, it created the
Visiting Scholar program to foster the

and giving an open address.

This year, Leroy Rouner, professor
of philosophy, religion, and philo-
sophical theology at Boston Univer-
sity, will be the Visiting Scholar for
W&L. He will be on campus March
22-23 and will present a public lecture,
titled “Ecstasy and Truth" on Tues-
day, March 23 at 7:30 p.m. in the Sci-
ence Addition, Room A-214.

OPINION:

W&LIEE:

SPORTS:

LAST WORD:

@112 ilitttg-tum lﬁlti

Comments on Kennedy, letter on stingy tippers
Mock Con, one-act plays and music review
Men’s lax beats Gettysburg, baseball loses two

Suggestions for alternative publications

March 14, 1999

PAGE 3

PAGE 4

PAGE 5

PAGE 6

 

 t: {Ring-tum ﬁhiS

 

MARCH 15, 1999

GENERAL NOTES

-E-mail General Notes to pl1i@wlu.edu

OCTAA meets

Students are invited to attend an
OCTAA — On Campus Talking About
Alcohol — program Thursday, March
18 from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. inroom 113 of
the University Center.

OCTAA provides students with
knowledge to make informed decisions
about alcohol use, skills to assess their
drinking behaviors and the tools to
make lifetime decisions about drink-
ing choices.

Call the Health Education Ofﬁce at
462-4501 to sign up for this
nonjudgmental, research-pasved pro-
gram. Eam auction money for “A Night
to Remember.”

Simpson lectures on

local architecture

Professor Pamela H. Simpson will
present a slide lecture tracing the ar-
chitectural history of Lexington on
Thursday, March 18 at 7:30 p.m. in
Northen Auditorium.

The lecture is in conjunction with
the exhibit “Images of Lexington: From
Miley to Hinely,” currently on display
in Leybum Library. It also highlights
the reprinting of “The Architecture of
Historic Lexington,” which Simpson
co-authored with Royster Lyle in 1977.

The lecture will be followed by a
reception, during which the book will
be available for purchase.

E _Phi Beta Kappa Scholar

visits campus

Leroy Rouner, professor of phi-
losophy, religion, and philosophical
theology at Boston University, will
visit the Washington and Lee Univer-
sity March 22 and 23 as part of the Phi
Beta Kappa Visiting Scholar Program.

Rouner will meet with several

classes, talk with various student and
faculty groups and deliver a public lec-
ture during his visit. Rouner's lecture,
titled “Ecstasy and Truth” will be held
Tuesday, March 23 at 7:30 p.m. in the
Science Addition, Room A-214.

W&L Wind Ensemble

performs in Lenfest

The 60—member Washington and
Lee University Wind Ensemble, di-
rected by Barry Kolman, associate
professor of music, will perform sev-
eral major works from the Band reper-
toire at a concert on Tuesday, March
23. The performance will take place on
at 8 p.m. at the Lenfest Center.

Celtic Band comes to

Lee Chapel

One of the biggest names in Celtic
bands, Boys ofthe Lough, will play in
Lee Chapel on Wednesday, March 24
at 8 p.m.

The Boys of the Lough create music
that is “full of guts and technical bril-
liance,” according to the Irish Times.

The music of the Boys of the
Lough ranges widely through the
ﬁddle, ﬂute, piping and vocal traditions
of Ireland and encompasses ﬁddle
music of Shetland, Scotland and North
America.

This concert is sponsored by W&L
International Performing Arts Series

and the Paul D. and Pualine B. Pickens
Endowment for the Performing Arts.

NYT reporter speaks

011 Japanese WOIIICII

Elisabeth Bumiller, reporter for The
New York Times, will be here Tuesday,
March 23. Her talk, entitled “The Secret
Life of the Japanese Woman,” is at 8
p.m. in Leybum Library's Northen Au-
ditorium.

Bumiller is the author of two books,
“The Secrets of Mariko: A Year in the
Life of a Japanese Woman and Her
Family” and “May You Be the Mother
of a Hundred Sons: A Journey Among
the Women of India.”

Riding team gallops to

regionals

The Washington and Lee Riding
Team will compete in regional compe-
tition on Thursday. W&L has a higher
number of qualiﬁers than any other
school in the region.

The team performed well Sunday
during their last show at Fancy Hill
Farm.

D-hall presents Karaoke

Put on your blue suede shoes and
dance on down to Evans for a’50s’
Karaoke night on Thursday, March 25.
The event begins at 5:30 p.m.

Wok’! M 6!?/TA/”

INFORMATION TABLE Wed., March 24

11:30 - 1:30 pm Outside of the Co-Op
CAMPUS PRESENTATION 3:00 pm
Tucker Hall, Room 318

BROAIJEN YOUR

work. TRAVE

make new

FRIENDS

rnat

HURIZONS
L

and have fun

onalise

roun RESUME’

Call l.800.GO.BUNAC
PO. Box 430. Southbury, CT, 06488

 

° I’ﬂI'ﬂIlIS' IIISIIIIIIIII

- Newly Renovated

Econo
Lodge

p540-463-7371 ‘ '»

' H08 IIBII WIIII IIBIIIIIIB
° IIII SIIIIIIIIIIQ IIIIIIIIIS

° FIBB IIIIIIIIIIEIIIEI Bl‘BiIIIIaSI

‘I?

8

happy st. patmcks oayi
|Zt2om VOUR lttzlenos at

 Iv
‘  4 connection

19 W. Nelson Str et Lexington 464-655

@

Tbinlchag of A
Summer Employment
Opportzmities“?

Special Programs
Resident Assistants
June 15-Aug. 3,1999

The Ofﬁce of Special Pro-
grams employs 5 W&L stu-
dents to serve as Resident
Assistants for a wide variety
of Special Programs includ-
ing Alumni Colleges,
Elderhostel, and adult con-
ferences. Duties include
housekeeping, attending all
meals with guests, bar recep-
tions, and shuttle driving. An
outgoing personality is a
must. Application deadline
is March 31, 1999.

For more information,
please contact the Ofﬁce of
Special Programs, Howard
House, 463-8723.

   

Are You _a Non-Business Major? Do You Want to Improve Your Marketability?

The Haas School of Business
at the University of California Berkeley
Intensive Summer BASE Program IS FORYOU!
July 6 -August I3, I999

  

Learn the fundamentals of:

° Accounting - Marketing

° Finance - Organizational Behavior

- Hands-on market & ﬁnancial research

° Business related computer applications

- Effective communication & presentation skills
0 Prepare for the corporate recruiting process

es, and Engineering students will beneﬁt from this rigorous, six-week sum-
" Iu  _,t..vvil| include lectures, case studies, company visits, guest speakers
  yions.

    
 

For more information, contact our website at:
httpzllhaas.berkeIey.eduIUndergradlBASE.htmI
or via email at: BASE@haas.berkeley.edu

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Annual Fund Staff Associate

The Ofﬁce of University Development has an opening for an Annual Fund Staff
Associate. This position assists in the development and management of strategies to
increase involvement in the ﬁnancial support of Washington and Lee through the Annual
Fund which provides direct support to the University’s operating budget. The term of the
position is one year, renewable for a second year, with preference given to recent W&L
graduates.

As this entry-level position depends on creative communication to a varied constituency,
the successful candidate should possess excellent writing and verbal skills. Also
necessary are demonstrated initiative, an ability to work within speciﬁc deadlines, ability
to prioritize and juggle multiple tasks, an ability to supervise and manage student workers
and alumni volunteers, and a willingness to assist other staff members as needed.
Candidates should also be prepared for evening and weekend work and some travel.
Familiarity with computers and with public relations principles is a plus. A Bachelor’s
degree is required.

Candidates should send a complete resume and letter of application to Robert W. Fox,
Director of Personnel Services, Washington and Lee University, Lexington, VA 24450.

Equal Opportunity Employer

-[c,cn

9

\ 

Academic couple seeks:

EGG DONOR

for clinic in VA/N C region: Cau-
casian woman, 21-30, nonsmoker,
college degree or higher, solid
SAT scores, at least 5’8”, lean/
athletic build, dark complexion/
hair, even-featured face, excellent
Ihealth/teeth/skin/eyesight. Right
candidate will be well-compen-
sated and asked to provide pho-
tos. Please send letter along with
background, education, and mo-
tivation for doing this to: POB
425545, Cambridge, MA 02142.
All serious replies answered.

...., ..__...,,  _‘ _
. ~. - _>_ 

- ~ - . -. . .. -- .,.._.... _,_<__, .
‘_AlI""f‘ yr.'\In!It'>K"lDPf1\l’J\/ ..

.4 ,.. .... ,

 

-T M

“TIAA-CREF sets the
standard in the

financial services industry.”

“---Americas
TOD Pension Fund.”

.._M .
-—Morningstar* °”"” Ma3aZ'"e~ January 1993

Y (gm/ed W

-~WtIIiam Ravdin.TIAA~CREF Participant

arm

..—S&P and MoodY’$
rating for TIAA*"‘

HIGH MARKS FROM
MORNINGSTAR, S&I’, MO ODY’S,
MONEY MAGAZINE AND BILL.

operating expenses that are among the
lowest in the insurance and mutual fund
industries.* * *

With TIAA-CREF, you'll get the right
choices--and the dedication—to help you
achieve a lifetime of ﬁnancial goals. The
leading experts agree. So does Bill.

TIAA-CREF can help you build a com-
fortable, financially secure tomorrow, with
tax-deferred annuities, mutual funds, IRAS,
insurance and more.

To find out more, call us at 1 800 842-277 6.

V N E e take a lot of pride in gaining
high marks from the major rating
services. But the fact is, we're equally
proud of the ratings we get every day from
our participants. Because at TIAA-CREF,
ensuring the financial futures of the educa-
tion and research community is something
that goes beyond stars and numbers.
We became the world's largest retire-

ment organization by offering people a
wide range of sound investments, a

commitment to superior service, and

www.tiaa-cref.org

Ensuringﬂmfuture
forthosewhoshapeit.“

I

‘Source: Momingstar. Inc., Principia Variable Annuirin/bf: I-2/31/98. "'I'hese top ratings are based on TIAA‘I exceptional ﬁnancial strength, claims-paying ability and overall operating performance
"'SunlIrl 0’Pl7or’.v Inna-ant: Ruiru Anllytix, 1998; Upper Analytical Services. Inc., IJ'pper<DI'r-rerun’ Annlytiul Data. 1998 (Quarterly). TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Service: Inc .
dinributu CREF cenifiutei and interests in the TIAA Rn] Euute Account. Teacher: Petionnl Investor: Services, Inc. diltrihutel the TlAA~CREI-‘ Mutual Funds. I I
,' ’ ' ' ' " _, charge: and r pleue call for , , . Read tliem carefully before you invelt or and money. To request prolpectulel, c|.I.l l 800 342-2753, ext. 5509.
Invelllnentl In securities Inch in mutual fund: uni variable nnnuitiu are subject to eeruin rinlu including the pouilsle Ion of principal. 1/99

For more

JAMES G. LEYBURN LIBRARY
WASHINGTON A LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VA 24450

MAR 161999   ~

 

 

MARCH 15, 1999

G11: ttitng-tum lﬁlii

OPINION

PAGE 3

Republicans need more like Kennedy

During her speech in Lee Chapel
Thursday, Kennedy covered a variety
of topics, ranging from her upbring-
ing, her career at MTV and feminism.
None of these subjects, however, had

 

nearly the effect on me as her com-
mentary on what direction the GOP
should take if it wants to survive and
find a place among the younger gen-
erations.

Kennedy. hit

crowd in Lee Chapel.

Photo by Emily Barnes
Guest speaker, Kennedy, addresses a packed

the nail on the
head when she
complained about
the lack of liber-
tarianism in the
Republican Party.
A small but very
vocal minority in-
sists on imposing
traditional mor-
als on society
through legisla-
tion.

The Pat Buch-
anans, Jesse
Helmses and Tom
DeLays of the
party insist on
making divisive
personal issues
such as abortion,
school prayer and
racially—oriented
immigration laws
their focus.

People like
them only con-
tribute to the

stodgy, out-of-touch, rich, old-white-
guy image of the party, and it’s a real
tum-off to the voters.

The Christian Right is to the Re-
publican Party what a really bad hook-
up is to a Washing-
ton and Lee stu-
dent: something
that you want to
forget but can’t
(though this might
depend on what state you’re in dur-
ing the incident).

Don’t get me wrong, I have no
problem with traditional morals; I em-
brace most of them. I refuse, however,
to let my moral convictions get in the
way of my political beliefs.

. As Kennedy said, “We need to
learn to compartmentalize, like Slick
Willie,” meaning that Clinton’ 5 ridicu-
lous separation of what he says and
what he does could have practical and
moral applications in conservative
philosophy. We can be against abor-
tion, homosexuality and unrestricted
immigration without having to legis-
late it. Hopefully, the rest of the coun-
try will follow their leaders’ examples
(for once a good thing), and such laws
would be unnecessary.

The future of the party, as Kennedy
said, lies in ﬁscal conservatism. Ameri-
cans pay too much and get too little.

 

Colonnade looks naked
without happy smiling faces

Something has been missing from
this campus for most of this academic
year. Our Colonnade, recognized by
students, faculty and nearly everyone
associated with this University for its
unquestionable
beauty, has re-
mained stripped of
its most heart-
warmingly attrac-
tive feature since
early in the school year. Majestic red-
bricked buildings with awe-inspiring
white columns just don’t do it for me
(especially when the things are cov-
ered with that damned white stuff).

When it comes to putting a smile
on my face, nothing works better than
one ofthe same on someone else’s. I
hope the day is not too far in the fu-
ture when our Colonnade is decked
with which crazy, happy faces.

A hypocritical grin from someone
walking all bundled up in a big jacket
and burdened with far too many books

,......

 

K Off His Rocker
em’ if Stephen Pesce ’O1

 

isn’tthe smileI’m looking for. I’m look-
ing for smiles from students so in-
volved in their glee that they don’t
even notice you and the speaking tra-
dition doesn’t even cross their minds.
Well, the “Keep off
grass” signs are
gone. Hopefully
that means we can
once again enjoy
the rich, cool feel-
ing of green grass between our toes.
Frisbees, footballs, lacrosse sticks,
heat exhaustion, dogs mindlessly
chasing down sticks, these are the
things that make the Colonnade so
beautiful. Give me a run-down group
of gray and brown shacks with a pick-
up game of touch football on a green
ﬁeld. You can have Lee Chapel and
Washington Hall.

In any case, if there is a good and
loving God, then spring and wamier
weather are coming soon, so students
can once again grace the Colonnade

Ellie ﬂing-tum ilﬂlii

   

’ '’52:aur

with their jovial charm. Freshmen who
have not yet experienced the splen-
dor of a sunny day on the front lawn
will soon realize that Washington and

Lee’s Colonnade can truly be the most’

beautiful place on Earth. The differ-
ence between stressed-out students
walking to their next dreaded class and
carefree students running around like
wacked-out monkeys on speed is truly
remarkable. I’ve been stressed out for
too long now, I want to be a spunky
little monkey once more.

I’ve sensed a cold dreariness cloak-
ing the campus for a while now. This
recent bit of nasty weather has dimmed
my spirits to do much of anything. I
don’t know about you guys, but I can
only function amidst unpleasant
weather for so long. That cappuccino
in the Co-Op can only keep me going
for so much longer. Hopefully with a
new lawn and some brighter weather,
the whole campus will revive with re-
splendent ardor.

iiote of the week:

Poison Pen

The best way to achieve the personal
freedom and equality liberals whine
about so often is to cut taxes and put
the money back in the hands of the
people.
Clinton’s massive
~ tax hikes in recent
years, supposedly di-
rected at “wealthy
taxpayers,” currently
affect more than 40%
of all taxpayers in one way or another.
I know we’re the richest nation on
earth, but give me a break.

The Democrats’ proposed~National
Health Plan reeks of socialism; it would
effectively limit the choices that an em-
ployee has in choosing a doctor. In
the words of John Kasich, a presiden-
tial candidate, most people don’t want
their employer to pick out their run-
ning shoes, let alone their health in-
surance and doctor.

Hopefully, Kennedy’s wish (and
mine) will come true. The uptight so-
cial conservatives will be replaced by
fresher, more moderate faces that are
open to compromise and understand-
ing. Though I’m not sure adopting
Kennedy’s wild dress and mannerisms
is the answer, maybe her spunk and
practicality will catch on. Doing so
could very well be the only hope for
the GOP.

 LETTER TO
THE EDITOR

‘Student unhappy with
W&L dining behavior

. v 0 Dear Editor,
,1 amia W&L student who works
in town as a server in a restaurant.
, I have waited on W&L students
‘and faculty many times. As every-
f :,one knows, the proper tip for a
_‘ “server in a restaurant is 15-20%, de-
pending on the quality of service. 1

Spring in Lexington

At least I get to wear my North Face for another few weeks.

am writing this letter because recently
I waited on two separate W&L deans
and neither time was I leﬁ a proper tip.
On both of these occasions I was
complimented on the good service and
subsequently left a 10% tip. This leads
me to two possible conclusions, either
the deans were lying when they
complimented the service or they don’t
know how to tip properly. From speak-
ing with the other servers, these were
not isolated incidents.

It is important to me that people in
this town have a positive perception
of W&L, its students and its staff.

, Occurrences like this hurt the reputa-
tion of this university, especially when
the people doing this are the leaders

of our school. Waiters and wait-
resses only make $2. 13 per hour. It
is hard to make money, much less
earn the minimum wage, when
people do not tip properly. I was
very surprised the first time this
happened because I assumed that
the deans here know better. But the
second time, I was very disturbed
and I decided to write this letter. It
is not hard to tip properly. If you
receive good service, have that re-
flect in a good tip. It will make you
look like a better person and make
the servers not dread waiting on
you.‘
Sincerely,
‘Anonymoiﬁ

Executivg Editors
News Editors
W&Life Editors
Opinion Editors
Sports Editor
Last Word Editor
Copy Editors

Photo Editor
Online Editor

Business Manager

Tarah Grant
Hollister Hovey
Polly Doig

John Stewart
Ginger Phillips
Erica Prosser
Stephanie Bianco
Stephen Pesce
Frances Groberg
Kevin McManemin
Sarah Meldrum
Meredith Mlynar
Emily Barnes

Ali Soydan

Jason Williams

{{

I don’t want to go to
sleep tonight; I do that
every night. It gets old.

— Sophomore girl

2!

STAFF EDITORIAL

Midlife

  Crisis of  

Matt Lorber
Lionel Brown

Advertising Director
Circulation Director

To all recently
initiated pledges:

You are ﬁnally brothers in your respective fratemi-
ties. Congratulations. For six weeks, you endured un-
desirable situations and constant anxiety. The last six
weeks have taught you to respect your own pledge
brothers, the brothers of your chapter, and the broth-
ers in your national fraternal organization. All of you
have a common bond that will stay with you forever.
You worked hard to earn admission. You will never

Dancing to Good

.~,:~°‘i
‘s

C The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring—tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
4 elects the Executive Editors, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
A‘ on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect the opinion

Thursday, March 25, 1999, 8 pm - Saturday, March 27, 1999, 2 pm

of Th R‘ -1 PliEditorial Board. Ad ertisin does . . o ' . >-

not rcetleizillfheutgnpinions of The Ring—tum I:/hi or itfstaff. regret lt‘ If you ever Seefinother brother a“_yWhe'e m D W Sunday, March 28’  8 Pm

X‘ This newspaper observes current court deﬁnitions of the worlds Y0“ and he Wm have an automauc and ml‘ ‘ . . ‘ . ‘
libel and obscenity. breakable bond. ‘ Q ‘ .  B

 

Freedom is an incredible feeling, and’all of you feel
it now. It is now possible to look back with levity on
the last six weeks. You will probably agree that although
it was awful while it happened, it was worth it. Now,

Friday, March 26, 1999, 8 pm 0 Sunday, March 28, 1999, 2 pm

Monday, March 29, 1999, 8 pm '

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University

L ' i , VA 24450 - - - _
Te|e$§:)"nge:"';540) 4624060 you can relax. Take time to reorganize your lives. An ﬁ . .. " . W
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049 swer the phone with confidence. But most importantly, “mTmI;IE‘,N,TRE . e .
Fax: (540) 462-4059 reﬂect on the value of pledgship. Hopefully, now that  ‘“‘”“ . ’ . °
1: E"“a"¢ ”'"@“”"'“d“ you’re brothers, it all makes sense. Pledgeship is not Johnson Theatre ° Lenfest Center  Q . ’

 

~ 0 always enjoyable, but you will remember the last six
weeks for the rest of your lives.

For ticket information call the Box Ofﬁce 463-8000

 

 

PAGE 4

W&L1FE

MARCH 15, 1999

Get ready, students:

By Eliarma Marziani
STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee University is less than a year away
from celebrating one of its most exciting events, the famed
quadrennial Mock Convention. In past years, Mock Con
has gained quite a national reputation, being named “one
ofthe nation’s oldest and most prestigious mock conven-
tions” by The Washington Post.

Mock Convention is an event in which student body

“It deﬁnitely takes a lot of effort and organization,”
Midwest Regional Coordinator and W&L sophomore
Kirsten Malm said.

The entire steering committee meets at least once a
week, the political chair and his regional coordinators meet
once a week and the executive committee has several one-
on-one meetings with various chairmen throughout the
week. The steering committee has met with the Lexington
Business Advisory Committee and is working to “make

this something that [members

delegates make a prediction as to whom the out-of-of- of the town] are a part
fice party will nominate as their presidential candi-   Of,” Malm Said-

date for the year’s election. Traditionally, Mock J U I1 i 0 F
Con has been an uncannily accurate predictor of  Sean Edd)’,

the ultimate candidate. As the convention is
held in March, before most of the state con-
ventions, Mock Con is a true predictor of the
nominee, not merely a reflection ofwhat is al-
ready popularly known.

Many wonder how W&L students have
managed to attain such accuracy in its fore-
casts. The answer is not in a crystal ball or
writing in the clouds ~— rather, it is embodied
in one word: research.

To ensure a correct prediction, students
conduct grassroots research at the state and
local levels. Five regional coordinators super-
vise more than 50 state and territory chairmen,
who are responsible for forming committees to
contact officials and citizens of their respec-
tive areas and get a feel for public opinion in
those areas.

By conducting careful and precise research,
students are able to gauge the nation’s senti-
ments and predict its choice for the out-of-of-
ﬂce presidential candidate, rather than merely nominating
a person that they, as a fairly limited and unrepresentative
body, would select independently. This meticulous re-
search is what sets W&L’s Mock Convention apart and
makes it what Harry Truman called “a real convention.”

Mark Schweppe, W&L junior and general chairman of
the convention, predicts that as the convention approaches,
he will be spending approximately 25 hours a week working
on it. All regional coordinator applicants were advised at the
time ofapplication that they needed to be willing to commit
at least 20 hours a week to convention duties.

the media
chair, is
workingto
get Mock
Con more
national
coverage,
talking to
MTV, C-
S p a n ,

  
 
 
   

Lexington 2000

CNN and all the major networks. “We’re making sure that
the rest ofthe country gets to know what’s going on with
the Mock Convention,” he said.

State chairmen were just selected, and they will soon
begin looking for interested people to serve on their com-
mittees. Now is the time for students to get involved.

“We hope to have, by the time the convention takes
place . . . close to 90 percent [of students] involved in
some way or another,” Schweppe said. Students are needed
to do everything from major time commitmentjobs includ-
ing research to more minor yet essential duties such as

Mock C011 is comin

merely taking up ﬂoor space
at the convention itself in
March of 2000.

So what’s in store for the
celebration? Mock Con, af-
ter all, is not merely a two-
day event on March 3 and
4, 2000. It is a year-long
event to take hold of the
student body and get it in-
terested and excited in the
changes in national politics
and its role in these
changes.

A full slate of events is
already in place to accom-
plish these goals. The Mock
Convention year of celebra-
tion begins with the Spring
Kick-off April 26-28 this
year. On April 26, Mock Con
will host a Presidential ls-
sues Forum. The steering
committee has asked inﬂu-
ential conservatives to

speak about the election on that day, and it has received a
speaking commitment from Whit Ayres, a leading Repub-
lican pollster.

April 27, W&L will be the site ofa media panel, made up
ofwhat Schweppe calls “highly visible members from the
Washington press corps.”

This panel will discuss the candidates and the media’s
role in the election. Members of the panel include: Howard
Feinman, chief political correspondent for Newsweek and
an NBC political analyst; Bill Schneider, senior analyst for
CNN and a member ofthe Mock Con advisory board; Jim
Barnes, chief political correspondent for National Jour-
nal; and Howard Cook, the founder of the Cook Politicdl
Report.

For Wednesday, April 28, the steering committee has
invited all of the Republican hopefuls to speak. Alan
Keyes, Steve Forbes, Lamar Alexander and Dan Quayle
have expressed interest in attending. George Bush, Jr. will
not be able to make the event due to a Texas legislative
meeting, and the committee is still working on Elizabeth Dole.

Also that night, Mock Con and the Student Activities

Photo by Emily Barnes/Photo Editor

Juniors Mark Schweppe and David Dardis discuss plans for the Republican
Mock Convention. Although the convention is set to begin a year from now,
committee members are already busy making preparations for the big event.

Board willjoin forces to present Willie Nelson in con-
cert, most likely at the Student Activities Pavilion.
Schweppe explained that all these events are intended
to “keep the excitement up on campus” throughout the
coming year.

More such events are anticipated for next year. In
November of 1999, Malm is hoping to present a First
Ladies Conference, in which the wives of former presi-
dents could come together to talk about life in the White
House.

The Presidential Gala will also take place next Novem-
ber. The Gala is a formal dance in which the student body
is invited to join to enjoy the pre-Mock Con excitement.
When the convention itself rolls around in March 2000,
ﬂoats representing all ofthe states will parade through the
streets of Lexington, adding to the air of excitement sur-
rounding the convention.

The Convention will hopefully result in the seventh
consecutive and l7th overall correct prediction of the presi-
dential nominee, this time for the Republican party.

So get ready: the party is starting, and it’s big.

 

crowning achievement for several rea-

reaches a happy balance.

Pearl J am, Portishead show musical genius on live albums

By Matt LaMotte

PHI MUSIC RE VIEWER

In 1983 David Bowie’s “Ziggy
Stardust: the Motion Picture” concert
album brought a heart-rendering real-
ization to fans across the world,'as
they listened to Bowie tell his audi-
ence of 50,000: “Not only is this the
last show of the tour, but it’s the last
show that we’ll ever do.”

Not since that release has a live
album by a contemporary artist arrived
with any relevant signiﬁcance or ar-
tistic value — until now.

Pearl Jam’s “Live on Two Legs” and
Portishead’s “Roseland Live NYC” may
easily be the two most important live al-
bums of the decade. The manner in which
these discs portray Pearl Jam and
Portishead, arguably two of our
generation’s most important artists, var-
ies drastically. Both albums, however,
manage to display the artistic strengths of
the respective bands in ways that often
approach the kind of genius at which their

sons. Most notably, the darker, more
serious touches that have increasingly
inﬂuenced (and arguably worsened)
their more recent albums have all but
disappeared on this disc.

Mocking, pre-
tentious songs
such as “Lukin”
and “Bugs” take a
back seat in the
live show to more
upbeat, spirited
songs such as
“Hail, Hail,”
“Given to Fly”
and the rocking
“MFC.”

The songs in-
cluded on this al-
bum recall the
kind of unbridled
compositional
enthusiasm that
made “Ten” and
“Vs.” Pearl Jam’s

veritable greatest hits collection. Their
live versions of classics like “Black,”
“Betterman” and “Even Flow” come
close to eclipsing the emotional and
rhythmic strength of the originals.
The variation between their quick,

 

Pearl Jam’s latest release, “Live on Two Legs,” is a mix
of new songs and live renditions of famous classics from
earlier albums like “Ten” and “Vs.”

From beginning to end “Live on
Two Legs” moves quickly from one
fascinating direction to another, a veri-
table emotional joyride thatjust may
be the band’s most accessible effort
to date. Fans who
haven’t bought a Pearl
Jam album since “Ten”
have every reason to give
this one a chance.

Portishead’s
“Roseland Live NYC”
marks another stunning
live album achievement,
but for entirely different
reasons.

Portishead, pioneers of
the late-90’s moniker
known as trip-hop, have
made a name for them-
selves through its
minimalist approach to
songwriting: a simple beat,
a repetitive jazz sample and
a wispy vocal line consti-

j,w___'I‘he grand scheme be-
hind the “Roseland” con-
cert, however, was to have
a thirty-piece string orches-
tra accompany the band,
adding melodic weight to
their entrancing
minimalism. This concept
has resulted in a mesmer-
izing live album that differs
noticeably from their stu-
dio efforts, but is also
probably their greatest
achievement.

Most of their most
popular songs, including
“Sour Times (Nobody Loves Me),”
“Roads” and “All Mine” appear on the
album. The addition of a string en-
semble, however, adds a distinct depth
that the band has continually lacked.

The trippy,jazz-inﬂuenced, reso-
nating dissonances remain, as do the
splendor and sensitivity of lead singer
Beth Gibbons’ shockingly beautiful
voice. Even the subtle, rhythmically

 

Portishead offers a unique and memo-
rable musical experience with its newest
recording, “Roseland Live NYC.”

songwriter Geoff Barrow’s mesmeriz-
ing instrument samples, to provide a
feeling of exploration that they have
never achieved before. Without the re-
sponsibility of providing the musical
backbone, Barrow and Gibbons are
free to wander into new melodic play-
grounds of sound and the results mani-
fest themselves beautifully on almost
every track on the album.

previous albums only hinted.

“Live on Two Legs” to be the band’s

Many fans of Pearl Jam may find

two most popular albums.

terial, the rest of the disc runs like a

Besides the allure of the new ma-

intense songs such as “Corduroy”
and their more delicate, melodic ones
like “Nothingman” and “Off He Goes”

tute the entirety of a good deal of the
tracks on their two studio albums,
‘(Dummy)’  GAP.”

One Acts coming to Lenfest

By Erica Prosser
F EA TURES EDITOR

Student directors are taking to the
stage again for this year’s Festival of
One Acts. Below (left to right),
Julieann Ulin, Robert Powers, Anne
Hazlett, Alysia Graber and Cliff
Woolley rehearse “The Actor’s
Nightmare,” which is directed by
Woolley. This play, along with “Nice

  

People Dancing to Good Country
Music,” directed by Juliet Bickford,
makes up Bill B. “The Actor’s Night-
mare” is a comedy that leads the main
character through the nightmare of
being on stage without knowing the
script or plot. “Nice People” is the
story of Sister Catherine, who is asked
to leave the convent after spells of
uncontrollable cursing and barking.
The pieces featured on Bill A are

Photo courtesy of Susan Wager

 

“You Belong to
Me,” directed
by Holly Estes,
“The Midlife
Crisis of
Dionysus,” di-
rected by Brian
Prisco and “An
Interview,” di-
rected by Peter
Duvall.

“‘You Be-
long to Me’ is
about a struggle
for power and
control,” Estes
said. “The three
central charac-
ters fantasize about killing the per-
son who seems to be at the heart of
their problems.”

“Dionysus” is about the god of
theater, sex and alcoholic bevarages
who reaches a tuming point in his life.
He must reconcile the party days of his
youth with the boring future ahead.

“An Interview” is about an attor-
ney and an attendant, who represents
the gatekeeper of Hell. The two men

M

 

Rachel Welch ’02, Greg Pleasants ’00 and John
Floumoy ’99 practice their lines for “Nice People
Dancing to Good Country Music,” written by Lee
Blessing and directed by Juliet Bickford.

tive

Photo courtesy of Susan Wager

engage each other in a verbal spar-
ring match as the attorney attempts
to argue his way out of eternal dam-
nation.

Bill A will run Thursday, March 25
at 8 p.m., Saturday, March 27 at 2 p.m. A
and Sunday, March 28 at 8 p.m. Bill B
will run Friday, March 26 at 8 p.m., Sun-
day, March 28 at 2 p.m. and Monday,
March 29 at 8 p.m. No tickets are re-
quired and admission is free.

deft drum samples retain the haunt-
ing brilliance that basically defined
the trip-hop movement.

Songs such as “Mysterons”
and “Glory Box” that seemed thin
and weightless on their respec-
albums
Roseland; the string accompani-
ment fully ﬂeshes out the band’s
melodic ideas and allows the
samples breathing room.

This also allows Gibbons’ vo-
cal touches, as well as chief

tAzYiz ..ER at .
SAILBOATS - .T-n<i BEACH BAR.- JET. SKI5. : PA

“HOME OF THE WORLD'S LONGEST KEG PARTY"
FREE DRAFT BEER All WEEK LONG-(ALL FOR INFO!

17403 FRONT BEACH ROAD-

“Live on Two Legs” and
“Roseland” may be two ofthe great-
est live albums of our generation. Each
one portrays its respective artist in an
exciting, adventurous and new light

their studio personality.

For those curious as to what Pearl
Jam has been doing for the last couple
bf years, or for those seeking to ex-

plore exotic new worlds of luscious
harmony and sonic texture, these new
live collections are the answer.

succeed on

‘E - SUITES UP T010 PERS’

‘I-800-488-8828 ’

www.sandpiperbeacon.com (*rates per person)

PANAMA CITY BEACH, FL 3241‘;

that differs, often for the better, from _

 

 

MARCH 15, 1999

S

@112 filing-tum lﬂlti

PORTS

Men’s lax edges Gettysburg

By Brendan Harrington

SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s lacrosse team used a
stifling defense to defeat fourth-ranked Gettysburg 6-4
on Saturday afternoon in Pennsylvania.

W&L gave upjust three goals in the first 58 minutes
ofthe game. Sophomore midﬁelder Matt Dugan led the
Generals with a goal and two assists. Sophomore Pope
Hackney, junior Colin Dougherty, junior Chris Brown,
sophomore Ben Lucas, and junior Greg Meyers each

scored one goal.

The Generals (2-1), who are ranked ﬁfth in the nation,
played their second straight game against one of the top
four teams in the nation. Last Saturday, the Generals lost 9-
8 to Washington College, the ﬁrst-ranked team in the na-
tion and defending national champions.

The Generals have owned the Bullets as of late, hav-
ing now defeated Gettysburg four straight times. The Gen-
erals downed the Bullets 9-8 in double overtime last year
in Lexington.

The Bullets (1-1) led 2-1 early in the second quarter, but
Dugan scored with 10:24 left to go in the half. Less than a

minute later, W&L took a 3-2 lead when Dougherty scored
offan assist from freshman midﬁelder Andrew Barnett.

The Generals scored the only two goals of the third
quarter and opened up a 5-2 lead. Brown scored with 8:09
left in the quarter and Lucas scored with 4:34 left in the
quarter. Meyers added an insurance goal with 4:18 left in
the game and the ﬁnal score was 6-4.

Sophomore goalie Wes Hays had 8 saves and W&L
outshot the Bullets 27-21.

The schedule now gets a little easier for the Generals as
they host Dickinson on Wednesday and Franklin &
Marshall on Saturday at the Liberty Hall Fields.

F&M sneaks by Women’s lacrosse in overtime

By Frances Groberg

SPOR Ts EDITOR

The possibility of an impending storm did not prevent
parents of the Washington and Lee women’s lacrosse play-
ers from traveling to Lexington to watch what has histori-
cally been a ﬁerce contest between the Generals and the
Franklin and Marshall Diplomats on Saturday. Bearing food
and drink, they were not disappointed. The game went
into overtime, where F&M was able to edge out W&L 14-
13 in the last 51 seconds of the second overtime period.

The Diplomats jumped out early by a score of 3-0, the
biggest deﬁcit of the entire game, but the Generals were
able to turn it around and tie the game 5-5 at halftime.

With 15:02 left, W&L gained their ﬁrst lead of the game,
9-8. W&L edged out in front 13-1 1 with a goal from fresh-
man Eloise Priest, who led W&L with three goals on the day.

Junior goalie Ginny Jemigan blocked 12 shots on the
day, as did Diplomats goalie Alissa Sculthorpe.

In the final minute of the second overtime period, how-
ever. the Diplomats were able to put one in the net and
secure their 14-13 victory.

“We deﬁnitely played up to our capabilities,” Head
Coach Jan Hathom said. “I was very proud ofthe way we
played —— our chemistry was better, and we’re coming to-
gether as a team.”

It was a very different story on Thursday when the
Generals took on the Bridgewater Eagles. Seven goals in a
span of fewer than 20 mintues took W&L into halftime
with a 7-0 lead. The Generals added six more in the second
half, crushing the Eagles 13-1.

W&L takes on Colorado College in a makeup game on
Monday at the Liberty Hall ﬁelds starting at 4 p.m.

 

 

TOURN

WHEN:
WHO:

Eligible
HOW:

Gymnasium
AWARDS:
champion

€l‘lTl2V DCADLINC.

TOURNAMENT DIRCCTOR.

UNIVERSITY SQUA,
CHAMPIONSHIPS

W&L UN|\l€l2§|TV
  §OFT §QUF1§H

 

March 23-26,
Separate Men’s and Women’s Divisions
All Students, Faculty, Alumni, and Staff

Entries and information available at the
equipment room (300 level), Doremus

Trophy to individual men’s and Women’s

   

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

‘ Junior Ansley Miller denies a Franklin and lMarshall player access to the goal on Saturday.

AIYICNT

1999

MARCH Q9, 4 PM.

COACH JOC LVL€§ K8683

 

Hoehl tenth
at NCAAS

By Frances Groberg

SPOR Ts EDITOR

Senior Margaret Hoehl has been ripping through Wash-
ington and Lee women’s swimming records and earning
top times all season.

She continued to do so even at the NCAA Women’s
Swimming Championships at Miami University this week-
end, where she placed tenth in the 1650 freestyle.

Her time of 17:35:21 broke a school record by 1 1 seconds.
Hoehl also ﬁnished eleventh in the 500 freestyle with a time
of5 :03 :57. These two stellar performances qualify her as an
honorable mention All-American.

“It was an honor for me to even go to the NCAAS,”
Hoehl said. “My goal wasjust to place in the top 16, and
I was happy with my performance. It was a good end to
my career.”

Hoehl has managed to impress people far beyond the
ODAC. She appeared in the March 1 issue of“Sports Illus-
trated Magazine” in the section “Faces in the Crowd.”

“Margaret led by example,” coach Kiki Jacobs-Moore
said. “It’s hard to swim at a meet like the NCAAS, but she
swam extremely well.”

Hoehl. in this meet alone, broke school records not only
in the 1650-yard freestyle, but the 1000-yard freestyle and
her own previous record in the 500-yard freestyle.

In addition to holding the record for the 1650-yard
freestyle, Hoehl also holds a place in the books in the 400-

yard individual medley and as a member of the 400-yard '

freestyle relay. She also earned 12 top times this season in
freestyle, breast, t1y,medleys and relays.

Freshman Blaine Clarke considers Hoehl an inspirational
presence on the team. “She"sjust amazing,” she said. “She’ll
swim anything and she’ll swim it hard and win — shejust
doesn’t stop. It makes me want to go out there and do my
best too.”

Hoehl said that in the future, she would love to do some
coaching, maybe at the high school level. “l’d kind oflike
to pass on the knowledge,” she said. Not surprising. If her
achievements here at W&L are any indication, there is a lot
to bequeath.

Men’s, Women’s tennis win again

By Steele Cooper

SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee tennis teams both scored big
wins this week, moving closer to repeating once again their
successful seasons of the past. Saturday, the men’s team
defeated Southwestern College 6-1, and Thursday, they
defeated Hamden-Sydney College by the same score. Fri-
day, the women’s team scored their biggest win ofthe sea-
son against second—ranked Kenyon College 5-4.

Against Southwestern, singles for the Generals were
Kelly Radford, Scott Babka, Rhys James, David Lehman,
and Andrew Roberts. All three doubles teams scored wins

 

 

PAGE 

Basketball will 
miss Burghardt  

By Tod Williams

SPORTS WRITER

If a team lost its all-time leading scorer, most people i i,
would think the team would be in serious trouble. But
Chrissy Burghardt disagrees, and she should know. 
Burghardt is Washington and Lee’s all-tirne leading scorer. .

With 1,080 career points, Burghardt, a senior, leaves a
W&L as the ﬁrst General to break the thousand mark._ ,
“They’ll be others, I know,” Burghardt said, “but it’s a
great feeling to know I was the ﬁrst.” 

But Burghardt believes the team will do just ﬁne,"
next year. “[Freshman Jessica] Mentz will have to step}:
up next year, and I know [junior] Jess Morton will be a._
great captain,” she said. “[Freshman] Megan Babstif
did really well at the end of the season, so I’m'surel,'
she’ 11 do great next year.” 

Mentz said she believes the team deﬁnitely has the ‘
talent for another successful season, but it won’t be_, ,
easy. “It’s going to be such a big loss not having Chrissy,” M
Mentz said. “We’re all going to have to step up one way ,
or another next year. We’re really going to miss her J
consistency and her great leadership on the court.” ii

Burghardt came to Lexington when the Generals were ,
not riding the wave of success they now know. “I _,
deﬁnitely wanted to play, but I also wanted to go to a
good school. Some of the Division II schools I looked ,_
at might have had a little better teams at the time, but ,
the school wasn’t as good.” 0 /,

Burghardt said Coach Terri Dadio Campbell told her
she wanted to build a successful team, and Burghardt '
knows Campbell is well on her way to accomplishing.
her goal. “We’ve got a good team now. We’re not a 1,
team other schools look past anymore,” she said.

Burghardt said she liked the challenge of coming to 
a team that was in the building stages. She recalls games
when the starting ﬁve were the only ﬁve at the game,
“But it didn’t scare me,” she insists. . 

Not only did Burghardt ﬁnish her career as the all-
time leading scorer, but she also led the Generals in,
rebounds this season, averaging almost nine a game. 
That may not be a shock since Burghardt is a forward._ 
But looking at her is another story. ,_

At only 5’8", Burghardt admits she is “pretty short’.
for a forward.” That’s_ never stopped her. “All you re-0 '
ally need to do is box out,” she said. “You can play__
anywhere if you have enough heart.” 3.:

Although Burghardt may be small in the paint, she left:
another sport because she was too tall. “I didn’t start
basketball until sixth grade,” she said, “because I was into I
gymnastics.” Burghardt said she was forced out of gym-
nastics because she was too tall.

Whatever the reason Burghardt turned to basket-
ball, it was a good one. She says her biggest inﬂuence "
in her more than 11 years of playing was her father.’-
“He’s always been my biggest fan,” she said. “He came 
to most of my games, and that’s with a six-hour drive.” 4:

According to Burghardt, her time as a baller has’ ‘
passed. “I’ll got to some open gyms, but I guess I’m~ :
retired,” she said. “Looking back, I think I‘ll miss doing
things with the team most of all. We have that common
bond from times like being here over Christmas break7 ‘
when we were the only ones. I think I’ll remember those 
times more than the actual playing.” "

Baseball loses
double header If

By Tod Williams

SPORTS WRITER

The Generals fell to 6-5 on Saturday after dropping

both games of a doubleheader against Virginia Wesleyan. '
. The losses were the team’s ﬁrst since returning east of
the Mississippi from the Arizona tournament.

The Marlins took the ﬁrst game 7-2, giving General
ace senior Bob Weston his first loss this season. 
Weston, 4-1 on the season, gave up the seven runs on 
ten hits in six innings. 7

The Generals’ ﬁrst run came in the third when junior 
Andy Thompson doubled junior Russell Wrenn home. 
In the ﬁfth, junior Schuyler Marshall sacriﬁced home 
center ﬁelder junior Chris Stakem. At that point, the 17
Marlins led 5-2 and then added a run in both the ﬁfth 
and the sixth for the 7-2 win. 3

In the second game, the Generals put Stakem on the 
mound. He took the loss for the Generals, giving up seven i
runs in three and a third innings. Virginia Wesleyan scored 
eight runs in the sixth. The ﬁnal was 15-1. 

The Generals (6-5, 0-2 ODAC) will play a make-up 
game against the Lynchburg Hornets on Monday at 3 :00 

nu:-tn);

at Smith Field.

'4
:-

.‘4

A

on Saturday, as well. Doubles winners were the teams of 55
Dale Pretila/Babka, Radford/James, and Roberts/Washbum. 
It was this exact combination of winners that defeated their 
H-S C opponents on Thursday to score W&L’s second 6- 
1 win ofthe week. '3'

The W&L women’s tennis team upset ﬁerce rival 1,
Kenyon College of Friday by a 5-4 margin. This win forthe 
Generals further established W&L’s presence on the na— 
tional level. Scoring big wins for W&L were Brooke Haitzell, I‘
who defeated Kenyon’s number one seed and the second- 
ranked singles player in the nation, Erin Eggers, Melissa 
Hatley, and Manning Willard. Sealing the close victory for Z
W&L was the doubles team of Hays/Strang. '5

 

 

Humor Page

PAGE 6

Eh: filing-tum iﬂhi

AST

WORD

IDES or MARCH, 1999

lfthere ’s one word that comes to mind when I think of always feel a bit lost in our attempts to serve to such a

Lexington, it 's “diversity. " We live in a diverse community
ﬁlled with people with radically divergent interests, view-
points and talents. For that reason, we at the Last Word

wide audience. .
We've decided to stop trying to write humor (Thank
God!) Hey, I haven 't ﬁnished yet. (Sorry. ) As I was saying,

we 've decided to stop writing humor that will appeal to
everybody and start writing more audience-speciﬁc fare.
(Are you done now?) Yes. (Can I make a comment?) No.
(Come on.) Be quiet. (Please?) Go away. (Come on, just

let me say one thing and then I ’ll leave.) All right, go
ahead. (Ummm. . .) Well, what? (I forgot what I was going

to say.) Thanks a lot, you've ruined my intro. (Oh, f*** ”

the intro, just let the piece speak for itself) Good idea.

price: $0.35
or 50.7 yen
or 1.15 Euros

Study shows boring
people “in” this year

A deﬁnitive study conducted by the consulting/
auditing ﬁrm of Keegan, Goober and Wadd has shown
that boring people are the hippest group around.
“individual personalities are a deﬁnite downward
trend, as this bar graph shows. My statistical analysis
proves that those devoid of any interesting personal traits
will be considered cool this year,” said lrwin Wadd.
Preferred fashions will be anything bland —- khakis
and a plaid, button-down shirt or a blue blazer for formal
affairs. “Cool” jobs will be anything involving money.
“Investment bankers will be the rock stars of the twenty-
ﬁrst century,” said Wadd. “My numbers show that chicks

(cont. on pg. 64)
WALL STREET
WRAP-UP

Whoa, Nellie! I

It was another day of breath-tak-
ing, heart—pounding excitement on the
floor ofthe NYSE! First, the market
went up! Then it went down! Then it
went up again! Then it dropped a little
bit. Then it went up, but not up
enough to regain where it was be-
fore it dropped. Then it went up more!
Then it dropped!
That’s when the real excitement
started. By lunchtime, many analysts
thought that the market was going
to go back up. Others said it would
go down. Everyone agreed that it
would either go one way or the other.
It turns out, it went down! Then it

business in the
world working for
the same com-
pany.

A new corpo-
rate entity called
TransBioGlobal-
AmeriTechni-
ConglomeCon—
Corps will now
oversee all opera-
tions of all com-

 The C-Schooler

 

 

Three profs suspended for wild

Accounting Department Party
—Inside, pg. 3

Downsizing the competition:

the Gambino model
—Inside, pg. 7

The Christian
Right Review

“When you’re this far right it’s hard to be wrong”

Tolerance, love,

compassion: even
Jesus had bad ideas:

by Rev. Harlan Dinwiddie

Gooo AND MORAL MAN

World’s last two remaining
corporations merge

A massive merger between
TransAmeriConglomeCorps and many small, independent companies
BioGlobalTechniCon has left every to just one giant, hulking corporate

panies and most small countries.

Analysts say that the move from

V mass has ac-
tually been a
  long time

1970 ~— 540,546 businesses world- coming.
wide “H a v in g
1980-34,432 businesses worldwide one big com-
l990—-—-Timewarner. Sony, Microsoft pany is just
and Coke more efficient
1999——TransBioGlobalAmeriTechni- than all these
ConglomeConCorps _ little ones,”
said econo-

mist Miles Levin.
Trans—B ioG lobalAmeriTechn i-

Hallelujal The topic ofmy sermon today will be our
Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Now, I love the Lord Jesus
Christ as much as anyone. And I believe in the literal
interpretation of the Bible —— 2000—year-old passages
against homosexuality are enough to make me hate ‘em.

in reading the Bible, however, I have come to the
conclusion that our Lord and Savior, while omniscient,
had some really grade-A dumb ideas.

For instance, Jesus tells us to have love and compas-
sion for our fellow man. “Love thy neighbor as thyself,”
he admonishes the faithful.

Love thy neighbor as thyself? Is hejoking? What if
thy neighbor is an atheist? An abortionist? A Commu-
nist? A Unitarian? Clearly other Scripture passages that
advocate hating the preceding groups would seem to be
God’s way of vetoing Jesus’ foolish words.

Do not blame Jesus for his bad ideas, though. Re-
member that in His time, welfare was still 2000 years from

(cont. on pg. 3)

went way, way up! Then it went
down! Then it went up. Then it went
down a lot. Then it went up! Then

As expected, stock prices for
TransBioGlobalAmeri‘Techni—
ConglomeConCorps soared in the ﬁrst

ConglomeConCorps’ ﬁrst move as a
corporate entity was to fire the entire
South American continent, citing it

the market closed for the day. day on the market, primarily because as “just not cost efficient.” A corpo-
Who can stand that much excite- of the fact that it’s the only stock left rate restructuring plan went into
ment? Get me a Valium! to buy. (cont. on pg. 39)
AME 42 1"” ARH 43”’ 1"” BBC 105 1" ERA 1.235 RBI 34 HR 6 KO 54 TKO 9

 LEE!-HI 23°53
E '0

 TRUGEEE 335°
3, g salad
‘ bar

eaannne

    

Contents: P3855
The Quick 8 Easy vs. the General lee 9
Counlrv Music: here to slay? 3
Double rigs: a better way lo slaugh-
ler molorisls? 5
When an hour of sleep a day is loo
mrh 4
lkimuisameornemuilv? ‘ 3

T he Daily

I ntlepentlent

SEGA. MAGIC CARDS
HIP TRENDS FOR '99

  
 
  

BLACKBALLED
EVERYWHERE: A
TOUCHING TRUE
LIFE STORY

:  Upcoming social calendar:
CHICKS AT March 19 —— nothing

March 23 — nothing
THE COM‘ March 30 —— nothing
PUTER April 1 — nothing
HELP DESK

  

Cnoosing tne  belle for gournlext
cotillion — pg. 14

Darnnable Pope reiects Stonewall for
Saintnoocl petition again — pg. 4

 
 

DO
rninorlties ecial ort
have T00 When the only good

    
     
   
   

rnang family in town to marry
C iv l I into is yours: the state
R i g V. r5,> of inbreeding in the
— pg. 1 6

 

GROSS IICOMPGFQICQ
'E[lll® éZ&@ El®W©E@®@

The new
model J-38D

tzelroleaztzt re. tn. toilet
E ,el€n1.@Z@

aeeuééee;'

  

THIS MONTH’! FIVE MOST CREATIVE
I-'RA'l'B!NI'l'YI-ﬂ.l$ENl.IlSANCEFIlES

"PHYSICAL PLANT" - WHO DID WE
THINK WE WERE KIDDINGQ

BESTWAYSTOHEALFRWHIATI-$.83-
TPSFRQA11-EPROS

YOUR LEDERS TO THE EDITER

—— conceived and written by Kevin McManemi.n

Coincidence? We think not!

Out-of-wedlock fetus Public burnings of
slaughters (abortions) n0n-Christians

I920 l9{9 ‘i960 I980 2000 l920 1940 1960 1980 200

GHQ this Friday.

 

Friday, March 19, 8 p.m.

Friday, March 24, 8 p.m.

 
  

   
      
     

Now
printed on
recycled,

low-cal

paper.’

THE LIBERAL-
AMERICAN
Bit-vi=.i=.xLv

*”i3i" rneaning publisnecl everg otner week and
not pertaining to tne sexual or gencler—role
orientation of tnis publication, altnougn we fullg
support tne publication in ang lifestgle cnolce it
snoulcl rnaée, be it gag, lesbian, bi-sexual.
transexual, nerrnapnroclitic , asexual or even God
forbid neterosexual.

The job market bias
against Slacker-

Americans exposed
by Jamal Choi—Rodriguez

REPORTER-PERSON

In community college classrooms and at Phish con-
certs across the nation you can hear it: the cry of the
slackers. They cry out for compassion, understanding
and acceptance. They are tired of society making them
feel inferior.

“lt’s, like, totally
bogus, man,” said 28-
year-old Stoner-
American Warren
Benson. ‘‘I’m totally
discriminated against
in thejob market be-
cause I don’t want to
work.”

lt’s a sad fact that
the fascist plutocrats
who run our capital-
ist system are op-
pressing millions of
Slacker-Americans,
just as they oppress
Afro-Americans,
Womyn-Americans,
Chicano-Americans,

 

A Stoner-American left
destitute as anti-slacker
discrimination keeps him
from getting the money he
needs for marijuana

 

The Have Nots, an improv comedy group, will perform in the

Student Activities’ Office
March Comedy Series

(cont. on pg. 5)

GHQ The Have Nots

GHQ Randy Riggle

.,......_.-.... ... ....,. ., m ....z

 

 
 

U112 ﬂing-tum lﬂlii

W
VOLUME 101, No. 19

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsITv’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

 
  

     

_—«v Wu‘ we -,uu;s:“i

ma 2 5 199

MONDAY, MARCH 21, 1999

W &L Law
‘ranked #20

“W&L drops one spot in US. News
and World Rep0rt’s Law School ratings

‘i By Polly Doig

NEWS EDITOR

Just in time for undergraduate se-
giiiors who are struggling to make a
decision about which law school to
choose, US. News & World Report
has released its graduate school
rankings.

This year, the Washington and
Lee University School of Law was
ranked 20th out of the 181 accred-
ited law schools surveyed, a drop

‘of one place over last year.

“I’m pleased that we’re ranked as
highly as we are,” Dean ofthe Law
School Barry Sullivan said, “but
there are some problems with the

‘rankings and one should not take
them too seriously.”

For undergraduate students,
however, the slight drop may be too
little, too late to mean anything.

“These don’t come out in time for
us to look at recent rankings when
we’re applying,” senior Hillary
Coombs, who has been accepted at

Kthe W&L School of Law, said. “It
seems that US News is trying to
persuade some people’sjudgement
by releasing this information at the
time when people are making deci-

Vsions as to what school they want
to go to.”

Third year W&L law student
Steve Gosney says that the slight

rop is relatively insignificant.

“It seems to me that it’s really
more a matter ofthe fact that we’re
in the top tier,” Gosney said. “I think
it’s probably pretty accurate as far

‘as placing us there.”

Coombs says that though she
factored last year’s rankings into her
decision as to what schools to ap-

‘ply to, the new rankings will likely

have little impact on her ﬁnal deci-
sion of what school to attend.
“I don’t know where I’m going to
school,” Coombs said. “I’mjust kind
ﬁof skeptical of the overall ranking
procedure; it tends to make people
a little superﬁcial, make them won-
der about injuring their earning po-
/ tential.”

‘"3 “I think they do have a signiﬁ-

cant impact for some people,”
Gosney said. “But I feel that the
Princeton Reviewrdoes a much bet-

«terjob of ranking than U.S. News.

It’s a dangerous thing just to pick a
school based on rankings. It’s re-
ally more important to visit the
schools."

Many law schools themselves
object to the ranking system used
by U.S. News, claiming that the meth-
odology, which considers criteria
such as reputation, student selec-
tivity, placement success and fac-
ulty resources, is insufﬁcient.

According to Harrison Rainie of
U.S. News & World Report, 169 law
school deans endorsed a letter that
was sent out to all law school appli-
cants this year encouraging them
not to give the rankings undue im-
portance. Sullivan was one of the
deans who signed.

“The rankings are only one of a
variety of resources available to help
students make an informed deci-
sion,” Sullivan said. “I’m not sure
that there’s any better scale, but I’m
not sure that this is a good one.”

Among problems that Sullivan
cites are the lack of division between
national and regional law schools,
and the inaccuracy of certain num-
bers.

“One thing we get a low score on
is that about 60 percent of our stu-
dents are employed at graduation,
while 97 percent are employed nine
months out,” Sullivan said. “This is
based on self-reporting, and there-
fore ﬁuctuates because of differing
methodologies. The poll attributes
substantial weight to reputation, so
that puts us at a disadvantage be-
cause ofour small number of alumni
in comparison to other schools.”

For both Sullivan and Coombs,
however, the small size of W&L is
one ofits largely ignored attributes.

“I haven’t heard from a couple of
schools, but ofthe schools I’ve got-
ten into, W&L is my first choice,”
Coombs said. “I have a class there
this term, and I’ve felt very comfort-
able with the way students interact
with their professors. And that
makes me very comfortable with the
idea of continuing my education at
W&L.”

Gosney agrees, maintaining that
the law school maintains a high de-
gree of excellency in spite of it’s
small size.

“I’ve found that the quality of
students and professors here is re-
ally high,” Gosney said. “There’s
nobody here that shouldn’t be
here.”

Other Virginia law schools in-
cluded among the top 50 were the
University ofVirginia (7th) and the
College of William & Mary (32nd).

\

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

Midfielder Zeb Mellet defends against an attack by a Franklin and Marshall attackman. In the battle between the Generals and
the Diplomats, the Gen_erals_ performed admirably, crushing the Diplomats 24-2.

Generals crush Diplomats

Men’s lacrosse outplays opponents and stays at #3 in NCAA Division III

By Brendan Harrington
SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s
lacrosse team improved their record
to 4-0 against teams from Pennsyl-
vania after they destroyed Franklin
& Marshall 18-2 on Saturday after-
noon at Wilson Field.

“From the very first whistle, we
jumped all over them,” W&L head
coachrlim Stagnitta said. “F&M is
not a bad team, but we didn’t give
them even a chance to win that
game.”

The Generals (4-1) scored three
goals in the ﬁrst 1:32 seconds ofthe
game and never looked back.
Sophomore attackman Matt Dugan
had five goals and two assists as
seven different Generals found the
back of the net. Sophomore

Volunteers raise the frame of the Project Horizon shelter for victims of domestic violence.

W~Ph-oto by Emily Barnes/Photo Editor

midfielder Pope Hackney had four
goals and two assists, junior
attackman Chris Brown tallied three
goals and two assists and junior
attackman Colin Dougherty added
two goals and two assists.

Sophomore Wes Hays andjunior
Dan Grattan combined to make eight
saves in goal for the Generals. The
Generals dominated the Diplomats
(2-3) in almost every statistical cat-
egory, outshooting F&M 51-13 and
winning 18 ofthe 22 faceoffs.

The Generals, who are ranked
third in the latest STX /USILA Divi-
sion III National Poll, have outscored
opponents from the Keystone State a
combined 74-12. The Generals’ only
loss was a one—goal defeat at the hands
of Washington College, the defend-
ing national champions and ﬁrst—
ranked team in Division III.

“This is an extremely talented
group of kids and it’s amazing how
hard they have worked,” Stagnitta
said. “And we’rejust going to con-
tinue to improve because we’re so
young.”

Many people believe that W&L
has the tools to not only win the
ODAC, but maybe even make a run
at the National Championship.
Stagnitta says the team’s first and
foremost goal is to win the ODAC,
but he adds that this year’s team has
tremendous potential.

“As long as the kids maintain
this level of excitement and inten-
sity, they can go as far as they want,”
Stagnitta said.

The Generals crushed Dickinson
24-2 on Wednesday afternoon at Wil-
son Field. The game was tied 1-1
with 10:00 left in the first quarter

before the Generals scored 13
straight goals to take a 13-1 lead
midway through the second quarter.
Dugan had four goals and three as-
sists to lead the Generals while
Brown tallied ﬁve goals and one as-
sist. Dickinson fell to 1-3 with the
loss.

The Generals begin conference
play on Wednesday afternoon when
they take on twelfth-ranked
Lynchburg.

The Hornets are 5-0 and sur-
prised everyone when they upset
eighth-ranked Ohio Wesleyan ear-
lier this season, who defeated W&L
in the quarterfinals of last year’s
NCAA tournament.

“We will not be caught offguard,
we know Lynchburg is a good team,”
Stagnitta said. “They have a lot of
seniors and an excellent goalie.”

Gleeful Harvard visits Lex

By Polly Doig

NEWS EDITOR

Lee Chapel will reverberate with the
sounds of America’s oldest all-male
college chorus, the Harvard Glee Club.
on Wed., March 31.

A sub-group of the Glee Club,
Harvard Lite, is also scheduled to sing
with Southern Comfort Thursday night
at the Ruse.

“We’re going to try for around 10
pm. because some of the guys in the
group have another concert at 8 p.m.,”
Chris Edwards, of Southern Comfort,
said. “But the guys at the Ruse gave us
the okay to go ahead with it.”

Though arrangements aren’t com-
plete yet, Edwards says plans should
be ﬁnalized soon.

‘‘I’m excited,” Edwards said. “I think
it’ll be a great opportunity for us to get
to sing with a bunch of talented guys
that we wouldn’t normally sing with.”

The Glee Club was founded in 1858,
and was initially a social club at Harvard,
performing college songs and “glees.”
Since then, they have perfomied with
the L.A. Philharmonic and the Boston
Symphony Orchestra, as well as in the
Vatican.

The group will stop in Lexington as
part of its 79th spring tour. They have
previously toured throughout North
America, Europe and Australia since
1921, when they became the first Ameri-
can college chorus to travel to Europe.
The Glee Club consists of more than
50 members and is expected to perform
music ranging from the Renaissance to
contemporary composers.
The concert is being sponsored
jointly by the Emily Edmondson Penick
Pearse Memorial Concert Series and the

R. E. Lee Memorial Episcopal Church.
The Glee Club will inaugurate the Pearse
Memorial Concert Series, a bequest from
the late Mrs. Pearse, who was a Lexing-
ton native, longtime hostess of Lee
Chapel, and lifelong organist and pa-
rishioner of R. E. Lee Church.

In lieu of tickets, a free-will offering
will be collected during the concert, in
order to promote future concerts in the
Pearse series. Suggested donations are
$5 for adults, and $3 for children and
students.

March 21, 1999
OPINION:

W&LIFE:

SPoRTs:

@112 ﬁling-tum lﬂlti

McManemin, McManus come under ﬁre
Hot Spring Break getaways

Baseball wins two, women’s lax loses

PAGE 2

PAGE 3

PAGE 4

 

 

PAGE 2

O

@112 {Ring-tum lﬂlii

PIN ION

MARCH 22, 1999

A truly frightening insight
into my inner monologue

Sometimes I think that I wasn’t
meant for life as a human being. I’m
not alone in this thought, for my fam-
ily and friends tell me the same thing
all the time. In fact, perfect strangers
(one of my favorite shows from the
’80s, I must say) quickly pick up on
my blatant misunderstanding of the
human way of life. Don’t ask me to tell
you just what it is that I don’t under-
stand because I don’t have the foggi-
est. I do think, however, that I could
easily grapple with some other form
oflife.

Growing up in Catholic school, we
used to have this
little song that
went something
like, “lfl were abird
in the sky, I’d thank
you Lord that I
could ﬂy . . .” et
cetera, et cetera, et cetera, “but I just
thank you Father for making me me.”
Sometimes my mind didn’t quite get
to that last line. I’d sit there in music
class thinking, “Golly, I really wish I
were a ﬁsh in the sea. How cool would
that be?”

Well, I guess that fateful day in
Mr. Louie’s music class set the
course for my inner monologue for
well over the next decade ofmy life.
Constant dreams of“Golly, I really
wish I were a cow on the farm. How
cool would that be?” dash though
my mind. Over the years I’ve come
up with many alternative life forms
that I think would suit me.

I’d like to share some ofthem with
you. Maybe you can get a kick out of
the fact that your mind isn’t as dis-
tinctively skewed as it obviously
could be. Or perhaps you can relate
to the desire to step out ofthe human
realm into the more exciting Animal
Kingdom.

Ranking number one on my list
would have to be “a bear in the

..r’”iOff His Rocker

 Stephen Pesoe ’O1

woods.” The top selling point of the
bear is hibernation. I hate winter. I hate
snow. I hate cold weather. I love to
sleep. Hibernation would totally elimi-
nate the most miserable season ofthe
year, replacing it with glorious sleep.
Furthermore, I’m a big fan of the
simple bare necessities and forgetting
about my worries and my strife. I
wanna be like you, Baloo.

“A ﬂy on the wall” is a close sec-
ond. All right, so ﬂies only have a two-
day life span. But that’s one of the
only downfalls. First ofall, as the name
indicates, you can freakin’ ﬂy. How
cool would that be?
On top of that, your
onlyjob in that two-
day life span is to
ﬁnd a mate, and that
can be one of your
dozens of sisters.
Not very honorable, but certainly not
very stressful. Hey, ifI’m lucky I can
ﬁnd a bowl of soup in a restaurant. I
like soup. And to whoever’s soup I
ﬁnd, “Sure, it may be disgusting. But
hey, free soup!”

Tying for second, “a bird in the
sky” would be up there on my choices.
Like the ﬂy, you can ﬂy. The life span
is a bit longer and you have a pretty
voice, but the stress factor goes up
incredibly. You have to worry about
b—b guns and Alka-Seltzer. There is,
though, more opportunity to branch
out from the family as far as getting a
mate. But then again, there’s more re-
sponsibility when that family does
come. Those kids are going to need
worms and ﬂight lessons. In any case,
bird is right up there with the coolest
oflife forms.

Flesh—eating bacterium! Well, that
goes without saying.

“A shark in the sea” would also be
right up there. The first thing I would
do ifl were a shark would be to go to
Candice Bergen’s house, knock on

the door, and when she asks, “Are
you that pesky shark again?” I’d say,
“No ma’am, I’m just a dolphin, just a
friendly dolphin.” Then when she let
me in, I’d bite her head off. Sharks can
also have a good time screwing up a
little kid’s ﬁrst trips to the beach. I guess
that is something that the juvenile sharks
do. Eventually, I’d mature and stop do-
ing that.

Two words: Mon Key! (That’s
French for monkey.)

“IfI were a gator in the swamp,” I
probably wouldn’t have that recurring
nightmare that I am eaten by a mas-
sive alligator. And ifl did, I would be
the gator instead of the frightened
little boy who wakes up in a cold
sweat. I’d be the big reptile that wakes
up hungry and hunts down small chil-
dren who’ve lost their way. Oh, the
vengance is ﬁnally mine.

Another creature I often want to
be is that mysterious insect that crawls
around my bathroom. What the hell is

that? I’m telling you, these things"

have mutated and evolved from some
other form of insect into this very spe-
ciﬁc species that only lives in my bath-
room. It looks like a cross between a
scorpion and a doodle bug. I refuse
to kill any of them because I think that
one day they may advance the causes
of science, or aid in the study of the
effects of uncleanliness. In any case,
that’s what I want to be. At least then
I’d have the serenity of knowing.

I don’t care what anyone says
about that old mushroomjoke, the one
where the boy mushroom can’t un-
derstand why the girl mushroom
won’t go out with him. He say’s “Why
not, I’m a Fungi.” That’s funny. I’d
like to be “a mushroom on the lawn,”
so I could use that one.

“A duck on the pond” could be
fun. Not a swan, too showy. Not a
goose, too mean. But a duck, yeah
that’s right, a duck.

THEEDI'1‘ORl§

Summer scholar
bereaves potential
lose of Night Owl

Dear Phi,

This past summer, I was a par-
ticipant in the W&L Summer
Scholars program during the
month of July. In walking around
town, I discovered the music store
Night Owl. I ended up visiting the
store several times throughout the
month, and I bought a couple of
CDs there. Now, I’m sorry to read
that Wayne Raynal, owner of the
store, might have to close his busi-
ness due to competition with
Crossroads.

Let me just say that I urge you 7
to take your business to Wayne.
Like he said, everything he sells
is a buck cheaper than the other .
guy. Not only that, but Wayne is
also a great guy ~—- he can tell you
just about anything you would
want to know about any band, and
he’ll open up a CD and play it for
you in the store if you want to
hear it. I enjoyed doing business
with Night Owl this past summer,
and I hope I will be able to con-
tinue to do so when I start school
at W&L in the fall.

Sincerely,
Glenn DeLaney
Gainesville, FL

Phi editor offends
independent

Dear Editor:

I am writing this letter in regard
to a section of “The Last Word"
by Kevin McManemin in
Monday’s The Ring-tum Phi.
This section of an otherwise-hu-
morous piece on special-interest
publications, “The Daily Indepen-

dent,” was just plain mean-spirited.

As zffemale independent, the things
McManemin describes don’t really
apply to me, but I still felt personally
ﬁislufedpy what he said. Just because
a guy i§i1’t a member of a fratemity——
for whatever reason — that is no rea-
son to classify him as a reject without
a social life. That is an intensely self-
important and intolerant outlook.

This is the reason why people are
critical of the Greek system in general.
Attitudes such as this which inﬂuence
the “us-versus-them” mentality really
don’t do a lot to change the stereo-
types of the intensive, rich, white-boy
frat culture that is hostile to anyone
that isn’t one of them.

I know that’s usually not the case

and that for the most part Greek guys ,

arejust as nice as non-Greek guys. But

“cases like this just reinforce those same

images that I’m sure the greek commu-
nity would like to do away with. I would
ask that in the ﬁltLIl‘C McManemin give
some real thought to what he writes;
he’s not just reﬂecting on himself, but
on the entire Greek community. Thank
you.

Sincerely,
Tara McCook ’02

Phi editor offends
another independent

Dear Editor:

Usually I ﬁnd the Last Page hilari-
ous. Kevin McManemin has talent.
Monday March l5th’s issue was no
exception. As I sat down with my
chicken poppers in the d-hall, discuss-
ing the much-celebrated Snow Day
with my friends, I read “The C-
Schooler” and laughed uproariously.

However, as my eyes wandered
down to the “Gross Incompetence”
newsletter, I immediately thought of
the slew of letters to the editor in a
newspaper a while back, after a stu-
dent had written a “well, I thought it
was funny” article about the security
staff. Like the security staff, the B&G
staff works hard every day, many of
them at odd hours. Yes, I have heard
stories about a bad apple or two in
the past, but my encounters with the

» especially since the B&G staff re-

A There are ﬁne lines between sar-

B&G staff have always been posi-
tive. Every morning, I see
Roxanne cleaning our halls in
Graham-Lees and am amazed that

in everyone else’s state of grog-
giness, she maintains an upbeat
and pleasant disposition. . . .

Portraying the entire B&G staﬁ‘ ’

as a bunch of grossly incompe_- ~
tent, unintelligent thieves is no
way to promote good town-gown
relations. It is also just plain mean,

ally does have a REAL newslet-j 
ter. I ' yd  ‘A
Kevin McManemin must have
something better to do with his
time than think up ways to be-
little honest, hardworking people
for making a living that he hap-
pens to find demeaning. Also, it

is prejudiced and cruel to portray 7
modern Southerners as the rac-
ist, anti-Catholic, incestuous big-
ots that the “Southern
Gentlemen’s Quarterly” depicted.
“Do minorities have too many
civil rights?” Give me a break. -. A

castic humor, and degrading in-
suits.

Emily‘ Whitmire ’02
An Independent Who Has
F un...lmagine That!

Editor presents
)‘A mature and intel- / ,
li gent responsex

Dear Reader:

A) I am not prejudiced against
any particular group. I’m a
misanthrope —I don’t like
anybody.

B) I really don’t_have anything
better to do thai'i'belittle"lionest,-/
hardworking people.” I’m a mass
communications major, I don’t
exactly work very hard.

C) Are youjoking?

D) Thank you for taking the time
to write.

Kevin McManemin ’00
Last Word editor
The Ring-tum Phi

 

   

,\<



..{

T rident’s McManus abandons '
humorous for offensive

In Wednesday’s edition of The Tri-
dent, Sean McManus, in a pitiful at-

- side of the story, I’ve done my job. There

.* was no such attempt on McManus’s

tempt to revive The Trident’s anemic-rl part. Calling someone a “lavender

back page, blatantly and needlessly‘
insulted a student’s personal life, and’

thus ruined the reputation of his pub-
lication.

First, regardless 
ofwhat McManus’s A 
views are on classes
being cancelled,
there was no need to
mention the Executive Committee or
this particular student. Not only was
it an insult, but it also was a deliberate
attempt to barb someone by using the
power of the press.

I cannot condemn this without be-
ing a hypocrite, but when I go after
someone, I try to make it for the right
reasons. Perhaps I’m being a little too
presumptuous, but I’d like to think that
if I can make one person see another

\

 Poison Pen
 ,5? Mike Agnello ’02

 /uote of the Week:

I Til§II.1l5By” is merely an offensive, in-

tolerant display of immaturity.
Second, why does he care so much
about this student’s
personal life? You
can think whatever
you what about this
issue, but for God’s
sake, don’t be judg-
mental. Don’t like it? Don’t l,:’>‘emli‘is

~/ friend, avoid him, whateverjibut there
is no need to put him down in this
manner.

God forbid someone on this cam-
pus ﬁt into any other mold except the
khaki-wearing, apathetic, egotistical,
drunken brat who pretends that he
never studies.

Finally, the ultimate responsibility
for this ridiculous excuse forjoumal-

ism lies with The Trident. McManus
is merely another renegade columnist
and can be controlled. Why did the
editors allow such ﬁlth to ﬁnd its way
onto the page’?

A ' They’re W&L students, so I as-

,°sume they have some semblance of

I intelligence. Anyone with halfa brain
could ﬁgure out that McManus’s last
paragraph should never have seen the
light of day. The only reasonable ex-
cuse is to get attention for the publi-
cation, not caring what kind. Though
this might be understandable, it is in
no way excusable.

Therefore, I propose a challenge.
McManus should apologize to the of-
fended student, and The Trident
should print a retraction. Doing so
would not only preserve personal and
journalistic integrity, but help keep
alive the traditions ofhonor and civil-
ity here at W&L.

{(

My mom always told me
that nothing good ever
happens after midnight

. . . but this is good.

— Female student enjoying a late night
trip to The Ruse.

)1

STAFF EDITORIAL

Putting together a newspaper every week in a small
town like Lexington on a small campus like Washing-
ton and Lee often presents a problem. On most cam-
puses, something can happen one day and students
may not know about it the next day. That’s where a
newspaper’s role comes into play. When students
know everyone on campus and everything that goes
on around campus, a newspaper runs into problems.

When the student body knows everything before
the newspaper does, it is forced to run things like the
men’s lacrosse game and a visiting glee club on the
front page. (Not that there is anything wrong with
men’s lacrosse, everyone loves lacrosse.) One edi-
tor expresses anger that time spent with the Phi has
contributed to her complete lack of contact with the
opposite sex over the past year. The rest ofthe Phi

staff concurs.

In any case, The Ring—tum Phi and The Trident
certainly try like the dickens to put out interesting
little rags, but sometimes there isjust not enough new,
fresh, excjting information to captivate the readers

vattention. the Phi truly tries and tries to do and do
and do for you kids, so ifwe fall a bit short on some
(or most) occasions, please forgive us. We're not

-"getting any’for Christ’s sake.

Ellie itling-tum lﬂlti

Executive Editors
News Editors
W&Life Editors
Opinion Editors

Sports Editor
Last Word Editor
Copy Editors

Photo Editor
Online Editor

Business Manager
Advertising Director
Circulation Director

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring—tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editors. but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi ofﬁce, room 208 ofthe University Center. by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

Washington and Lee University

Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049

Annual subsription rate: $30

Tarah Grant
Hollister Hovey
Polly Doig

John Stewart
Ginger Phillips
Erica Prosser
Stephanie Bianco
Stephen Pesce
Frances Groberg
Kevin McManemin
Sarah Meldrum
Meredith Mlynar
Emily Barnes

Ali Soydan

Jason Williams
Matt Lorber
Lionel Brown

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center

Lexington. VA 24450
Fax: (540) 462-4059

E-mai l: p/1i@wIu. edu
I1Itp.'//wlu. edu/~p/ii

 

V

%

~/

 

MARCH 22, 1999



 

The choices for vacation
destinations abound, from
(top to bottom) the beaches

of Costa Rica, Old Faithful in
California, EPCOT Center in

Orlando, New York City’s
skyscrapers and the Grand
Canyon.

 W&I§‘

2 {King-tum iﬂhi

IFE

 

PAGE 3

Destination: Spring Break 1999

Students have options for planning and executing great vacations away from Lex over April break

By Erica Prosser and Elianna
Matziani
F EA TURES EDITOR AND STAFF WRITER

Look around you. The weather is slowly but
surely warming up, the days are getting longer,
and you only have two (count ‘em, two) weeks
of classes left.

Though it might be difficult to see even two
weeks into the future, rest assured that, at the
other end ofﬁnals week, you will ﬁnd a week of
freedom.

Yes, spring break is just around the comer,
and many students are already salivating for it.

“It’s important to leave town because every-
one needs a break and a change of scenery,”
senior J.R. Leitch said.

So what are you doing for that much-antici-
pated week?

Some students, like freshman Ken Jackman,
will head home over spring break.

“I am going to go car shopping, interviewing
for a job, and go see ‘Phantom of the Opera,”’
he said. “Then I am going to Washington to
visit my girlfriend for a few days.”

Freshman Mandy Cannon, too, plans to re-
turn to her hometown for a week of relaxation.

“I’m going home [to Cincinnati],” she said.
“I’m going to rest.”

Some students will forgo the homeward trek
in favor of trips to domestic vacation spots.

“I’m ﬂying to Florida,” Leitch said. “I’m go-
ing to spend the week in a beach house.”

Still other students, like many members of the
Washington and Lee Chorus, will be traveling
to exotic locations abroad. The chorus will be
visiting Costa Rica.

“I think it is going to be a lot of fun,” said
freshman chorus member Veronica Grifﬁth.
“We’re going to be doing some sight-seeing.
We’re going to a volcano and a hot spring and
the beach, so it should be nice.”

What if you don’t have any set plans yet for
break, but you want to make some? What if you
suddenly decide to spend that week on the beach
instead of in your house? Worry not, intrepid
travelers; there are ways to make last-minute
vacation plans that won’t put too big a-strain on
your budget.

One of the best places to plan a vacation is
on the lntemet. The ‘net is full of discounted

airline tickets, cheap hotel rooms and travel pack-
ages for students. Don’t know where to start?
Keep reading as we plan an imaginary trip to Ft.
Lauderdale over April break.

A good place to start looking for airline tick-
ets is on the home pages of major airlines. US
Air, for example, ﬂies out ofRoanoke, the clos-
est airport to Lexington. The US Air home page
is located at www.usair.com, and it includes meth-
ods for booking hotels and rental cars in addi-
tion to airline tickets. But for now, let us just
consider this site for the airfare.

Under “Book a Flight” and “Check Fares,”
you can ﬂll out a form that asks you when you
are ﬂying, where you are going, what time of the
day you want to ﬂy and what class you prefer.
The site then gives you a list of potential ﬂights
each way, and you can pick from them to as-
semble your itinerary. A ﬂight from Roanoke to
Ft. Lauderdale on April 10 (and a return ﬂight on
April 17) costs about $634 round trip through
the US Air web site.

That price too steep? There are other ways
to find airfare -online. Discount airfare outlets
also operate_ through the Internet, and these of-
ten investigate several different airlines in order
to give you the lowest price, including potential
student rates. One such site is www.airfare.com.
The ﬂight from Roanoke to Ft. Lauderdale and
back that cost $634 on U S Air cost only $222
through this site, but at this late date, all of the
most discounted rates were sold out.

A few words of advice for airfare in general:
to get the best fares, book as early as possible,
usually no later than two weeks before you ﬂy.
Also, many ofthe discount sites will assemble
great ticket rates, but they sometimes involve
changing airlines mid-trip, so you must decide if
the slightly increased hassle is worth it. Flying
on a weekday is sometimes cheaper than ﬂying
on weekends, so if you can put off your trip
until Monday, you might save.

Changing the time ofday that you’re willing
to ﬂy can also help the price or availability of
seats, and ﬂying from a more major airport (such
as Washington’s Dulles) can often mean cheaper
rates and direct ﬂights (the April I0-April 17 trip
to Ft. Lauderdale, for example, cost a student
rate ofonly $174 from Dulles, and at press time,
there were still seats available through
www.airfare.com).

g,¢&{§3§;i§a33*

Photo by Hollister Hovey/Executive Editor

Collin Gleason and Ashley Marano experience the joys of the Portobello
Antique Market in London over February break.

What about hotels? Most major hotel chains
have interactive web sites, too, and many fea-
ture special promotions and cheaper rates
through the Internet. To check into Holiday Inn
rates anywhere in the world, for example, visit
wwwl.basshotels.com/holiday-inn and take a
look around. There are last minute discounted
rates, spring promotional rates and standard res-
ervations to choose from.

Back to our trip to Ft. Lauderdale. When you
enter “Fort Lauderdale” on the Holiday Inn web
site, the result is a nice list ofhotel choices, each
with amenities listed. Rates for the area hotels
range from about $80 per night (single occupancy)
to more than $140 per night (single occupancy),
but many of the hotels offer a “rate change” (dis-
counted rates) during some nights of the stay.
Double occupancy may or may not affect the
nightly rate; it varies by hotel.

Of course, discount hotel services abound
online. One great site is www.placestostay.com/
index.html, which gives you rates for many nice
resorts in a given area. It specifies the ones
that are especially discounted, as well. For Ft.
Lauderdale, this site returned vacation houses,

suites and bed-and-breakfasts that were com-
parable in price to the Holiday Inn hotel room
rates.

If you prefer to travel using vacation pack-
ages, those can be found, too. At www.
discounttravelwizard.com/, for example, pack-
ages to dozens of exotic destinations can be as-
sembled for often comparatively low prices. An-
other great feature of this site? Special informa-
tion links, such as the currency converter, glo-
bal weather and State Department travel wam-
ings. lust page down to see these helpful sites.
To find other package sites, run a search for
“travel packages” on a search engine.

Still a little shaky on travel, especially to some-
place unknown? Research never helps. Most of
the popular travel destinations, major cities and
geographic areas have tourism web sites that
you can explore (just run a search for your place
of choice).

April break is fast approaching, so whatever
plans you have yet to make, make them now.
Above all, ﬁnd a relaxing destination and get
away from the stress for a while.

You deserve it.

—-Morningstar*

“TIAA-CREF sets the
standard in the

financial services industry.”

~-Money M

-»-—S&P and Moody’s
rating for TlAA*‘*'

--William Ravdin. TIA/HZREF Participant

“---America's
Top Pension Fund.”

agazine, January 1993

I-HGH MARKS FROM
MORNINGSTAR, 8&1’, MOODY’S,

Formore ,I information," '4' chargesnnd ,

Investments in

services. But the fact is, were equally
proud of the ratings we get every day from
our participants. Because at TlAA~CREF,
ensuring the financial futures of the educa-
tion and research community is something
that goes beyond stars and numbers.
We became the world's largest retire-

ment organization by offering people a
wide range of sound investments, a

commitment to superior service, and

MONEY MAGAZINE AND BEL.
 e take a lot of pride in gaining

high marks from the major rating

industries.* * *

insurance and more.

www.tiaa-cref.org

Ensuring the future
for those who shape it."

‘Source: Momingstar, lnc., Principia Var1'ableAnmu'!izr/Lxft 12/31/98. "These top racing are based on TlAA's exceptional ﬁnancial strength, claims-paying ability and overall operating performan .
,,, , . . . . . . .
Standard 0‘l’mrrr Imwrunre Rating Analym, 1998; Upper Analytical Services, Inc, Lipprr-l)xmtarx’ Analytical Dam, I998 (Quarterly). TIAA-CREF lndividunl and lnnitutioml Services, lnc.
distributes CREF certiﬁuteu and interests in llle TIAA Real E-ute Account. Teacher: Penonal Invuton Servicel. Inc. distribute: the TIAA-CREF Mutual Funds.
plane call for I, ,

operating expenses that are among the

lowest in the insurance and mutual fund

With TIAA-CREE you'll get the right
choices—and the dedication —to help you
achieve a lifetime of ﬁnancial goals. The
leading experts agree. So does Bill.

TIAA-CREF can help you build a com-
fortable, financially secure tomorrow, with

tax-deferred annuities, mutual funds, IRAs,

To find out more, call us at 1800 842-2776.

Rnd them carefully before you mm: or and money. To requent proapechuu, call 1 300 342.2733. ext. 5509.
' luClI u mutual fund: and variable Anmlitiel Are Iubject to certain rink: including the ponible km of principal. 1/99

 

Stand-up comedian Randy Riggle will perform Friday at 8 p.m. in the GHQ.

Student Activities’ Office
March Comedy Series

 

 

PAGE 4

  s

(J11: ﬂing-tum iﬂlii

PORTS

 

MARCH 22, 1999

Women’s lax tunned by Yellow Jackets

 

\- Vv.  <"’* ‘ \-
.¢“~\\‘\\\\1‘l‘, ‘-\

By Frances Groberg
SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee women’s lacrosse team suf-
fered a decisive loss to Randolph Macon at home for the
first time in the team’s history on Saturday afternoon.

The Yellow Jackets built two-goal leads on three sepa-
rate occasions early in the game, but the Generals were
able to ﬁght back and cut the lead to 6-5 withjust over

23 minutes remaining. Despite their efforts, W&L al-
at , t

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

Senior defender Karin Treese goes airborn on a shot late in the game against Randolph Macon.

lowed RMC to penetrate the defense

Things went better for the Generals on Thursday in
Lynchburg, as sophomore attack Liz Borges scored with
4:06 remaining to edge out the win 6-5.

Freshman Eloise Priest and sophomore Christine van
den Toom opened scoring to give the Generals an early
lead. A free position goal by Lynchburg’s Laurie Ward cut
the lead to 2-1, but freshman Courtenay Fisher put a free
position shot of her own into the back of the net. W&L’s 3-
1 lead stood at the end of the low-scoring half.

The Generals managed to score another free-position
goal at the beginning of the second
half before the Hornets went on a

and score the last four goals of the 
game and hand the Generals the 10-
5 loss.

“You have to give credit where
credit is due, and they deserve the
credit,” Head Coach Jan Hathom said.
“They were very organized, and they
executed well. We were just outplayed
on a number of occasions. lt’s
disapointing, especially when the loss
is not from lack of trying. We were
doing everything we could.”

We just didn’t
come ready to
play...and it
showed.

-— C0-captain Cory Mettee

three-goal tear to tie the score at 4-4.

Senior Karin Treese regained the
lead with a goal off an assist from
sophomore Ellen Ritsch, until
Lynchburg once again battled back
to tie the game at ﬁve. Borges scored
with four minutes remaining to give
the Generals the win.

Jemigan came up big in the final
two minutes of the game for the Gen-

Freshman midfielder Erin Riedy led
scoring for RMC with a hat trick. Jun-
ior attack Carrie Winkler added two goals and two as-
sists. Junior goalie Amy Whitcomb recorded 15 saves on
the day.

W&L was led by junior co-captain Katherine Riddle,
who scored two goals. Junior goalie Ginny Jemigan re-
corded 13 saves on the day.

“Wejust didn’t come ready to play,” senior co-captain
Cory Mettee explained. “Tlieyjust wanted to win the game
more than we did, and it showed.”

erals, collecting two shots to ensure
7 9 the victory.

The team will try to amend its thus
far up-and-down season on Wednesday when it take on
Middlebury College at the Liberty Hall Fields. The con-
test will be a tough one for the Generals, as Middlebury
reached the semifinals of the NCAA tournament in 1998.

Hathom, however, is optimistic. “We have great capa-
bilities on our team, that I think we’ve got what it takes to
play with just about anybody. We’ 11 be ﬁred up and ready,
because we have nothing to lose.”

Boys of summer send Hokies home

By Tod Williams

SPORTS WRITER

The Generals stepped up their de-
fense on Saturday to knock off D-II
opponent West Virginia Tech in both
games of a doubleheader.

In Saturday’s first game, sopho-
more David Sigler threw a complete
game to shut out the Golden Bears 2-
0. Sigler gave up two hits, struck six
Hokies out and walked three.

With the win, Sigler upped his record
to 3-1 with an ERA of3.l3, the best on
the Generals’ staff of any pitcher with
more than three innings of work.

Senior second baseman Patrick Hall
led the Generals offensively, going
two-for-three with two singles. Five
Generals also had a hit apiece.

The Generals bats warmed up by
the second game to help the team
cruise to a 13-1 win. Senior E.J.
Murphy led W&L, going two-for-three
with an RBI. Junior Russell Wrenn and
senior Bryan Lewis each had three RBI
for the team, while Hall and sophomore
Jason May each went two-for-two.

Junior Chris Stakem came in from
centerfield to take the mound for the
Generals. Stakem struck out five
Golden Bears and walked two to go 1-
1 on the season. He allowed four hits
in his six innings ofwork. Tech com-
mitted ﬁve errors, accounting for seven
unearned runs for the Generals.

Hall said the doubleheader was a
great example of the Generals’ slow
starts this season. “It takes us a little
while to get going,” Hall said, “but if
we can stay in the game for three or
four innings, our hits will start coming.”

On Thursday, the Generals

hosted Bridgewater College. Unfor-
tunately, both teams forgot to bring
their pitchers.

After being down as much as 12-1
in the fourth and 17-5 in the sixth, the
Generals rallied in the last two innings,
scoring 10 runs. Down 20-19 in the
bottom of the ninth with the tying run
on third, freshman Matt Kozora
grounded out to end the game.

Junior Christian Batcheller led the
Generals offensively, going five-for-
six, with two home runs and three
RBIs. Hall was again an offensive
powerhouse, going three-for-six with
a home run and five RBIs.

Freshman center ﬁelder Brad Sipe
led Bridgewater, going ﬁve-for-six

Newly Renovated

I Econo
Lodge

540-463-7311

Parents’ Ilisoount

H08 H30 Will] HBIIIIIIB
N0 Slllllllillﬂ HIIDIIIS

HEB ﬂlllllillﬂlllal BIBEIIIIBSI

at,

‘S?

U

 

with four RBIs, while senior Mike
Padgett went three-for-ﬁve with a
home run and five RBIs. Junior Todd
Campbell took the win for
Bridgewater, as he improved his
record to 2-1 on the season. Campbell
gave up nine runs on 15 hits. Six other
pitchers saw action for Bridgewater.

Hall said the Generals’ ten-run rally
was a little too late. “It showed a lot of
character that we stayed in it even
though we were getting our ass kicked.
It was disappointing, but we shouldn’t
have won it. Our pitchers just couldn’t
get anyone out.”

Senior right hander Bob Weston
fell to 4-2 on the season for the Gen-
erals. He gave up nine hits and ten

Taking a knee: team members look on as W&L takes on WV Tech in a double header. I

Summer Employmeiot;
oppmtmaiiies?

Special Programs
Resident Assistants
June 15-Aug. 3, 1999

The Ofﬁce of Special Pro-
grams employs 5 W&L stu-
dents to serve as Resident
Assistants for a wide variety
of Special Programs includ-
ing Alumni Colleges,
Elderhostel, and adult con-
ferences. Duties include
housekeeping, attending all
meals with guests, bar recep-
tions, and shuttle driving. An
outgoing personality is a
must. Application deadline
is March 31, 1999.

For more information,
please contact the Office of
Special Programs, Howard
House, 463-8723.

runs in his three and a third innings
of work. Weston now has a 4.72 ERA
in his 34 and 1/3 innings on the
mound. Three other players threw for
the Generals, giving up a total of2l
hits to Bridgewater.

Hall leads all players with more than
three at bats for the Generals with a
.405 average, going 17-for-42, includ-
ing ﬁve doubles.

The Generals will take to Smith ﬁeld
on Tuesday as they host ODAC chal-
lenger Hampden-Sydney at 3 p.m. Hall
said he looks for the pitching and de-
fense to be crucial on Tuesday as well
as the rest of the season. “It doesn’t
matter if you score 19 runs in a game if
the other team can score 20.”

At Home This Week

Baseball vs. Hampden-Sydney, 3 p.m.
Women’s tennis vs. Eastern Mennonite, 3:30 p.m.

Men’s lacrosse vs. Lynchburg, 3 p.m.
Women’s lacrosse vs. Middlebury, 4 p.m.

Women’s tennis vs. Claremont 3 p.m.

Women’s tennis vs. Kenyon, 9:30 a.m.

Tuesday

Wednesday

Friday

Saturday
Men’s lacrosse vs. Roanoke, 2 pm.
Women’s tennis vs. Emory 8:30 am.
Women’s tennis vs. Trinity, 42:30 p.m.

Sunday

   

Photo by Emily Biafnes/Photo Editor

17403 FRONT

FLORIDA 
SPRINGBREAIC  .

FROM $59 PER warm

HEATED POOLS -1 iNDooRiHéAii‘',jD[I‘PoL }
HUGE BEACH FRONTHOTTUB .  - I

LAZY RIVER RIDE - SUITES UP T010 PERSONS 
SAILBOATS- TI KI BEACH BAR ‘ JET SKIS ‘ PARASAILS

“HOME OF THE WORLD'S LONGEST KEG PARTY"
FREE DRAFT BEER AI.|. WEEK LONG-(ALL FOR INFO! .,

1-800-488-8828

I wwvwsandpipcrbeacotrcom (‘rates per person)

HE/-\CII ROAD-

PANAMA CITY BEACH, FL 32413

Submit applications for executive
editor positions for the Ariel, the Arete,
the Calyx, the Journal of Science, the
Political Review, and the Ring-tam Phi.
Turn in your applications to Carol
Caulkins by Friday.

tn...

I

V.

-at

C

  

VOLUME 101, NO. 20

An H.V. or
not an H.V.?

That is the question. The EC
gives the answers. And you can
take them or leave them.

By Yer Momma

STAFF WHIPPING Boy

Following recent controversy, the
Executive Committee at long last ad-
dressed student concems about what
exactly might be classiﬁed an honor
violation at its last meeting.

All lies, except those listed below,
will be treated as honor violations, and
will be punished. Punishment includes
severe beatings, whippings, and vari-
ous deans opening up cans of
“whupass,” until the accused with-
draws in the face of a closed trial. Ex-
ceptions are as follows:

——PrOspectives will not be told the
truth about anything.

Other than that, students will ob-
serve the Honor System strictly so
that the university may continue to
sponsor conferences of the subject
without appearing hypocritical.

The EC also addressed the issue
Of underage drinking. The verdict: of-
ﬁcially sanctioned. The current policy
of“wink-wink, shame on you,” will be
ended. In celebration of W&L’s new
open stance, the entire student body
is invited to a raging kegger/hall crawl,
to take place between Johnny the
Prez’s house, Dave the Main-Man
Dean’s house, and Bob’s Chapel. But
don’t forget, BYOB!

——Falling asleep, while sanctioned
in a classroom setting prior to 10 a.m.,
will no longer be permitted during EC
trials. In the best interest of justice, all
representatives should be awake to
hear the evidence.

—Teletubbies, no matter what
color, are not in any way related to
snow days, and therefore may no
longer be used in arguments in favor
of, or against, said snow days. Fur-
thermore, there will be no more sin-
gling out of the lavender one, as it
makes him feel uncomfortable.

—The answer to “how’s it going?”
will now be answered truthfully. This
involves stopping and explaining the

full extent of your Crisis of the Day to
the foolish and indifferent questioner,
instead of smiling thinly and answer-
ing, “good.”

—The Dining Hall will conduct an
apple count following each meal, to
ensure that every last one was swiped.

In a completely unrelated story, but
one that we felt necessary to add be-
cause we need to fill the page, a new
W&L Handbook has been released.
It’s got a pretty blue cover, and it’s
called “Come Cheer: the Civil War at
139 years.” While it wasjust too long
for any staff member to read in its
entirety, it was required weekly read-
ing for the nerd-herd at our competi-
tion. They can tell y’all all about it
when they get done writing their lat-
est scintillating 27-word Back Page
column. But we digress into the realm
of shameless kittyfights. They
started it. And we really wish they
would really finish what they started
in 1993.

Ahem. The new handbook outlines
several curricular and conduct
changes to be put into effect immedi-
ately. Among them:

—Students will learn to speak
“American,” the official language of
the U.S. of A.

—-In addition, mandatory language
classes in “Southem” will now be listed
under section 7 of the General Educa-
tion requirements, along with C.S.A.
101 “The South will rise again,” C.S.A.
185 “Gettysburg: How that Damn Fool
Pickett wrecked things,” C.S.A. 1865/
PSYCH I865 “Coping with the end of
the War of Northern Aggression: A
nineties perspective.”

——Robert E. Lee will hence be
known as “Saint Bob.” Anything less
could be considered sacrilegious, and
prosecuted to the full extent of the EC’s
God-given power.

—Weekly pilgrimages will be made
to Traveller’s grave, with appropriate
offerings of gold, frankincense and
sugar cubes to be made.

Prez signs on for
commencement

By I.P. Freely

STAFF LIASON TO “THE M4/v "

Washington and Lee University an-
nounced yesterday that it has ﬁnally
engaged the President to speak at un-
dergraduate commencement.

Although reluctant to follow Tradi-
tion, President John Elrod agreed to
speak to this year’s graduating seniors.
According to sources who wished to
remain anonymous for fear of tickle tor-
ture, the President did not wish to speak
as he “couldn’t be bothered with the
latest bunch of

along, we snapped it up.”

Reaction among students, who had
been hearing rumors of another distin-
guished speaker, were mixed.

“I had really been looking forward to
the speech of David Duke,” seventh-
year senior Tyler T. Taylor XXIV said. “I
delayed graduating a whole other year
just so I could try out the new Kappa
pledge class, uh, so that I could listen to
the Grand Wizard himself speak. This
isn’t going to be printed, is it?”

Speculations about the content of
Elrod’s speech are running amok.
“We expect

khaki-clad twits.” him to read selec-

Elrod is re— tions of Dr. Seuss,
quired in his con- including the clas-
tract to speak and sic, ‘Oh, the Places
make nicey-nice You’ll Go,’” Shaw

with students at
graduation. This
promotes a higher
rate of alumni re-
union participa-
tion, and the en-
suing drunken
idiocies encour-
aged by the uni-
versity to pro-
mote check-writ-
ing sprees.

“ We just
couldn’t be happier to have a speaker
of Elrod’s caliber at graduation,” Brian
Shaw, director of communications, said.
“We intially contracted Mother Teresa,
who was to give her message of inspi-
ration through a séance, but when the
opportunity to have Elrod speak came

    

l phoo by Hugh Hetfner
President John-John H. Elrod

said. “Of course,
there’s always the
possibility of de-
parting from
Seuss, and going
with something
non-traditional
like, ‘Not Without
My Daughter.”

As usual,
Elrod will con-
gratulate C-
School majors on
their wise career choices and bright fu-
tures, and shake his head sadly at Col-
lege majors and cite the high percent-
age of predecessors on welfare.

Elrod will resume his rigorous tour
schedule with Kiss following com-
mencement ceremonies.

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsITv’s WEEKLY NEWSRAG

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

CLOSE ENOUGH TO APRIL FoOL’s DAY

  U112 ﬂing-tum Iﬂhi

'*-me...

W&L boys make good: New Fowl Temptress album “Empty Silos,” featuring seniors Chad Reynolds and Mac Harris, debuts #1
on WLUR/Lexington charts. Residents of the Rockbridge County Correctional Facility voted the boys “Best <expletive
deleted> of the Year.” The Temptresses will open Mock Con with a little help from their friend Willie.

Willie Nelson to open for Fowl
Temptress at Mock Con Kickoff

By John Galt

STA FF WHIPPING BOY

The most important band to come
out of Washington and Lee Univer-
sity will take the stage at the Stu-
dent Activities Pavilion for the Mock
Con Kickoff on April 30 -— if they
stay together that long.

Fowl Temptress, the brainchild of
seniors Mac Harris and Chad
Reynolds, released their second al-
bum, “Empty Silos,” last week to rave
reviews of everyone at WLUR 9l .5
and WLUR listeners at the
Rockbridge County Correctional Fa-
cility.

The Student Activities Commit-
tee confirmed that Temptress will
headline the Mock Con Kickoffwith
country great Willie Nelson as the
opening act.

But despite the recent success,
the band may be falling apart. “I
would hate for Chad to know this yet,
but it’s been months since I could
even stand to be in the same room
as he is,” Harris said. “I feel like his
vision for the band has become vul-
gar and pig-headed. lt’s reached the
point where I feel I have no alterna-
tive but to take control myself, just
to preserve a kind of fundamental
integrity in our music.”

Harris says he realized Reynolds
had lost sight of the vision when
Reynolds made this statement: “Mac
and I used to be no-gooders, brig-
ands of the lowest variety, pond
scum. Hell, we still are, but now we’re
okay with it. So we’re better than all
you pretenders, and we know it.”

Reynolds claims his motivations
behind Fowl Temptress have been
the same from day one. “It ain’tjust
music,” he said. “It’s a way of life,
our way of life, where success is
measured by the number ofdai ly fail-
ures and scraping by is overachiev-
ing. It’s always been that way. It al-
ways will.”

From the beginning, Reynolds has
looked to the streets for inspiration.
“Even though sometimes I spend the
night in gutters, alone — alone, that
is ‘cept for the memories ofthe other
times I slept in other gutters,” he
said, “I always know that when I pick
up my guitar the Lord is working

through my fingers, making ‘em slide
faster and faster over the frets, to
Baptize the faithless with licks of
fire.”

Harris says he always finds more
influence through political mes-
sages. “When - A A
people ask me
about our influ-
ences I tend to
think ofMalcolm
Cowley and the
folk ballads of
the Black Hand
organization as
the two most im-
portant,” he
said. “Then I fo-
cus on a distant
Object and don’t
speak for a few
moments. This is
probably be-
cause I am so
overwhelmed by
their influence.”

After the re-
lease of their
critically ac-
claimed single,
“Fat Town,” in
I997, Harris and
Reynolds toured
the local educa-
tional circuit.
Their largest gig
to date is the 1998 Rockbridge
County High School prom. Both
Harris and Reynolds are ecstatic
about the opportunity to possibly
jam with twang legend Nelson.

“We just hope that maybe he’ll
talk to us,” Harris said.

“Yeah,” said Reynolds.

The Temptresses are forced to
limit their tour dates due to
Reynolds’ diet. “I don’t never
touch no yellow-colored potato
salad, ya know, the mustard kind,”
he said. “cause instead of coat-
ing the potatoes it lets me see right
through ‘em. Like I’m eating an ap-
parition.”

Reynolds also refuses to make his
own food. “How come I don’t cook
for myself? Hell, I ain’t got no de-
cent oven-mitts,” he said.

Despite their battles over grub
and motivation, Reynolds sees a

strong similarity between the two.
“Sure, [Mac]’sjust like me, only dif-
ferent. But the same really, only a little
different.”

Their vision may be skewed, but
at least Harris has remained

grounded. “I think I have a realistic
view ofthe importance of our mu-
sic,” he said. “I mean, I don’t think
we will be remembered any more
than someone like, say, Hank Will-
iams. Or Bach.”

The boys of Fowl Temptress entertain their rabid fans at the Yellow Brick Road
Child Care Center. “Children understand our music better than anyone else,”
lead vocalist Mac Harris (right) said. “It relates to art brut and art of the
insane. When you get down to primal, instinctual levels of understanding,
that’s when you’ve found the true meaning of our music.”

DISCLAIMER:

OPINION:

W&LIFE:

SPORTS:
Baseball all wet

Elite ‘ﬂing-tum lﬂhi

April Fool’s Day Issue

Producing a parody newspaper around April Fool’s Day is an
annual Phi tradition. While the articles are all written in jest, the
advertisements on page 4 are real.

Robert E. Lee invades Kosovo?

Celebrities among us

PAGE 2

PAGE 3

PAGE 4

 

 

4 MARCH32, 1999

April ilinnl'ia Bag 31551::

OPINION  

PAGE 2

Bombing of Kosovo
doesn’t go far enough

Currently the USA is divided be-
tween those who think we must inter-
vene in Kosovo to halt a mass geno-
cide and those who think we have no
business bombing foreign countries.
Well, ifyou ask me, we’re not bomb-
ing enough foreign countries. 9

Any objective person who looks
at a world map will come to one inevi-
table conclusion: there are a lot of for-
eigners out there. Some of them, like
the English and the Canadians, are
amusing but harmless. Others are not.

Take the French. The United States
currently has a non-bombing policy
towards France. I propose that we re-
verse this policy. I propose we get a
few B-52s and drop napalm all the way
from Nonnandy to Nice. Think of the
many beneﬁts this new bombing policy
would have. For one, a lot of French

people would be dead. And that’s
good news for the world.

Of course, critics of this bombing-
France policy often point to the one
major detraction of the plan: if France
is gone, those dirty, deceitful
Deutschlanders will pretty much run

 

  Salute the flag
 Buck Turgidson

Europe. Well, there’s a ﬁnal solution
to that problem, mein friend. You
guessed it: bomb the kraut out of Ger-
many! I say this time we get the bas-
tards before they start another World
War.

And come on, let’s be honest.
Who’s going to miss the Middle East

 

if we nuked that whole stinking desert?
Answer me this: has one good thing
ever come out ofthat godless region?
OK, civilization, maybe. But that’s be-
side the point. The Middle East is noth-
ing but trouble today and I think stick-
ing it in that great microwave called
the US nuclear arsemal and cooking it
on high for the next 10,000 years will
solve all their problems nicely. Jews,
Arabs, Christians, whatever. They all
look the same after their skin and inter-
nal organs have been irradiated away.

In conclusion, the United States of
America has a responsibility to itself
and the world to use its military might
for the good of all. Where there are
tyrants, bomb them! Where there are
foreigners, nuke them! Where there are
targets, hit them! By God, can we do
any less?

Survey shows 100% of W&L
students to drink this Weekend

A recent survey conducted in
Baldwin’s room Friday afternoon con-
cluded that l00% of W&L students
plan to drink this weekend.

The results were telling: of the four
students polled, four responded that
they were “deﬁnitely going to get
drunk this weekend,” zero responded
that they “might get drunk this week-

The poll is a drastic change from a
February 27th poll that showed only
50% of W&L students were drinking
this weekend, while 25% were work-
ing on a German paper for Crockett and
25% were “smoking up.”

President Elrod classiﬁed the lat-
est survey results as “distressing.”
“The worst part is, you know they’ll

Question: What are you
doing this weekend?

100% drinking

0% other

  

Question posed

Point/Anotherpoint

Preserve Lee’s legacy

In 1865, Robert E. Lee came to Washington College
and instilled in that community a sense of honor and per-
sonal integrity. As Washington and Lee University moves
boldly into the twenty-first century, we
must never forget Lee’s heritage of
honor.

First of all, the honor system must
be preserved at all costs. The honor

So1_1ﬂE5}7G1aoe
GraoeThorn26,’99

system is Robert E. Lee’s great gift to
every student enrolled in W&L. We
have the academic freedom that other
schools only dream about. It’s a shame
that many students today don’t think
that the honor system is effective. The
EC must work hard to promote student
dialogue and reassure even the most
cynical and pessimistic among us that our system works.

Furthermore, we must preserve Lee’s legacy by keep-
ing the speaking tradition alive on campus. Too many of
us pass each other on the hill every day without so much
as a nod. Robert E. Lee knew that civility was important in
instilling a sense of community.

It was Robert E. Lee’s great hope that Washington
College would be a community of gentlemen. With his
two-pronged plan of the honor system and speaking tra-
dition, Lee hope to attain these goals and showed the
same goodjudgement and genius which manifested itself
to many victories on the battleﬁeld.

We must preserve the legacy of honor at Washington
and Lee University. We owe it to General Lee.

 

 

F*ck Robert E. Lee

F*ck Robert E. Lee. I’m sick of hearing about him.
Why is everyone at this place always yapping on about
how great Robert E. Lee was? Robert E. Lee was a

f“‘cking moron.
One word, okay? Gettysburg. The
A bloodiest battle in the history of the
Western Hemisphere. Thanks a lot,
Robert E. Lee. Great idea, invading the

SEeIman’s March
Jeff Sierrnan, ‘(D

North. Lee must have been high when
he placed his whole war plan around
the strategic importance of Harrisburg,
PA. What a dirnwit.

Robert E. Lee couldn’t even win a
war against Ulysees S. Grant, a
bumbling alcoholic. And when the war
was over, do you think Lee really
wanted to spend his ﬁnal days in some unknown col-
lege in bumbletwat Virginia? No, he wanted a cushy
professorship at Harvard or Yale. But the respectable
schools wouldn’t touch that traitor.

The relationship between our school and Lee was
simple: we used his fame to get a little name recognition,
and he came here because we were the only place will-
ing to put up with this half-witted hick for a few years
before he thankfully kicked the bucket.

If we’re going to engage in inane hero worship, let’s
at least pick a man worthy of our admiration. Robert E.
Lee was a murderous slavery-loving traitor whose grave
it isn’t even worth my effort to spit on. F*ck Robert E.
Lee, and the horse he rode in on.

. ill: " 

    

end,” and none responded that they
“won’t drink at all this weekend.”

TALKis ack:

 

be drinking some skunk-ass beer like
Keystone Light,” Elrod added.

  

. f to a random
margmo sampling of 4
€1TOFI2°/0 W&L fratboys.

How do the existential philosophies of Jean—Paul Sartre
and Albert Camus build upon the philosophic frameworks
laid down in Schopenhauer’s “The World as Will and
Idea” and Nietzsche’s “Geneology of Morals?”

  

“Well, the Nietzschean concept of

“Huh?” “Whazzat?”
, , , the revaluation of values has of
—wayne Syzlak 00 _Knsten Chalmers 01 course had a profound influence upon

Ellie ﬁling-tum lﬂlii

H. Halverston Hovey

Tarah “Stoner” Grant

Polly “Yes folks, that’s her
real name” Doig

Stewart

Ginga “Soul Sista" Phillips
Erica “Mouseketeer” Prosser
Stephanie “Lo” Bianco
Stephen “The Cajun
Sensation” Pesce

Frances “Frances” Groberg
Kevin “Oh God l’ve been
dissed by those witty comic
geniuses at The Trident! My
life is ruined!“ McManemin
Sarah Meldrum

Meredith Mlynar

Emily “That's enough of the
lame nicknames” Barnes
Prince Ali Soydan

Executive Producers

2nd unit assistant director

Gaffer

Key Grip

Stunt Coordinator
Animals trained by
Catering by

Dated former editor
Soon to be ﬁred or lynched

Sarah Meldrum played by
and
Original Score by

Based on the novel by

and starring
Jason Williams as “Business Manager"
Matt Lorbel. as "Advertising Director"

LION‘ B|'0W|'| as “Man in bar #2"

The Ring-tum Phi is published when we feel like it at
Washington and Lee University, Swingin’ Lexington, VA.
Funding for tonight’s broadcast comes primarily from
an offshore CIA slush fund and the editors selling their
bodies. Current going rates: $20 an hour, $100 for the
whole night. Slightly more for an executive editor, slighly
less for features/opinions. Last Word editors are free.

The Washington and Lee Publications Board elects
the Executive Editors, and way to go, Pub Board. Way
to pick a pair of winners.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. We love hearing from you!
Letters and columns do not reﬁect the opinion of The
Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board, and the Last Word does
not reflect the opinion of anyone. This newspaper
observes all the f“‘cking current court deﬁnitions of libel
and obscenity. See, you didn’t even know what I said
there because I asterixed that naughty letter out.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu
htlps//wlu.edu/—-phi

Annual subsription rate: $30 cheap!

modern thought, but we mustn’t dis-
count the Kierkegaardian critiques of
Hegel’s dialectic as a. . .”

—Megan McCallister ‘O2

. EYBURN LIBRARY
 at LEE UNIVERSITY
’ mnntstom, VA 24450

1999

  

ﬁes
4‘ ‘ .

 Ote Of the Week:

({
Oh! Oh! Oh! Yes! Yes!

That’s the spot! Yes!
Yes! Yes! Oh God Yes!
Aaaaaaaahh! ! !

—Anonymous sophomore girl
(actually it was Sarah Russell) while
on her back last Friday night

))
Tinky-Winky
responds

Hello. Hello. Tinky-
Winky hello. Hello, .

Dipsy! Hello, Laa-  5
Laa! Hello, Po! I ; ..' i
Teletubby hello!  ‘ <
Tinky-Winky give
teletubby hello. Hello!
Hello!

Tinky-Winky playtime.
Eh-oh! Eh-oh! Teletubby
play Teletubby play. Tinky-
Winky like teletubby play. Ha-ha!
Eh-oh! Teletubby play over.

Eh-oh! Eh-oh! Time for
teletubby bye-bye. Bye bye, Po.
Bye bye, Laa—|aa. Bye bye, Dipsy.
Bye bye, Tinky-Winky. Tinky-Winky
give teletubby bye bye. Eh-oh!

Bye bye, teletubby bye bye! Tinky-
Winky go bye bye.

“He’s flaming
mad,” say
close friends

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
   
 
 

  EDITOR  

Writer offends own _ I
superego   

  
 

self; Manyn

shocked atfthe editors for allowing
such ‘ﬁlth oncev-ﬁne paper.
“F-—.-‘Robert ,E.“ Lee ,”,_That’s not
funny; that’s"just viciouéland juve-
, nilt}.‘,D0Ii1’t“IA_ know that profanity never
-has aplace good writing? I’m a bad
inﬂuenceon children. Shame on me.
I hope that-Pm never again asked
back, to this paper. I disgust me.

Ansrili yours,
W A‘. Hack '00

  

' (pant pantfpant) Still (pant..pant
pant) hyper(pant)ventilating (pant
pant).ffrom excitement of (pant) “A
Nightto_(pant) Remember.” (pant pant

4 into?

   
    
   

disgusting and wrong, and  I’m- ' V I

pant) Oh God (pant) what fun! (pant
pant) What a great ‘(pant pant) great

I‘ (pant pant) excuse me.’(pant pant)

What a great idea! Does anyone (pant)
have a paper bag lean (pant) breathe

Kevin McManemins of tomorrow?

5 Brothers and sisters and
transgendered persons of all persua-
sions, it’s time to start taking our-
selves too seriously! Unite against

A comedy! Throw out the vile joke-

9 mongerers who have the audacity to

Sincerely, (pant) L
Jessica Rommel ‘O2

letters to the campus papers iast week,

I feel I have not yet done enough ‘coin: P

plaining. You see, I am an informed

and ernpowered member-or. society “
and my opinion matters. People care ,

whatlthinlc I’m surenexttimethecarm
pus columnists sit down at their word
processors, only one.th‘ought'will be

running through their minds: éiwairs

minute, I hope this won’t offend Kara
McCrank. Her opinions matter. She is

V ’ not just a knee-jerk bleeding-heart re-
5 9. actionary with too much ﬁ‘ee time.” ‘

The topic of my complaint letter
this week is: complaint letters. I don’t
think enough people are writing com-
plaint letters to our papers. If we don’t
take a stand against any opinion ‘we
disagree with, what’s to keep the Mike
Agnellos of today from becoming the

Although lwrote twoicomplaint.

laugh at our problems rather than com-
plain about them.

Kara McCrank ’o2

Anyilovely ladies need an
FD date next year?

9? Hey. Howare all you lovely ladies
doing tonight? I’m just writing this let-
ter to let you all know in advance that
my socialcalendar is yet unﬁlled for
FD next year.

" Applications to be my FD date are
now available in the University Cen-
ter. Ladies, don’t let this opportunity
pass you by.

Include a photo of yourself and an
essay on the theme “How far I’m will-
ing to go on the first date.” Finalists
will be notiﬁed by May lst. Good luck!

Yours,
The Dreamboat ’01

from

War, he

 

 

tluepeaple who brought you “The 5 rmislt Avmericmt
” “ Vietnam do

nflict” and “ reamin” comes:

—get shot down in state-of-the-art stealth bombers
—meet people from strange and exotic locations and kill them

—protect our American freedoms by shoving democracy down
some other country's throat whether they like it or not

BE ALL THAT 
YOU CAN BE.
KILL A FEW FOR
UNCLE SAM.

call 1-800-YAY-4WAR and enlist 

 
  

«vu-

paid for by the US Army
“We almost never lose”

vn

MARCH 29, I999

mil 3Jinnl’a Bag 3155112

W&L

IFE

Becca Dupps

David Howison

Joe Hawkins

Tim Showalter

Courtney Love

David Hyde Pierce

Anthony Michael Hall

5&7

John Stewart

Mac Harris

John Jensen

John Belushi

Joey Shuffield
(Fastball drummer)

Téa Leoni

Joe Mclntyre

Denise Wallin

Fran Drescher

‘Y

Tom Wadlow

Chad Beynolds

Judd Nelson

J 0minatrix’s popular traveling show is big hit with students

By Jenny Jones

FOR T HE R1NG- TUMPH1

Ladies and gentlemen, boys and

girls, the second greatest show on

Earth is coming to Lex!

Yes, you heard right, Madame
Purgatory’s S&M Show is coming to
the Pavilion on April 1. You’ll laugh,
you’lI cry, you’ ll kiss your inhibitions
goodbye as Madame Purgatory makes
it a night you won’t forget.

“I love this show,” junior Staci

Eversol said. “I see it every chance I

can. Itjust gets better every time!”
Madame Purgatory (real name: Bar-
bara Murphy, formerly ofLincoln, Ar-
kansas) and her traveling show have
been on the road for nearly 10 years

‘ now. She started the act, she said, out

ofa need for a “liberating experience”
after her husband left her for a 19-year-
old ﬁgure skater. Barbara Murphy the
iousewife was no more ~ Madame
Purgatory was born.

“I knew I needed a change, some-
thing drastic,” Madame Purgatory said
by phone from her last stop in
Poughkeepsie, New York. “I had some
leather left over from when I made my
husband a new belt for Christmas 

. ‘before I knew it, I had created Madame

Purgatory.”

This ﬁve-foot-seven, red-haired,
thirtysomething Southern belle set
about making her show business
dream come true. She recruited two
assistants from her divorcee’s support
group, bought a van and some sup-
plies, and took her show on the road.

I ‘She’s never looked back since.

“It’s wonderful,” Madame Purga-
tory said. “We do one show in each
location, then move on. Some of our
fans follow us from place to place, like
we’re the Grateful Dead or some-
thing!”

To hear the fans tell it, the show is
worth all the attention. Madame
Purgatory’s show includes herself,
two assistants and boxes full of props.

“We bring the props with us ev-
erywhere,” Madame Purgatory said.
“Sometimes, they even come in handy
in emergencies. We once towed the
van out of a showdrift with the bull
whip, and the candles come in handy
for power outages.”

The props are used most often
during the show itself, though. Audi-
ence members vie for the chance to
be one of the dozen or soivolunteers
that Madame Purgatory accepts dur-
ing the course of the performance, and
those lucky enough to be chosen go
on stage to become part of the act.

“I couldn’t believe it,” senior Brett
Farley said ofthe time he was chosen
as a volunteer during a performance
in Waukegan, Illinois. “She pulled me
up on stage, and one of the assistants
blindfolded me. I thought I’d died and
gone to heaven.”

Madame Purgatory and her assis-
tants use the volunteers to demon-
strate both classic tastes and the lat-
est trends in sadomasochism. Themes
run the gamut from tamer games such
as bondage to more exotic demonstra-
tions with whips and hot wax.

“We try to keep up with the indus-
try,” Madame Purgatory explained.
“We do a lot ofonline research to see
what’s out there, what’s popular
among the S&M set.”

They keep safety ﬁrst, though, by
instructing the audience beforehand
about the use of“safe words,” words
that let the women know when to stop
what they are doing.

“Safe words are important if you’re
going to get into things,” she said. “I
mean, ‘no’ doesn’t always mean ‘no’
when you’re caught up in it, but when

the bottom [person receiving the pro-
cedure] has had enough, he can say
‘red,’ like a red light, and the top [per-
son giving the procedure] knows that
it’s too much.”

Does “yellow” mean warning,
then?

“Absolutely,” Madame Purgatory
said. “‘Yellow’ means ‘watch out,
we’re getting close to the point where
I say “red.’” And people can have
other safe words, too, like ‘horse’ or
‘diamond’ or something like that.
Something unrelated to the role-play-

73

mg.

Madame Purgatory herself dresses
the part of the dominatrix for the show,
complete with stiletto-heeled boots
and leather accessories. She emcees
the performance with the aid of a head-
set microphone, like the one Garth
Brooks wears.

“It’s very freeing,” she said ofthe
microphone. “It keeps my hands free
for more important things.”

Disco lights and themed music
complete the effect ofthe show. Ma-
dame Purgatory said that the music is
usually soft, to offset the louder
sounds on stage.

“I spend a lot oftime yelling dur-
ing the show,” she said. “The music
keeps me on track, keeps me from get-
ting too into the show. Otherwise, you
never know what might happen.”

She sees the show as a sort of
therapy, getting her over her past and
on to better things.

“It’s such a release,” she said of
her new life. “I never knew that being
powerful could be so much fun. lt’s
addictive.”

Of course, Madame Purgatory does
have her opponents. Protesters some-
times picket outside the locations
where she performs, but the picketers
don’t bother her.

Madame Purgatory Whips into Lexington

Photo courtesy of Madame Purgatory

Madame Purgatory poses with one of her volunteers during a
recent show. Her traveling show has made her famous, and
students can’t wait to participate when she comes to Lex.

“I pity them,” she said. “They have
such small minds.”

Many people who were once op-
ponents find they support Madame
Purgatory once they experience her
show.

‘‘I was wrong to think she was evil,”
Father O’Connelly of Green River,
Maine, said. “Her show is fabulous!”

Madame Purgatory’s S&M Show

will begin at 8 p.m. on April I. Stu-
dents can get tickets in front of the
Co-Op or from the scalper at the door.

Tickets cost $8 for the four-hour
show. Students wishing to be volun-
teers may want to arrive early and get
good spots near the stage.

“I‘m gonna be there at least three
hours early,” freshman Eric Vogt said.
“I can’t wait to be part ofthe act!”

  
the perfect

-Tired of the same old
choices‘ in the opposite sex?

_ I Create-A-Mate® has your an-
« swer. The company will make
‘ you a state-of-the-art, fully

functional mate, perfect for all
occasions.

“ Here’s how it works: you
send Create-A-Mate® a pro-

‘ file of your dream person. Be

sure to include height, weight,
eye color, hair color, humor
level, thoughtfulness quo-

I ’ tient, sex appeal, I.Q., shoe size

and religious preference, just
to name a few of the charac-
teristics. Then Create-A-
Mate® does the rest. Within
six to eight weeks, your ideal
mate will arrive vacuum-sealed
and ready for use.

' Activate your mate by in-
jecting 10 cc of Orasol, con-
veniently included. Your mate
will be fully functional and in-
teractive within 15 minutes.

These mates are 100% bio-
logical human beings, no ad-
ditives or cybernetic com-
pounds included. Your mate
will have been grown in the
specialized gene farm at the
Create-A-Mate® laboratories.
And all mates come with a 90-
day money-back guarantee.

Just write to Create-A-
Mate®, Milwaukee, Wiscon-
sin, for a free brochure and
proﬁle form. Then, send the
fonn and $50,000 check or
money order to Create-A-
Mate® and just sit back and
wait for your mate.

—- from staﬂ reports

 

PAGE 4

Rugby scrums up
unlikely victory

By Austin Tod Powers

MAN or MYSTERY

Washington and Lee Team Strike
Force ﬁnished 3-for-4 on the first day
of the 61st annual General Lee Rugby
Tournament. Junior Ben Smith led
Team Strike Force with eight rugs as
the team won its first game 46-32.
Freshman Tom Lee and sophomore
George Wiley scored four times apiece
for Team Strike Force. The team held
the University of Virginia to a .146
rugging percentage on the day.

Team Strike Force lost its second
game to the Quakers of Eastern Men-
nonite. The crowd of 19,000 had to be
restrained by the considerable secu-
rity force when senior Mike Watson
was called for an illegal rug with only
six ticks left on the clock. The Quak-
ers then broke the 49-49 tie with their
free rug. Jeff Jones led Eastern Men-
nonite with 18 rugs, his season high.

Team Strike Force won its final two
games, a doublerugger, against James
Madison University Presidents. Wiley
led Team Strike Force with 13 rugs in
the first game, which was ended by
the 20-rug rule. Sophomore Jay
Richardson led the Team in the sec-
ond game with l 1 rugs. Bonnett again
was stellar in goal for Team Strike
Force. He limited the Presidents to
only 14 rugs in both games.

Co-Captain Watson was rather
pissed following the game in which he
was called for an illegal rug. “I was
really pissed,” he said, “that I was
called for an illegal rug.” Watson said
once the call was made and the game
was over. “Well, I did cuss that bas-
tard ref out,” Watson said.

Coach Lilly Houston said she was
“proud of all my sexy boys.” After

the game, she said she hoped to get‘

“all my little men insanely drunk and
high, then make three hardcore porn

videos.” Coach Houston is in her 26th
year coaching Team Strike Force.

The real story on the day came dur-
ing the team’s first game against the
Presidents. With only 46 seconds left
in the ﬁfth quarter, a monkey dressed
in a French Maid outﬁt ran across
centerfield. After a drunken Alpha
Sigma Sigma yelled loudly to point out
the monkey to the many spectators.
Not long after the ASS’s antics, a 400-
pound cycloptic woman began chas-
ing the monkey. One anonymous fan
said, “She kept yelling ‘Giddy-up.’
That’s all I heard her say. Well, that,
and she mumbled something about
The Trident Back Page."

Team Strike Force (22-8, 1 1-3 SEC)
will host the Rockbridge County
Rugby Club on Wednesday at 3 p.m.
“We’re gonna be kickin’ asses and
takin’ names,” Coach Houston said.
Then she grabbed my ass.

S April §lInnl’a 35:11; 3155112

By Stone Pooper

(HE-THOUGH or I T)

This past Wednesday, two mem-
bers of the Generals baseball team
scored what may have been and
ever will be their most unlikely vic-
tory. Unbeknownst to anyone at
Washington and Lee, or in college
sports for that matter, seniors E.J.
Murphy and Bryan Lewis are in-
credibly graceful when submerged
in water.

Tuesday, the Generals baseball
team traveled to Ohio State Univer-
sity thinking that they would be
taking on the Buckeyes in a
Wednesday double header (hey —
there’s an April Fool’s joke right
there). In what W&L head coach
Jeff Stickley could only attribute to
“an [athletic department] office mix
up or a cruel, cruel joke played on
us by some big shot ODAC official
guy,” the Generals found that
Wednesday’s game would not be
one of the baseball variety.

om H€;7T3T.;U3 . i -
. IT stunt 010 PERSONS , '
H BAR-— JET SKIS - PARASAILS

“HOME OF THE WORLD'S LONGEST KEG PARTY"
FREE DRAFT BEERALI. WEEK LONG-CALI. FOR INFO!
I 1-800-488-8828

www.sandpiperbeacon.corn (*rates per person)

17403 FRONT BEACH ROAD-

PANAMA CITY BEACH, FL 32413

The baseball team was registered
to be the first competitors from W&L
in a NCAA Division I synchronized
swimming championship. But, when
the confusion was made apparent by
the obvious differences in appear-
ances in the teams at the OSU meet,
the Generals were given the opportu-
nity to respectfully withdraw.

Stickley, however, declined the of-
fer. “When given the opportunity to
compete for an NCAA championship
in any sport, you take what you can
get,” he said.

The question then arose as to who
would represent W&L in the pair’s duo
performance, the first and most cru-
cial event of the competition. For many
of the teammates, there was no ques-

tion that E.J. Murphy and Bryan Lewis
would lead the team to victory.

“When it came time to decide,” said
sophomore Bill Christ, “Ijust couldn’t
think of two guys that would look bet-
ter swimming around together wear-
ing bathing suits covered in sequins
than E.J. and Bryan.”

So_with the cheers of the team and
some whispered words of encourage-
ment and a poolside slap on the rear
from junior Chris Stakem, Murphy and
Lewis took to the water.

Their performance was incredible,
winning them the NCAA champion-
ship and sending the favored Lady
Buckeyes home with a disappointing
second. “I didn’t even think those two
would be able to swim much less pull

Newly Renovated

Econo
Lodge

540-463-7371

Parents’ IIISBIIIIIII

Free IIBII with nemote
N0 Smlllllllﬂ HIIIIIIIS

H88 cllllllllﬂlllﬂl Breakfast

«v,

‘Q?

8

MARCH 29, 1999

Baseball reveals new talents at OSU

off some of the unspeakable things they
did in the water together without
drowning,” said one anonymous judge.

After the meet, Lewis and Murphy

had little to say and offered no answers ~

to speculations that they would be
making an appearance at the Olympic
trials. As for the rest of the team in the
group performance, the results were
not as favorable. The program quickly

fell apart when junior Christian .

Batcheller received a swift kick in the
nose from the expertly pointed toe of
Lewis during the opening sequence.

Catch the Generals baseball team
back in action when they face Eastern
Mennonite University on Tuesday,
this time on a baseball diamond play-
ing baseball.

flzinldng of
Summer Employment
Opportmoities”?

Special Programs
Resident Assistants
June 15-Aug. 3, 1999

The Office of Special Pro-
grams employs 5 W&L stu-
dents to serve as Resident
Assistants for a wide variety
of Special Programs includ-
ing Alumni Colleges,
Elderhostel, and adult con-
ferences. Duties include
housekeeping, attending all
meals with guests, bar recep-
tions, and shuttle driving. An
outgoing personality is a
must. Application deadline
is March 31, 1999.

For more information,
please contact the Office of
Special Programs, Howard
House, 463-8723.

F

  

G. Willake’s

Restaurant 6: Lounge

Qht

'1‘ A x

A l)\'.«\ N TAG li l) S ()1. L? T I () N S

l’ R (I) M T l A A - C R I‘: 1“

IF YOU THOUGHT COLLEGE WAS EXPENSIVE,
TRY PUTTING YOURSELF THROUGH RETIREMENT.

: great tasting food
* friendly Service

SRAs and IRAs makes it easy.

SRAs — tax-deferred annuities from
TIAA-CREF —- and our range of IRAS
offer smart and easy ways to build the
extra income your pension and Social
Security benefits may not cover. They're
backed by the same exclusive investment
choices, low expenses, and personal
service that have made TlAA—CREF the
retirement plan of choice among America's
education and research communities.

Call 1 800 842-2776 and find out for

yourself how easy it is to put yourself

hink about supporting yourself

for twenty-five, thirty years or
longer in retirement. It might be the
greatest financial test you'll ever face.
Fortunately, you have two valuable
assets in your favor: time and tax deferral.

The key is to begin saving now.
Delaying your decision for even a year or
two can have a big impact on the amount
of income you'll have when you retire.

What's the simplest way to get started?
Save in pretax dollars and make the most
of tax deferral. There's simply no more

  
  

painless or powerful way to build a through retirement when you have time .
comfortable and secure tomorrow. and TIAA-CREF on your side.
www.tiaa-cref.org
I 1
Ensuring the future
for those who shape it?‘ 9

T MA-CREF Indilviaual and Inatitulianul Smrkza, Ina. dialri/>uIe.a CREF certrfitalta and interavta in I6: T IA/i Rml Emit: /icwunt.

. .4 .
 e 2  e   e   a ll  e C e  e  p,,. ,,,,,,., (,,,,,P[,;, infgrinafian, [n([udiI|_n7 o5ar_q:.t and Atpen-mi, tall 1 300 342-2755. ext. 5509. far Me pra.4p:cIu.«z.4. Read (bun carefully Irefart you inwul ar «M1 money. I2/98 \
~ 464-9499 

 

 

